 Connecting customers 
to opportunities 
HSBC Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 
Contents / Highlights 
Contents
Report of the Directors 
Overview
 Financial highlights ............................................................... 2
 Group Chairman’s Statement ................................................ 4
 Group Chief Executive’s Business Review .......................... 8
 Our disclosure philosophy ..................................................... 12
 Principal activities ................................................................. 13
 HSBC Values ......................................................................... 13
 Business and operating models ............................................. 14
 Strategic direction .................................................................. 17
 Risk ........................................................................................ 19
 Key performance indicators .................................................. 22
Operating and Financial Review 
 Financial summary
1
 ............................................................... 25
 Global businesses
1
 ................................................................. 58
 Products and services ............................................................ 60
 Geographical regions
1
 ........................................................... 79
 Other information .................................................................. 118
 Risk
1
 ....................................................................................... 123
 Capital
1
 .................................................................................. 281
Corporate Governance
1
 Corporate Governance Report ............................................... 301
 Biographies of Directors and senior management ................ 302
 Board of Directors ................................................................. 309
 Board committees .................................................................. 318
 Internal control ...................................................................... 332
 Going concern basis .............................................................. 334
 Employees ............................................................................. 335
Directors’ Remuneration Report
1
........................ 347
Financial Statements and Other Information
 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities ............................... 368
 Independent Auditor’s Report ............................................... 369
Financial Statements
1
 Financial statements .............................................................. 371
 Notes on the financial statements .......................................... 383
Shareholder Information
1
 Shareholder information ........................................................ 516
 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements ..... 525
 Abbreviations ........................................................................ 526
 Glossary ................................................................................. 529
 Index ...................................................................................... 537
 1 Detailed contents are provided on the referenced pages.
This document comprises the Annual Report and Accounts 
2012 for HSBC Holdings plc and its subsidiaries. It 
contains the Report of the Directors and Financial 
Statements, together with the Independent Auditor’s 
Report thereon, as required by the UK Companies Act 
2006. The Annual Review 2012 of HSBC Holdings plc is 
published as a separate document. The Report of the 
Directors on pages 2 to 346 and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 347 to 367 have each been 
drawn up in accordance with the requirements of English 
law, and liability in respect thereof is also governed by 
English law. In particular, the liability of the Directors for 
these reports is solely to HSBC Holdings plc.  
Additional information, including commentary 
on 2011 compared with 2010, may be found in the 
Form 20-F filed with the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission and available on www.hsbc.com and 
www.sec.gov.
Certain defined terms 
Unless the context requires otherwise, ‘HSBC Holdings’ 
means HSBC Holdings plc and ‘HSBC’, the ‘Group’, ‘we’, 
‘us’ and ‘our’ refers to HSBC Holdings together with its 
subsidiaries. Within this document the Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China 
is referred to as ‘Hong Kong’. When used in the terms 
‘shareholders’ equity’ and ‘total shareholders’ equity’, 
‘shareholders’ means holders of HSBC Holdings ordinary 
shares and those preference shares classified as equity. 
The abbreviations ‘US$m’ and ‘US$bn’ represent millions 
and billions (thousands of millions) of US dollars, 
respectively.
Financial statements 
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the 
separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have 
been prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) and 
as endorsed by the European Union (‘EU’). EU-endorsed 
IFRSs may differ from IFRSs as issued by the IASB if, at 
any point in time, new or amended IFRSs have not been 
endorsed by the EU. At 31 December 2012, there were 
no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 
31 December 2012 affecting these consolidated and 
separate financial statements, and there was no difference 
between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by 
the IASB in terms of their application to HSBC. 
Accordingly, HSBC’s financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2012 are prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
We use the US dollar as our presentation currency 
because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form 
the major currency bloc in which we transact and fund our
business. Unless otherwise stated, the information 
presented in this document has been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs. 
When reference to ‘underlying’ is made in tables or 
commentaries, comparative information has been 
expressed at constant currency (see page 25), eliminating 
the impact of fair value movements in respect of credit 
spread changes on HSBC’s own debt and adjusting for the 
effects of acquisitions and disposals as reconciled on 
page 28. Underlying RoRWA is defined and reconciled on 
page 52. 1
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Who we are and what we do 
HSBC is one of the world’s largest banking and financial services organisations, with 
around 6,600 offices in both established and faster-growing markets. We aim to be 
where the economic growth is, connecting customers to opportunities, enabling 
businesses to thrive and economies to prosper, and ultimately helping people to fulfil 
their hopes and realise their ambitions.
We serve around 58 million customers through our four global businesses: Retail 
Banking and Wealth Management, Commercial Banking, Global Banking and Markets, 
and Global Private Banking. Our network covers 81 countries and territories in six 
geographical regions: Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North 
Africa, North America and Latin America. Our aim is to be acknowledged as the 
world’s leading international bank. 
Listed on the London, Hong Kong, New York, Paris and Bermuda stock exchanges, 
shares in HSBC Holdings plc are held by about 220,000 shareholders in 129 countries 
and territories. 
Highlights
• Profit before tax down 6% to US$20.6bn and revenue down 5% to US$68.3bn on a reported 
basis.
• Underlying profit before tax up 18% to US$16.4bn. 
• Continued to execute our strategy to grow, simplify and restructure the Group. 
• Underlying revenue up 7% reflecting revenue growth, notably in Global Banking and Markets 
and Commercial Banking. 
• Achieved sustainable savings of US$2.0bn, taking our total annualised savings to US$3.6bn, 
exceeding our cumulative target of US$2.5bn to US$3.5bn since 2011. 
• Announced 26 disposals and closures of non-strategic businesses and non-core investments in 
2012.
• Return on equity was 8.4%, down from 10.9% in 2011. 
• Dividends declared in respect of 2012 US$8.3bn or US$0.45 per ordinary share, up 10% on 
2011.
• Core tier 1 capital ratio increased during the year from 10.1% to 12.3%. 
Cover image 
Financing trade has always been at the heart of HSBC's business, especially in our home market of Hong Kong. Today, 
Hong Kong International Airport is the world's busiest air cargo hub, with its freight volume accounting for over one-
third of the total value of Hong Kong's external trade.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Overview 
Financial highlights 
2
Financial highlights 
Earnings per share  
US$0.74 – down 20% 
2011: US$0.92 
2010: US$0.73 
Dividends per ordinary share
1
US$0.41
2011: US$0.39 
2010: US$0.34
Net assets per share 
US$9.09 – up 7% 
2011: US$8.48 
2010: US$7.94
For the year 
Profit before taxation
US$20,649m – down 6% 
2011: US$21,872m  
2010: US$19,037m 
Underlying profit before taxation 
US$16,385m – up 18% 
2011: US$13,861m 
Total operating income
US$82,545m – down 1% 
2011: US$83,461m 
2010: US$80,014m 
Net operating income before  
loan impairment charges and  
other credit risk provisions 
US$68,330m – down 5% 
2011: US$72,280m 
2010: US$68,247m 
Profit attributable to the ordinary 
shareholders of the parent company
US$13,454m – down 17% 
2011: US$16,224m 
2010: US$12,746m 
At the year-end 
Loans and advances
to customers 
US$998bn – up 6% 
2011: US$940bn 
2010: US$958bn 
Customer accounts 
US$1,340bn – up 7% 
2011: US$1,254bn 
2010: US$1,228bn 
Ratio of customer advances 
to customer accounts
74.4%
2011: 75.0% 
2010: 78.1% 
Total equity 
US$183bn – up 10% 
2011: US$166bn 
2010: US$155bn 
Average total shareholders’
equity to average total assets
6.2%
2011: 5.6% 
2010: 5.5% 
Risk-weighted assets
US$1,124bn – down 7% 
2011: US$1,210bn 
2010: US$1,103bn 
Capital ratios 
Core tier 1 ratio
12.3%
2011: 10.1% 
2010: 10.5% 
Tier 1 ratio 
13.4%
2011: 11.5% 
2010: 12.1% 
Total capital ratio 
16.1%
2011: 14.1% 
2010: 15.2%  3
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Performance ratios 
Credit coverage ratios 
Loan impairment charges to
total operating income
9.9%
2011: 13.8% 
2010: 16.9%
Loan impairment charges to
average gross customer advances
0.9%
2011: 1.2% 
2010: 1.5%
Total impairment allowances to
impaired loans at year-end
41.7%
2011: 42.3% 
2010: 43.0%
Return ratios 
Return on average ordinary 
shareholders’ equity
2
8.4%
2011: 10.9% 
2010: 9.5%
Return on average
invested capital
3
8.0%
2011: 10.2% 
2010: 8.7%
Post-tax return on
average total assets
0.6%
2011: 0.6% 
2010: 0.6%
Pre-tax return on average 
risk-weighted assets
1.8%
2011: 1.9% 
2010: 1.7%
Efficiency and revenue mix ratios 
Cost efficiency ratio
4
62.8%
2011: 57.5% 
2010: 55.2%
Net interest income to  
total operating income
45.6%
2011: 48.7% 
2010: 49.3%
Net fee income to  
total operating income
19.9%
2011: 20.6% 
2010: 21.7%
Net trading income to  
total operating income
8.6%
2011: 7.8% 
2010: 9.0% 
Share information at the year-end 
Closing market price
US$0.50 ordinary 
shares in issue
18,476m
2011: 17,868m 
2010: 17,686m
Market
capitalisation
US$194bn
2011: US$136bn 
2010: US$180bn
London
£6.47
2011: £4.91  
2010: £6.51
Hong Kong
HK$81.3
2011: HK$59.00  
2010: HK$79.70
American  
Depositary Share
5
US$53.07
2011: US$38.10  
2010: US$51.04 
      
Total shareholder return
6
Over 1 year Over 3 years Over 5 years 
To 31 December 2012 ..............................................
139 104 113
Benchmarks:      
– FTSE 100
7
 ............................................................... 110  121  111 
– MSCI World
8
 .......................................................... 117  124  97 
– MSCI Banks
9
 .......................................................... 128  106  68 
For footnotes, see page 120.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC  
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chairman’s Statement 
4
Group Chairman’s Statement 
2012 was a year of considerable progress in 
delivering on the strategic priorities which the Board 
has tasked management to address. Our decision to 
focus on reshaping the Group through targeted 
disposals and closures and internal reorganisation is 
paying dividends. It is bringing greater clarity and 
focus and is delivering sustainable cost savings 
while allowing incremental investment to be 
available and directed towards the areas of greatest 
opportunity. 
This progress is all the more notable given that 
during 2012, the banking sector, including HSBC, 
faced continuing and in many ways unprecedented 
challenges. Banking has been given a huge wake-up 
call and we are determined to play our part in 
restoring its reputation and thereby regaining 
society’s trust. Thus our restructuring agenda is not 
only justified economically but is helping the Group 
shape its response to the media, the regulatory and 
political challenges, and societal expectations which, 
simply put, all revolve around restoring the trust of 
all stakeholders. From depositors to investors, 
regulators to employees, public policy makers to 
consumer lobbyists we need to ensure the business 
model of banking is fair, transparent, sustainable 
and meeting its core objective of serving society. 
Never has it been more important to put the 
customer first and provide the means and support 
to help them fulfil their financial aspirations and 
ambitions. That is our prime purpose and one of 
which we should never lose sight. 
Over the last two years the Board was exercised 
greatly by the major US regulatory and law 
enforcement investigations we faced. I covered the 
background to these investigations, settlement of 
which we reached in December, in our Interim 
Report.
Management is now delivering the required 
enhancements to our control framework and on top 
of this we have significantly augmented the Board’s 
oversight and governance capabilities. This is dealt 
with in more detail below. 
Encouragingly, there is now growing external 
recognition of the progress being made in delivering 
against our stated strategic priorities. This, together 
with our overweight exposure to the world’s more 
attractive economies, contributed to a total 
shareholder return of 39% over the year – 7% 
from dividends paid and 32% from share price 
appreciation. Over the course of the year the market 
capitalisation of HSBC grew by US$58bn from 
US$136bn to US$194bn, returning shareholders 
once again to the position where their company is 
worth more than its contributed capital. We 
remained among the highest dividend payers in the 
FTSE 100, a performance which we know is of great 
importance to our shareholders. 
The cover to this year’s Annual Report again 
illustrates our strategy of connecting customers and 
markets. The scene depicted is the cargo terminal at 
Hong Kong International Airport, which has been 
ranked as the busiest airport for international air 
cargo since 1996. Today the airport’s trade 
throughput represents over one third of Hong Kong's 
external trade. HSBC’s connection with trade 
financing and trade services through Hong Kong 
goes back to our earliest days and remains one of our 
core strengths. Projections of trade growth in Asia 
and Hong Kong’s role therein reinforce our 
investment focus in this area.  
Performance in 2012 
There was much to be positive about in HSBC’s 
performance in 2012. The majority of our core 
businesses in Asia, particularly in Hong Kong, 
continued to perform well, achieving good 
underlying revenue growth in the year. Increased 
market confidence around eurozone recovery 
contributed to a significant turnaround in Global 
Banking and Markets results in Europe. Targeted 
disposals and the continuing run-off from our exit 
portfolios in the United States, together with 
evidence of recovery in many housing areas were 
reflected in significantly lower US loan impairment 
charges.
Progress in managing costs to reflect a lower 
economic growth environment in developed markets 
was encouraging. Offsetting these positive factors, 
credit demand remained muted throughout Europe,  5
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
low interest rates continued to constrain the value of 
our liquid balance sheet and customer redress costs 
continued to weigh heavily in the UK.  
The Group Chief Executive’s Business Review 
covers financial performance and progress on 
strategy delivery in more detail. 
Reported results include the benefit of profits 
arising from the significant disposals made in the 
year as well as bearing the burden of the fines and 
penalties levied as part of the settlement with US 
regulatory and law enforcement agencies and 
increased customer redress provisions in the UK. 
When the Board assesses management performance 
as part of reward measurement, these disposal gains 
are eliminated but the legal settlement and customer 
redress costs are not. 
Looking through the reported results to 
underlying financial performance, the Board viewed 
positively the 2012 outcome. 
Although earnings per share of US$0.74 were 
20% lower than 2011, this largely reflected a 
US$9.1bn negative swing in the fair value of our 
own debt as credit spreads tightened, together with 
a higher tax rate.
With the Group’s capital position strengthened 
from retained profits and from capital released from 
the divestments made in the year, the Board has 
approved a 29% increase in the final dividend in 
respect of the year to US$0.18 per share, US$0.04 
higher than the final dividend in respect of 2011. 
Total dividends in respect of 2012 of US$8.3bn, 
amounted to US$0.45 per share, US$0.9bn higher 
than in 2011. The Board also intends to increase 
the quarterly dividends in respect of the first three 
quarters of 2013 by US$0.01 per share to US$0.10 
per share. 
Shareholders’ equity at the end of 2012 stood at 
US$175bn, US$17bn or some 10 % higher than at 
the beginning of the year. The core tier 1 capital 
ratio strengthened from 10.1% to 12.3% and the 
Group remains on track to deliver compliance with 
the more onerous Basel III requirements in the 
accelerated timetable being sought by UK regulators. 
During 2012, the UK government increased the 
rate of levy applied on the global balance sheets of 
UK domiciled banks. The cost to HSBC of the 
revised levy for the current year was US$571m of 
which US$295m related to non-UK banking activity. 
The 2012 levy, which is not tax deductible, is the 
equivalent of US$0.03 per ordinary share and, as 
indicated last year, would otherwise have been 
available for distribution to shareholders or used to 
strengthen the capital base further. 
Progress on regulatory reform 
2012 was a further year of progress in delivering key 
elements of the regulatory reform agenda mandated 
by the G20 in response to the financial crisis. After 
a long consultation period, the proposed Liquidity 
Coverage Ratio within the Basel III framework was 
recalibrated to better match industry experience, and 
so strengthen bank liquidity without unnecessarily 
constraining credit formation.  
The list of banks to be designated as globally 
significant was announced and, as expected, HSBC 
was one of four placed in the highest category. 
Good progress was made on clarifying the possible 
approaches to resolving the failure of a bank with 
operations in multiple jurisdictions. One approach 
was directly applicable to the subsidiarised model 
favoured by HSBC.  
On structural reform of banking entities, the 
Liikanen Group in Europe produced its report for 
consideration while draft alternatives have been 
proposed in France and Germany. In the UK, 
the Government substantially accepted the 
recommendations of the Independent Commission 
on Banking in a policy paper and a draft Financial 
Services (Banking Reform) Bill is expected to be 
approved in the first half of 2013. Thereafter, the 
government has signalled its intention to pass 
secondary legislation by the end of this parliament 
in 2015, with final implementation of the new 
regime by 2019.  
The key structural change being legislated 
remains the separation of certain banking activities 
for personal and small business customers into a 
ring-fenced bank with its own financial and 
governance arrangements. The recently appointed 
Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards in 
the UK has reviewed the proposed legislation and 
inter alia recommended, strengthening the ring fence 
by empowering regulators to force full separation in 
the event of attempts to frustrate the objectives of the 
ring fence. 
Ongoing work remains extensive. Major areas 
of policy development covering augmenting loss 
absorbency through bailing-in certain categories of 
creditor, addressing the systemic impact of central 
clearing counterparties, establishing a banking union 
within the eurozone and revisiting the risk weighting 
of assets to enhance transparency and consistency, 
are among the most important.  
On top of this, the UK Parliamentary 
Commission on Banking Standards is currently 
examining all aspects of conduct, behaviour and  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chairman’s Statement  
6
culture with a view to making recommendations 
designed to restore trust and confidence in banks. 
We are committed to working constructively 
with public policy makers and our regulators to give 
effect to these proposals. We note, however, two 
areas of concern. 
First, it is perplexing that, after the great 
international effort invested in the G20 programme 
of sound and consistent global financial regulation, 
and the extent of reform currently underway, an 
increasing number of countries now appear to 
be acting unilaterally, thereby putting globally 
consistent regulation at risk of fragmentation and 
‘balkanising’ the capital and liquidity resources of 
firms. 
Second, we believe the sheer scale and timescale 
of the reform programme is hampering investors’ 
line of sight to the long-term returns available.  
Resolving these two issues, which will require 
inter-governmental direction and co-operation, 
would contribute to enhancing the ability of the 
industry to support the economic growth agenda 
now being prioritised in most parts of the world. 
Enforcing global standards 
The Board is determined to adopt and enforce the 
highest behavioural and compliance standards in 
HSBC. For well documented reasons, the last two 
years have been extremely damaging to HSBC’s 
reputation and to our perception of ourselves. We 
faced serious failings both in the application of our 
standards and in our ability to identify, and so 
prevent, misuse and abuse of the financial system 
through our networks. Our strategy is entirely 
configured to eliminate the possibility of this 
happening again. 
We have apologised unreservedly to all our 
stakeholders and have paid huge penalties both in 
monetary cost and reputational damage. More 
important than apologies, however, are the steps 
being taken to prevent recurrence. Management 
under Stuart Gulliver, the Group Chief Executive, 
is leading the work to simplify business and so 
reinforce risk management and control. 
Our success in meeting our objectives will be 
subject to independent validation not simply through 
ongoing regulatory review but additionally through 
the appointment of an independent Monitor who will 
report to both UK and US authorities. We welcome 
the additional rigour this will bring to the process of 
upgrading and enforcing our global standards. 
To reinforce the Board’s ability to exercise 
rigorous governance over these endeavours, we 
announced the creation of a new Board committee, 
the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 
on 30 January 2013. This committee will provide 
governance, oversight and policy guidance over the 
framework of controls and procedures designed to 
identify areas where HSBC may become exposed 
and, through that exposure, expose the financial 
system more broadly to financial crime or system 
abuse.
Five subject matter experts drawn from the 
highest levels of public service will support the 
committee. Their expertise includes the combating 
of organised crime, terrorist financing, narcotics 
trafficking, tax evasion and money laundering as 
well as expertise in intelligence gathering and 
international payments systems. They will provide 
invaluable guidance and advice, and most 
importantly challenge, as we strengthen our 
capabilities and enforce the highest standards. 
Further details of the background and experience 
of these individuals are contained in the Directors’ 
Report.
Recognising the need to augment the Board’s 
own experience and expertise we have also added 
specialist expertise at Board level. 
Board changes 
At the end of 2012 we said farewell to Narayana 
Murthy, who stepped down from the Board after 
serving with distinction for five years. Narayana, as 
co-founder and long-term CEO of Infosys, brought 
to the Board exceptional expertise in technology, 
operational efficiency and outsourcing matters as 
well as an in-depth knowledge of India and of 
international business through his experience on 
many multinational and educational boards. On 
behalf of the Board and shareholders I want to 
record our appreciation and gratitude for his 
contribution to HSBC.
We welcome two new directors to the Board. 
Renato Fassbind joined the Board on 1 January 
and will serve on the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees. Renato brings to the Board 
considerable international business and financial 
expertise from a distinguished career in industrial, 
service and financial companies. He is currently 
Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board and a 
member of the audit and the compensation 
committees of Swiss Reinsurance Company, 
a member of the Supervisory Board and audit 
committee of Kühne + Nagel International AG  7
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
and a member of the Supervisory Board of the 
Swiss Federal Audit Oversight Authority.  
Renato stepped down as Chief Financial Officer 
and a member of the executive board of Credit 
Suisse Group in September 2010, having served in 
that role since 2004.  
Jim Comey joins the Board today and will 
serve on the newly created Financial System 
Vulnerabilities Committee. Jim brings to the Board 
outstanding governance experience from both the 
private and public sectors. In his private sector roles 
he acted as General Counsel to leading international 
businesses and in public life served at the apex of 
law enforcement in the United States. Most recently, 
within the private sector, Jim Comey served as 
General Counsel of Bridgewater Associates, LP and 
prior to that as Senior Vice President and General 
Counsel of the Lockheed Martin Corporation. In 
public life, from 2003 to 2005, he served as US 
Deputy Attorney General, where he was responsible 
for supervising the operations of the Department of 
Justice, and chaired the President’s Corporate Fraud 
Task Force. From 2002 to 2003, he served as US 
Attorney for the Southern District of New York. 
Fuller details of their background and 
experience are set out in the Directors’ Report. 
Social contribution 
Much is currently being written and debated about 
the role banks should play in society. In large part, 
this reflects the fact that the economic success that 
underpins a harmonious society depends upon 
sustainable financing, confidence and trust in the 
financial system. That trust is founded upon the 
broader role that banks play in their local 
communities. 
Within HSBC, many of my colleagues 
make tremendous personal contributions to their 
communities and I want to take this opportunity to 
pay tribute to them. HSBC’s outreach in terms of 
community investment is primarily in the areas 
of education and the environment and, in 2012, in 
financial terms it amounted to some US$120m. 
In 2012, we extended our commitment to 
support disadvantaged and vulnerable young people 
who are neither in education, employment nor 
training. We support local and international charities 
working in this area, and also run our own staff-
driven ‘Future First’ programme, which helps street 
children, children in care and orphans to access 
education. Initiatives under this programme are 
developed and supported by HSBC colleagues 
around the world and, in 2012, 2,717 members of 
staff volunteered to support the programme.  
Importantly in all our community work we 
increasingly look to involve our staff to reinforce our 
links with the communities we serve. In 2012, for 
example, 114,982 HSBC colleagues spent 724,650 
hours in volunteer activity. 
We also launched the HSBC Water Programme 
last year. This is a five-year, US$100m commitment 
to support Water Aid, WWF and Earthwatch to 
deliver freshwater and sanitation to poor rural 
communities in Asia and Africa, educate local 
communities on sustainable water management in 
five major river basins around the world, and involve 
more than 7,500 HSBC staff with local conservation 
partners to address urban water management issues 
and learn to carry out scientific water research tasks. 
Looking ahead 
It is often said that people come together in 
adversity, learning lessons from the past and each 
other to create the bonds that ensure a better future. 
I believe that this has happened within HSBC. The 
last year has been a difficult one for all at HSBC as 
we addressed the restructuring of the firm against a 
lower-growth economic backdrop and with legacy 
issues and regulatory challenges imposing a further 
set of imperatives. Our 270,000 staff have had to 
face up to bewildering descriptions of HSBC that 
contrasted with the way they conduct their 
relationships with the firm’s customers and clients.  
What has been inspirational is how everyone has 
pulled together, focused on the future and committed 
to do all and everything necessary to restore a 
reputation that we all believe can be positively 
distinctive. On behalf of the Board, I want to thank 
all our employees for that commitment and their 
loyal support.  
I also want to thank our clients and customers, 
our shareholders, our regulators and those in 
government who believe, as we do, that we will meet 
the commitments we have made to allow us better to 
serve the communities who entrust their financial 
needs to HSBC. 
D J Flint, Group Chairman
4 March 2013  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chief Executive’s Business Review 
8
Group Chief Executive’s  
Business Review 
HSBC made significant progress in 2012 despite a 
challenging operating environment characterised by 
low economic growth and a changing regulatory 
landscape. We continued to pursue the strategy 
outlined in May 2011, announcing the sale or closure 
of 26 businesses or non-core investments, surpassing 
our sustainable savings target and recording 
underlying revenue growth in the majority of our 
faster-growing regions. We also reached agreement 
with the US authorities and the FSA in relation to 
past inadequate compliance with anti-money 
laundering and sanction laws. Although reported 
pre-tax profit fell by 6% to US$20.6bn in 2012, 
underlying profit, which includes the impact of fines 
and penalties and UK customer redress provisions 
totalling US$4.3bn, grew by 18%. This was 
primarily due to revenue growth, notably in Global 
Banking and Markets and Commercial Banking, and 
lower loan impairment charges in North America. 
We regard this as a good performance. 
Our strategy is founded on a clear sense of 
purpose – to be where the growth is, connecting 
customers to opportunities and enabling businesses 
to thrive, economies to prosper and individuals to 
realise their ambitions. This has given us clear 
parameters around the way that we behave and 
conduct business and where and how we compete. 
Since 2011, we have created a consistent global 
structure with strong governance, consisting of four 
global businesses and 11 global functions. In 2012, 
we continued to execute our strategic priorities to 
grow, restructure and simplify HSBC.  
We grew our business in 2012, achieving 
underlying revenue growth in most of our priority 
markets. The growth in these markets was a factor 
in generating a record reported profit before tax in 
Commercial Banking as we maintained our position 
as the world’s largest global trade finance bank, as 
reported in the Oliver Wyman Global Transaction 
Banking Survey 2012. The collaboration between 
Commercial Banking and Global Banking and 
Markets delivered incremental gross revenues of 
over US$0.1bn in 2012. Wealth Management 
achieved more than US$0.5bn of additional 
revenues, although further progress is required to 
achieve our strategic goals.  
The restructuring of the US business progressed 
in 2012 as we continued to run off the Consumer and 
Mortgage Lending portfolio, resulting in a US$14bn 
reduction in the value of average risk-weighted 
assets and a reduced loss before tax of US$3.1bn, 
reflecting improved loan impairment charges. 
Following our agreement with the US authorities and 
the FSA in December 2012, we are adopting global 
standards as part of our effort to raise our practices 
to an industry-leading level. This is part of our 
wholehearted commitment to protect the integrity of 
the organisation and the financial system, and to do 
our part to fight financial crime. 
We further simplified the Group structure in 
2012, bringing the total number of announced 
disposals and closures of non-strategic businesses 
or non-core investments to 47 since the beginning 
of 2011, including 4 in 2013.
During 2012, we completed the disposal of the 
Card and Retail Services business and the upstate 
New York branches in the United States, and the 
sale or closure of our retail businesses in Thailand, 
Honduras, El Salvador and Costa Rica, as well as 
the full service retail brokerage businesses in 
Canada. Additionally we announced the sale of our 
operations in Colombia, Peru, Uruguay and 
Paraguay.  
Following completion of all the announced 
transactions we will have completed the refocus 
of our Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
(‘RBWM’) presence to our 20 home and priority 
markets, which represented 98% of the RBWM, 
excluding US CRS and the US run-off portfolio, 
profit before tax in 2012, plus a limited number 
of important network and smaller markets. 
Notably, on top of the above, we reached 
agreement in December 2012 to sell our stake in 
Ping An for an aggregate cash consideration, the 
equivalent of US$9.4bn. This transaction completed 
in two tranches, in December 2012 and February 
2013, generating a profit of US$3.0bn. In 2012 
our share of Ping An’s earnings was US$0.8bn.  9
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
We also made progress in eliminating 
unnecessary organisational layers and streamlining 
various processes, achieving an additional US$2.0bn 
in sustainable cost savings. This takes our total 
annualised savings to US$3.6bn, surpassing our 
cumulative target of US$2.5bn to US$3.5bn of 
sustainable savings since 2011. Taken together, these 
changes have made HSBC much easier to manage 
and control. 
Although we made some good progress in 2012, 
the cost efficiency ratio at 62.8% and ROE at 8.4% 
were outside our target ranges. These were both 
affected by UK customer redress provisions, as well 
as payments we were required to make as part of the 
settlement of the investigations noted above. 
Implementing our strategy can add significant 
value to HSBC. We are on the right track and remain 
fully committed to achieving our ambition of being 
the world’s leading international bank.  
We are investing to build this distinctive 
international competitive position. 
In Retail Banking and Wealth Management, 
we accelerated the transformation of the Wealth 
Management business in HSBC with infrastructure 
investment to improve customer experience and so 
drive growth. Technology solutions improved the 
customer offering in foreign exchange services and 
we introduced enhanced risk profiling and strategic 
financial planning tools. 
In Commercial Banking we maintained our 
investment in the faster-growing regions in support 
of the strong network that helps connect customers 
with both developed and developing markets as they 
expand internationally. A great deal of attention is 
being devoted to the increasing internationalisation 
of the renminbi. During 2012, we were the first bank 
to settle cross-border renminbi trade across six 
continents with capabilities in over 50 countries, 
offering a competitive advantage to our customers as 
the renminbi positions to be a major global trade and 
investment currency. We have expanded our global 
network of dedicated China desks to cover our top 
markets, representing about half of the world’s GDP. 
These are staffed by Mandarin-speaking experts who 
support mainland Chinese businesses to identify new 
opportunities to expand overseas. 
In Global Banking and Markets, we invested 
in selective recruitment to support key strategic 
markets. We continued the successful build-out of 
our equities and e-FX platforms to broaden our 
product offerings.  In Hong Kong we led the market 
in Hong Kong dollar bond issuance and were the 
leading bookrunner for high yield bonds in Asia, 
excluding Japan. We now also rank in the top five of 
equities brokers in Hong Kong. We reinforced our 
leading position in the renminbi market in 2012, 
supporting a number of significant client transactions 
and, as an entity, issuing the first international 
renminbi bond outside Chinese sovereign territory. 
Reflecting our capabilities in Latin America, the 
Middle East and Asia-Pacific, HSBC was recognised 
as the ‘Best Global Emerging Markets Debt House’ 
at the 2012 Euromoney Awards for Excellence and 
was also recognised as ‘RMB House of the Year’ at 
the 2012 Asia Risk Awards. 
I would like to thank all of our employees for 
their dedication and endurance throughout a difficult 
year for the bank. They have shown a real sense of 
passion, pride and duty in the face of critical and 
often deeply embarrassing media headlines and I 
too am very grateful for their efforts.  
Group performance headlines 
• Reported profit before tax was US$20.6bn, 
US$1.2bn lower than in 2011, including 
US$5.2bn of adverse movements in the fair 
value of our own debt attributable to credit 
spreads compared with favourable movements 
of US$3.9bn in 2011. This variance of 
US$9.1bn was partially offset by an increase of 
US$7.5bn in respect of gains from the disposal 
of businesses, notably from the sale of the US 
Card and Retail Services business and the 
agreement to sell our stake in Ping An. 
• Underlying profit before tax was US$16.4bn, up 
US$2.5bn, mainly due to higher revenues and 
lower loan impairment charges and other credit 
risk provisions. These factors were partially 
offset by an increase in operating expenses, 
primarily reflecting the settlement of the 
investigations into past inadequate compliance 
with anti-money laundering and sanction laws 
and increased provisions for UK customer 
redress programmes. 
• Underlying revenues rose by 7%, led by Global 
Banking and Markets where the majority of our 
businesses grew, notably Credit and Rates in 
Europe, as spreads tightened and investor 
sentiment improved following stimuli by central 
banks globally. Commercial Banking also 
recorded revenue growth as customer loans and 
advances increased in all regions, with over half 
of this growth coming from our faster-growing 
regions of Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and 
Latin America, driven by higher trade-related 
lending. Customer deposits also rose as we 
continued to attract deposits through Payments  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC  
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chief Executive’s Business Review 
10
and Cash Management products. In addition, 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
experienced revenue growth across all faster-
growing regions, in particular Hong Kong and 
Latin America. These factors were partially 
offset by lower revenue in Global Private 
Banking, as we focused on repositioning our 
business model and target client base. 
• We achieved growth in reported loans and 
advances to customers of more than US$57bn 
during the year, notably in residential mortgages 
and term and trade-related lending. Customer 
deposits increased by over US$86bn, allowing 
us to maintain a strong ratio of customer 
advances to customer accounts of 74.4%. 
• Underlying costs were US$4.3bn higher than in 
2011 including payments of US$1.9bn made as 
part of the settlement of the investigations into 
past inadequate compliance with anti-money 
laundering and sanctions laws, additional 
provisions in respect of UK customer redress 
programmes of US$1.4bn, and a credit in 2011 
of US$0.6bn relating to defined benefit pension 
obligations in the UK which did not recur. 
Operating expenses also increased due to 
inflationary pressures, for example, on wages 
and salaries, in certain of our Latin American 
and Asian markets. Other increases arose from 
investment in strategic initiatives including 
certain business expansion projects, enhanced 
processes and technology capabilities, and 
increased investment in regulatory and 
compliance infrastructure primarily in the US. 
• The reported cost efficiency ratio deteriorated 
from 57.5% to 62.8% and from 63.4% to 66.0% 
on an underlying basis, as a result of higher 
notable cost items, as described above. 
• Return on equity was 8.4%, down from 
10.9% in 2011, primarily reflecting the adverse 
movement in fair value of own debt attributable 
to movements in credit spreads, a higher tax 
charge and higher average shareholders’ equity. 
Similarly, the Group’s pre-tax return on average 
risk-weighted assets (‘RoRWA’) for 2012 was 
1.8% or 1.5% on an underlying basis. Adjusting 
for the negative returns on US consumer finance 
business and legacy credit in Global Banking 
and Markets, the remainder of the Group 
achieved a RoRWA of 1.9% in 2012 and 2.1% 
in 2011. 
• The core tier 1 ratio increased during the year 
from 10.1% at the end of 2011 to 12.3%. This  
increase was driven by capital generation and a 
reduction in risk-weighted assets following 
business disposals. 
• The Basel III capital rules began their staged 
6-10 year implementation in some parts of the 
world in January 2013. Nevertheless, the FSA 
has set our 2013 capital target calculation on 
a Basel III end point basis. This effectively 
accelerates our implementation of Basel III 
by several years relative to European regulations 
and other global banks. Consistent with this, we 
now operate to an internal capital target set on a 
Basel III end point basis of 9.5%-10.5%. 
• Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders was 
US$13.5bn, of which US$8.3bn was declared in 
dividends in respect of the year. This compared 
with US$2.9bn of variable pay awarded (net of 
tax) to our employees for 2012. 
• Dividends per ordinary share declared in respect 
of 2012 were US$0.45, an increase of 10% 
compared with 2011, with a fourth interim 
dividend for 2012 of US$0.18 per ordinary share.  
Global standards 
As a global organisation which trades on its 
international connectivity, we recognise that we 
have a responsibility to play a part in protecting 
the integrity of the financial system. In order to 
do this effectively, in April 2012 we committed to 
implementing industry-leading controls to increase 
our ability to combat financial crime. 
The highest compliance standards are being 
adopted and enforced across HSBC and our 
Compliance function has already been strengthened 
considerably. More than 3,500 people are now 
employed globally to work on compliance and the 
cost of the Compliance function has approximately 
doubled since 2010 to more than US$500m. We 
have created and recruited externally for two new 
Compliance leadership roles – Global Head of 
Regulatory Compliance and Head of 
Group Financial Crime Compliance – and appointed 
a number of senior staff with extensive experience of 
handling relevant international legal and financial 
issues. A review of ‘Know Your Customer’ files is 
under way across the entire Group and an enhanced 
global sanctions policy has been devised to ensure 
that we do not do business with key illicit actors 
anywhere, in any currency. In addition, we have 
moved to protect HSBC from the risks inherent in 
bearer shares by curtailing the ability of clients using 
bearer share companies to open accounts or transact 
with HSBC. 11
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
We have also introduced a new filter, against 
which all existing and prospective clients and 
businesses are screened. This sixth filter focuses 
on financial crime risk. It means that where we 
cannot practically or economically apply the global 
standards to which we are committed we will stop 
writing business altogether or significantly restrict 
our activities. This policy is consistent with our 
commitments to adopt global standards, to simplify 
our business and operations, and to de-risk our 
business activities. 
Implementing these standards will be a critical 
component of our work in 2013. 
Outlook 
Whilst the operating environment for financial 
institutions remains difficult, our core business will 
continue to reap the benefit of recovering economic 
growth in mainland China and its positive impact 
on other faster-growing regions. We expect the 
developing economies, led by mainland China, to 
continue to grow briskly at 5.4%, while developed 
economies should see more gradual growth of 1.0%. 
We forecast growth of 8.6% in mainland China 
in 2013. 
The US economy should continue its gradual 
recovery, with continuing quantitative easing 
measures supporting a recovery in the housing 
market, although the recovery is still not strong 
enough to support a sustained reduction in  
unemployment. We expect higher growth in Latin 
America in 2013, due in part to a modest recovery 
in Brazil. The biggest risk to the world economy 
remains an uncharted shock from Europe and an 
exacerbation of the sovereign debt crisis. We remain 
cautious on the outlook for Europe due to weak 
demand, slow growth, and political and regulatory 
uncertainty. 
Finally, I am pleased to report that the business 
had a good start to the year. Our results in 2013 
will include a dilution gain of US$1.2bn on our 
investment in Industrial Bank, following its issue of 
additional share capital to third parties on 7 January. 
There was also a US$0.6bn net gain on the 
completion of the sale of our shares in Ping An, 
which offsets the adverse fair value movement on 
the forward contract included within our 2012 
results. On 19 February 2013 we announced the 
sale of our operations in Panama for US$2.1bn.  
S T Gulliver, Group Chief Executive
4 March 2013  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC  
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Disclosure philosophy // HSBC’s vision > Principal activities / HSBC Values 
12
Our disclosure philosophy
HSBC strives to maintain the highest 
standards of disclosure in our reporting 
It has long been our policy to provide disclosures 
that help investors and other stakeholders understand 
the Group’s performance, financial position and 
changes thereto. In accordance with this policy, the 
information provided in the ‘Notes on the Financial 
Statements’ and the ‘Report of the Directors’ goes 
beyond the minimum levels required by accounting 
standards, statutory and regulatory requirements and 
listing rules. For this reason, we wholeheartedly 
supported the work of the Enhanced Disclosure Task 
Force (‘EDTF’) in 2012. 
Enhanced Disclosure Task Force 
Following increased demands for enhanced risk 
disclosures, the Financial Stability Board established 
the EDTF in May 2012 with the goal of developing 
principles for enhancing risk disclosures by major 
banks, recommending disclosure improvements and 
identifying existing leading practice disclosures by 
global financial institutions, starting with December 
2012 risk disclosures and continuing into 2013 and 
beyond.  
The task force brought together senior officials 
and experts from financial institutions, investors 
and audit firms from around the world and, on 
29 October 2012, the EDTF issued its report, 
‘Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks’. 
Our approach
HSBC’s Annual Report and Accounts 2011
contained disclosures consistent with a majority of 
the report’s recommendations, including some 
disclosures referenced in the report as ‘leading 
practice’. We have implemented the 
recommendations of the report in 2012 and will 
further enhance our risk disclosures in 2013. 
Guide to the implementation of EDTF 
recommendations in this Report 
Our response to selected EDTF disclosure 
recommendations of particular significance may be 
found on the following pages, and in HSBC’s 
Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 report:
Type of risk Disclosure Page 
General • Risks to which the business is exposed, risk appetite and stress testing.  124 to 128 
• Top and emerging risks.  130 to 134 
Risk Governance and risk 
management strategies/ 
business models 
• Group Risk Committee. 
• Diagram of risk exposures by global business. 
 323 to 328 
 20 
 288 • Reconciliation of the accounting balance sheet to the regulatory balance sheet. 
• Regulatory capital flow statement.  285
• Analysis of credit risk by Basel asset class.   Pillar 3 
 Disclosures, 
 23 to 28 and
 32 to 38
Capital adequacy and risk-
weighted assets 
• Risk-weighted assets flow statements for each risk-weighted asset type.  283 and 284
Liquidity • Liquid asset buffer.  206 to 207 
Funding • Encumbrance.  211 
• Maturity analysis by balance sheet line.  485 to 492 
• Sources of funding and funding strategy.  209 to 211 
Market risk • Relationship between the market risk measures for trading and non-trading portfolios 
and balance sheet classification.  218 to 219 
Credit risk • Policies for impaired loans and reconciliation of movement in impaired loans. 
• Loan forbearance policies. 
 162 and 
 254 to 259 
 257 
• Credit risk mitigation and collateral.  163 to 168 
Other risks • Quantified measures on the management of operational risk.  227 to 230 
For a detailed list of all disclosure enhancements prepared in response to the recommendations of the EDTF, along with their locations, 
see page 119.  13
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
HSBC’s vision 
Purpose
Values
Strategy
Outcome
We aim to be where the economic growth is, connecting customers to 
opportunities, enabling businesses to thrive and economies to prosper, and 
ultimately helping people to fulfil their hopes and realise their ambitions.
Reason
why we
exist
How we
behave and
conduct
business
Where and
how we
compete
Act with courageous integrity by being:
• dependable and doing the right thing;
• open to different ideas and cultures; and
• connected to customers, regulators and each other.
• International network connecting faster-growing and developed markets
• Develop Wealth Management services and invest in retail banking only in 
markets where we can achieve profitable scale
Being the
world’s leading
international
bank
Our pro forma post-tax profit allocation in 2012
11
:
• 60% of earnings retained
• 29% to shareholders as dividends
• 11% variable pay
For footnote, see page 120. 
Principal activities 
Our purpose is to enable businesses to 
thrive and economies to prosper, helping 
people fulfil their hopes and realise their 
ambitions.
HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial 
services organisations in the world, with a market 
capitalisation of US$194bn at 31 December 2012. 
We are headquartered in London. 
Our products and services are delivered to 
clients through four global businesses, Retail Banking 
and Wealth Management (‘RBWM’), Commercial 
Banking (‘CMB’), Global Banking and Markets 
(‘GB&M’) and Global Private Banking (‘GPB’).  
We operate through long-established businesses 
and have an international network of some 6,600 
offices in 81 countries and territories in six 
geographical regions; Europe, Hong Kong, Rest 
of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa 
(‘MENA’), North America and Latin America.  
Taken together, our five largest customers do 
not account for more than 1% of our income. We 
have contractual and other arrangements with 
numerous third parties in support of our business 
activities. None of the arrangements is individually 
considered to be essential to the business of the 
Group.
Continuing the Group-wide review of our 
businesses, 26 disposals or closures of non-strategic 
and non core investments were announced in 2012 
and a further four in 2013, taking the total to 47 
since 2011. The most significant of these 
transactions which were completed in 2012 were the 
sale of the US Card and Retail Services business and  
the upstate New York branches for a total gain of 
US$4.0bn. In December 2012, we announced an 
agreement to sell our entire shareholding in Ping An 
Insurance (Group) Company of China, Limited 
(‘Ping An’), the sale of which was completed on 
6 February 2013, generating a gain of US$3.0bn. For 
further information on all disposals, see page 27. 
In 2012, we merged our operations in Oman 
with those of the Oman International Bank S.A.O.G. 
(‘OIB’) and acquired the onshore retail and 
commercial banking businesses of Lloyds Banking 
Group in the United Arab Emirates (see page 470). 
HSBC V alues 
Embedding global standards across HSBC in 
a consistent manner is a top priority and will 
shape the way we do business. 
The role of HSBC Values in daily operating practice 
is fundamental to our culture in the context of the 
financial services sector and the wider economy. 
This is particularly so in the light of 
developments and changes in regulatory policy, 
investor confidence and society’s view of the role of 
banks. We expect our executives and employees to 
act with courageous integrity in the execution of 
their duties by being: 
• dependable and doing the right thing;  
• open to different ideas and cultures; and 
• connected with our customers, communities, 
regulators and each other. 
We continue to enhance our values-led culture 
by embedding HSBC Values into how we conduct 
our business and in the selection, assessment, 
recognition and training provided to staff.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC  
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
HSBC Values / Business and operating models  
14
Ensuring our conduct matches our values 
In line with our ambition to be recognised as the 
world’s leading international bank, we aspire to 
lead the industry in our standards of conduct. As 
international markets become more interconnected 
and complex and, as threats to the global ﬁnancial 
system grow, we are strengthening further the 
policies and practices which govern how we do 
business and with whom.  
Like any business, we greatly value our 
reputation. HSBC’s success over the years is due in 
no small part to our reputation for trustworthiness 
and integrity. In April 2012, as part of this effort, we 
committed to adopting and enforcing the highest 
compliance standards across HSBC. Doing so will 
help us to achieve three key objectives: 
• strengthen our capabilities to combat the 
ongoing threat of ﬁnancial crime;  
• make consistent – and therefore simplify – 
how we monitor and enforce high standards 
at HSBC; and 
• ensure that we consistently apply our values 
so as to serve positively the customers and 
societies who entrust their ﬁnancial needs to 
HSBC.
Under the supervision of HSBC’s Global 
Standards Steering Committee, co-chaired by our 
Group Chief Risk Ofﬁcer and our Chief Legal 
Ofﬁcer, we are already strengthening policies in 
a number of important areas, described below. 
Global standards execution framework – priority 
areas
Financial crime filter 
Under the Group’s strategy described on page 17, we analyse 
different markets against ﬁve ﬁnancial ﬁlters to help 
us determine where to do business and the type of business we 
can do in line with our values and ﬁnancial return objectives. 
In 2012, we added a sixth ﬁlter under which we also analyse 
all new and existing business to limit activity and client 
acquisition in jurisdictions with a high risk of ﬁnancial crime. 
Tax transparency 
We are strengthening our policies and controls with the 
objective of ensuring that HSBC’s services are not used by 
clients seeking to evade their tax obligations. 
Sanctions
We have expanded our application of ﬁnancial sanctions to 
ensure that the most demanding standards are enforced for all 
currencies and in all jurisdictions. Through application of these 
standards, we screen clients and all cross-border payments to 
prevent the use of HSBC’s banking services for the beneﬁt of 
blacklisted countries, companies and individuals. 
Information sharing 
We are extending the sharing of key compliance information 
between different parts of HSBC, to the extent permitted by 
law, for the purpose of managing our exposure to ﬁnancial
crime. 
Customer due diligence 
We are applying a globally consistent approach to the 
knowledge needed to accept or retain a customer relationship. 
When any customer or potential customer is considered an 
unacceptable reputational risk – or otherwise does not meet 
our standards – that determination will be applied globally. 
Affiliates’ due diligence 
We are building a single central repository holding all required 
due diligence information on each of our afﬁliates in order to 
facilitate seamlessly cross-border transactions on behalf of our 
clients.
Bearer shares 
Shares not registered to any owner, but beneﬁcially owned 
by the person who has physical possession of the share 
certiﬁcates, carry inherent risks relating to money laundering 
and tax evasion. We have set out minimum, highly restrictive 
standards, applicable in all markets, for dealing with customers 
who utilise bearer shares.
We are also reinforcing the status of compliance 
and standards as an important element of how we 
assess and reward senior executives, and rolling out 
communication, training and assurance programmes 
to ensure that our staff understand and meet their 
responsibilities. 
We have adopted the UK Code of Practice for 
the Taxation of Banks and seeks to apply the spirit 
as well as the letter of the law in all the territories in 
which it operates. We deal with tax authorities in an 
open and honest manner. We are strengthening our 
policies and controls with the objective of ensuring 
our services are not used by clients seeking to evade 
their tax obligations. 
A new committee of the HSBC Holdings Board, 
the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, will 
provide governance, oversight and policy guidance 
over the framework of controls and procedures 
designed to identify areas where HSBC may become 
exposed and through that exposure, expose the 
financial system more broadly to financial crime or 
system abuse.  
Business and operating models 
Our business model is based on an 
international network connecting faster-
growing and developed markets. 
Our businesses are organised to serve a cohesive 
portfolio of markets, as tabulated below. 
Business model 
We take deposits from our customers and use these 
funds to make loans, either directly or through the 
capital markets. Our direct lending includes 
residential and commercial mortgages and overdrafts, 
and term loan facilities. We finance importers and 
exporters engaged in international trade and provide   15
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
advances to companies secured on amounts owed to 
them by their customers. In addition, we offer a wide 
variety of products and financial services including 
broking, asset management, financial advisory, life 
insurance manufacturing, corporate finance, markets, 
securities services and alternative investments. We 
provide these products for clients ranging from 
governments to large and mid-market corporates, 
small and medium-sized enterprises (‘SME’s), high 
net worth individuals and retail customers.  
Our operating income is primarily derived from: 
• net interest income – interest income we earn 
on customer loans and advances and on our 
surplus funds, less interest expense we pay on 
interest-bearing customer accounts and debt 
securities in issue; 
• net fee income – fee income we earn from the 
provision of financial services and products to 
customers; and 
• net trading income – income from trading 
activities primarily conducted in Global 
Markets, including Foreign Exchange, Credit, 
Rates and Equities trading. 
At our Investor Day in May 2012, we outlined 
our geographical priorities where we expect future 
growth opportunities to be concentrated. We have 
defined the UK and Hong Kong as our home 
markets, and a further 20 countries as priority 
growth markets. These 22 markets accounted for 
over 90% of our profit before tax in 2012, and will 
be the primary focus of capital deployment. Network 
markets are markets with strong international 
relevance which serve to complement our 
international network, operating mainly through 
CMB and GB&M. Our combination of home, 
priority growth and network markets covers around 
85-90% of all international trade and financial flows.  
The final category, small markets, includes 
those where our operations are of sufficient scale to 
operate profitably, or markets where we maintain 
representative offices. This structure is illustrated 
below.
HSBC’s market structure
Home
markets
Hong Kong
and Rest of 
Asia-Pacific
• Hong Kong
Europe
Middle East and 
North Africa
North
America
Latin
America
Priority
growth
markets
Network
markets
Small
markets
• UK
• Australia
• Mainland China
• India
• Indonesia
• Malaysia
• Singapore
• Taiwan
• Vietnam
• Operations primarily focused on international clients and businesses of CMB and GB&M
• Together with home and priority markets these cover 85-90% of international trade and capital flows
• Markets where HSBC has profitable scale and focused operations
• Representative Offices
• France
• Germany
• Switzerland
• Turkey
• Egypt
• Saudi Arabia
• UAE
• Canada
• USA
• Argentina
• Brazil
• Mexico
Operating model 
HSBC has a matrix management structure which 
includes global businesses, geographical regions and 
global functions. Global businesses are responsible 
for setting globally consistent business strategies 
and operating models. Geographical regions execute 
business strategies set by the global businesses. 
Global functions, including HSBC Technology and 
Services, support and facilitate the execution of the 
strategy.
Holding company 
HSBC Holdings plc, the holding company of the 
Group, is listed in London, Hong Kong, New York, 
Paris and Bermuda. HSBC Holdings is the primary 
provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and 
provides non-equity capital to them when necessary. 
Under authority delegated by the Board of 
HSBC Holdings, the Group Management Board 
(‘GMB’) is responsible for management and day-to- HSBC HOLDINGS PLC  
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Business and operating models / Strategic direction 
16
day running of the Group, within the risk appetite set 
by the Board. The Board, through the GMB, works 
to ensure that there are sufficient cash resources to 
pay dividends to shareholders, interest to 
bondholders, expenses and taxes. 
HSBC Holdings does not provide core funding 
to any subsidiary, nor is a lender of last resort and 
does not carry out any banking business in its 
own right. HSBC has a legal entity-based Group 
structure, with subsidiaries operating under their 
own boards of directors as separately capitalised, 
ring-fenced entities, implementing Group strategy 
and delivering Group products and services, in most 
cases in the country or territory in which they are 
domiciled. 
Global businesses 
Our four global businesses are responsible for 
developing, implementing and managing their 
business propositions consistently across the Group, 
focusing on profitability and efficiency. They set 
their strategies within the confines of the Group 
strategy in liaison with the geographical regions, 
are responsible for issuing planning guidance 
regarding their businesses, are accountable for 
their profit and loss performance, and manage their 
headcount. 
The main business activities of our global 
businesses are summarised below. Further details 
are provided on page 60. 
Main business activities by global business 
RBWM CMB GB&M GPB
• Deposits
• Account services
• Deposits
• Payments and cash 
management
• Deposits
• Payments and cash 
management
• Balance sheet 
management
• Deposits
• Account services
Global
businesses
Liability
driven
• Credit and lending • Credit and lending
• Trade and receivables 
finance
• Credit and lending
• Asset and trade finance
• Credit and lending
Asset
driven
• Asset management
• Wealth solutions and 
financial planning
• Broking
12
• Life insurance 
manufacturing
• Commercial insurance 
and investments
• Corporate finance
13
• Markets
14
• Securities services
• Asset management
15
• Financial advisory
16
• Broking
12
• Corporate finance (via 
GB&M)
13
• Alternative investments
17
Fee driven
and other
For footnotes, see page 120. 
Geographical regions 
The geographical regions share responsibility for 
executing the strategies set by the global businesses. 
They represent the Group to clients, regulators, 
employee groups and other stakeholders; allocate 
capital; manage risk appetite, liquidity and funding 
by legal entity; and are accountable for profit and 
loss performance in line with global business plans. 
Within the geographical regions, the Group is 
structured as a network of regional banks and locally 
incorporated regulated banking entities. Each bank is 
separately capitalised in accordance with applicable 
prudential requirements and is required to consider 
its risk and maintain a capital buffer consistent with 
the Group’s risk appetite for the relevant country 
or region. The banking entities manage their own 
funding and liquidity within parameters set centrally. 
Global functions 
Our global functions are Communications, Company 
Secretaries, Corporate Sustainability, Finance, 
Human Resources, Internal Audit, Legal, Risk 
(including Compliance), Strategy and Planning, 
Marketing, and HSBC Technology and Services, 
our global service delivery organisation. The 
global functions establish and manage all policies, 
processes and delivery platforms relevant to their 
activities, are fully accountable for their costs 
globally and are responsible for managing their 
headcount.  17
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Strategic direction 
Our strategic objective is to become the 
world’s leading international bank. 
Our strategic direction is aligned to two long-term 
trends:
• Financial flows – the world economy is 
becoming ever more connected. Growth in 
world trade and cross-border capital flows 
continues to outstrip growth in average gross 
domestic product. Financial flows between 
countries and regions are highly concentrated, 
and over the next decade we expect 35 markets 
to generate 90% of world trade growth with a 
similar degree of concentration in cross-border 
capital flows. 
• Economic development – we expect economies 
currently deemed ‘emerging’ to have increased 
five-fold in size by 2050, benefiting from 
demographics and urbanisation, by which time 
they will be larger than the developed world. By 
then, we expect 19 of the 30 largest economies 
will be markets that are currently described as 
emerging. 
HSBC is one of the few truly international 
banks and our advantages lie in the extent to which 
our network corresponds with markets relevant 
to international financial flows, our access and 
exposure to high growth markets and businesses, 
and our strong balance sheet, which helps to 
generate a resilient stream of earnings. 
Based on these long-term trends and our 
competitive position, our strategy has two parts: 
• Network of businesses connecting the world – 
HSBC is well positioned to capture the growing 
international financial flows. Our global reach 
and range of services put us in a strong position 
to serve corporate clients as they grow from 
small enterprises into large and international 
corporates. Our access to local retail funding 
and our suite of international products allows 
us to offer distinctive solutions for these clients 
profitably. 
• Wealth management and retail with local scale – 
social mobility and wealth creation in the faster-
growing markets in which we are positioned 
will generate demand for financial services 
which we will meet through our Wealth 
Management and GPB businesses. We will 
only invest in retail businesses in markets 
where we can achieve critical mass. 
To implement this strategy we have set priorities 
across three areas to simplify, restructure and grow 
the Group, as described below. 
Simplifying HSBC 
We will continue to make HSBC easier to manage 
and control. This includes (i) running off legacy 
assets in the US and in GB&M, (ii) addressing 
fragmentation in our business portfolio through 
our six filters disposing of non-strategic businesses, 
and (iii) improving organisational efficiency.  
In 2012, we added a sixth filter to the existing 
five strategic evaluation criteria used to assess our 
business (international connectivity, economic 
development, profitability, cost efficiency and 
liquidity). The sixth filter requires compliance 
with our global standards on financial crime and 
involves the assessment of existing and new client 
relationships and activities against those standards.
Run-off portfolios 
Run-off portfolios comprise Consumer and 
Mortgage Lending portfolios and certain related 
treasury services in the US and, in GB&M, a legacy 
credit business. The latter comprises a separately 
identifiable, discretely managed business comprising 
Solitaire Funding Limited (‘Solitaire’), securities 
investment conduits, asset-backed securities, trading 
portfolios and credit correlation portfolios, derivative 
transactions entered into with monoline insurers 
and certain structured credit transactions.  
We continue to run off US legacy consumer 
assets and are actively analysing opportunities to 
reduce risk and improve returns. 
Run-off of portfolio receivables in the US 
74
61
51
44
39
16
11
7
5
4
11
7
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
Real estate Non-real estate (unsecured) Vehicle finance
101
79
58
49
Compound annual 
growth rate 19%
43
US$bn
18
For footnote, see page 120.
We have identified segments of the real estate 
portfolio in the US that represent a high risk and/or a 
high operational burden or may be sold on a capital  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC  
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Strategic direction / Risk 
18
accretive basis. We have also identified the non-real 
estate portfolio for sale to reduce operational risk. 
In GB&M, decisions to hold or sell legacy 
assets depend on whether the net present value of 
future cash flows from the assets (e.g. the terminal 
value net of funding and operational costs and the 
cost of capital) exceed the total of the expected loss 
on sale and the costs of the transaction. 
Addressing fragmentation
Fragmentation of the business is being addressed 
using the six filters to guide strategic actions. 
Using the six filters in decision-making 
What is the 
strategic 
relevance?
Are the current
returns 
attractive?
Do we adhere to 
global risk standards?
1. Connectivity
2. Economic 
development
3. Profitability
4. Efficiency
5. Liquidity
Yes Invest
Turnaround/
improve
Continue
as is
No
Yes
No
High
Medium/low
Discontinue/dispose
Low High
6. Financial crime risk
Since 2011 we have announced and completed a 
significant number of disposals:
Announced transactions
19
Completed
• Afore
• HSBC 
Insurance 
(UK) Ltd
• US Card and
Retail
Services
• US branches
• Ping An
8
25
Number
Key
2011 2012/2013
Still to complete
14
• Bao Viet 
Holdings
• HSBC Bank
(Panama)
S.A.
For footnote, see page 120.
Improving organisational efficiency
We continued to make headway with the Four 
Programmes that we launched in May 2011 designed 
to simplify HSBC and make the Group easier to 
manage and control. The Four Programmes are  
  (i) implementing consistent business models; 
 (ii) re-engineering global functions; 
(iii) re-engineering operational processes; and  
(iv) streamlining IT. 
Our approach to organisation, talent and values 
Organisation
8 by 8
structure
4 global
businesses
11 global
functions
• Maximum of 8 layers between Group CEO and frontline
• Increased spans of control (8 reports per manager)
• With target business and operating models
• As non-strategic businesses are exited, we can organise 
resources at the centre
• To manage resources globally
• Easier to enforce global controls
Talent
• More visibility for our global talent pool
• Creating opportunities for talented individuals
Values
(Guiding principle –
courageous integrity)
• Led from the top and cascaded through the organisation 
– ensuring global adherence to high standards
• Fully integrated into performance management
Restructuring HSBC 
We will restructure certain businesses to adapt to 
the new environment, including GB&M, our US 
franchise and GPB. 
Global Banking and Markets 
Product profitability for the industry as a whole is 
declining with client activity relatively subdued and 
regulatory changes reducing available capital and 
liquidity while, at the same time, posing significant 
challenges to some traditional business models. 
Overall, there is downward pressure on returns on 
capital.
GB&M is well positioned for the new business 
environment, with its deep and diversified client 
base, network of markets covering the majority of 
global financial flows, global product capabilities 
and diversified funding base. 
GB&M is actively managing its legacy credit 
exposures. In 2012, risk-weighted assets (‘RWA’s) 
decreased mainly because of downgrades to 
positions which resulted in a change from being 
risk-weighted to being deducted from capital. A 
clear economic framework has been put in place for 
decision-making over when and how to dispose of 
legacy investments.  
With regard to its ongoing business activities, 
GB&M manages its RWAs comprehensively and 
pro-actively, which helps mitigate RWA growth 
arising from regulatory and model changes.  
Our US businesses 
Our US operations are being reshaped to focus on 
core activities, with the sale of the US Card and 
Retail Services business and the upstate New York  19
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
branches and the repositioning of our activities 
towards international businesses. 
• CMB is now focused on five hubs contributing 
over 50% of US corporate imports and exports, 
including the West Coast Southeast and 
Midwest. 
• Global Banking serves top-tier multinationals 
and Global Markets (New York) provides a hub 
for international clients across America and 
globally, providing US dollar funding. 
• RBWM and GPB target internationally mobile 
clients in large metropolitan centres on the West 
and East coasts. 
Global Private Banking 
The private banking industry faces challenges 
from stricter regulatory requirements, particularly 
to its international banking model, and increasing 
competition to capture new wealth inflows. To meet 
these challenges and better serve the needs of our 
clients, GPB is repositioning its business to focus 
on priority markets and improve its operational 
standards in the following ways: 
• operational risk and compliance – GPB will 
adhere to the highest standards in the industry, 
and will continue to strengthen its compliance 
and risk framework, focusing on global 
standards and tax transparency; 
• integrated operating model – GPB has 
implemented a new global operating model 
that will provide better integration and 
coordination between geographical regions, 
and it will complete the roll-out of improved 
data security and compliance governance, 
systems and processes; 
• integration with the Group – GPB will intensify 
collaboration with CMB to access wealth 
created by entrepreneurs who already bank 
with HSBC on the business side. GPB will 
also contribute to a seamless Group wealth 
proposition for personal customers; and 
• capturing growth – GPB will focus investment 
on the most attractive developed and faster-
growing wealth markets where it can build 
access to well established client franchises 
and strong local and international product 
capabilities.
Growing HSBC 
We continue to position HSBC for growth. We also 
continue to benefit from the closer coordination and 
collaboration among our four global businesses to 
capture significant revenue opportunities utilising, 
in particular, CMB’s potential for increasing referrals 
and cross-selling with GB&M and GPB. 
Faster-growing regions
20
 as a share of Group data 
US$6bn
41pp
US$9bn
16pp
US$151bn
15pp
US$190bn
6pp
c.(12,545) FTE
(8pp)
PBT
Revenue
21
Gross loans
and advances
to customers
Deposits from
customers
Headcount
64%
39%
24%
41%
57%
2007 2012
2007 – 2012
difference
percentage
points (pp)
100% 100%
Faster growing Developed
55%
39%
47%
65%
105%
For footnotes, see page 120.
We will actively deploy capital in our home 
and priority growth markets (see ‘HSBC’s market 
structure’ on page 16), access faster-growing markets 
and all major trade corridors and capture growth 
opportunities in trade finance as competitors 
deleverage. 
Our aim in executing our strategy is to be 
regarded as the world’s leading international bank. 
We have defined financial targets to achieve a return 
on equity of between 12% and 15% with a core tier 1 
ratio of between 9.5% and 10.5%, and achieve a cost 
efficiency ratio of between 48% and 52%. We have 
also defined Key Performance Indicators to monitor 
the outcomes of actions across the three areas of 
capital deployment, cost efficiency and growth 
(see page 22). 
Risk
As a provider of banking and financial 
services, risk is at the core of our day-to-day 
activities.
The chart below is designed to provide a high level 
guide to how HSBC’s business activities are reflected 
in our risk measures and in our balance sheet. 
The third party assets and liabilities shown 
provide a guide to the proportion of the Group’s 
balance sheet which is contributed by each of them. 
In addition, we have used the regulatory RWAs to 
illustrate the relative size of the risks each of them 
incur. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC  
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Risk
20
Exposure to risks arising from the business activities of global businesses 
RBWM CMB GB&M GPB
HSBC
• HSBC holding 
company and
central operations
• Deposits
• Accounts services
• Credit and lending
• Asset management
• Wealth solutions and 
financial planning
• Broking
• Life insurance 
manufacturing
• Deposits
• Payments and cash 
management
• Credit and lending
• International trade 
and receivables 
finance
• Commercial 
insurance and 
investments
• Deposits
• Payments and cash 
management
• Balance sheet
management
• Credit and lending
• Asset and trade 
finance
• Corporate finance
• Markets
• Securities services
• Deposits
• Account services
• Credit and lending
• Asset management
• Financial advisory
• Broking
• Corporate finance 
(via GB&M)
• Alternative 
investments
Global
business
Business
activities
Risk
profile
Balance
sheet
22
US$bn
•Assets 535
• Customer 
accounts 562
US$bn
•Assets 363
• Customer
accounts 338
US$bn
•Assets 1,859
• Customer
accounts 332
US$bn
•Assets 118
• Customer
accounts 106
US$bn
•Assets 187
• Customer
accounts 2
Liquidity and funding risk, Pension risk, Fiduciary risk, Reputational risk, Compliance risk, 
Sustainability risk and Insurance risk, which is predominantly in RBWM and CMB.
US$bn
• Credit risk 232
• Operational risk 45
US$bn
• Credit risk 366
• Operational risk 31
US$bn
• Credit risk 259
• Counterparty
credit risk 48
• Operational risk 41
• Market risk 55
US$bn
• Credit risk 18
• Operational risk 4
US$bn
• Credit risk 25
• Operational risk –
Other
(including Holding 
Company)
RWAs
For footnote, see page 120. 
In carrying out its business activities, HSBC 
incurs a range of risks, some of which are measured 
and managed via capital, some by other mechanisms. 
For the former, we use both regulatory and economic 
capital. Currently, the Group’s risk appetite is most 
affected by the regulatory capital dimension as it 
exceeds economic capital. The table above shows the 
Pillar 1 regulatory capital demand for those risks and 
is represented by RWAs. Under this regulatory 
capital framework, the capital invested in our 
Insurance business is deducted from regulatory 
capital; as at 31 December 2012, the capital invested 
in our Insurance business was US$10.1bn. HSBC is 
also exposed to other risks as shown in the table 
above. The regulatory capital required against these 
other risks is covered within the total capital that 
HSBC holds. 
We have identified a comprehensive suite of 
risk factors which encompasses the broad range of 
risks we are exposed to, but may not necessarily be 
deemed as top or emerging risks. The risk factors 
inform our ongoing assessment of our top and 
emerging risks. This assessment may result in our 
risk appetite being revised. 
Risk factors 
Our businesses are exposed to a variety of risk 
factors that could potentially affect the results of 
our operations or financial condition. These are:  
Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk 
• Current economic and market conditions may 
adversely affect our results. 
• We have exposure to the ongoing economic crisis 
in the eurozone. 
• We are subject to political and economic risks in 
the countries in which we operate, including the 
risk of government intervention. 
• Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may 
affect our results.
Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to 
our business model 
• Failure to comply with certain regulatory 
requirements would have an adverse material 
effect on our results and operations. 
• We are subject to a number of legal and 
regulatory actions and investigations, the 
outcomes of which are inherently difficult to  21
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
predict, but unfavourable outcomes could have a 
material adverse effect on our operating results 
and brand. 
• Unfavourable legislative or regulatory 
developments, or changes in the policy of 
regulators or governments, could generate model 
risk and could have a significant adverse effect on 
our operations, financial condition and prospects. 
• The UK Government has proposed draft 
legislation for banking reforms based on the 
recommendations of the Independent 
Commission on Banking. Additional proposals 
are being considered in France, Germany and 
the EU and any resulting structural changes 
could have a material adverse effect on us. 
• We are subject to tax-related risks in the countries 
in which we operate which could have a material 
adverse effect on our operating results. 
Risks related to our business operations, 
governance and internal control systems including 
compliance 
• Our risk management measures may not be 
successful. 
• Operational risks are inherent in our business. 
• Our operations are subject to the threat of 
fraudulent activity. 
• Our operations are subject to disruption from the 
external environment. 
• Our operations utilise third party suppliers. 
• Our operations are highly dependent on our 
information technology systems. 
• Our operations have inherent reputational risk. 
• We may suffer losses due to employee 
misconduct. 
• We rely on recruiting, retaining and developing 
appropriate senior management and skilled 
personnel. 
• Our financial statements are based in part on 
assumptions and estimates which, if inaccurate, 
could cause material misstatement of the results 
and financial position of the Group. 
• Third parties may use us as a conduit for illegal 
activities without our knowledge, which could 
have a material adverse effect on us. 
• We may not achieve all the expected benefits of 
our strategic initiatives. 
Risks related to our business 
• We have significant exposure to counterparty risk 
within the financial sector and to other risk 
concentrations. 
• Market fluctuations may reduce our income or 
the value of our portfolios. 
• Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to 
our businesses. 
• Any reduction in the credit rating assigned to 
HSBC Holdings, any subsidiaries of HSBC 
Holdings or any of their respective debt securities 
could increase the cost or decrease the availability 
of our funding and adversely affect our liquidity 
position and interest margins. 
• Risks concerning borrower credit quality are 
inherent in our businesses. 
• Our Insurance business is subject to risks relating 
to insurance claim rates and changes in insurance 
customer behaviour. 
• HSBC Holdings is a holding company and, 
as a result, is dependent on dividends from its 
subsidiaries to meet its obligations, including 
obligations with respect to its debt securities, and 
to provide profits for payment of future dividends 
to shareholders. 
• We may be required to make substantial 
contributions to our pension plans.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Risk / KPIs 
22
Top and emerging risks 
We classify certain risks as ‘top’ or ‘emerging’. We 
define a ‘top risk’ as being a current, emerged risk 
which has arisen across any of our risk categories, 
regions or global businesses and has the potential to 
have a material impact on our financial results or our 
reputation and the sustainability of our long-term 
business model, and which may form and crystallise 
within a one-year horizon. We consider an ‘emerging 
risk’ to be one which has large uncertain outcomes 
which may form and crystallise beyond a one-year 
horizon and, if it were to crystallise, could have a 
material effect on our long-term strategy. 
Our approach to identifying and monitoring top 
and emerging risks is informed by the risk factors. 
All of our activities involve, to varying degrees, 
the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and 
management of risk or combinations of risks which 
we assess on a Group-wide basis. Top and emerging 
risks fall under the following three broad categories: 
• macroeconomic and geopolitical risk; 
• macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to 
our business model; and 
• risks related to our business operations, 
governance and internal control systems. 
During 2012, our senior management paid 
particular attention to a number of top and emerging 
risks. The current list is summarised below:
Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk
• Emerging markets slow down. 
• Macroeconomic risks within developed economies. 
• Increased geopolitical risk in certain regions. 
Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our 
business model
• Regulatory developments affecting our business model and 
Group profitability. 
• Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions and requirements 
relating to conduct of business and financial crime 
negatively affecting our results and brand. 
• Dispute risk. 
Risks related to our business operations, governance and 
internal control systems
• Regulatory commitments and consent orders including 
under the Deferred Prosecution Agreements. 
• Challenges to achieving our strategy in a downturn. 
• Internet crime and fraud. 
• Level of change creating operational complexity and 
heightened operational risk. 
• Information security risk. 
• Model risk. 
A detailed account of these risks is provided on 
page 131. All of them are regarded as top risks. 
Further comments on expected risks and 
uncertainties are made throughout the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2012, particularly in the section on 
Risk, pages 123 to 249. 
Risk appetite 
Risk appetite is a key component of our management 
of risk and describes the types and level of risk we 
are prepared to accept in delivering our strategy. Our 
risk appetite is set out in the Group’s Risk Appetite 
Statement and is central to the annual planning 
process. Global businesses, geographical regions and 
global functions are required to articulate their risk 
appetite statements. They are discussed further on 
page 126. 
Our risk appetite may be revised in response to 
the top and emerging risks we have identified. 
Key performance indicators 
The Board of Directors and the GMB monitor 
HSBC’s progress against its strategic 
objectives. Progress is assessed by 
comparison with our strategy, our operating 
plan and our historical performance using 
both financial and non-financial measures. 
From time to time the Group reviews its key 
performance indicators (‘KPIs’) in light of its 
strategic objectives and may in the future adopt new 
or refined measures, or modify or adjust existing 
targets, to better align the KPIs to our strategic 
objectives. 
The GMB remains focused on improving our 
capital deployment to support the achievement of 
our medium-term target for return on equity of 
between 12% and 15%, utilising the six filter 
analysis across our portfolio of businesses. We will 
continue to evaluate our businesses in 2013 using 
this methodology. 
Employee engagement has been monitored 
through annual Global People Surveys. In 2012, 
quarterly Pulse Surveys were introduced, and the 
Global People Surveys scheduled biennially. The 
next Global People Survey will be in 2013. As the 
Pulse Surveys were not designed to report employee 
engagement information comparable with that 
derived from the Global People Surveys, we have 
not disclosed this KPI in 2012.  23
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Strategy Restructuring HSBC – improving the way we deploy capital 
Return on average ordinary 
shareholders’ equity
2
Core tier 1 capital ratio
10
Advances to core funding  
ratio
23
4.7
5.1
9.5
10.9
8.4
'08 '09 '10 '11 '12
7.0
9.4
10.5
10.1
12.3
'08 '09 '10 '11 '12
98
75
86
89
70
103
86
100
106
73
78
91
HSBC UK HBAP HBUS Other
entities
2010 2011 2012
HSBC
UK
HBAP HSBC
US
Other
entities
Measure: (percentage) profit attributable 
to ordinary shareholders divided by 
average ordinary shareholders’ equity. 
Measure: (percentage) ratio of core tier 1 
capital comprising shareholders’ equity 
and related non-controlling interests less 
regulatory deductions and adjustments to 
total risk-weighted assets. 
Measure: loans and advances to customers 
as a percentage of the total of core 
customer deposits and term funding with 
a remaining term to maturity in excess of 
one year. 
Target: to maintain a return in the medium
term of between 12% and 15%.  
Target: to maintain a strong capital base 
to support the development of the business 
and meet regulatory capital requirements at 
all times. 
Target: to maintain an advances to core 
funding ratio below limits set for each 
entity. 
Key Performance Indicators 
Outcome: return on average ordinary 
shareholders’ equity remained outside 
our target range and was 2.5 percentage 
points below 2011. The latter primarily 
reflected adverse fair value movements on 
own debt attributable to credit spreads, 
compared with favourable movements in 
2011, a higher tax charge and higher 
average shareholders’ equity.  
Outcome: the increase in core tier 1 
capital ratio to 12.3% was driven by capital
generation and a reduction in RWAs 
following business disposals, notably the 
disposal of the US Card and Retail 
Services business and derecognition of 
Ping An as an associate.
Outcome: The operating entities reported 
remained inside their advances to core 
funding limits of between 70% and 115% 
during 2012, except for one operating 
entity reported within the total of HSBC’s 
other principal entities which operated with 
a limit of 125% during the year. This limit 
has been reduced to 115% for 2013.
     
Strategy Simplifying HSBC – a lean and values-driven organisation 
Cost efficiency 
(2012: underlying cost efficiency 66.0%) 
Basic earnings  
per ordinary share 
60.1
52.0
55.2
57.5
62.8
'08 '09 '10 '11 '12
0.41
0.34
0.73
0.92
0.74
'08 '09 '10 '11 '12
Measure: (percentage) total operating expenses divided by net 
operating income before loan impairment and other credit risk 
provisions. 
Measure: (US$) level of basic earnings generated per ordinary 
share.  
Target: to be between 48% and 52%, a range within which 
business is expected to remain to accommodate both returns to 
shareholders and the need for continued investment in support of 
future business growth. 
Target: to deliver consistent growth in basic earnings per share. 
Key Performance Indicators 
Outcome: the ratio remained outside the target range. On a 
reported basis, revenues decreased primarily due to adverse fair 
value movements on own debt attributable to credit spreads, 
coupled with higher costs in part reflecting a charge in respect of 
fines and penalties as part of the settlement of investigations into 
HSBC’s past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering 
and sanctions laws as well as an increase in provisions relating 
to UK customer redress programmes. On an underlying basis, 
revenue growth was more than offset by the increase in costs. 
Outcome: Earnings per share decreased in 2012 reflecting adverse
fair value movements on own debt attributable to credit spreads, 
compared with favourable movements in 2011, and a higher tax 
charge which resulted in a decrease in reported profits. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
KPIs / Financial summary > Use of non-GAAP financial measures 
24
Growing HSBC – continuing to position ourselves for growth Strategy
Risk-adjusted revenue growth 
(2012: underlying growth 13%)
Dividends per ordinary  
share growth 
37
11
(30)
(8)
'08 '09 '10 '11 '12
(0.2)
6.0
14.0
(47.0)
(29.0)
10.0
'08'09 '10'11 '12
Measure: (percentage) increase in reported net operating income 
after loan impairment and other credit risk charges since last year.
Measure: (percentage) increase in dividends per share since last 
year, based on dividends paid in respect of the year to which the 
dividend relates. 
Target: to deliver consistent growth in risk adjusted revenues. Target: to deliver sustained dividend per share growth. 
Outcome: reported risk-adjusted revenue was broadly in line with 
2011. On an underlying basis, there was an increase due to 
revenue growth, notably in GB&M and CMB, and lower loan 
impairment charges, notably in North America. 
Outcome: dividends per share increased by 10%. 
Key Performance Indicators
Customer recommendation Brand value 
3rd place
US$22.9bn
1st place
US$27.6bn
3rd place
US$27.4bn
1st place
US$28.5bn
2010 2011 2012 2013
3rd place
US$22.9bn
1st place
US$27.6bn
3rd place
US$27.4bn
1st place
US$28.5bn
2010 2011 2012 2013
Measure: we measure our customer satisfaction through an 
independent market research survey of retail banking customers 
in selected countries, using a specific customer recommendation 
index (‘CRI’) to score performance. We benchmark our 
performance against key competitors in each market and set 
targets relative to our peer group of banks. 
Target: the Group target is for 75% of all the markets (based on 
their weighted revenue) to meet their CRI targets. 
Outcome: RBWM failed to make its target of 75% as a 
consequence of reputational issues in certain of our major 
developed markets that adversely affected customers’ perception 
of the bank in the third quarter of 2012. We saw a good recovery 
in the fourth quarter but, taking the overall averaged annual 
position into account, we only met our target in 38% of our 
weighted revenue. 55% of the weighted revenue target was 
within two points (from a 100-point scale).  
For CMB, we changed our measures in 2012 for customer 
satisfaction to reflect the strategic focus of the business. 
Previously, we only surveyed small business customers in a 
limited number of markets and measured customer 
recommendation. For 2012, we introduced a new measure of our 
performance through a ‘client engagement’ survey conducted for 
us by a third party. This provides a more complete perspective 
for our performance across all our CMB segments and will give 
us a competitive benchmark in 13 of our top markets. In 2012, 
therefore, we set benchmarks but not targets. We will set targets 
for 2013 and report results in the future. 
Measure: in 2011, we moved our brand measure to the Brand 
Finance valuation method as reported in The Banker Magazine.
This is our second year of using this benchmark. The Brand 
Finance methodology gives us a more complete measure of the 
strength of the brand and its impact across all business lines and 
customer groups. It is a wholly independent measure and is 
publicly reported. 
Target: a top three position in the banking peer group. 
Outcome: The HSBC brand moved from first to third in the 
Brand Finance ranking and suffered a substantial reduction in 
value. We achieved our target of a top three position but, in 
consultation with the Brand Finance organisation, we have 
seen reputational issues cited as a major factor in our reduced 
performance in 2012.
Key Performance Indicators 
For footnotes, see page 120.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review
Financial summary > Consolidated income statement 
25
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Financial summary
Use of non-GAAP financial measures ...................... 25
Constant currency ......................................................... 25
Underlying performance ............................................... 26
Consolidated income statement ................................. 29
Group performance by income and expense item ... 33
Net interest income ....................................................... 33
Net fee income .............................................................. 35
Net trading income ....................................................... 36
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments 
designated at fair value ............................................. 37
Gains less losses from financial investments ............... 38
Net earned insurance premiums ................................... 38
Gains on disposal of US branch network, US  
cards business and Ping An ...................................... 39
Other operating income ................................................ 39
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in 
liabilities to policyholders ........................................ 40
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions ................................................................. 41
Operating expenses ....................................................... 42
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures ............ 43
Tax expense .................................................................. 44
Consolidated balance sheet ........................................ 45
Movement in 2012 ........................................................ 46
Economic loss .............................................................. 51
Reconciliation of RoRWA measures ......................... 52
Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios ......... 52
Critical accounting policies ........................................ 54
The management commentary included in the Report of the 
Directors: ‘Overview’ and ‘Operating and Financial Review’, 
together with the ‘Employees’ and ‘Corporate sustainability’ 
sections of ‘Corporate Governance’ and the ‘Directors’ 
Remuneration Report’ is presented in compliance with the 
IFRS Practice Statement ‘Management Commentary’ issued 
by the IASB.  
Use of non-GAAP financial measures 
Our reported results are prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as detailed in the Financial Statements 
starting on page 372. There are times when we 
measure our performance internally, using financial 
measures which have been derived from our reported 
results, in order to eliminate factors which distort 
year-on-year comparisons so we can view our results 
on a more like-for-like basis; these are considered 
non-GAAP measures. ‘Constant currency’ and 
‘underlying’ performance are non-GAAP measures 
that we use throughout our Operating and Financial 
Review and are described below. Other non-GAAP 
financial measures are described and reconciled to 
the closest reported financial measure when used.  
Constant currency 
The constant currency measure adjusts for the year-
on-year effects of foreign currency translation 
differences by comparing reported results for 2012 
with reported results for 2011 retranslated at 2012 
exchange rates. Except where stated otherwise, 
commentaries are on a constant currency basis, as 
reconciled in the table overleaf. 
The foreign currency translation differences 
reflect the movements of the US dollar against most 
major currencies during 2012. 
We exclude the translation differences when 
monitoring progress against operating plans and past 
results because management believes the like-for-
like basis of constant currency financial measures 
more appropriately reflects changes due to operating 
performance. 
Constant currency 
Constant currency comparatives for 2011 referred to in the 
commentaries are computed by retranslating into US dollars 
for non-US dollar branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates:
• the income statements for 2011 at the average rates of 
exchange for 2012; and 
• the balance sheet at 31 December 2011 at the prevailing 
rates of exchange on 31 December 2012. 
No adjustment has been made to the exchange rates used to 
translate foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities 
into the functional currencies of any HSBC branches, 
subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates. When reference is 
made to ‘constant currency’ in tables or commentaries, 
comparative data reported in the functional currencies of 
HSBC’s operations have been translated at the appropriate 
exchange rates applied in the current period on the basis 
described above.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Use of non-GAAP financial measures 
26
Reconciliation of reported and constant currency profit before tax 
2012 compared with 2011 
HSBC 
 2011 as
 reported
 US$m 
 Currency 
 translation 
 adjustment
24
 US$m 
 2011
 at 2012 
 exchange
 rates
 US$m 
 2012 as 
 reported
 US$m 
 Reported 
 change
25
 % 
 Constant 
 currency 
 change
25
%
Net interest income ............................ 40,662 (1,151) 39,511 37,672 (7) (5) 
Net fee income ................................... 17,160 (436) 16,724 16,430 (4) (2) 
Own credit spread
26
 ........................... 3,933 (35) 3,898 (5,215)
Gains on disposal of US branch 
network, US cards business and  
Ping An .......................................... – – – 7,024 
Other income
27
 ................................... 10,525 (446) 10,079 12,419 18 23
Net operating income
21
 .................... 72,280 (2,068) 70,212 68,330 (5) (3) 
Loan impairment charges and  
other credit risk provisions ............ (12,127) 277 (11,850) (8,311) 31 30
Net operating income ...................... 60,153 (1,791) 58,362 60,019 3
Operating expenses ............................ (41,545) 1,273  (40,272) (42,927) (3) (7) 
Operating profit ............................... 18,608 (518) 18,090 17,092 (8) (6) 
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures .......................... 3,264 55 3,319 3,557 9 7
Profit before tax ............................... 21,872 (463) 21,409 20,649 (6) (4) 
By global business
28
Retail Banking and Wealth 
Management .................................. 4,270 (71) 4,199 9,575 124 128
Commercial Banking ......................... 7,947 (180) 7,767 8,535 7 10
Global Banking and Markets ............. 7,049 (200) 6,849 8,520 21 24
Global Private Banking ..................... 944 (8) 936 1,009 7 8
Other .................................................. 1,662 (4) 1,658 (6,990)
Profit before tax ................................. 21,872 (463) 21,409 20,649 (6) (4) 
By geographical region
28
Europe ................................................ 4,671 (130) 4,541 (3,414)
Hong Kong ........................................ 5,823 20 5,843 7,582 30 30
Rest of Asia-Pacific ........................... 7,471 (79) 7,392 10,448 40 41
Middle East and North Africa ........... 1,492 (7) 1,485 1,350 (10) (9) 
North America ................................... 100 (14) 86 2,299 2,199 2,573 
Latin America .................................... 2,315 (253) 2,062 2,384 3 16
Profit before tax ................................. 21,872 (463) 21,409 20,649 (6) (4) 
For footnotes, see page 120. 
Underlying performance 
Underlying performance: 
• adjusts for the year-on-year effects of foreign 
currency translation; 
• eliminates the fair value movements on our long-
term debt attributable to credit spread (‘own 
credit spread’) where the net result of such 
movements will be zero upon maturity of the 
debt (see footnote 26 on page 120); and  
• adjusts for acquisitions, disposals and changes of 
ownership levels of subsidiaries, associates and 
businesses (see footnote 29 on page 120). 
For disposals, acquisitions and changes of 
ownership levels of subsidiaries, associates and 
businesses, we eliminate the gain or loss on disposal 
in the period incurred and remove the operating 
profit or loss of the acquired and disposed of 
businesses from all periods presented. Previously, 
this adjustment for the results of operations was 
effected by removing the time-equivalent component 
of operating profit or loss from the comparative 
period. During 2012 we changed this adjustment to 
better reflect the results of the ongoing business. Had 
we maintained our previous approach, underlying 
profit before tax would have been US$1.7bn higher 
in 2012. This was mainly due to the elimination of 
the US Card and Retail Services business.  27
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
We use underlying performance when 
monitoring progress against operating plans and 
past results because we believe that this basis more 
appropriately reflects operating performance. We 
use underlying performance in our commentaries to 
explain year-on-year changes when the effect of fair 
value movements on own debt, acquisitions, 
disposals or dilution is significant. 
The following acquisitions, disposals and 
changes to ownership levels affected the underlying 
performance:
Disposal gains/(losses) affecting underlying performance 
 Date  
 Disposal 
 gain/(loss) 
 US$m 
HSBC Financial Services (Middle East) Limited’s disposal of majority stake in HSBC Private Equity 
Middle East Limited.....................................................................................................................................  Jun 2011 (7)
Dilution gain on our holding in Ping An following the issue of share capital to a third party ......................  Jun 2011 181
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.’s disposal of HSBC Afore S.A. de C.V.
30
 .......................................  Aug 2011 83
Dilution gain as a result of the merger between HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited and SABB Securities Limited    Dec 2011 27
HSBC Bank Canada’s disposal of HSBC Securities (Canada) Inc’s full service retail brokerage business
30
    Jan 2012 83
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited’s disposal of RBWM operations in Thailand
30
  Mar 2012 108
HSBC Finance Corporation, HSBC USA Inc. and HSBC Technology and Services (USA) Inc.’s  
disposal of US Card and Retail Services business
30 
...................................................................................  May 2012 3,148 
HSBC Bank USA, N.A.’s disposal of 138 non-strategic branches
30
 ..............................................................  May 2012 661
HSBC Argentina Holdings S.A.’s disposal of its general insurance manufacturing subsidiary
30
 .................  May 2012 102
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited’s disposal of its private banking business  
in Japan
30
 .....................................................................................................................................................  Jun 2012 67
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited’s disposal of its shareholding in a property 
company in the Philippines .........................................................................................................................  Jun 2012 130
HSBC Bank USA, N.A.’s disposal of 57 non-strategic branches
30
 ................................................................  Aug 2012 203
Hang Seng Bank Limited’s disposal of its general insurance manufacturing subsidiary
30
 ............................  Jul 2012 46
HSBC Asia Holdings B.V.’s investment loss on a subsidiary
30
 .....................................................................  Aug 2012 (85)
HSBC Bank plc’s disposal of HSBC Securities SA .......................................................................................  Aug 2012 (11)
HSBC Europe ( Netherlands) B.V.’s disposal of HSBC Credit Zrt ...............................................................  Aug 2012 (2)
HSBC Europe ( Netherlands) B.V.’s disposal of HSBC Insurance (Ireland) Limited ...................................  Oct 2012 (12)
HSBC Europe ( Netherlands) B.V.’s disposal of  HSBC Reinsurance Limited ............................................  Oct 2012 7
HSBC Private Bank (UK) Limited’s disposal of Property Vision Holdings Limited ....................................   Oct 2012 (1)
HSBC Investment Bank Holdings Limited’s disposal of its stake in Havas Havalimanlari Yer Hizmetleri  
Yatirim Holding Anonim Sirketi ................................................................................................................  Oct 2012 18
HSBC Insurance (Asia) Limited’s disposal of its general insurance portfolios
30
 ..........................................  Nov 2012 117
HSBC Bank plc’s disposal of HSBC Shipping Services Limited ..................................................................  Nov 2012 (2)
HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A.’s disposal of its operations in Costa Rica, El Salvador and Honduras
30
 ...........  Dec 2012 (62)
HSBC Insurance Holdings Limited and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited’s 
disposal of their shares in Ping An
30
 ...........................................................................................................  Dec 2012 3,012 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited’s disposal of its shareholding in Global  
Payments Asia-Pacific Limited
30
 ................................................................................................................  Dec 2012 212
For footnote, see page 120. 
Acquisition gains/(losses) affecting the underlying performance 
Date
 Fair value gain 
 on acquisition 
 US$m 
Our share of the loss recorded by Ping An on re-measurement of its previously held equity interest in Ping 
An bank (formerly known as Shenzhen Development Bank) when Ping An took control and fully 
consolidated Ping An Bank .........................................................................................................................  Jul 2011 (48)
Gain on the merger of Oman International Bank S.A.O.G. and the Omani operations of  
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited ...............................................................................................................  Jun 2012  3
Gain on the acquisition of the onshore retail and commercial banking business of Lloyds Banking Group in 
the UAE by HSBC Bank Middle East Limited ..........................................................................................  Oct 2012 18 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Use of non-GAAP financial measures / Consolidated income statement 
28
The following table reconciles our reported 
revenue, loan impairment charges, operating 
expenses and profit before tax for 2012 and 2011 
to an underlying basis. Throughout this Annual 
Report and Accounts, we reconcile other reported 
results to underlying results when doing so results in 
a more useful discussion of operating performance. 
Equivalent tables are provided for each of our global 
businesses and geographical segments in the 
Form 20-F filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (‘SEC’), which is available on 
www.hsbc.com. 
Reconciliation of reported and underlying items 
 2012   2011   Change
25
 US$m   US$m  % 
Revenue
21
Reported revenue ............................................................................................................... 68,330 72,280  (5) 
Currency translation adjustment
24
 ..................................................................................... (2,033)  
Own credit spread
26
 ........................................................................................................... 5,215 (3,933)  
Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions ........................................................................................ (10,048) (6,976)  
Underlying revenue ........................................................................................................... 63,497 59,338  7  
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (‘LIC’s) 
Reported LICs .................................................................................................................... (8,311) (12,127) 31  
Currency translation adjustment
24
 ..................................................................................... 277   
Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions ........................................................................................ 338 1,619   
Underlying LICs ................................................................................................................ (7,973) (10,231) 22  
Operating expenses 
Reported operating expenses ............................................................................................. (42,927) (41,545) (3) 
Currency translation adjustment
24
 ..................................................................................... 1,273   
Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions ........................................................................................ 1,004 2,666   
Underlying operating expenses ................................................................................................. (41,923) (37,606) (11) 
Underlying cost efficiency ratio ........................................................................................   66.0%    63.4%  
Profit before tax 
Reported profit before tax ................................................................................................. 20,649 21,872  (6) 
Currency translation adjustment
24
 ..................................................................................... (428)  
Own credit spread
26
 ........................................................................................................... 5,215 (3,933)  
Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions ........................................................................................ (9,479) (3,650)  
Underlying profit before tax .............................................................................................. 16,385 13,861  18  
By global business
28
Retail Banking and Wealth Management ....................................................................... 4,001 871 359  
Commercial Banking ...................................................................................................... 7,941 7,691 3  
Global Banking and Markets .......................................................................................... 8,371 6,735 24  
Global Private Banking .................................................................................................. 954 945 1  
Other ............................................................................................................................... (4,882) (2,381) (105) 
Underlying profit before tax .............................................................................................. 16,385 13,861 18  
By geographical region
28
Europe ............................................................................................................................. 699 1,629 (57) 
Hong Kong ...................................................................................................................... 7,162 5,761 24  
Rest of Asia-Pacific ........................................................................................................ 6,403 6,249 2  
Middle East and North Africa ........................................................................................ 1,380 1,417 (3) 
North America ................................................................................................................ (1,499) (3,076) 51  
Latin America ................................................................................................................. 2,240 1,881 19  
Underlying profit before tax .............................................................................................. 16,385 13,861 18  
For footnotes, see page 120. 29
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Consolidated income statement 
Five-year summary consolidated income statement 
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
2010
US$m 
 2009 
US$m 
 2008
US$m 
Net interest income ...................................................................... 37,672 40,662 39,441 40,730 42,563 
Net fee income ............................................................................. 16,430 17,160 17,355 17,664 20,024 
Net trading income ...................................................................... 7,091 6,506 7,210 9,863 6,560 
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........................................................... (2,226) 3,439 1,220 (3,531) 3,852 
Gains less losses from financial investments .............................. 1,189 907 968 520 197 
Dividend income .......................................................................... 221 149 112 126 272 
Net earned insurance premiums .................................................. 13,044 12,872 11,146 10,471 10,850 
Gains on disposal of French regional banks ............................... – – – – 2,445 
Gains on disposal of US branch network, 
US cards business and Ping An .............................................. 7,024 – – – – 
Other operating income ............................................................... 2,100 1,766 2,562 2,788 1,808 
Gains arising from dilution of interests in associates  
and joint ventures ............................................................... – 208 188 – –
Other ........................................................................................ 2,100 1,558 2,374 2,788 1,808 
Total operating income ............................................................. 82,545 83,461 80,014 78,631 88,571 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to 
policyholders ................................................................................ (14,215) (11,181) (11,767) (12,450) (6,889)
Net operating income before loan impairment charges  
and other credit risk provisions .......................................... 68,330 72,280 68,247 66,181 81,682 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions ......... (8,311) (12,127) (14,039) (26,488) (24,937)
Net operating income ................................................................ 60,019 60,153 54,208 39,693 56,745 
Total operating expenses
34
 ........................................................... (42,927) (41,545) (37,688) (34,395) (49,099)
Operating profit ......................................................................... 17,092 18,608 16,520 5,298 7,646 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures ........................... 3,557 3,264 2,517 1,781 1,661 
Profit before tax ......................................................................... 20,649 21,872 19,037 7,079 9,307 
Tax expense ................................................................................. (5,315) (3,928) (4,846) (385) (2,809)
Profit for the year ...................................................................... 15,334 17,944 14,191 6,694 6,498 
Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company .......... 14,027 16,797 13,159 5,834 5,728 
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests ............................ 1,307 1,147 1,032 860 770 
    
Five-year financial information 
    
US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ 
Basic earnings per share
35
............................................................ 0.74  0.92  0.73  0.34  0.41 
Diluted earnings per share
35
......................................................... 0.74  0.91  0.72  0.34  0.41 
Basic earnings excluding goodwill impairment per share
34,35 
..... 0.74  0.92  0.73  0.34  1.19 
Dividends per ordinary share
1
 ..................................................... 0.41  0.39  0.34  0.34  0.93 
% %  %   %   % 
Dividend payout ratio
36
 ...............................................................       
– reported ..................................................................................... 55.4  42.4  46.6  100.0  226.8 
– excluding goodwill impairment
34
 ............................................. 55.4  42.4 46.6   100.0  78.2 
Post-tax return on average total assets ........................................ 0.6  0.65  0.57  0.27  0.26 
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity ....................... 8.4  10.9  9.5  5.1  4.7 
Average foreign exchange translation rates to US$: 
US$1: £ ........................................................................................ 0.631  0.624  0.648  0.641  0.545 
US$1: € ........................................................................................ 0.778  0.719  0.755  0.719  0.684 
For footnotes, see page 120.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Consolidated income statement  
30
Reported profit before tax of US$20.6bn in 2012 
was US$1.2bn, or 6%, lower than in 2011. This was 
primarily due to adverse fair value movements on 
own debt attributable to credit spreads of US$5.2bn, 
compared with favourable movements of US$3.9bn 
in 2011. The variance was partially offset by 
US$7.5bn of gains (net of losses) on disposals, 
in particular in respect of the US Card and Retail 
Services business and our associate, Ping An. Our 
remaining shareholding in Ping An has been 
reclassified as a financial investment (see Note 26 on 
the Financial Statements), the sale of which was 
completed on 6 February 2013. 
We expect disposal of the Card and Retail 
Services business in North America and of our 
associate shares in Ping An in Rest of Asia-Pacific to 
have a significant impact on our profits in each of 
these regions for the foreseeable future. In addition, 
future profits in Rest of Asia-Pacific are expected to 
be affected by the dilution of our shareholding in 
Industrial Bank Co. Limited (‘Industrial Bank’), 
following its issue of additional share capital to third 
parties on 7 January 2013. Our shareholding in 
Industrial Bank has now been classified as a financial 
investment. 
On an underlying basis, profit before tax rose by 
18%, primarily due to higher net operating income 
before loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions (‘revenue’) and lower loan impairment 
charges and other credit risk provisions, which were 
partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. 
The latter was primarily driven by fines and penalties 
paid as part of the settlement of investigations into 
past inadequate compliance with anti-money 
laundering and sanctions laws of US$1.9bn, and a 
higher provision for UK customer redress 
programmes of US$1.4bn. 
The following commentary is on an underlying 
basis, except where otherwise stated. The difference 
between reported and underlying results is explained 
and reconciled on page 26. 
Revenue of US$63.5bn was US$4.2bn, or 7%, 
higher than in 2011, primarily due to lower adverse 
movements on non-qualifying hedges which 
accounted for US$1.1bn of the increase, and 
revenue growth in GB&M and CMB.  
Revenue growth in GB&M mainly reflected 
higher Rates and Credit income, notably in Europe, 
as spreads tightened and investor sentiment improved
following stimuli by central banks globally.  
In CMB, revenue growth primarily reflected 
increased net interest income as a result of average 
balance sheet growth. Customer loans and advances 
grew in all regions, with over half this growth 
coming from our faster-growing regions of Hong 
Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin America, 
driven by trade-related lending. In Europe, lending 
balances increased, notably in the UK, despite muted 
demand for credit. Customer deposits also rose as we 
continued to attract deposits through our Payments 
and Cash Management products. 
Revenue growth in RBWM reflected increased 
insurance income, mainly in Hong Kong and Latin 
America, which benefited from higher investment 
returns and increased sales of life insurance products. 
In addition, net interest income grew, mainly in 
Hong Kong and Latin America, reflecting higher 
average lending and deposit balances. These factors 
were partially offset by the continued run-off of our 
Consumer and Mortgage Lending (‘CML’) portfolio 
in the US. 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions were US$2.3bn lower than in 2011. 
This primarily reflected a decrease in North America, 
mainly due to the continued decline in lending 
balances and lower delinquency rates in the CML 
portfolio. In addition, in Europe there were lower 
credit risk provisions on available-for-sale asset-
backed securities (‘ABS’s) driven by an 
improvement in underlying asset prices, and lower 
loan impairment charges in RBWM, most notably in 
the UK, as delinquency rates improved across both 
unsecured and secured lending portfolios. These 
factors were partially offset by increased loan 
impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 
in Latin America, particularly in Brazil, which were 
primarily due to higher delinquency rates in RBWM 
and in Business Banking in CMB. In Rest of Asia-
Pacific, there were also higher individually assessed 
loan impairments on a small number of customers in 
CMB. 
Operating expenses were higher than in 2011, 
primarily from fines and penalties paid as part of 
the settlement of investigations into past inadequate 
compliance with anti-money laundering and 
sanctions laws of US$1.9bn, as well as an increase 
in provisions relating to UK customer redress 
programmes of US$1.4bn. In addition, in 2011 
operating expenses included a credit of US$570m 
relating to defined benefit pension obligations in the 
UK, which did not recur.
The charges for UK customer redress 
programmes include estimates in respect of possible 
mis-selling in previous years of payment protection 
insurance (‘PPI’) policies of US$1.7bn and interest 
rate protection products of US$598m. The additional 
provision relating to PPI reflects our recent claims  31
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
experience. The provision in relation to interest rate 
protection products reflects an estimate of possible 
customer redress requirements following an 
independent review carried out at the request of the 
Financial Services Authority (‘FSA’). There are many 
factors which affect these estimated liabilities and there 
remains a high degree of uncertainty as to the eventual 
cost of redress for these matters.  
Operating expenses also increased due to 
inflationary pressures, for example, on wages and 
salaries, in certain of our Latin American and Asian 
markets. Other increases arose from investment in 
strategic initiatives including certain business expansion 
projects, enhanced processes and technology 
capabilities, and increased investment in regulatory and 
compliance infrastructure, primarily in the US. These 
factors were partly offset by US$2.0bn of sustainable 
cost savings achieved across all regions, as we 
continued with our organisational effectiveness 
programmes during 2012. The number of full time 
equivalent staff numbers (‘FTEs’) fell by more than 
27,700, reflecting the planned net reduction of staff 
numbers across the Group from organisational 
effectiveness initiatives and business disposals. 
On a constant currency basis, income from 
associates increased, mainly driven by strong results in 
our mainland China associates. The contribution from 
Bank of Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’) and 
Industrial Bank rose due to loan growth and higher fee 
income. These factors were partially offset by a decline 
in income from Ping An due to market valuation losses 
on equity securities held by their insurance business, 
reflecting volatile domestic equity markets. 
The reported profit after tax was US$2.6bn or 15% 
lower than in 2011, reflecting a decrease in taxable 
profits, and a higher tax charge in 2012. The increased 
tax charge included the effect of the non-tax deductible 
charge for fines and penalties paid as part of the 
settlement of investigations into past inadequate 
compliance with anti-money laundering and sanctions 
laws, together with the non-recognition of the tax 
benefit in respect of the accounting charge associated 
with negative fair value movements on own debt. The 
lower tax charge in 2011 included the benefit of US 
foreign tax credits. The effective tax rate in 2012 
was 26% compared with 18% in 2011.  
Notable revenue items by geographical region 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
 Latin 
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
2012
Non-qualifying hedges ................................... (51) (31) (20) – (194) – (296)
Ping An contingent forward sale contract
37
 ... – – (553) – – – (553)
Gain on sale of non-core investments in India – 314 – – – – 314
Loss recognised following the classification of 
businesses to held for sale .......................... – – – – – (96) (96)
2011        
Non-qualifying hedges ................................... (291) (14) (20) – (1,067) – (1,392)
Refinement of PVIF calculation ..................... 95 135 11 – – 2 243 
2010        
Non-qualifying hedges ................................... (691) (17) 4 – (353) – (1,057)
Notable revenue items by global business  
 Retail
  Banking
 and Wealth
Management
 Commercial 
 Banking 
 Global 
 Banking 
 and 
 Markets 
 Global 
 Private 
 Banking  Other  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
2012
Non-qualifying hedges ....................................... (193) – (42) 4 (65) (296)
Ping An contingent forward sale contract
37
 ....... – – – – (553) (553)
Gain on sale of non-core investments in India ... – – – – 314 314
Loss recognised following the classification  
of businesses to held for sale .......................... (26) (35) (27) – (8) (96)
2011       
Non-qualifying hedges ....................................... (1,038) – 90 (5) (439) (1,392)
Refinement of PVIF calculation......................... 181 62 – – – 243 
2010       
Non-qualifying hedges ....................................... (310) – (309) 1 (439) (1,057)
For footnote, see page 120.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Consolidated income statement / Group performance by income and expense item 
32
Notable cost items by geographical region
38
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
 Latin 
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
2012
Restructuring and other related costs ............. 299 31 131 27 221 167 876
UK customer redress programmes ................. 2,338 – – – – – 2,338 
UK bank levy .................................................. 472 – – – – – 472
Fines and penalties for inadequate compliance 
with anti-money laundering and sanction 
laws ............................................................. 375 – – – 1,546 – 1,921 
US mortgage foreclosure and servicing costs .  – – – – 104 – 104
          
2011        
Restructuring and other related costs ............. 404 68 45 31 236 338 1,122 
UK customer redress programmes ................. 898 – – – – – 898 
UK bank levy .................................................. 570 – – – – – 570 
UK pension credit ........................................... (587) – – – – – (587)
Payroll tax ....................................................... (13) – – – – – (13)
US mortgage foreclosure and servicing costs .  – – – – 257 – 257 
        
2010        
Restructuring and other related costs ............. 87 15 36 – 13 3 154 
UK customer redress programmes ................. 78 – – – – – 78 
US accounting gain on change in staff  
benefits ....................................................... – – – – (148) – (148)
Payroll tax ....................................................... 324 – – – – – 324 
Notable cost items by global business
38
 Retail
  Banking
 and Wealth
Management
 Commercial 
 Banking 
 Global 
 Banking 
 and 
 Markets 
 Global 
 Private 
 Banking  Other  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
2012
Restructuring and other related costs ................. 266 62 63 58 427 876
UK customer redress programmes ..................... 1,751 258 331 (2) – 2,338 
UK bank levy ...................................................... – – – – 472 472
Fines and penalties for inadequate compliance 
with anti-money laundering and sanction 
laws ................................................................. – – – – 1,921 1,921 
US mortgage foreclosure and servicing costs .... 104 – – – – 104
       
2011       
Restructuring and other related costs ................. 405 122 158 38 399 1,122 
UK customer redress programmes ..................... 875 23 – – – 898 
UK bank levy ...................................................... – – – – 570 570 
UK pension credit ............................................... (264) (212) (111) – – (587)
Payroll tax ........................................................... – – (13) – – (13)
US mortgage foreclosure and servicing costs .... 257 – – – – 257 
       
2010       
Restructuring and other related costs ................. 22 1 4 – 127 154 
UK customer redress programmes ..................... 78 – – – – 78 
US accounting gain on change in staff  
benefits ........................................................... (99) (16) (19) (5) (9) (148)
Payroll tax ........................................................... 5 3 307 9 – 324 
For footnote, see page 120.  33
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Group performance by income and expense item 
Net interest income 
 2012  2011  2010 
 US$m  US$m  US$m 
Interest income ........................................................................................................... 56,702 63,005 58,345 
Interest expense .......................................................................................................... (19,030) (22,343) (18,904)
Net interest income
39
 .................................................................................................. 37,672 40,662 39,441 
Average interest-earning assets .................................................................................. 1,625,068 1,622,658 1,472,294 
Gross interest yield
40
 ...................................................................................................  3.49%  3.88%   3.96% 
Less: cost of funds ......................................................................................................  (1.36%) (1.56%)   (1.41%)
Net interest spread
41
 ....................................................................................................  2.13%  2.32%   2.55% 
Net interest margin
42
 ...................................................................................................  2.32%  2.51%   2.68% 
Summary of interest income by type of asset 
2012 2011  2010 
Average
balance
Interest
income Yield 
 Average
 balance
Interest
income Yield 
  Average 
 balance 
Interest
income Yield
US$m US$m %  US$m US$m %   US$m US$m %
Short-term funds and loans and advances  
to banks ................................................... 275,979 4,307 1.56 261,749 5,860 2.24 236,742 4,555 1.92 
Loans and advances to customers .............. 934,656 41,043 4.39 945,288 45,250 4.79 858,499 44,186 5.15 
Financial investments ................................. 387,329 9,078 2.34 384,059 10,229 2.66 378,971 9,375 2.47 
Other interest-earning assets
43
 .................... 27,104 2,274 8.39 31,562 1,666 5.28 (1,918) 229 (11.94)
Total interest-earning assets ....................... 1,625,068 56,702 3.49 1,622,658 63,005 3.88 1,472,294 58,345 3.96 
Trading assets and financial assets 
designated at fair value
44,45
 ..................... 368,406 6,931 1.88 410,038 8,671 2.11 385,203 7,060 1.83 
Impairment provisions ................................ (17,421) (18,738) (22,905)  
Non-interest-earning assets ........................ 730,901 752,965 664,308 
Total assets and interest income ................. 2,706,954 63,633 2.35 2,766,923 71,676 2.59 2,498,900 65,405 2.62 
Summary of interest expense by type of liability and equity 
2012 2011  2010 
Average
balance
Interest
expense Cost 
 Average
 balance
Interest
expense Cost 
  Average 
 balance 
Interest
expense Cost
US$m US$m %  US$m US$m %   US$m US$m %
Deposits by banks
46
 .................................... 92,803 1,160 1.25 106,099 1,591 1.50  111,443 1,136 1.02 
Financial liabilities designated at fair  
value – own debt issued
47
 ....................... 75,016 1,325 1.77 73,635 1,313 1.78 66,706 1,271 1.91 
Customer accounts
48
 ................................... 1,052,812 10,878 1.03 1,058,326 13,456 1.27  962,613 10,778 1.12 
Debt securities in issue ............................... 161,348 4,755 2.95 181,482 5,260 2.90 189,898 4,931 2.60 
Other interest-bearing liabilities ................. 19,275 912 4.73 14,024 723 5.16  8,730 788 9.03 
Total interest-bearing liabilities .................. 1,401,254 19,030 1.36 1,433,566 22,343 1.56  1,339,390 18,904 1.41 
Trading liabilities and financial liabilities 
designated at fair value (excluding  
own debt issued) ..................................... 318,883 3,445 1.08 355,345 4,564 1.28 275,804 3,780 1.37 
Non-interest bearing current accounts ........ 177,085 162,369  142,579   
Total equity and other non-interest  
bearing liabilities .................................... 809,732 815,643 741,127   
Total equity and liabilities .......................... 2,706,954 22,475 0.83 2,766,923 26,907 0.97 2,498,900 22,684 0.91 
For footnotes, see page 120. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Group performance by income and expense item 
34
The commentary in the following sections is on a 
constant currency basis unless otherwise stated. 
Reported net interest income decreased by 7%. 
On a constant currency basis, it declined by 5%.  
On an underlying basis, excluding net interest 
income earned by the businesses sold during 2012 
(see page 29) from all periods presented (2012: 
US$1.6bn; 2011: US$4.8bn) and currency translation 
movements of US$1.2bn, net interest income rose by 
4%. This reflected strong balance sheet growth in 
Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, together with a 
lower cost of funds in Latin America driven by a 
decline in interest rates in Brazil. 
The decrease in both net interest spread and net 
interest margin compared with 2011 was attributable 
to significantly lower yields on customer lending and 
on our surplus liquidity, partly offset by a reduction 
in our cost of funds, notably on customer accounts. 
Interest income was lower than in 2011. This 
was driven by lower interest income on customer 
lending, including loans classified within ‘Assets 
held for sale’, due in part to the loss of interest 
income from disposals during 2012, principally in 
the US. These disposals also led to a change in the 
composition of our lending book as the decline in 
higher yielding card balances was replaced by 
volume growth in relatively lower yielding products, 
mainly residential mortgages and term lending, in 
Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and Europe. 
Growth in average residential mortgage balances 
reflected the success of marketing campaigns and 
competitive pricing in the UK, the continued strength 
in the property market in Hong Kong and the 
expansion of our distribution network in Rest of 
Asia-Pacific. Average term lending balances 
increased in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific as 
we capitalised on trade and capital flows, while the 
rise in Europe was in spite of muted demand for 
credit. As a result of the change in composition of the 
lending book, the gross yield on customer lending 
fell.
Revenue in Balance Sheet Management also 
decreased, principally in Europe as yield curves 
continued to flatten and liquidity arising from 
maturities and sales of available-for-sale debt 
securities was re-invested at lower prevailing rates. 
In addition, we placed a greater portion of our 
liquidity with central banks. This was partly offset by 
higher revenue in Rest of Asia-Pacific, notably 
mainland China, as strong customer deposit growth 
led to a rise in the size of the available-for-sale debt 
securities portfolio.
The decline in interest income was partly offset 
by lower interest expense, notably on customer 
accounts. This was driven by a reduction in the cost 
of funds on customer accounts in Latin America, 
notably in Brazil, and in Europe due to the downward 
movement in interest rates during the year, together 
with deposit repricing initiatives in the US and 
Europe. The reduction in average customer account 
balances due to the disposal of non-strategic branches 
in the US was largely offset by significant volume 
growth in other parts of the business, notably in Hong 
Kong, reflecting more conservative customer 
behaviour during the year in RBWM, and in Rest of 
Asia-Pacific, as a result of new mandates and deposit 
acquisition in Payments and Cash Management in 
CMB and GB&M. 
Interest expense on deposits by banks decreased, 
mainly in Europe. This was due to lower placements 
by other financial institutions with HSBC, in part due 
to lower interest rates offered, together with a 
reduction in the cost of sale and repurchase (‘repo’) 
funding as market rates fell. Lower average balances 
and interest rates in Brazil also contributed to the 
decline.
There was also a decrease in interest expense on 
debt securities issued by the Group, driven by a net 
reduction in average balances outstanding, mainly in 
North America and, to a lesser extent, in Europe. 
Funding requirements in the US fell as a result of the 
business disposals and continued reduction of the 
CML portfolio in run-off and, as a consequence, 
maturing debt was not replaced and some of the 
outstanding debt was repaid with the proceeds from 
the sales. In addition, maturing debt was not replaced 
in Europe. These decreases were partly offset by 
higher interest expense in Latin America, as a result 
of new debt issued, principally in 2011. The Group’s 
cost of funds on debt securities rose as the new 
issuances in Latin America were at a higher effective 
interest rate than that paid in other parts of the 
Group. The replacement of short-term debt by the 
issuance of medium-term notes in Europe also 
contributed to the rise in the cost of funds of debt 
securities in issue. 
‘Net interest income’ includes the expense 
of internally funding trading assets, while related 
revenue is reported in ‘Net trading income’. The 
internal cost of funding of these assets declined, 
reflecting the reduction in average trading assets 
during the year. In reporting our global business 
results, this cost is included within ‘Net trading 
income’.  35
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Net fee income 
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
2010
US$m 
Account services ......................................................................................................... 3,563 3,670  3,632 
Cards ........................................................................................................................... 3,030 3,955  3,801 
Funds under management ........................................................................................... 2,561 2,753  2,511 
Credit facilities ........................................................................................................... 1,761 1,749  1,635 
Broking income .......................................................................................................... 1,350 1,711  1,789 
Imports/exports ........................................................................................................... 1,196 1,103  991 
Remittances ................................................................................................................ 819 770  680 
Unit trusts ................................................................................................................... 739 657  560 
Underwriting ............................................................................................................... 739 578  623 
Global custody ............................................................................................................ 737 751  700 
Insurance ..................................................................................................................... 696 1,052  1,147 
Corporate finance ....................................................................................................... 370 441  440 
Trust income ............................................................................................................... 283 294  291 
Investment contracts.................................................................................................... 141 136 109 
Mortgage servicing ..................................................................................................... 86 109 118 
Taxpayer financial services ........................................................................................ – 2 73 
Maintenance income on operating leases ................................................................... – – 99 
Other ........................................................................................................................... 2,078 1,766 1,918 
Fee income .................................................................................................................. 20,149 21,497  21,117 
Less: fee expense ........................................................................................................ (3,719) (4,337) (3,762)
Net fee income ............................................................................................................ 16,430 17,160  17,355 
Net fee income decreased by US$730m on a reported 
basis, and by US$294m on a constant currency basis. 
On an underlying basis, which excludes the net 
fee income relating to the business disposals listed on 
page 29 (2012: US$401m and 2011:US$1.41bn) and 
currency translation movements of US$436m, net fee 
income rose by US$726m, or 5%. 
The reduction on a constant currency basis was 
primarily due to the sale of the Card and Retail 
Services business, which led to a reduction in cards 
and insurance fee income and fee expenses. As 
part of that transaction, we entered into a transition 
service agreement with the purchaser to support 
certain account servicing operations until they are 
integrated into the purchaser’s infrastructure. We 
receive fees for providing these services, which are 
reported in ‘Other fee income’. The associated costs 
are reported in ‘Operating expenses’.  
Broking income fell, most notably in Hong 
Kong and Europe, due to reduced transaction 
volumes reflecting investor sentiment. Income from 
funds under management (‘FuM’) fell, mainly in 
Rest of Asia-Pacific, as customers invested in lower 
yielding products reflecting their lower risk appetite. 
Income from FuM was also lower in North America, 
due to the sale of the full service retail brokerage 
business in Canada. In Europe, the decline was 
mainly due to challenging market conditions in the 
latter half of 2011 which led to a fall in average 
client assets in 2012 as well as net new money 
outflows and a fall in client numbers within GPB. 
Partly offsetting these reductions was growth in 
underwriting fees as we actively captured increased 
client demand for debt capital financing in North 
America, Hong Kong and Europe in 2012, in part, 
reflecting the enhanced collaboration between CMB 
and GB&M. Trade-related income also increased, 
most notably in Europe and Hong Kong, reflecting 
increased transaction volumes as we capitalised on 
our global network to capture cross-border trade 
flows.
Fees from unit trusts also rose in Hong Kong, 
reflecting higher sales volumes.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Group performance by income and expense item 
36
Net trading income 
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
2010
US$m 
Trading activities ........................................................................................................ 5,249 4,873 5,708 
Ping An contingent forward sale contract
37
 ............................................................... (553) – – 
Net interest income on trading activities .................................................................... 2,683 3,223 2,530 
Other trading income – hedge ineffectiveness: 
– on cash flow hedges ............................................................................................ 35 26 (9)
– on fair value hedges ............................................................................................ (27) (224) 38 
Non-qualifying hedges ............................................................................................... (296) (1,392) (1,057)
Net trading income
49,50
 ................................................................................................ 7,091 6,506 7,210 
For footnotes, see page 120.
Reported net trading income of US$7.1bn was 
US$585m higher than in 2011. On a constant 
currency basis, net trading income rose by 
US$849m, driven by lower adverse fair value 
movements on non-qualifying hedges. Net income 
from trading activities rose in GB&M, but this was 
more than offset by lower net interest income on 
trading activities and adverse fair value movements 
on the contingent forward sale contract relating to 
Ping An. 
There were lower adverse fair value 
movements on non-qualifying hedges. These hedges 
are derivatives entered into as part of a documented 
interest rate management strategy for which hedge 
accounting was not, nor could be, applied. They are 
principally cross-currency and interest rate swaps 
used to economically hedge fixed rate debt issued 
by HSBC Holdings and floating rate debt issued by 
HSBC Finance Corporation (‘HSBC Finance’). The 
size and direction of the changes in the fair value of 
non-qualifying hedges that are recognised in the 
income statement can be volatile from year-to-year, 
but do not alter the cash flows expected as part of the 
documented interest rate management strategy for 
both the instruments and the underlying 
economically hedged assets and liabilities if the 
derivative is held to maturity. In North America, 
there were lower adverse fair value movements on 
non-qualifying hedges as US long-term interest rates 
declined to a lesser extent than in 2011. There were 
also lower adverse fair value movements on non-
qualifying hedges in Europe. This was driven by 
favourable fair value movements in HSBC Holdings, 
compared with adverse fair value movements in 
2011, reflecting the less pronounced decline in long-
term US interest rates relative to sterling and euro 
interest rates compared with 2011. This was partly 
offset by adverse movements in European operating 
entities as interest rates fell. 
During 2012, HSBC Finance terminated 
approximately US$3.0bn of non-qualifying hedges. 
A further US$2.4bn of non-qualifying hedges were 
terminated in January 2013 to better align our hedges 
with the overall interest rate position in HSBC 
Finance. The losses on these economic hedges 
reported in previous years were therefore crystallised. 
Net income from trading activities increased 
compared with 2011, driven by a strong performance 
in GB&M. This was after taking into account a net 
charge of US$385m in the fourth quarter of 2012 as 
a result of a change in estimation methodology in 
respect of credit valuation adjustments on derivative 
assets and debit valuation adjustments on derivative 
liabilities to reflect evolving market practices (see 
page 441).
Rates revenue was significantly higher, notably 
in Europe, as spreads on government debt securities 
tightened and investor sentiment improved following 
stimuli by central banks. This was despite significant 
adverse fair value movements due to own credit 
spreads on structured liabilities as spreads tightened, 
compared with a gain reported in 2011, together with 
a credit valuation adjustment charge of US$837m. 
The improvement in market sentiment also led to 
tighter spreads on corporate debt securities, resulting 
in strong growth in Credit revenue. Foreign 
Exchange revenue was broadly in line with 2011, as 
higher income resulting from enhanced collaboration 
between GB&M and CMB, and increased volumes 
from improvements in our electronic pricing and 
distribution capabilities, offset the effect of less 
volatile markets in 2012. These favourable 
movements were partly offset by a reduction in 
Equities trading revenue, reflecting a decline in 
market volumes together with adverse fair value 
movements on structured liabilities as own credit 
spreads tightened in 2012, compared with favourable 
movements in 2011.  
These factors were partly offset by 
unfavourable fair value movements on assets held as 
economic hedges of foreign currency debt at fair 
value compared with favourable movements in 2011, 
due to movements in the underlying currencies. 
These offset favourable foreign exchange  37
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
movements on foreign currency debt which are 
reported in ‘Net expense from financial instruments 
designated at fair value’.  
Net interest income on trading activities also 
declined. This was driven by a significant reduction 
in average trading assets, notably holdings of debt 
securities in Europe, in the latter part of 2011 and the 
first quarter of 2012 as eurozone sovereign debt 
concerns dominated the market. In addition, yields 
fell as a result of both price appreciation in a low 
interest rate environment and an increase in the 
proportion of the portfolio invested in relatively 
lower-yielding treasury bills and government debt 
securities. This was partly offset by a reduction in 
funding costs, reflecting both the decline in the size 
of the portfolio and the low rate environment. 
There were also adverse fair value movements 
of US$553m on the contingent forward sale contract 
relating to Ping An (see page 472). 
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m
 2010
US$m
Net income/(expense) arising from: 
–  financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance and  
investment contracts ........................................................................................... 2,980 (933) 2,349 
–  liabilities to customers under investment contracts ........................................... (996) 231 (946)
–  HSBC’s long-term debt issued and related derivatives ..................................... (4,327) 4,161 (258)
Change in own credit spread on long-term debt ........................................... (5,215) 3,933 (63)
Other changes in fair value
51
 ......................................................................... 888 228 (195)
–  other instruments designated at fair value and related derivatives .................... 117 (20) 75 
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value .............. (2,226) 3,439 1,220 
Assets and liabilities from which net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value arose  
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m
 2010
US$m
Financial assets designated at fair value at 31 December .......................................... 33,582 30,856 37,011 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value at 31 December .................................... 87,720 85,724 88,133 
Including: 
Financial assets held to meet liabilities under: 
– insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF
52
 .................................. 8,376 7,221 7,167 
– unit-linked insurance and other insurance and investment contracts ................. 23,655 20,033 19,725 
Long-term debt issues designated at fair value .......................................................... 74,768 73,808 69,906 
For footnotes, see page 120. 
The accounting policies for the designation of 
financial instruments at fair value and the treatment 
of the associated income and expenses are described 
in Notes 2i and 2b on the Financial Statements, 
respectively.  
The majority of the financial liabilities designated 
at fair value are fixed-rate long-term debt issues, the 
rate profile of which has been changed to floating 
through interest rate swaps as part of a documented 
interest rate management strategy. The movement 
in fair value of these long-term debt issues and the 
related hedges includes the effect of our credit spread 
changes and any ineffectiveness in the economic 
relationship between the related swaps and own 
debt. As credit spreads widen or narrow, accounting 
profits or losses, respectively, are booked. The size 
and direction of the changes in the credit spread on 
our debt and ineffectiveness, which are recognised 
in the income statement, can be volatile from year to 
year, but do not alter the cash flows expected as part 
of the documented interest rate management strategy. 
As a consequence, fair value movements arising 
from changes in our own credit spread on long-term 
debt and other fair value movements on the debt 
and related derivatives are not regarded internally as 
part of managed performance and are therefore not 
allocated to global businesses, but are reported in 
‘Other’. Credit spread movements on own debt 
designated at fair value are excluded from underlying 
results, and related fair value movements are not 
included in the calculation of regulatory capital.  
We reported net expense from financial 
instruments designated at fair value of US$2.2bn 
in 2012 compared with net income of US$3.4bn 
in 2011. This included the credit spread-related 
movements in the fair value of our own long-term 
debt, on which we reported adverse fair value 
movements of US$5.2bn in 2012 and favourable  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Group performance by income and expense item 
38
movements of US$3.9bn in 2011. The adverse fair 
value movements arose in 2012 as credit spreads 
tightened in Europe and North America, having 
widened during 2011. 
Net income arising from financial assets held to 
meet liabilities under insurance and investment 
contracts reflected net investment gains in 2012 as 
global equity market conditions improved, compared 
with net investment losses in 2011. This 
predominantly affected the value of assets held to 
support unit-linked contracts in the UK and Hong 
Kong, insurance contracts with discretionary 
participation features (‘DPF’) in Hong Kong, 
and investment contracts with DPF in France.  
The investment gains or losses arising from 
equity markets result in a corresponding movement 
in liabilities to customers, reflecting the extent to 
which unit-linked policyholders, in particular, 
participate in the investment performance of the 
associated asset portfolio. Where these relate to 
assets held to back investment contracts, the 
corresponding movement in liabilities to customers 
is also recorded under ‘Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments designated at fair value’. This 
is in contrast to gains or losses related to assets held 
to back insurance contracts or investment contracts 
with DPF, where the corresponding movement in 
liabilities to customers is recorded under ‘Net 
insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities 
to policyholders’. 
Within net income from financial instruments 
designated at fair value were favourable foreign 
exchange movements in 2012, compared with 
adverse movements in 2011, on foreign currency 
debt designated at fair value issued as part of our 
overall funding strategy. An offset from assets held 
as economic hedges was reported in ‘Net trading 
income’. 
Gains less losses from financial investments 
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
2010
US$m 
Net gains/(losses) from disposal of: 
– debt securities ...................................................................................................... 781 712  564 
– equity securities ................................................................................................... 823 360  516 
– other financial investments ................................................................................. 5 12  (7)
1,609 1,084  1,073 
Impairment of available-for-sale equity securities ..................................................... (420) (177) (105)
Gains less losses from financial investments ............................................................. 1,189 907  968 
Gains less losses from financial investments 
increased by US$282m on a reported basis 
and US$310m on a constant currency basis.  
The increase was driven by higher net gains 
from the disposal of available-for-sale equity 
securities, notably in Hong Kong as a result of the 
sale of our shares in four Indian banks. In addition, 
we reported a rise in disposal gains in Principal 
Investments in GB&M. 
Higher gains were also reported on the disposal 
of available-for-sale government debt securities, 
principally in the UK as part of Balance Sheet 
Management’s structural interest rate risk 
management activities. This was partly offset by 
losses on the disposal of legacy assets in GB&M in 
the UK (see page 18), together with the non-
recurrence of gains in 2011 on the disposal of 
available-for-sale debt securities in our Insurance 
business in RBWM, also in Europe. 
There were higher impairments of available-for-
sale equity securities due to significant write-downs 
in 2012 on three holdings, two of which were in our 
direct investment business, which is in run-off. 
Net earned insurance premiums 
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
2010
US$m 
Gross insurance premium income .............................................................................. 13,602 13,338 11,609 
Reinsurance premiums ............................................................................................... (558) (466) (463)
Net earned insurance premiums ................................................................................. 13,044 12,872 11,146  39
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Net earned insurance premiums were broadly 
in line with 2011 on a reported basis. On a 
constant currency basis net earned premiums 
increased by 6%. 
The rise in net earned premium income was 
driven by Hong Kong and Latin America. In Hong 
Kong, sales of insurance contracts increased, in 
particular deferred annuity products, as we widened 
our product offerings to fulfil customers’ long-term 
savings and retirement needs, supported by 
successful marketing campaigns. Renewal premiums 
from both unit-linked and insurance contracts with 
DPF also increased reflecting strong sales in previous 
years. The increase in net earned premiums in Latin 
America was due to higher sales of unit-linked and 
term life products in Brazil, reflecting customer 
appetite for life insurance products. It was partly 
offset by a decrease in net earned premiums 
following the sale of the general insurance business 
in Argentina in May 2012. In Europe, net earned 
premiums decreased, mainly on investment contracts 
with DPF in France, as a result of the uncertain 
economic and political environment in the election 
year and increased product competition. The non-
renewal and transfer to third parties of certain 
contracts in our Irish business during 2011 also 
contributed to the decline. This was partly offset by a 
rise in net earned premiums in the UK due, in part, to 
the sale of a unit-linked insurance product through 
two new third party platforms. 
Gains on disposal of US branch network, US cards business and Ping An 
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
2010
US$m 
Gains on disposal of US branch network ................................................................... 864 – – 
Gains on disposal of US cards business ..................................................................... 3,148 – – 
Gains on disposal of Ping An ..................................................................................... 3,012 – – 
Total ............................................................................................................................ 7,024 – – 
Significant progress was made in 2012 in exiting 
non-strategic markets and disposing of businesses 
and investments not aligned with the Group’s long-
term strategy. These included three major disposals: 
• In May 2012, HSBC USA Inc., HSBC Finance 
and HSBC Technology and Services (USA) Inc. 
sold their US Card and Retail Services business 
to Capital One Financial Corporation, realising a 
gain on sale of US$3.1bn. 
• In May 2012, HSBC Bank USA, N.A. (‘HSBC 
Bank USA’) sold 138 out of 195 branches 
primarily in upstate New York to First Niagara 
Bank, realising a gain of US$661m. In August 
2012, it sold the remaining 57 branches to the 
same purchaser, realising a gain of US$203m. 
• In December 2012, HSBC Insurance Holdings 
Limited and The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation agreed to sell to indirect 
wholly-owned subsidiaries of Charoen 
Pokphand Group Company Limited their entire 
shareholdings in Ping An, representing 15.57% 
of the issued share capital of Ping An, in two 
tranches. The first tranche was completed 
on 7 December 2012. The completion of the 
second tranche took place on 6 February 2013. 
The disposal of this associate resulted in a gain 
of US$3.0bn in 2012 (see page 472). Our 
remaining shareholding has been classified as a 
financial investment. 
Other operating income 
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
2010
US$m 
Rent received .............................................................................................................. 210 217 535 
Gains/(losses) recognised on assets held for sale ....................................................... 485 55 (263)
Valuation gains on investment properties .................................................................. 72 118 93 
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and  
non-financial investments ...................................................................................... 187 57 701 
Gains arising from dilution of interests in associates and joint ventures .................. – 208 188 
Change in present value of in-force long-term insurance business ........................... 737 726 705 
Other ........................................................................................................................... 409 385 603 
Other operating income .............................................................................................. 2,100 1,766 2,562  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Group performance by income and expense item 
40
Change in present value of in-force long-term insurance business 
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
2010
US$m 
Value of new business ................................................................................................ 1,027 943 737 
Expected return ........................................................................................................... (420) (428) (85)
Assumption changes and experience variances ......................................................... 69 (30) 59 
Other adjustments ....................................................................................................... 61 241 (6)
Change in present value of in-force long-term insurance business ........................... 737 726 705 
Reported other operating income of US$2.1bn 
increased by 19% in 2012. On a constant currency 
basis, it rose by 25% as a result of business disposals 
during the year. 
We continued to rationalise our portfolio in non-
strategic markets, resulting in a number of gains and 
losses on disposal which are excluded from our 
underlying results (see page 28). These included 
gains of US$108m on the sale of our RBWM 
operations in Thailand, US$130m on the sale of 
our shareholding in a property company in the 
Philippines, US$163m on the sales of the HSBC and 
Hang Seng general insurance businesses in Hong 
Kong, US$102m following the completion of the 
sale of our general insurance manufacturing business 
in Argentina, and US$212m following the sale of our 
shares in Global Payments Asia-Pacific Ltd. The 
gains on disposal were partly offset by an investment 
loss on a subsidiary of US$85m in the Middle East 
and North Africa and a loss of US$62m on the 
sale of our operations in Costa Rica, Honduras and 
El Salvador. 
Reported other operating income in 2011 
included a gain of US$181m arising from a dilution 
of our holding in Ping An following its issue of share 
capital to a third party and a gain of US$83m from 
the sale of HSBC Afore S.A. de C.V. (‘HSBC 
Afore’), our Mexican pension business. 
On an underlying basis, excluding the gains 
and losses on disposal totalling US$747m in 2012 
and US$354m in 2011, other operating income rose. 
This was due to lower losses on foreclosed properties 
due to the reduction in foreclosure activity in the US, 
less deterioration in housing prices during 2012 and, 
in some markets, improvements in pricing compared 
with 2011 in the US. 
The present value of in-force (‘PVIF’) long-term 
insurance business asset was broadly in line with 
2011. The value of new business from the sale of life 
insurance products, favourable investment returns, 
together with the recognition of a PVIF asset relating 
to the unit-linked pension products in Brazil 
contributed to a rise. In addition, there were lower 
adverse changes to non-economic assumptions, 
including mortality and lapse rates in Hong Kong 
and North America in 2012. These factors were 
substantially offset by adverse assumption changes in 
2012, principally relating to the valuation of 
policyholder options and guarantees in Hong Kong, 
along with the non-recurrence of a gain of US$237m 
(US$243m as reported) recognised upon refinement 
of the PVIF asset in 2011. 
The increase in other operating income was 
partly offset by losses recognised on the sale of 
syndicated loans in Europe and on the 
reclassification of certain businesses to held-for-sale 
in South America. In addition, a gain on sale and 
leaseback of branches in Mexico recognised in 2011 
did not recur. 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders  
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
2010
US$m 
Insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders: 
–  gross .................................................................................................................... 14,529 11,631 11,969 
–  reinsurers’ share ................................................................................................. (314) (450) (202)
–  net
53
 ..................................................................................................................... 14,215 11,181 11,767 
For footnote, see page 120. 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in 
liabilities to policyholders increased by 27% on a 
reported basis, and by 33% on a constant currency 
basis.  
The increase in liabilities to policyholders largely 
resulted from gains in the fair value of the assets 
where the policyholders bear the investment risk, 
particularly in relation to unit-linked insurance  41
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
contracts and investment and insurance contracts 
with DPF. 
The higher investment returns were largely the 
result of positive equity market movements in 2012 
compared with losses experienced during 2011 
notably in Hong Kong, France and the UK. The gains 
or losses on the financial assets designated at fair 
value held to support these insurance and investment 
contract liabilities are reported in ‘Net income from 
financial instruments designated at fair value’. 
The increase in liabilities to policyholders also 
reflected the increase in new business written, 
notably in Hong Kong and Brazil as explained under 
‘Net earned insurance premiums’. This was partly 
offset by a lower increase in reserves in France 
attributable to the decline in net earned premiums, 
and a decrease in Argentina due to the sale of the 
general insurance business in May 2012. 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
2010
US$m 
Loan impairment charges 
New allowances net of allowance releases ............................................................ 9,306 12,931 14,568 
Recoveries of amounts previously written off ....................................................... (1,146) (1,426) (1,020)
8,160 11,505 13,548 
Individually assessed allowances ............................................................................... 2,139 1,915  2,625
Collectively assessed allowances ............................................................................... 6,021 9,590  10,923
Impairment of available-for-sale debt securities ........................................................ 99 631 472 
Other credit risk provisions/(recoveries) .................................................................... 52 (9) 19 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions ........................................ 8,311 12,127 14,039 
Reported loan impairment charges and other credit 
risk provisions (‘LIC’s) fell from US$12bn to 
US$8.3bn, a decrease of 31% compared with 
2011. On an underlying basis they reduced from 
US$10bn to US$8.0bn.  
On a constant currency basis, they declined by 
US$3.5bn or 30% compared with 2011. Collectively 
assessed allowances were down by US$3.3bn and 
credit risk provisions fell by US$456m, partly offset 
by higher individually assessed impairment charges 
of US$258m. 
At 31 December 2012, the aggregate balance 
of customer loan impairment allowances was 
US$16bn. This represented 2% of gross loans 
and advances to customers (net of reverse repos and 
settlement accounts) in line with 31 December 2011. 
The fall in collectively assessed impairment 
allowances was most significant in RBWM in North 
America due to the continued reduction in the CML 
portfolios in run-off, and the sale of the Card and 
Retail Services business. In addition, lower loan 
impairment charges in Europe in RBWM were due 
to improved credit quality as we continued to pro-
actively identify and monitor customers facing 
financial hardship and focused our lending growth 
on higher quality assets, notably in the UK. These 
factors were partly offset by higher loan impairment 
charges and other credit risk provisions in Latin 
America which were driven by increased delinquency 
rates in RBWM and CMB, mainly in Brazil. 
Impairment of available-for-sale debt securities 
reduced, mainly in Europe, due to lower charges on 
available-for-sale ABSs and on Greek sovereign 
debt, partly offset by an increase in Rest of Asia-
Pacific due to a charge on an available-for-sale debt 
security in GB&M. 
Individually assessed impairment allowances 
increased by 14%, primarily in Europe in CMB, 
reflecting challenging economic conditions in the 
UK, Greece, Spain and Turkey. In addition, higher 
individually assessed impairments in Latin America 
mainly related to a single exposure in Brazil. 
LICs declined in North America, primarily in 
the CML portfolio, as well as in Europe, Hong Kong 
and the Middle East and North Africa. The decrease 
was partly offset by an increase in Latin America 
and Rest of Asia-Pacific. 
In North America, LICs fell by 51% to 
US$3.5bn. Within this, loan impairment charges 
fell by US$1.3bn following the sale of the Card 
and Retail Services business. Loan impairment 
charges in our CML business in the US fell by 48% 
to US$2.6bn, driven by lower lending balances, as 
we continued to run off the portfolio, and lower 
delinquency levels. Loan impairment charges 
continued to be adversely affected by delays in 
expected cash flows from mortgage loans due, in 
part, to delays in foreclosure processing, although 
the effects were less pronounced than in 2011. These 
decreases were partly offset by an adjustment made  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Group performance by income and expense item 
42
following a review completed in the fourth quarter of 
2012 which concluded that the estimated average 
period of time from current status to write-off was 
ten months for real estate loans. In CMB and 
GB&M, loan impairment charges increased, mainly 
in Bermuda, due to individually assessed 
impairments on a small number of exposures. 
In Europe, LICs decreased by 22% to 
US$1.9bn. This was mainly in GB&M due to lower 
credit risk provisions on available-for-sale ABSs as a 
result of an improvement in underlying asset prices, 
as well as lower charges on Greek sovereign debt. 
Further information on our exposures to countries in 
the eurozone is provided on page 192. This was 
partly offset by increased impairment charges on the 
legacy credit loans and receivables portfolio. In 
RBWM, loan impairment charges continued to 
decline, primarily in the UK, as we focused our 
lending growth on higher quality assets and 
continued to pro-actively identify and monitor 
customers facing financial hardship. As a result, 
delinquency rates improved across both the secured 
and unsecured lending portfolios. This was partly 
offset by an increase in impairments in Turkey due 
to strong growth in previous years in our RBWM 
customer loans and advances. In addition, there were 
higher individually assessed provisions in CMB 
across a range of sectors, reflecting increased stress 
on the financial status of certain customers in the 
challenging economic conditions in certain eurozone 
countries.
In Hong Kong, LICs fell by 53% to US$74m, 
largely due to lower specific impairment charges in 
CMB and the non-recurrence of charges relating to 
available-for-sale Greek sovereign debt securities. 
In the Middle East and North Africa, LICs 
decreased by US$6m to US$286m. Lower loan 
impairment charges in RBWM reflected 
repositioning of the book towards higher quality 
secured lending in previous years. This was largely 
offset by higher LICs recorded for a small number of 
large exposures in GB&M. 
LICs in Latin America and Rest of Asia-Pacific 
increased compared with 2011. In Latin America, 
they increased by 29% to US$2.1bn. This was 
mainly in Brazil, driven by increased delinquency 
rates in RBWM and CMB, particularly in the 
Business Banking portfolio reflecting lower 
economic growth in 2012. We took a number of 
steps to reposition the portfolios in RBWM and 
CMB including improving our collections 
capabilities, reducing third-party originations and 
lowering credit limits where appropriate. Loan 
impairment charges fell in Brazil during the second 
half of 2012, mainly due to lower collective portfolio 
provisions. 
In Rest of Asia-Pacific, LICs increased by 64% 
to US$436m, notably in CMB as a result of the 
impairment of a corporate exposure in Australia and 
a small number of corporate exposures in India, as 
well as a credit risk provision on an available-for-
sale debt security in GB&M. 
Operating expenses 
2012 2011 2010
US$m US$m US$m 
By expense category 
Employee compensation and benefits ........................................................................ 20,491 21,166 19,836 
Premises and equipment (excluding depreciation and impairment) .......................... 4,326 4,503 4,348 
General and administrative expenses ......................................................................... 15,657 12,956 10,808 
Administrative expenses ............................................................................................. 40,474 38,625 34,992 
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment ............................... 1,484 1,570 1,713 
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets ..................................................... 969 1,350 983 
Operating expenses ..................................................................................................... 42,927 41,545 37,688 
Staff numbers (full-time equivalents) 
At 31 December 
2012 2011 2010
Europe ......................................................................................................................... 70,061 74,892 75,698 
Hong Kong ................................................................................................................. 27,742 28,984 29,171 
Rest of Asia-Pacific .................................................................................................... 85,024 91,051 91,607 
Middle East and North Africa .................................................................................... 8,765 8,373 8,676 
North America ............................................................................................................ 22,443 30,981 33,865 
Latin America ............................................................................................................. 46,556 54,035 56,044 
Staff numbers .............................................................................................................. 260,591 288,316 295,061  43
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Reported operating expenses of US$42.9bn were 
US$1.4bn or 3% higher than in 2011. On an 
underlying basis, costs increased by 11%. 
On a constant currency basis, operating 
expenses in 2012 were US$2.7bn or 7% higher than 
in 2011, primarily driven by fines and penalties paid 
as part of the settlement of investigations into past 
inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering 
and sanction laws of US$1.9bn, of which US$1.5bn 
was attributed to, and paid by, HSBC North America 
Holdings Inc. (‘HNAH’) and its subsidiaries and 
US$375m was paid by HSBC Holdings. Further 
provisions for the UK customer redress programmes 
of US$2.3bn were raised during 2012 compared 
with a charge of US$890m in 2011 (US$898m as 
reported). This included a charge for additional 
estimated redress for possible mis-selling in previous 
years of PPI policies US$1.7bn (2011: US$713m) 
and interest rate protection products (US$598m), 
which took the balance sheet provision for the UK 
customer redress programmes at 31 December 2012 
to US$2.2bn.
In 2011 we recorded a credit of US$570m 
(US$587m as reported) following a change in the 
inflation measure used to calculate the defined 
benefit obligation in the UK for deferred pensions 
which did not recur in 2012.
Costs also rose due to inflationary pressures in 
certain of our Latin American and Asian markets and 
increased investment costs in strategic initiatives, 
including certain business expansion projects, and in 
enhanced processes and technology capabilities. We 
also increased investment in our regulatory and 
compliance infrastructure primarily in the US.  
The above increases in costs were mitigated by 
strict cost control and the continued delivery of our 
organisational effectiveness programmes, which 
resulted in sustainable cost savings of US$2.0bn. 
The number of employees (expressed in FTEs) at the 
end of the 2012 was 10% lower than at the end of 
2011. This reflected the planned net reduction of 
staff numbers across the Group from organisational 
effectiveness initiatives and business disposals. In 
2012, average FTEs fell by 7%.  
Business disposals in 2011 and 2012 resulted in 
a lower cost base, most significantly from the sale of 
the Card and Retail Services business and the 195 
branches in the US. 
Restructuring and other related costs were 
US$876m in 2012 compared with US$1.1bn in 2011 
(US$1.1bn as reported). 
Cost efficiency ratios
4
2012
%
2011
%
2010
%
HSBC ......................................................................................................................... 62.8  57.5  55.2 
Geographical regions     
Europe ........................................................................................................................ 108.4  70.4   67.9 
Hong Kong .................................................................................................................  39.0  44.5   43.4 
Rest of Asia-Pacific ....................................................................................................  42.7  54.2   55.7 
Middle East and North Africa ....................................................................................  48.0  44.5   44.7 
North America ............................................................................................................  60.8  55.7   48.8 
Latin America .............................................................................................................  58.7  63.3   65.7 
Global businesses     
Retail Banking and Wealth Management ..................................................................  58.4  63.2   58.1 
Commercial Banking .................................................................................................  45.9  46.3   49.4 
Global Banking and Markets .....................................................................................  54.2  57.0   48.8 
Global Private Banking ..............................................................................................  67.6  68.8   65.8 
For footnote, see page 120. 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
2010
US$m 
Associates
Bank of Communications Co., Limited ................................................................. 1,670 1,370 987 
Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd ............................................. 763 946 848 
Industrial Bank Co., Limited .................................................................................. 670 471 327 
The Saudi British Bank .......................................................................................... 346 308 161 
Other ....................................................................................................................... 72 126 156 
Share of profit in associates ........................................................................................ 3,521 3,221 2,479 
Share of profit in joint ventures .................................................................................. 36 43 38 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures .......................................................... 3,557 3,264 2,517  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Group performance by income and expense item / Consolidated balance sheet 
44
The reported share of profit in associates and joint 
ventures was US$3.6bn, an increase of 9% compared 
with 2011. On a constant currency basis, it increased 
by 7%, driven by higher contributions from our 
associates in mainland China. 
Our share of profits from BoCom rose, as a 
result of loan growth and higher fee income from 
cards, management service and guarantees and 
commitments. This was partly offset by increased 
operating expenses reflecting investment in staff 
and technology, and higher loan impairment charges. 
Profits from Industrial Bank also increased, 
reflecting continued growth in lending balances 
and a rise in associated fee income, partly offset 
by higher operating expenses in line with business 
expansion, as well as increased loan impairment 
charges. On 7 January 2013, our holding in 
Industrial Bank was diluted following its issue of 
additional share capital to third parties. Our 
shareholding has now been classified as a financial 
investment. 
Profits from The Saudi British Bank rose, driven 
by higher revenues reflecting strong balance sheet 
growth and lower costs resulting from effective 
control and monitoring. 
Profits from Ping An were lower due to market 
valuation losses on equity securities held by their 
insurance business, reflecting volatile domestic 
equity markets, partly offset by increased income 
from the banking business reflecting the contribution 
of Ping An Bank (formerly Shenzhen Development 
Bank). On 5 December 2012, we agreed to sell our 
entire shareholding in Ping An and recognised a gain 
on the disposal of the associate. Our remaining 
shareholding has been classified as a financial 
investment. (See page 40 for details of this 
transaction.)
Tax expense 
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
2010
US$m 
Profit before tax .......................................................................................................... 20,649 21,872 19,037 
Tax expense ................................................................................................................ (5,315) (3,928) (4,846)
Profit after tax ............................................................................................................. 15,334 17,944 14,191 
Effective tax rate .........................................................................................................  25.7%  18.0%  25.5% 
The tax charge in 2012 was US$1.4bn or 35% higher 
than in 2011 on a reported basis. 
The higher tax charge in 2012 reflected the non-
tax deductible effect of fines and penalties paid as 
part of the settlement of investigations into past 
inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering 
and sanctions laws, together with the non-recognition 
of the tax benefit in respect of the accounting charge 
associated with negative fair value movements on 
own debt. The lower tax charge in 2011 included the 
benefit of US deferred tax recognised in 2011 in 
respect of foreign tax credits. 
As a result of these factors, the reported effective 
tax rate for 2012 was 25.7 % compared with 18.0% 
for 2011. 
In 2012, the tax paid by the Group was 
US$9.3bn (2011: US$8.0bn). The amount differs 
from the tax charge reported in the income statement 
due to indirect taxes such as VAT and the bank levy 
included in the pre-tax profit and the timing of 
payments. 
The Group also plays a major role as tax 
collector for governments in the jurisdictions in 
which we operate. In 2012, the Group collected 
US$8.5bn (2011: US$8.7bn).  45
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Consolidated balance sheet 
Five-year summary consolidated balance sheet and selected financial information 
At 31 December 
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
2010
US$m 
 2009 
US$m 
 2008
US$m 
ASSETS     
Cash and balances at central banks ............................................. 141,532 129,902 57,383 60,655 52,396 
Trading assets .............................................................................. 408,811 330,451 385,052 421,381 427,329 
Financial assets designated at fair value ..................................... 33,582 30,856 37,011 37,181 28,533 
Derivatives ................................................................................... 357,450 346,379 260,757 250,886 494,876 
Loans and advances to banks ...................................................... 152,546 180,987 208,271 179,781 153,766 
Loans and advances to customers
54
 ............................................. 997,623 940,429 958,366 896,231 932,868 
Financial investments .................................................................. 421,101 400,044 400,755 369,158 300,235 
Assets held for sale ...................................................................... 19,269 39,558 1,991 3,118 2,075 
Other assets .................................................................................. 160,624 156,973 145,103 146,061 135,387 
Total assets .................................................................................. 2,692,538 2,555,579 2,454,689  2,364,452 2,527,465 
    
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 
Liabilities
Deposits by banks ........................................................................ 107,429 112,822 110,584 124,872 130,084 
Customer accounts ....................................................................... 1,340,014 1,253,925 1,227,725 1,159,034 1,115,327 
Trading liabilities ......................................................................... 304,563 265,192 300,703 268,130 247,652 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ................................ 87,720 85,724 88,133 80,092 74,587 
Derivatives ................................................................................... 358,886 345,380 258,665 247,646 487,060 
Debt securities in issue ................................................................ 119,461 131,013 145,401 146,896 179,693 
Liabilities under insurance contracts ........................................... 68,195 61,259 58,609 53,707 43,683 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale ................................. 5,018 22,200 86 3 – 
Other liabilities ............................................................................ 118,123 111,971 109,868 148,411 149,150 
Total liabilities ............................................................................. 2,509,409 2,389,486 2,299,774 2,228,791 2,427,236 
    
Equity    
Total shareholders’ equity ........................................................... 175,242 158,725 147,667 128,299 93,591 
Non-controlling interests ............................................................. 7,887 7,368 7,248 7,362 6,638 
Total equity .................................................................................. 183,129 166,093 154,915 135,661 100,229 
Total equity and liabilities ........................................................... 2,692,538 2,555,579 2,454,689 2,364,452 2,527,465 
    
Five-year selected financial information 
Called up share capital ................................................................. 9,238 8,934 8,843 8,705 6,053 
Capital resources
55,56
 .................................................................... 180,806 170,334 167,555 155,729 131,460 
Undated subordinated loan capital .............................................. 2,778 2,779 2,781 2,785 2,843 
Preferred securities and dated subordinated loan capital
57
 ......... 48,260 49,438 54,421 52,126 50,307 
    
Risk-weighted assets and capital ratios
55
    
Risk-weighted assets ................................................................... 1,123,943 1,209,514 1,103,113 1,133,168 1,147,974 
 %  %  %   %   % 
Core tier 1 ratio ............................................................................  12.3  10.1  10.5   9.4   7.0 
Total capital ratio .........................................................................  16.1  14.1  15.2   13.7   11.4 
    
Financial statistics     
Loans and advances to customers as a percentage of  
customer accounts ................................................................... 74.4  75.0  78.1  77.3   83.6 
Average total shareholders’ equity to average total assets ......... 6.16  5.64  5.53   4.72   4.87 
      
Net asset value per ordinary share at year-end
58
 (US$) .............. 9.09  8.48  7.94   7.17   7.44 
Number of US$0.50 ordinary shares in issue (millions) ............. 18,476 17,868 17,686 17,408 12,105 
   
Closing foreign exchange translation rates to US$:       
US$1: £ ........................................................................................ 0.619  0.646  0.644   0.616   0.686 
US$1: € ........................................................................................ 0.758  0.773  0.748   0.694   0.717 
For footnotes, see page 120. 
A more detailed consolidated balance sheet is contained in the Financial Statements on page 374.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Consolidated balance sheet 
46
Movement in 2012 
Total reported assets were US$2.7 trillion, 5% 
higher than at 31 December 2011. Excluding the 
effect of currency movements, total assets increased 
by 4%, as shown on page 48. 
Our business model (see page 14) and our 
approach to managing the Group balance sheet 
contributed to our strong liquidity position. 
Customer deposits increased by over US$65bn in 
2012, which enabled us to continue to support our 
customers’ borrowing requirements. Loans and 
advances to customers grew by more than US$39bn 
during the year, notably in residential mortgages and 
term and trade-related lending to corporate and 
commercial customers. Higher customer activity 
also led to a rise in trading assets.  
We have made significant progress in 
simplifying and re-shaping our balance sheet to 
improve our capital deployment. We completed a 
significant number of business disposals during the 
year, most notably the Card and Retail Services 
business and non-strategic branches in the US. This 
led to a significant reduction in ‘Assets held for sale’ 
with further transactions due to complete in 2013.   
Assets  
Cash and balances at central banks rose by 7% as 
we placed a greater portion of our surplus liquidity 
in Hong Kong, Europe and Rest of Asia-Pacific with 
central banks, reflecting both our risk profile and 
growth in customer deposits. This was partly offset 
by a reduction in North America as liquidity was 
redeployed into highly-rated financial investments.  
Trading assets increased by 21%. At the end of 
2011, client activity fell as eurozone debt concerns 
dominated the global economy and, as a result, we 
reduced our holdings of debt and equity securities 
and did not replace maturities in our reverse repo 
book. In 2012, client activity increased from these 
subdued levels which resulted in a rise in reverse 
repo and securities borrowing balances, together 
with higher holdings of equity securities. 
Notwithstanding the rise in year-end balances, we 
actively managed the trading inventory in GB&M 
and the average balance for the year declined by 9%. 
Financial assets designated at fair value rose by 
8%. Holdings of equity securities in our insurance 
businesses in Hong Kong and Europe increased, 
reflecting favourable market movements. Portfolio 
growth was also partly attributable to net premiums 
received in the year.  
Derivative assets remained broadly in line with 
December 2011 levels. Downward movements in 
yield curves in major currencies led to a rise in the 
fair value of interest rate contracts, largely in Europe 
and, to a lesser extent, the US. This was partly offset 
by a decline in the fair value of credit derivative 
contracts in Europe and the US, as spreads tightened, 
and foreign exchange contracts in Europe reflecting 
lower volumes of open trades. In addition, netting 
increased from an increase in trading through 
clearing houses and a rise in the fair value of interest 
rate contracts.
Loans and advances to banks declined by 16%, 
driven by a reduction in reverse repo balances in 
Europe, in part reflecting the redeployment of 
liquidity to central banks, together with maturities 
and repayments in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-
Pacific.
Loans and advances to customers increased by 
4%. Residential mortgage balances continued to 
grow strongly, following the success of marketing 
campaigns and competitive pricing in the UK, the 
continued strength in the property market in Hong 
Kong and expansion of the distribution network 
in Rest of Asia-Pacific. Our focus on corporate and 
commercial customers that trade internationally led 
to a rise in term and trade-related lending in Hong 
Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific. Lending to CMB 
customers also increased in Europe, notably in the 
UK despite muted demand for credit, and in North 
America, reflecting our focus on target segments in 
the US. In the Middle East and North Africa, the rise 
in term lending balances followed the completion of 
the merger of our operations in Oman with OIB and 
the acquisition of the onshore retail and commercial 
banking business of Lloyds Banking Group in the 
UAE. Corporate overdraft balances which did not 
meet netting criteria also increased in the UK, with a 
corresponding rise in related customer accounts. The 
above movements were partly offset by a reduction 
in residential mortgage balances in North America as 
a result of repayments and write-offs on the run-off 
portfolio. Lending to GB&M customers in Europe 
also declined as we reduced our exposure to certain 
sectors and disposed of selected positions, and 
clients chose to re-finance through the capital 
markets. Reverse repo balances also declined, 
mainly in Europe.  
During 2012 we reclassified to ‘Assets held for 
sale’ loans and advances to customers relating to the 
planned disposals of non-strategic RBWM banking 
operations in Rest of Asia-Pacific and businesses in 
Latin America and Middle East and North Africa. In 
addition, loans and advances to customers, net of 
customer allowances, relating to the planned 
disposal of non-real estate personal loan balances  47
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
in the CML run-off portfolio in North America were 
reclassified as ‘Assets held for sale’.  
Financial investments rose by 4% as excess 
liquidity was deployed into available-for-sale 
investments, notably treasury bills in Hong Kong 
and highly rated debt securities in North America.  
Assets held for sale declined by 51% following 
the completion of the US disposals. This was partly 
offset by the reclassification to ‘Assets held for sale’ 
during the year of the non-real estate personal loan 
balances in North America, our shareholdings in 
Ping An and Bao Viet Holdings and other non-
strategic businesses. 
Liabilities
Deposits by banks declined by 6% due to lower 
placements by, and repo activity with, other financial 
institutions in Europe. This was partly offset by 
higher short-term placements in North America 
and Hong Kong.  
Customer accounts rose by 5%. This was driven 
in part by a significant rise in Hong Kong, where 
RBWM customers adopted a more conservative 
approach to managing their assets. CMB benefited 
from increased liquidity in the market, higher 
Payments and Cash Management balances and a rise 
in deposits from Business Banking customers. There 
was also strong deposit growth in CMB and GB&M 
in Europe, which benefited from higher balances in 
Payments and Cash Management, while growth in 
RBWM in Europe reflected the success of deposit 
gathering campaigns. The increase in current 
accounts in GB&M in the UK was also related to the 
rise in overdrafts which did not meet netting criteria. 
These movements were partly offset by a decrease 
in Brazil due to both a managed reduction in 
term deposits and the continued transformation of 
our funding base, substituting wholesale customer 
deposits for medium-term notes. Customer account 
balances in North America also fell as short-term 
deposits in the US placed at the end of 2011 were 
withdrawn. In addition, we reduced rates offered to 
customers as our funding requirements diminished 
following the business disposals and the continued 
decline of the consumer finance portfolios in run-off. 
Trading liabilities increased by 12%, due to 
higher repo activity, notably in the US and in 
Europe, which we used to fund the rise in trading 
assets resulting from higher client activity.  
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
remained broadly in line with December 2011 levels. 
A net increase in Europe due to new issuances was 
largely offset by a net reduction in North America as 
maturities were not replaced, reflecting the decrease 
in funding requirements in the US. 
The increase in the value of derivative liabilities
was in line with that of ‘Derivative assets’ as the 
underlying risk is broadly matched. 
Debt securities in issue declined by 10% as 
maturing debt was not replaced in North America 
due to the decline in funding requirements there. 
Liabilities under insurance contracts rose by 
11%, largely due to higher investment returns which 
resulted in a rise in the fair value of assets held to 
support unit-linked insurance contracts and 
investment and insurance contracts with DPF, 
together with the related liabilities to policyholders. 
In addition, liabilities to policyholders were 
established for new business written in Hong Kong, 
Europe and Latin America. This was offset in part by 
a reduction in liabilities under insurance contracts 
reflecting disposals of general insurance businesses 
in Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Latin America 
and Europe, together with the reclassification to 
‘Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ of 
general insurance liabilities in North America and 
life insurance liabilities in Rest of Asia-Pacific.  
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
declined by 77% following the completion of the US 
disposals. This was partly offset by the transfer to 
this classification of other non-strategic businesses. 
Other liabilities rose by 5%, reflecting higher 
provisions for customer redress programmes in the 
UK together with a rise in amounts owed to clearing 
houses as trading activity conducted through them 
increased.
Equity
Total shareholders’ equity rose by 9%, driven in part 
by profits generated in the year. In addition, there 
was a favourable movement on the available-for-sale 
reserve from a negative balance of US$3.3bn at 
31 December 2011 to a positive balance of 
US$1.6bn at 31 December 2012, reflecting an 
improvement in the fair value of these assets.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Consolidated balance sheet 
48
Reconciliation of reported and constant currency assets and liabilities 
31 December 2012 compared with 31 December 2011 
 31 Dec 11
 as
 reported 
 Currency 
 translation 
 adjustment
59
 31 Dec 11 
 at 31 Dec 12 
 exchange 
 rates 
 31 Dec 12
 as
 reported 
 Reported 
 change 
 Constant
 currency
 change 
HSBC   US$m  US$m US$m US$m  %  % 
Cash and balances at central banks .. 129,902 2,011 131,913 141,532 9 7
Trading assets ................................... 330,451 7,317 337,768 408,811 24 21
Financial assets designated at fair 
value ............................................. 30,856 147 31,003 33,582 9 8
Derivative assets ............................... 346,379 9,519 355,898 357,450 3 –
Loans and advances to banks ........... 180,987 1,436 182,423 152,546 (16) (16)
Loans and advances to customers .... 940,429 18,175 958,604 997,623 6 4
Financial investments ....................... 400,044 4,772 404,816 421,101 5 4
Assets held for sale ........................... 39,558 (175) 39,383 19,269 (51) (51)
Other assets ....................................... 156,973 719 157,692 160,624 2 2
Total assets ....................................... 2,555,579 43,921 2,599,500 2,692,538 5 4
Deposits by banks ............................. 112,822 1,809 114,631 107,429 (5) (6)
Customer accounts ............................ 1,253,925 20,233 1,274,158 1,340,014 7 5
Trading liabilities .............................. 265,192 6,262 271,454 304,563 15 12
Financial liabilities designated at  
fair value ....................................... 85,724 1,782 87,506 87,720 2 –
Derivative liabilities ......................... 345,380 9,566 354,946 358,886 4 1
Debt securities in issue ..................... 131,013 2,053 133,066 119,461 (9) (10)
Liabilities under insurance contracts  61,259 145 61,404 68,195 11 11
Liabilities of disposal groups held  
for sale .......................................... 22,200 (486) 21,714 5,018 (77) (77)
Other liabilities ................................. 111,971 693 112,664 118,123 5 5
Total liabilities .................................. 2,389,486 42,057 2,431,543 2,509,409 5 3
Total shareholders’ equity ................ 158,725 1,821 160,546 175,242 10 9
Non-controlling interests .................. 7,368 43 7,411 7,887 7 6
Total equity ....................................... 166,093 1,864 167,957 183,129 10 9
Total equity and liabilities ................ 2,555,579 43,921 2,599,500 2,692,538 5 4
For footnote, see page 120.  49
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
In implementing our strategy, we have agreed 
to sell a number of businesses across the Group. 
Assets and liabilities of businesses which, it is highly 
probable, will be sold are reported as held for sale on 
the balance sheet until the sale is closed. We include 
loans and advances to customers and customer 
account balances reported as held for sale in our 
combined view of customer lending and customer 
accounts. We consider the combined view more 
accurately reflects the size of our lending and deposit 
books and growth thereof.
Combined view of customer lending and customer deposits 
2012 2011   Change 
US$m US$m   % 
Loans and advances to customers .............................................................................. 997,623 940,429  6 
Loans and advances to customers reported in assets held for sale
60
 .......................... 6,124 35,105  (83)
Card and Retail Services ........................................................................................ – 29,137  (100)
US branches ............................................................................................................ – 2,441  (100)
Other ....................................................................................................................... 6,124 3,527  74 
Combined customer lending ....................................................................................... 1,003,747 975,534  3 
Customer accounts ...................................................................................................... 1,340,014 1,253,925  7 
Customer accounts reported in assets held for sale
62
 ................................................. 2,990 20,138  (85)
US branches ............................................................................................................ – 15,144  (100)
Other ....................................................................................................................... 2,990 4,994  (40)
Combined customer deposits ...................................................................................... 1,343,004 1,274,063  5 
For footnote, see page 120. 
Financial investments 
At 31 December 2012 
Equity
securities
Debt
securities Total
US$bn US$bn US$bn
Balance Sheet Management ....................................................................................... – 293.4  293.4 
Insurance entities ........................................................................................................ – 43.4  43.4 
Special purpose entities .............................................................................................. – 24.7  24.7 
Principal investments .................................................................................................. 2.9 2.9 
Other ........................................................................................................................... 2.9 53.8  56.7 
5.8 415.3  421.1 
The table above analyses the Group’s holdings 
of financial investments by business activity. Further 
information can be found in the following sections:  
• ‘Balance Sheet Management’ (page 223) for a 
description of the activities and an analysis of 
third party assets in balance sheet management. 
• ‘Risk management of insurance operations’ 
(page 232) includes a discussion and further 
analysis of the use of financial investments 
within our insurance operations.  
• ‘Special purpose entities’ (page 502) for further 
information about the nature of securities 
investment conduits in which the above 
financial investments are held.   
• ‘Equity securities classified as available for 
sale’ (page 222) includes private equity holdings 
and other strategic investments.  
• ‘Other’ represents financial investments held in 
certain locally managed treasury portfolios and 
other GB&M portfolios held for specific 
business activities.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Consolidated balance sheet / Economic profit/loss 
50
Customer accounts by country 
At 31 December 
2012
US$m 
 2011
 US$m 
Europe ...................................................................................................................................................... 555,009  493,404 
UK ............................................................................................................................................................. 426,144  373,737 
France
61
 ..................................................................................................................................................... 55,578  55,278 
Germany ................................................................................................................................................... 15,611  8,738 
Malta ......................................................................................................................................................... 5,957  5,695 
Switzerland
62
 ............................................................................................................................................. 20,211  19,888 
Turkey ....................................................................................................................................................... 7,629  6,809 
Other ......................................................................................................................................................... 23,879  23,259 
Hong Kong ............................................................................................................................................... 346,208  315,345 
Rest of Asia-Pacific ................................................................................................................................. 183,621  174,012 
Australia .................................................................................................................................................... 20,430  18,802
India .......................................................................................................................................................... 10,415  10,227
Indonesia ................................................................................................................................................... 6,512  6,490
Mainland China ........................................................................................................................................ 35,572  31,570
Malaysia .................................................................................................................................................... 17,641  16,970
Singapore .................................................................................................................................................. 47,862  44,447
Taiwan ...................................................................................................................................................... 12,497  11,659
Vietnam ..................................................................................................................................................... 2,147  1,834
Other ......................................................................................................................................................... 30,545  32,013
Middle East and North Africa
(excluding Saudi Arabia) .......................................................................................................................... 39,583  36,422 
Egypt ......................................................................................................................................................... 7,548  7,047 
Qatar ......................................................................................................................................................... 2,704  2,796 
UAE .......................................................................................................................................................... 18,448  18,172 
Other ......................................................................................................................................................... 10,883  8,407 
North America ........................................................................................................................................ 149,037  155,982 
US ............................................................................................................................................................. 90,627  97,542 
Canada ...................................................................................................................................................... 47,049  45,510 
Bermuda .................................................................................................................................................... 11,361  12,930 
Latin America ......................................................................................................................................... 66,556  78,760 
Argentina .................................................................................................................................................. 5,351  4,878 
Brazil ......................................................................................................................................................... 30,144  42,410 
Mexico ...................................................................................................................................................... 22,724  21,772 
Panama ...................................................................................................................................................... 5,940  5,463 
Other ......................................................................................................................................................... 2,397  4,237 
Total .......................................................................................................................................................... 1,340,014  1,253,925 
For footnotes, see page 120. 51
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Economic loss 
Our internal performance measures include 
economic profit/(loss), a calculation which compares 
the return on financial capital invested in HSBC by 
our shareholders with the cost of that capital. We 
price our cost of capital internally and the difference 
between that cost and the post-tax profit attributable 
to ordinary shareholders represents the amount of 
economic profit/(loss) generated.  
Our long-term cost of capital is reviewed 
annually and is 11% for 2012; this remains 
unchanged from 2011. However, it has been revised 
to 10% for 2013, primarily due to a reduction in the 
risk-free rate, reflecting the continued intervention of 
central banks, quantitative easing and the flight to 
quality, and greater banking sector stability through 
higher levels of capital and liquidity.  
The following commentary is on a reported 
basis. 
The return on invested capital fell by 
2.2 percentage points to 8.0%, which was 
3.0 percentage points lower than our benchmark cost 
of capital. Our economic loss was US$5.1bn, 
a deterioration of US$3.7bn compared with the 
loss in 2011. This reflected higher average invested 
capital and a decrease in profits attributable to 
ordinary shareholders, primarily due to adverse fair 
value movements on own debt attributable to credit 
spreads of US$5.2bn, compared with favourable 
movements of US$3.9bn in 2011, an increase in 
notable cost items and a higher tax charge in 2012.
2012 2011
US$m  %
63
 US$m  %
63
Average total shareholders’ equity ......................................................................... 166,820 156,129 
Adjusted by: 
Goodwill previously amortised or written off ................................................... 8,399 8,123 
Property revaluation reserves ............................................................................. (896) (914)
Reserves representing unrealised losses on effective cash flow hedges ........... 55 287
Reserves representing unrealised losses on available-for-sale securities .......... 1,185 3,379 
Preference shares and other equity instruments ................................................. (7,256) (7,256)
Average invested capital
64
...................................................................................... 168,307 159,748 
Return on invested capital
65
.................................................................................... 13,454  8.0  16,224  10.2 
Benchmark cost of capital ...................................................................................... (18,514) (11.0) (17,572) (11.0)
Economic loss and spread ...................................................................................... (5,060) (3.0) (1,348) (0.8)
For footnotes, see page 120.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Reconciliation of RoRWA measures / Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios 
52
Reconciliation of RoRWA measures 
Performance Management 
We target a return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity of 
12%–15%. For internal management purposes we monitor 
global businesses and geographical regions by pre-tax return 
on RWAs, a metric which combines return on equity and 
regulatory capital efficiency objectives. 
In addition to measuring return on average risk-
weighted assets (‘RoRWA’) we measure our 
performance internally using the non-GAAP 
measure of underlying RoRWA, which is underlying 
profit before tax as a percentage of average risk-
weighted assets adjusted for the effects of foreign 
currency translation differences and business 
disposals. Underlying RoRWA adjusts performance 
for certain items which distort year-on-year 
performance as explained on page 26.   
We also present the non-GAAP measure of 
underlying RoRWA adjusted for the effect of 
operations which are not regarded as contributing to 
the longer-term performance of the Group. These 
include the run-off portfolios and the Card and Retail 
Services business which was sold in 2012. 
The Card and Retail Services average RWAs in 
the table below represent the average of the 
associated operational risk RWAs that were not 
immediately released on disposal and have not 
already been adjusted as part of the underlying 
RoRWA calculation. The pre-tax loss for Card and 
Retail Services in the table below primarily relates to 
litigation expenses incurred after the sale of the 
business that have not been adjusted as part of the 
underlying RoRWA calculation. 
Reconciliation of underlying RoRWA (excluding run-off portfolios and Card and Retail Services) 
2012 2011
 Pre-tax 
 return 
 Average 
 RWAs
66
 RoRWA
66,67
 Pre-tax 
 return  
 Average 
 RWAs
66
 RoRWA
66,67
US$m  US$bn  % US$m   US$bn   % 
Reported ........................................................... 20,649 1,172  1.8 21,872 1,154   1.9 
Underlying
67
 ..................................................... 16,385 1,129  1.5 13,861 1,077   1.3 
Run-off portfolios ............................................ (1,630) 167 (1.0) (4,901) 169   (2.9)
Legacy credit in GB&M .............................. (280) 45 (0.6) (429)  33   (1.3)
US CML and other
68
 .................................... (1,350) 122 (1.1) (4,472)  136   (3.3)
Card and Retail Services ................................. (150) 5 (3.0) – –   – 
Underlying (excluding run-off portfolios  
and Card and Retail Services) ..................... 18,165 957 1.9 18,762 908   2.1 
For footnotes, see page 120. 
Reconciliation of reported and underlying average risk-weighted assets 
Year ended 31 December 
 2012  2011   Change 
 US$bn  US$bn   % 
Average reported RWAs
66
 ..........................................................................................  1,172 1,154  2 
Currency translation adjustment
24
 .............................................................................. – (7)  
Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions ................................................................................  (43) (70)  
Average underlying RWAs
66
 ...................................................................................... 1,129 1,077  5 
Disposals, held for sale and run-off 
portfolios
In implementing our strategy, we have sold or 
agreed to sell a number of businesses and 
investments across the Group. The sale of these 
businesses and investments will have a significant 
effect on both our revenue and profitability in the 
future. In addition, we have substantial portfolios 
which are being run down. We expect the losses on 
these portfolios to continue to affect the Group in the 
future.
The table below presents the contribution of 
these businesses and investments to the historical 
results of the Group. We do not expect the historical 
results to be indicative of future results because of 
disposals or run-offs. Fixed allocated costs, included 
in total operating costs, will not necessarily be 
removed upon disposal and have been separately 
identified. 53
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Summary income statements for disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios
69,70
2012
Run-off portfolios 
 Card and
 Retail
 Services
 US$m 
 Ping An
 U$m 
 Other
 disposals 
 US$m 
 Held 
 for sale 
 excluding 
 US CML 
 US$m 
 US CML 
 and other
71
 US$m 
 Legacy 
 credit in
 GB&M
 US$m 
Net interest income/(expense) ............................ 1,267 – 352 303 2,561 (28)
Net fee income/(expense) ................................... 395 – 13 (35) 33 (17)
Net trading income/(expense) ............................ – – 67 22 (226) 99
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments 
designated at fair value .................................. – – 3 5 (785) 10
Gains less losses from financial investments ..... – – 8 27 – (72)
Dividend income ................................................. – – – – 3 –
Net earned insurance premiums ......................... – – 430 315 – –
Other operating income/(expense) ..................... 7 – 10 5 37 (3)
Total operating income/(expense) ................... 1,669 – 883 642 1,623 (11)
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in 
liabilities to policyholders ............................. – – (218) (225) – –
Net operating income/(expense)
21
..................... 1,669 – 665 417 1,623 (11)
Loan impairment charges and other  
credit risk provisions ..................................... (322)
–
(16) (77) (2,569) (168)
Net operating income/(expense) ...................... 1,347 – 649 340 (946) (179)
Total operating expenses .................................... (729) – (467) (344) (1,106) (101)
Operating profit/(loss) ...................................... 618 – 182 (4) (2,052) (280)
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures .. – 763 12 9 2 –
Profit/(loss) before tax ...................................... 618 763 194 5 (2,050) (280)
By global business  
Retail Banking and Wealth Management .......... 618 622 99 (29)            (1,274) –
Commercial Banking .......................................... – 82 40 24 9 –
Global Banking and Markets .............................. – 59 65 28 – (280)
Global Private Banking ...................................... – – (9) – – –
Other ................................................................... – – (1) (18) (785) –
Profit/(loss) before tax ........................................ 618 763 194 5           (2,050) (280)
By geographical region 
Europe ................................................................. – – (1) – – (281)
Hong Kong ......................................................... – – 45 – – 1
Rest of Asia-Pacific ............................................ – 763 (31) 22 – (2)
Middle East and North Africa ............................ – – 46 – – –
North America .................................................... 618 – 25 (25) (2,050) 2
Latin America ..................................................... – – 110 8 – –
Profit/(loss) before tax ........................................ 618 763 194 5 (2,050) (280)
Other information 
Gain on sale ........................................................ 3,148 3,012 1,579 – – –
Fixed allocated costs included in total operating 
expenses .......................................................... 188 – 77 52 230 –
 US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn 
Reduction in RWAs on disposal
72
 ......................  39.3  24.9  7.5  8.8 
RWAs
72
 ...............................................................  9.3  107.1  38.6 
 %  %  %  %  % %
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax .....................  3.0 3.7 0.9  –  (10.0)  (1.4)
Cost efficiency ratio ...........................................  43.7  –  70.2  82.5  68.1  – 
For footnotes, see page 120.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Critical accounting policies  
54
Critical accounting policies 
(Audited) 
Introduction 
The results of HSBC are sensitive to the accounting 
policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the 
preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 
The significant accounting policies are described in 
Note 2 on the Financial Statements. 
The accounting policies that are deemed critical 
to our results and financial position, in terms of the 
materiality of the items to which the policies are 
applied and the high degree of judgement involved, 
including the use of assumptions and estimation, are 
discussed below.
Impairment of loans and advances 
Our accounting policy for losses arising from the 
impairment of customer loans and advances is 
described in Note 2g on the Financial Statements. 
Loan impairment allowances represent 
management’s best estimate of losses incurred 
in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date. 
Management is required to exercise judgement 
in making assumptions and estimates when 
calculating loan impairment allowances on both 
individually and collectively assessed loans and 
advances.  
The majority of the collectively assessed loan 
impairment allowances are in North America, where 
they were US$5.2bn, representing 54% (2011: 
US$6.8bn; 62%) of the Group’s total collectively 
assessed loan impairment allowances and 32% of the 
Group’s total impairment allowances. Of the North 
American collective impairment allowances 
approximately 86% (2011: 75%) related to the 
US CML portfolio.  
The methods used to calculate collective 
impairment allowances on homogeneous groups 
of loans and advances that are not considered 
individually significant are disclosed in Note 2g 
on the Financial Statements. They are subject to 
estimation uncertainty, in part because it is not 
practicable to identify losses on an individual loan 
basis because of the large number of individually 
insignificant loans in the portfolio. 
The estimation methods include the use of 
statistical analyses of historical information, 
supplemented with significant management 
judgement, to assess whether current economic and 
credit conditions are such that the actual level of 
inherent losses is likely to be greater or less than 
that suggested by historical experience. Where 
changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural 
conditions result in the most recent trends in 
portfolio risk factors being not fully reflected in the 
statistical models, risk factors are taken into account 
by adjusting the impairment allowances derived 
solely from historical loss experience. 
Risk factors include loan portfolio growth, 
product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, 
geographical concentrations, loan product features, 
economic conditions such as national and local 
trends in housing markets, the level of interest rates, 
portfolio seasoning, account management policies 
and practices, changes in laws and regulations, and 
other influences on customer payment patterns. 
Different factors are applied in different regions 
and countries to reflect local economic conditions, 
laws and regulations. The methodology and the 
assumptions used in calculating impairment losses 
are reviewed regularly in the light of differences 
between loss estimates and actual loss experience. 
For example, roll rates, loss rates and the expected 
timing of future recoveries are regularly 
benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure 
they remain appropriate. 
In 2012, a portfolio risk factor adjustment of 
US$225m was made to increase the collective 
loan impairment allowances for our US mortgage 
lending portfolios. The adjustment was made 
following a review completed in the fourth quarter of 
2012 which concluded that the estimated average 
period of time from current status to write-off was 
ten months for real estate loans (previously a period 
of seven months was used). During 2013, this 
revised estimate will be incorporated into the 
statistical impairment allowance models.  
Where loans are individually assessed for 
impairment, management judgement is required in 
determining whether there is objective evidence that 
a loss event has occurred, and if so, the measurement 
of the impairment allowance. In determining 
whether there is objective evidence that a loss event 
has occurred, judgement is exercised in evaluating 
all relevant information on indicators of impairment, 
which is not restricted to the consideration of 
whether payments are contractually past-due but 
includes broader consideration of factors indicating 
deterioration in the financial condition and outlook 
of borrowers affecting their ability to pay. A higher 
level of judgement is required for loans to borrowers 
showing signs of financial difficulty in market 
sectors experiencing economic stress, particularly 
where the likelihood of repayment is affected by the 
prospects for refinancing or the sale of a specified 
asset. For those loans where objective evidence of 
impairment exists, management determine the size  55
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
of the allowance required based on a range of factors 
such as the realisable value of security, the likely 
dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy, the 
viability of the customer’s business model and the 
capacity to trade successfully out of financial 
difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to 
service debt obligations. 
Under certain specified conditions, we provide 
loan forbearance to borrowers experiencing financial 
difficulties by agreeing to modify the contractual 
payment terms of loans in order to improve the 
management of customer relationships, maximise 
collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid 
default or repossession. Where forbearance activities 
are significant, higher levels of judgement and 
estimation uncertainty are involved in determining 
their effects on loan impairment allowances. 
Forbearance activities take place in both retail 
and wholesale loan portfolios, but our largest 
concentration is in the US, in HSBC Finance’s 
CML portfolio. 
The exercise of judgement requires the use of 
assumptions which are highly subjective and very 
sensitive to the risk factors, in particular to changes 
in economic and credit conditions across a large 
number of geographical areas. Many of the factors 
have a high degree of interdependency and there 
is no single factor to which our loan impairment 
allowances as a whole are sensitive, though they are 
particularly sensitive to general economic and credit 
conditions in North America. For example, a 10% 
increase in impairment allowances on collectively 
assessed loans and advances in North America 
would have increased loan impairment allowances 
by US$0.5bn at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$0.7bn). 
It is possible that the outcomes within the next 
financial year could differ from the assumptions 
used, and this could result in a material adjustment 
to the carrying amount of loans and advances. 
Goodwill impairment 
Our accounting policy for goodwill is described in 
Note 2p on the Financial Statements. Note 23 on the 
Financial Statements lists our cash generating units 
(‘CGU’s) by geographical region and global 
business. HSBC’s total goodwill amounted to 
US$21bn at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$21bn). 
The review of goodwill for impairment reflects 
management’s best estimate of the future cash flows 
of the CGUs and the rates used to discount these 
cash flows, both of which are subject to uncertain 
factors as follows: 
• the future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive 
to the cash flows projected for the periods for 
which detailed forecasts are available and to 
assumptions regarding the long-term pattern 
of sustainable cash flows thereafter. Forecasts 
are compared with actual performance and 
verifiable economic data, but they necessarily 
reflect management’s view of future business 
prospects at the time of the assessment; and 
• the rates used to discount future expected cash 
flows are based on the costs of capital assigned 
to individual CGUs and the rates can have a 
significant effect on their valuation. The cost 
of capital percentage is generally derived from a 
Capital Asset Pricing Model, which incorporates 
inputs reflecting a number of financial and 
economic variables, including the risk-free 
interest rate in the country concerned and a 
premium for the risk of the business being 
evaluated. These variables are subject to 
fluctuations in external market rates and 
economic conditions beyond our control and 
are consequently subject to uncertainty and 
require the exercise of significant judgement. 
A decline in a CGU’s expected cash flows 
and/or an increase in its cost of capital reduces the 
CGU’s estimated recoverable amount. If this is 
lower than the carrying value of the CGU, a charge 
for impairment of goodwill is recognised in our 
income statement for the year. 
The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject 
to a high degree of uncertainty in volatile market 
conditions. In such market conditions, management 
retests goodwill for impairment more frequently than 
annually to ensure that the assumptions on which the 
cash flow forecasts are based continue to reflect 
current market conditions and management’s best 
estimate of future business prospects. 
During 2012, no impairment of goodwill was 
identified (2011: nil). In addition to the annual 
impairment test which was performed as at 1 July 
2012, management reviewed the current and expected 
performance of the CGUs as at 31 December 2012 
and determined that there was no indication of 
potential impairment of the goodwill allocated to 
them, except for the GB&M – Europe CGU, which 
experienced significantly reduced profitability in 
the second half of 2012 compared with the first half 
of 2012. The reduced forecast profitability resulted 
in a reduction in the recoverable amount of the CGU 
over its carrying amount (‘headroom’). 
Consequently, the results of the goodwill impairment 
testing for this CGU are more sensitive to key 
assumptions used. Management retested the goodwill  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Financial summary > Critical accounting policies  
56
for this CGU and concluded that there was no 
impairment. 
Note 23 on the Financial Statements includes 
details of the CGUs with significant balances of 
goodwill, states the key assumptions used to assess 
the goodwill in each of those CGUs for impairment 
and provides a discussion of the sensitivity of the 
carrying value of goodwill to changes in key 
assumptions. 
Valuation of financial instruments 
Our accounting policy for determining the fair value 
of financial instruments is described in Note 2d on 
the Financial Statements.  The best evidence of fair 
value is a quoted price for the instrument being 
measured in an actively traded market. In the event 
that the market for a financial instrument is not 
active, a valuation technique is used. The majority 
of valuation techniques employ only observable 
market data and so the reliability of the fair value 
measurement is high. However, certain financial 
instruments are valued on the basis of valuation 
techniques that include one or more significant 
market inputs that are unobservable. Valuation 
techniques that rely to a greater extent on 
unobservable inputs require a higher level of 
management judgement to calculate a fair value 
than those based wholly on observable inputs. 
Valuation techniques used to calculate fair 
values are discussed in Note 15 on the Financial 
Statements. The main assumptions and estimates 
which management consider when applying a model 
with valuation techniques are: 
• the likelihood and expected timing of future cash 
flows on the instrument. These cash flows are 
estimated based on the terms of the instrument, 
and judgement may be required when the ability 
of the counterparty to service the instrument in 
accordance with the contractual terms is in 
doubt. Future cash flows may be sensitive to 
changes in market rates; 
• selecting an appropriate discount rate for 
the instrument. The determination of this rate 
is based on an assessment of what a market 
participant would regard as the appropriate 
spread of the rate for the instrument over the 
appropriate risk-free rate; and 
• judgement to determine what model to use to 
calculate fair value in areas where the choice of 
valuation model is particularly subjective, for 
example, when valuing complex derivative 
products.
When applying a model with unobservable 
inputs, estimates are made to reflect uncertainties 
in fair values resulting from a lack of market data 
inputs, for example, as a result of illiquidity in 
the market. For these instruments, the fair value 
measurement is less reliable. Inputs into valuations 
based on unobservable data are inherently uncertain 
because there is little or no current market data 
available from which to determine the level at 
which an arm’s length transaction would occur under 
normal business conditions. However, in most cases 
there is some market data available on which to base 
a determination of fair value, for example historical 
data, and the fair values of most financial 
instruments are based on some market observable 
inputs even when unobservable inputs are 
significant.
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities 
of US$718bn (2011: US$665bn) and US$622bn 
(2011: US$569bn), respectively, were determined 
using valuation techniques which represented 60% 
(2011: 61%) and 83% (2011: 82%), respectively, of 
financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value. 
The methodology for estimating credit 
valuation adjustments (‘CVA’) and debit valuation 
adjustments (‘DVA’) has been revised as at 
31 December 2012 as a result of changing market 
practices in response to regulatory and accounting 
changes, as well as general market developments.  
A key input into the calculation of CVA is the 
probability of default (‘PD’). Prior to the revision 
of the methodology, the PD was based on HSBC’s 
internal credit rating for the counterparty. The 
revised methodology maximises the use of PD based 
on market-observable data, such as credit default 
swap (‘CDS’) spreads. Where CDS spreads are not 
available, PDs are estimated having regard to market 
practice, considering relevant data including CDS 
indices and historical rating transition matrices. 
In addition, HSBC aligned its methodology for 
determining DVA to be consistent with that applied 
for CVA as at 31 December 2012. Historically, 
HSBC considered that a zero spread was appropriate 
in respect of own credit risk and consequently did 
not adjust derivative liabilities for its own credit risk. 
The types and amounts of adjustments made in 
determining the fair value of financial instruments 
measured at fair value using valuation techniques, 
and a sensitivity analysis of fair values for financial 
instruments with significant unobservable inputs to 
reasonably possible alternative assumptions, are 
described in Note 15 on the Financial Statements.  
Given the uncertainty and subjective nature 
of valuing financial instruments at fair value, it is  57
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
possible that the outcomes in the next financial year 
could differ from the assumptions used, and this 
could result in a material adjustment to the carrying 
amount of financial instruments measured at fair 
value.
Deferred tax assets  
Our accounting policy for the recognition of deferred 
tax assets is described in Note 2s on the Financial 
Statements. The recognition of a deferred tax asset 
relies on an assessment of the probability and 
sufficiency of future taxable profits, future reversals 
of existing taxable temporary differences and 
ongoing tax planning strategies. 
The most significant judgements concern the US 
deferred tax asset, given the recent history of losses 
in our US operations. The net US deferred tax asset 
amounted to US$4.6bn or 61% (2011: US$5.2bn; 
68%) of deferred tax assets recognised on the 
Group’s balance sheet. These judgements take into 
consideration the reliance placed on the use of tax 
planning strategies. 
The most significant tax planning strategy is the 
retention of capital in our US operations to ensure 
the realisation of the deferred tax assets. The 
principal strategy involves generating future taxable 
profits through the retention of capital in the US in 
excess of normal regulatory requirements in order 
to reduce deductible funding expenses or otherwise 
deploy such capital or increase levels of taxable 
income. Management expects that, with this strategy, 
the US operations will generate sufficient future 
profits to support the recognition of the deferred 
tax assets. If HSBC Holdings were to decide not to 
provide this ongoing support, the full recovery of the 
deferred tax asset may no longer be probable and 
could result in a significant reduction of the deferred 
tax asset which would be recognised as a charge in 
the income statement. 
Provisions 
The accounting policy for provisions is described in 
Note 2w on the Financial Statements. Note 32 on the 
Financial Statements discloses the major categories 
of provisions recognised. The closing balance of 
provisions amounted to US$5.3bn (2011: 
US$3.3bn), of which US$1.7bn (2011: US$1.5bn) 
relates to legal proceedings and regulatory matters 
and US$2.4bn (2011: US$1.1bn) relates to customer 
remediation.  
Judgement is involved in determining whether 
a present obligation exists, and in estimating the 
probability, timing and amount of any outflows. 
Professional expert advice is taken on litigation 
provisions, property provisions (including onerous 
contracts) and similar liabilities. 
Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory 
matters typically require a higher degree of 
judgement than other types of provisions. When 
cases are at an early stage, accounting judgements 
can be difficult because of the high degree of 
uncertainty associated with determining whether a 
present obligation exists, and estimating the 
probability and amount of any outflows that may 
arise. As matters progress through various stages 
of development, management and legal advisers 
evaluate on an ongoing basis whether provisions 
should be recognised and their estimated amounts, 
revising previous judgements and estimates as 
appropriate. At more advanced stages, it is typically 
possible to make judgements and estimates around 
a better defined set of possible outcomes. However, 
such judgements can be very difficult and the 
amount of any provision can be very sensitive to 
the assumptions used. There could be a wide range 
of possible outcomes for any pending legal 
proceedings, investigations or inquiries. As a result, 
it is often not practicable to quantify a range of 
possible outcomes for individual matters. It is also 
not practicable to meaningfully quantify ranges 
of potential outcomes in aggregate for these types 
of provisions because of the diverse nature and 
circumstances of such matters and the wide range of 
uncertainties involved. For a detailed description of 
the nature of uncertainties and assumptions and the 
effect on the amount and timing of possible cash 
outflows on material matters, see Note 43 on the 
Financial Statements.  
Provisions for customer remediation also require 
significant levels of estimation and judgement. The 
amounts of provisions recognised depend on a 
number of different assumptions, for example, the 
volume of inbound complaints, the projected period 
of inbound complaint volumes, the decay rate of 
complaint volumes, the population identified as 
systemically mis-sold and the number of policies per 
customer complaint. 
In view of the inherent uncertainties and the 
high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition 
and measurement of provisions, it is possible that the 
outcomes in the next financial year could differ from 
those on which management’s estimates are based, 
resulting in materially different amounts of 
provisions recognised and outflows of economic 
benefits from those estimated by management for 
the purposes of the 2012 Financial Statements.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > Summary 
58
Global businesses 
Summary .......................................................................... 58
Products and services ....................................................... 60
Retail Banking and Wealth Management ........................ 62
Commercial Banking ....................................................... 65
Global Banking and Markets ........................................... 68
Global Private Banking ................................................... 72
Other ................................................................................ 74
Analysis by global business ............................................. 76
Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios ................ 78
Summary
HSBC reviews operating activity on a number of 
bases, including by geographical region and by 
global business. 
The commentaries below present global 
businesses followed by geographical regions 
(page 79). Performance is discussed in this order 
because certain strategic themes, business initiatives 
and trends affect more than one geographical region. 
All commentaries are on a constant currency basis 
(page 25) unless stated otherwise. 
Basis of preparation 
The results of global businesses are presented in accordance 
with the accounting policies used in the preparation of HSBC’s 
consolidated financial statements. Our operations are closely 
integrated and, accordingly, the presentation of global business 
data includes internal allocations of certain items of income 
and expense. These allocations include the costs of certain 
support services and global functions, to the extent that these 
can be meaningfully attributed to operational business lines. 
While such allocations have been made on a systematic and 
consistent basis, they necessarily involve some subjectivity. 
Where relevant, income and expense amounts presented 
include the results of inter-segment funding as well as inter-
company and inter-business line transactions. All such 
transactions are undertaken on arm’s length terms. 
The expense of the UK bank levy is included in the 
Europe geographical region as HSBC regards the levy as a 
cost of being headquartered in the UK. For the purposes of the 
segmentation by global business, the cost of the levy is 
included in ‘Other’. 
The fines and penalties paid as part of the settlement of 
investigations into past inadequate compliance with anti-
money laundering and sanctions laws of US$1.9bn are 
included in the North America (US$1.5bn) and Europe 
(US$0.4bn) geographical regions, and in ‘Other’ for the 
purposes of the segmentation by global business. 
Profit/(loss) before tax 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m  % US$m  % US$m  % 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management ................ 9,575  46.4 4,270 19.6  3,839  20.2 
Commercial Banking ............................................... 8,535  41.3 7,947 36.3  6,090   32.0 
Global Banking and Markets ................................... 8,520  41.3 7,049 32.2  9,215  48.4 
Global Private Banking ........................................... 1,009  4.9 944 4.3  1,054   5.5 
Other
73
 ...................................................................... (6,990) (33.9) 1,662 7.6  (1,161) (6.1)
20,649  100.0 21,872 100.0  19,037   100.0 
Total assets
74
At 31 December 
2012 2011 
US$m  %  US$m  % 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management ............................................................... 536,244  19.9  540,548  21.2 
Commercial Banking .............................................................................................. 363,659  13.5  334,966  13.1 
Global Banking and Markets .................................................................................. 1,942,470  72.1   1,877,627  73.5 
Global Private Banking .......................................................................................... 118,440  4.4  119,839  4.7 
Other ....................................................................................................................... 201,741  7.5   180,126  7.0 
Intra-HSBC items ................................................................................................... (470,016) (17.4)  (497,527) (19.5)
2,692,538  100.0  2,555,579  100.0 
For footnotes, see page 120. 59
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Risk-weighted assets
At 31 December 
2012 2011 
US$bn %  US$bn  % 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management ............................................................... 276.6 24.6  351.2  29.0 
Commercial Banking .............................................................................................. 397.0 35.3  382.9  31.7 
Global Banking and Markets .................................................................................. 403.1 35.9  423.0  35.0 
Global Private Banking .......................................................................................... 21.7 1.9  22.5  1.9 
Other ....................................................................................................................... 25.5 2.3  29.9  2.4 
1,123.9 100.0  1,209.5  100.0 
Selected items included in profit before tax by global business 
Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions
75
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management ................................................................... 5,574 3,328  3 
Commercial Banking .................................................................................................. 594 76  119 
Global Banking and Markets ...................................................................................... 149 114  262 
Global Private Banking .............................................................................................. 55 (9)  – 
Other
73
 ......................................................................................................................... 3,107 141  250 
9,479 3,650  634 
For footnotes, see page 120. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > Products and services 
60
Products and services 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
RBWM serves over 54 million personal customers. We 
take deposits and provide transactional banking 
services to enable customers to manage their day-to-
day finances and save for the future. We selectively 
offer credit facilities to assist customers in their short 
or longer-term borrowing requirements; and we 
provide financial advisory, broking, insurance and 
investment services to help them to manage and protect 
their financial futures. 
We develop products designed to meet the needs 
of specific customer segments, which may include a 
range of different services and delivery channels. 
Typically, customer offerings include: 
• liability-driven services: deposits and account 
services;
• asset-driven services: credit and lending, both 
secured and unsecured; and 
• fee-driven and other services: financial advisory, 
broking, life insurance manufacturing and asset 
management. 
We deliver services through four principal channels: branches, 
self-service terminals, telephone service centres and digital 
(internet and mobile). Customers can transact with the bank via 
a combination of these channels, through the following offerings:
• HSBC Premier: we provide preferential banking services and 
global recognition to our mass affluent customers and their 
immediate families with a dedicated relationship manager, 
specialist wealth advice and tailored solutions. Customers can 
access emergency travel assistance, priority telephone banking 
and an online ‘global view’ of their Premier accounts around 
the world. 
• HSBC Advance: we provide a range of preferential products 
and services to simplify the banking needs of customers and 
to help them manage and plan their money to achieve their 
financial goals and ambitions. 
• Wealth Solutions & Financial Planning: a financial 
planning process designed around individual customer needs 
to help our clients to protect, grow and manage their wealth 
through investment and wealth insurance products 
manufactured by Global Asset Management, Global Markets 
and HSBC Insurance and by selected third-party providers.
• Basic Banking: we increasingly provide globally 
standardised but locally delivered, reliable, easy to understand, 
good-value banking products and services using global 
product platforms and globally set service standards.  
Commercial Banking 
We segment our CMB business into Corporate, to 
serve both corporate and mid-market companies with 
more sophisticated financial needs, and Business 
Banking, to serve SMEs, enabling differentiated 
coverage of our target customers. This allows us to 
provide continuous support to companies as they grow 
both domestically and internationally, and ensures a 
clear focus on internationally aspirant customers. 
We place particular emphasis on international 
connectivity to meet the needs of our business 
customers. We aim to be recognised as the leading 
international trade and business bank by focusing 
on faster-growing markets, repositioning towards 
international business and enhancing collaboration 
across the Group. This will be underpinned by 
reducing complexity and operational risk and driving 
efficiency gains through adopting a global operating 
model. 
• Credit and Lending: we offer a broad range of domestic and 
cross-border financing, including overdrafts, corporate cards, 
term loans and syndicated, leveraged, acquisition and project 
finance. Asset finance is also offered in selected countries. 
• International trade and receivables finance: we provide 
the services and finance our clients need throughout the trade 
cycle including; letters of credit, collections, guarantees; 
receivables finance; supply chain solutions; commodity and 
structured finance; and risk distribution. HSBC is supporting 
the development of renminbi as a trade currency, with 
renminbi capabilities in more than 50 markets. 
• Payments and Cash Management: we are a leading 
provider of domestic and cross-border payments, collections, 
liquidity management and account services offering local, 
regional and global solutions delivered via e-enabled platforms 
designed to address the current and future needs of our clients.
• Insurance and Investments: we offer business and 
financial protection, trade insurance, employee benefits, 
corporate wealth management and a variety of other 
commercial risk insurance products in selected countries. 
• GB&M: our CMB franchise represents a key client base for 
GB&M products and services, including foreign exchange and 
interest rate products, together with capital raising on debt and 
equity markets and advisory services.  61
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Global Banking and Markets 
GB&M provides tailored financial solutions to major 
government, corporate and institutional clients and 
private investors worldwide. Managed as a global 
business, GB&M operates a long-term relationship 
management approach to build a full understanding 
of clients’ financial requirements. Sector-focused 
client service teams comprising relationship managers 
and product specialists develop financial solutions 
to meet individual client needs. With a presence in 
over 60 countries/territories and access to HSBC’s 
worldwide presence and capabilities, this business 
serves subsidiaries and offices of our clients on a 
global basis. 
GB&M is managed as two principal business 
lines: Global Markets and Global Banking. This 
structure allows us to focus on relationships and 
sectors that best fit the Group’s geographic reach 
and facilitate seamless delivery of our products and 
services to clients. 
In addition, Balance Sheet Management is 
responsible for the management of liquidity and 
funding. It also manages structural interest rate 
positions within the Global Markets limit structure.
• Global Markets operations consist of treasury and capital 
markets services. Products include foreign exchange; currency, 
interest rate, bond, credit, equity and other derivatives; 
government and non-government fixed income and money 
market instruments; precious metals and exchange-traded 
futures; equity services; distribution of capital markets 
instruments; and securities services, including custody and 
clearing services and funds administration to both domestic 
and cross-border investors. 
• Global Banking offers financing, advisory and transaction 
services. Products include: 
– capital raising, advisory services, bilateral and syndicated 
lending, leveraged and acquisition finance, structured and 
project finance, lease finance and non-retail deposit taking; 
– international, regional and domestic payments and cash 
management services; and trade services for large corporate 
clients.
Global Private Banking 
GPB provides investment management and trustee 
solutions to high net worth individuals and their 
families globally. We aim to meet the needs of our 
clients by providing excellent customer service, 
utilising our global reach and offering a comprehensive 
suite of solutions. 
Drawing on the strength of the HSBC Group and 
the most suitable products from the marketplace, we 
work with our clients to provide solutions to grow, 
manage, and preserve wealth for today and for the 
future.
• Private Banking services comprise multicurrency and 
fiduciary deposits, account services, and credit and specialist 
lending. GPB also accesses HSBC’s universal banking 
capabilities to offer products and services such as credit cards, 
internet banking, and corporate and investment banking 
solutions.
• Investment Management comprises advisory and 
discretionary investment services, as well as brokerage across 
asset classes. This includes a complete range of investment 
vehicles, portfolio management, security services and 
alternatives.
• Private T rust Solutions comprise trusts and estate planning, 
designed to protect wealth and preserve it for future 
generations through structures tailored to meet the individual 
needs of each client.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > RBWM 
62
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
RBWM provides banking and wealth 
management services for our personal 
customers to help them to manage 
their finances and protect and build 
their financial futures. 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income .......... 20,298  24,101 24,166 
Net fee income ................. 7,205  8,226 8,397 
Other income ................... 6,358  1,206 1,048 
Net operating income
21
.. 33,861  33,533 33,611 
LICs
76
 ............................... (5,515) (9,319) (11,259)
Net operating income .... 28,346  24,214 22,352 
Total operating expenses .. (19,769) (21,202) (19,539)
Operating profit ............. 8,577  3,012 2,813 
Income from associates
77
. 998 1,258 1,026 
Profit before tax ............. 9,575  4,270 3,839 
RoRWA
66
.........................  3.1%  1.2%  1.1% 
Underlying revenue growth  
in all faster-growing regions
Announced
34
disposals or closures since 
 the start of 2011 and completed 
12
in 2012 
Best in Wealth Management  
in Hong Kong 
(The Asian Banker, March 2012)
Strategic direction 
RBWM provides retail banking and wealth management services 
for personal customers in markets where we have, or can build, 
the scale to do so cost effectively.  
We focus on three strategic imperatives: 
• building a consistent, high standard, customer needs-driven 
wealth management service for retail customers drawing on 
our Insurance and Asset Management businesses; 
• leveraging global expertise to improve customer service and 
productivity, to provide a high standard of banking solutions 
and service to our customers efficiently; and 
• simplifying and re-shaping the RBWM portfolio of businesses 
globally, to focus our capital and resources on key markets. 
For footnotes, see page 120. 
The commentary is on a constant currency basis unless stated 
otherwise. 
Review of performance  
• RBWM reported profit before tax of US$9.6bn 
compared with US$4.3bn in 2011 (US$4.2bn on 
a constant currency basis). This included net 
gains resulting from a number of strategic 
transactions, including US$3.7bn from the 
disposals of the Card and Retail Services 
(‘CRS’) business and non-strategic branches in 
the US. 
• On an underlying basis, profit before tax 
increased by US$3.1bn, largely driven by lower 
loan impairment charges in the US run-off 
portfolio and higher insurance profits in Hong 
Kong and Brazil. These were partly offset by 
charges relating to the customer redress 
programmes in the UK of US$1.8bn, compared 
with US$868m in 2011 (US$875m as reported).  
RBWM – profit/(loss) before tax 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
RBWM excluding US CRS 
and US run-off portfolio . 7,083  6,681 5,936 
US CRS .............................. 3,766  2,061  1,979 
US run-off portfolio ........... (1,274) (4,472) (4,076)
9,575  4,270 3,839 
• Loss before tax in the US run-off portfolio 
declined significantly, mainly due to lower 
loan impairment charges reflecting the decline 
in average lending balances. In addition, 
revenue benefited from lower adverse 
movements on the fair value of non-qualifying 
hedges in HSBC Finance of US$227m, 
compared with US$1.2bn in 2011. This was 
partly offset by a fall in net interest income 
largely driven by the continued reduction in 
lending balances. 
• Profit before tax for RBWM excluding US 
CRS and the US run-off portfolio increased 
by US$472m, with revenue growth in Hong 
Kong, Latin America and Rest of Asia-Pacific 
partly offset by a fall in profit in the UK due 
to a US$883m increase in customer redress 
provisions and the non-recurrence of a credit of 
US$256m (US$264m as reported) relating to 
defined benefit pension obligations.  
• Revenue grew by 13% in Hong Kong reflecting 
wider deposit spreads, higher lending and 
deposit balances and the gains on sale of 
the general insurance businesses and our shares 
in Global Payments Asia-Pacific Ltd. Insurance 
income also increased due to higher investment 
returns and strong sales and renewals of life 
insurance products. This was partly offset by the  63
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
non-recurrence of the implementation benefit 
from refining the PVIF asset calculation in 
2011. 
• Revenue in Rest of Asia-Pacific increased by 
3% due to the gain on sale of our operations in 
Thailand, partly offset by the loss of operating 
revenues associated with this disposal and the 
discontinuation of our HSBC Premier (‘Premier’) 
service in Japan. Net interest income remained 
broadly in line with 2011. Mortgage and deposit 
balances grew, primarily in Singapore, mainland 
China, Australia and Malaysia, although the 
effect was offset by narrower asset and deposit 
spreads. 
• In Latin America, revenue grew by 6%, driven 
by higher insurance revenues from strong sales 
of unit-linked pension and term life products 
and the favourable effect of the recognition of a 
PVIF asset (US$144m) in Brazil. In addition, 
we reported a gain on sale of the general 
insurance business in Argentina. Net interest 
income increased due to growth in personal 
loans and deposit balances. Growth was partly 
offset by the loss on sale of certain businesses as 
well as the non-recurrence of gains on the sale 
and leaseback of branches and the sale of HSBC 
Afore, both in Mexico during 2011. 
• In Europe, revenue remained broadly in line 
with 2011. Revenue decreased in the UK, 
largely driven by deposit spread compression. 
This was partly offset by higher mortgage 
spreads and average balances in the UK and 
business expansion in Turkey, which led to 
higher net interest income following growth in 
personal lending and mortgage balances. 
• Loan impairment charges in RBWM excluding 
US CRS and the US run-off portfolio were 
broadly in line with 2011. Reductions in Europe, 
driven by lower delinquencies across both the 
secured and unsecured lending portfolios, 
particularly in the UK, were offset by higher 
impairments in Brazil, where delinquency rates 
increased as economic growth slowed in 2012.  
• Operating expenses in RBWM excluding US 
CRS and the US run-off portfolio increased 
only modestly, despite significantly higher 
customer redress provisions and the non-
recurrence of a pension credit in the UK. 
Excluding these items, expenses decreased 
through both our organisational effectiveness 
programmes and the transactions undertaken  
as part of our portfolio management activities, 
detailed below. These led to a reduction of more 
than 13,500 FTEs, with all regions contributing 
to sustainable cost savings of more than 
US$350m. 
• Share of profit from associates and joint 
ventures decreased by 22%, mainly from Ping 
An due to market valuation losses on equity 
securities held by their insurance business, 
reflecting volatile domestic equity markets. 
Following the disposal of our associate, Ping 
An, our remaining shareholding has been 
classified as a financial investment.
Strategic imperatives 
Developing a high standard of wealth 
management for retail customers
• In 2012, we accelerated the transformation of 
the Wealth Management business in HSBC, 
investing significantly in infrastructure to 
improve customer experience and revenue 
generation, although further progress is required 
to achieve our strategic goals.
• Wealth Management revenues increased by over 
US$550m in 2012 to US$6.4bn, primarily due 
to growth from insurance, mutual funds and 
foreign exchange. Wealth insurance revenues 
improved, driven by higher investment returns, 
notably in Hong Kong and France and strong 
sales of life insurance products in Hong Kong 
and Brazil. Mutual funds sales grew, with 
revenues increasing by 17% to US$935m. 
Revenues from foreign exchange transactions 
benefited from infrastructure investments, 
including the successful deployment of our web-
enabled foreign currency ‘Get Rate’ system 
across key markets in Europe and Asia towards 
the end of 2011.  
• Foreign exchange services are a core component 
of our wealth strategy, and we continue to invest 
in order to further enhance our customer 
offering. By 31 December 2012, over 220,000 
of our customers were using our Global View 
and Global Transfer products, making cross-
border transfers amounting to more than 
US$13bn in the year. We enhanced our 
international wire services by improving limits 
and pricing. We also completed the online 
launch of dual-currency deposits in Asian 
markets, and improved market access for 
foreign exchange trading.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > RBWM / CMB 
64
• Sales of our long-term fund products, including 
our managed solutions, continued to grow. We 
launched the HSBC Asia Focused Income Fund 
in May which grew to US$1bn by the end of 
2012. World Selection and Premier Investment 
Management Services for retail customers 
continued to grow, with total net sales 
amounting to US$2bn during the year, resulting 
in a 20% increase to US$19bn in FuM related to 
these portfolios.  
• HSBC Global Asset Management’s investment 
performance was strong in 2012, with over 70% 
of its Equity, Multi-Asset and Fixed Income 
funds by value ranking above median. As a 
result, 71% of eligible funds were in the top two 
quartiles over the three-year period to 31 
December 2012. 
• We made significant investments to reinforce 
the wealth risk management framework, 
introducing enhanced risk profiling and strategic 
financial planning tools to enable more effective 
control of compliance and regulatory risks. 
• As part of the drive to enhance customer 
experience, we started the global roll-out of a 
new Wealth Dashboard, which allows customers 
easy access and analysis of personal holdings 
and enables ongoing comparison with reference 
portfolios. Additionally, in a number of markets 
we introduced a global insurance point-of-sale 
system which offers customers a faster, more 
integrated service.
Leveraging global expertise in retail banking 
• We continued to enhance our digital banking 
capabilities with the launch of the first mobile 
payment solution in Hong Kong enabling 
contactless credit card transactions through Visa 
payWave terminals, the first deployment of a 
global application platform in the US, and the 
roll-out of mortgage digital sales tools in the 
UK, India, UAE and Malaysia. 
• Our business re-engineering programme is 
driving cost reduction and efficiency 
improvements through standardisation. We 
used our global scale to improve cost controls 
and progressively standardised the design 
of our Contact Centres. In addition, we are 
successfully deploying enhanced analytical 
capabilities to improve customer experience.
Portfolio management to drive superior returns 
• Good progress was made in portfolio 
management activities with 17 disposals or  
closures announced in 2012 and a further four in 
2013, following the 13 announced in 2011, and 
12 transactions completed in 2012. During 
2012, we completed the sale or closure of our 
retail businesses in Thailand, Honduras, El 
Salvador and Costa Rica, disposed of the Card 
and Retail Services business and upstate New 
York branches in the US and the full service 
retail brokerage business in Canada and 
recorded an investment loss on a subsidiary. 
Additionally, we announced the sale of our retail 
banking operations in Colombia, Peru, Uruguay, 
Paraguay and Pakistan and the closure of the 
consumer finance business in Canada. In 
December 2012 we disposed of our associate, 
Ping An, with our remaining shareholding 
classified as a financial investment, and also 
completed the sale of our shares in Global 
Payments Asia-Pacific Ltd. Following 
completion of all the announced transactions we 
will have reduced our presence to 20 home and 
priority markets (representing 98% of 2012 
profit before tax) and a limited number of 
network and small markets. 
• We are exiting the general insurance 
manufacturing business and focusing on life 
insurance manufacturing where we have scale. 
In 2012, we completed the sale of our general 
insurance businesses in Hong Kong, Singapore, 
Argentina and Ireland, announced the sale of 
our insurance manufacturing businesses in the 
US and Taiwan and reached an agreement to sell 
a portfolio of general insurance assets and 
liabilities in Mexico.
• In October 2012, we completed the acquisition 
of the onshore retail banking business of Lloyds 
Banking Group in the UAE, following the 
merger in the second quarter of our Omani 
operations with OIB. 
• We remained focused on managing the run-off 
of balances in our CML portfolio, with year-end 
lending balances, including loans held for sale, 
declining by 14% from December 2011 to 
US$43bn. In the third quarter of 2012, we 
reclassified US$3.7bn of non-real estate 
personal loan balances, net of impairment 
allowances, from our consumer finance 
portfolio to ‘Assets held for sale’ as we actively 
marketed the portfolio. We also identified real 
estate secured loan balances which we plan to 
actively market in multiple transactions over the 
next two years. 65
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Commercial Banking 
CMB offers a full range of commercial 
financial services and tailored solutions
to more than three million customers 
ranging from small and medium-sized 
enterprises to publicly quoted 
companies in more than 60 countries. 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income .......... 10,361  9,931 8,487 
Net fee income ................. 4,470  4,291 3,964 
Other income ................... 1,720  1,389 1,383 
Net operating income
21
.. 16,551  15,611 13,834 
LICs
76
 ............................... (2,099) (1,738) (1,805)
Net operating income .... 14,452  13,873 12,029 
Total operating expenses .. (7,598) (7,221) (6,831)
Operating profit/(loss) ... 6,854  6,652 5,198 
Income from associates
77
. 1,681  1,295 892 
Profit/(loss) before tax ... 8,535  7,947 6,090 
RoRWA
66
.........................  2.2%  2.2%  2.0% 
Record reported profit before tax 
US$8.5bn
9%
increase in customer deposits, driven by 
Payments and Cash Management
Number one global trade finance  
bank in the world  
(Oliver Wyman Global Transaction Banking Survey 2012) 
Strategic direction 
CMB aims to be the banking partner of choice for international 
businesses by building on our rich heritage, international 
capabilities and relationships to enable connectivity and support 
trade and capital flows around the world, thereby strengthening 
our leading position in international business and trade. 
We have four strategic imperatives: 
• focus on faster-growing markets while connecting revenue and 
investment flows with developed markets; 
• capture growth in international SMEs and corporate businesses;
• enhance collaboration across all global businesses to provide 
our customers with access to the full range of the Group’s 
services; and 
• simplify processes and enhance risk management controls by 
adopting a global operating model.
For footnotes, see page 120.
The commentary is on a constant currency basis unless stated 
otherwise. 
Review of performance 
• CMB reported a record profit before tax of 
US$8.5bn in 2012, 7% higher than in 2011. On 
a constant currency basis, profit before tax 
increased by 10%. This included gains totalling 
US$468m mainly from the sale of branches in 
the US, the disposal of general insurance 
businesses in Argentina and Hong Kong and the 
sale of our shares in Global Payments Asia-
Pacific Ltd in Hong Kong.
• On an underlying basis, profit before tax 
increased by 3%. This was driven by strong 
revenue growth and higher income from our 
associates, substantially offset by a rise in 
operating expenses which reflected the effect of 
notable cost items that included a customer 
redress provision of US$268m relating to 
interest rate protection products in the UK. Loan 
impairment charges also rose, driven by higher 
individually assessed provisions in Europe and 
Rest of Asia-Pacific, and a rise in collective 
charges in Latin America. 
• Revenue grew by 10% in the year, with 
increases in all regions. This reflected strong net 
interest income growth, higher net fee income 
and a rise in other income driven by the gains 
on disposals. 
• Net interest income increased by 8% as a result 
of average balance sheet growth. Customer 
loans and advances rose in all regions, with over 
half this growth coming from our faster growing 
regions of Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and 
Latin America, driven by higher trade-related 
lending as demand for export finance increased. 
In Europe, despite muted demand for credit, net 
interest income from lending activities also rose 
as a result of growth in average lending 
balances, notably in the UK. Net interest income 
from customer accounts rose as we continued to 
attract deposits through our Payments and Cash 
Management products. Net interest income from 
deposits also benefited from higher liability 
spreads in Hong Kong, reflecting an increase in 
short-term interest rates.  
• Net fee income benefited from higher transaction 
volumes of Payments and Cash Management 
products, mainly in Europe, Latin America and 
Hong Kong. Net fee income from Global Trade 
and Receivables Finance products also rose in 
Hong Kong, due to continued demand for export 
finance as we captured international trade and 
capital flows, and in Europe as we continued 
to expand our Trade and Commodity and 
Structured Trade Finance offerings. In addition,  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > CMB 
66
our collaboration with GB&M led to higher 
revenues generated primarily from sales of 
foreign exchange products. 
• Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions increased by US$442m, driven 
by higher individually assessed loan 
impairments in Europe, reflecting the 
challenging economic conditions in the UK, 
Greece, Spain and Turkey, and in Rest of 
Asia-Pacific in respect of a small number 
of customers in our Corporate segment. 
Collective impairment provisions also rose in 
Latin America, mainly in Brazil from increased 
delinquency in the Business Banking portfolio.  
• Operating expenses increased by 10%, primarily 
due to a US$268m customer redress provision 
relating to interest rate protection products in 
the UK (see page 32). The rise in costs also 
reflected the non-recurrence of a credit in 2011 
of US$206m (US$212m as reported), arising 
from a change in the measurement of defined 
benefit pension obligations in the UK. In 
addition, we continued to invest in and 
strengthen our Risk and Compliance function 
as part of our global operating model. Operating 
expenses also increased in our faster-growing 
regions of Latin America and Rest of Asia-
Pacific due to inflationary pressures and 
continued investment in front line and support 
staff.  
• Income from associates grew by 28% as our 
associates in mainland China benefited from a 
rise in lending and associated fee income, 
reflecting continued economic growth.  
Strategic imperatives 
Focus on faster-growing markets while 
connecting with developed markets 
• We continued to position the business for 
growth, maintaining our investment in our 
faster-growing regions, where revenues rose by 
12 percentage points from 2011 and represented 
over 54% of our revenues. Our top 20 markets 
contributed over 90% of our profit before tax in 
2012, with 14 of these countries located in the 
faster-growing regions.  
• Our strong network helps connect customers 
with both developed and developing markets as 
they expand internationally. During 2012, we 
were the first bank to settle cross-border 
renminbi trade across six continents with our 
ability to provide related services in over 50 
countries offering a competitive advantage to 
our customers as the renminbi is positioned as a 
major global trade and investment currency. We 
have expanded our global network of dedicated 
China desks to cover our top markets, 
representing about half of the world’s GDP. 
These are staffed by Mandarin-speaking experts 
who support mainland Chinese businesses to 
identify new opportunities to expand overseas. 
• As reported in the Oliver Wyman Global 
Transaction Banking Survey 2012, we 
maintained our position as the world’s largest 
global trade finance bank with a market share of 
global trade finance revenue that increased from 
9% in 2011 to 10% in the first half of 2012, in 
spite of a slowdown in world trade growth. Our 
Global Trade and Receivables Finance revenues 
increased by 11%  as our network provided 
customers with access to over 75% of world 
trade flows. In addition, we continued to expand 
our Commodity and Structured Trade Finance 
offering across CMB and GB&M, establishing 
new teams in four countries, which brought the 
total to seven by the end of 2012. Our team of 
product specialists more than doubled from 31 
at the end of 2011 to 78 across Europe, Hong 
Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, with plans for 
further expansion in Latin America, Middle East 
and North Africa, North America and additional 
countries in Rest of Asia-Pacific by the end of 
2013.
• International payments volumes in Payments 
and Cash Management have grown at twice the 
rate of the market globally since 2010 with year-
on-year revenue increasing by 15% in 2012. 
This growth reflected new mandates and 
investments in new products such as HSBCnet 
mobile to improve our customers’ experience. 
Double digit revenue growth was reported in the 
UK, Brazil and Hong Kong, all of which are top 
markets for CMB, reflecting the strength of the 
franchise in both developed and developing 
markets. In 2012, HSBC was the first bank to be 
named ‘Best Cash Management Bank’ globally 
for both ‘Financial Institutions’ and ‘Non-
Financial Institutions’ in the same year by 
Euromoney’s customer survey. Also in this poll, 
we were named ‘Best Domestic Cash 
Management Provider’ in over 20 countries.  
Capture growth in international businesses 
• Our strong international network offers a 
distinctive presence in key markets with major 
trade flows, facilitating growth for international 
businesses. Our international customer base 
generated around 40% of our revenues.  67
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
• In Business Banking, we continued to attract 
and serve an increasing number of international 
SMEs and further differentiated our service 
offering to them by extending our global 
network of specialist International Relationship 
Managers (‘IRM’s) who focus on high value 
international clients. During 2012, we added 
over 165 IRMs in France, Brazil and the UK 
and plan to expand the model into other key 
Business Banking markets in 2013.  
• We continued to support SMEs through the 
economic recovery, with a particular focus 
on those with international aspirations. In the 
first half of 2012, we launched an international 
SME fund in the UK to support UK businesses 
that trade, or aspire to trade, internationally. 
By the end of 2012, we had approved lending 
through the fund of £5.1bn (US$8.2bn), 
exceeding our original target of £4.0bn 
(US$6.5bn), and provided £12bn (US$20bn) of 
gross new lending to UK SMEs, including the 
renewal of overdraft and other lending facilities. 
Over 80% of small business lending 
applications received during the year were 
approved. Similarly, in the UAE, we launched 
our third SME fund of AED1bn (US$272m) 
targeted at international trade customers. 
• Our global expertise helped connect our 
customers with new market opportunities. We 
held three ‘Global Connections International 
Exchanges’ in Brazil, mainland China and 
Dubai in 2012, where we were joined by clients 
from all of our top 20 markets who were able to 
make contacts, share their specialist market 
knowledge and identify new business 
opportunities.  
Strong partnership with global businesses
• Our collaboration with GB&M has delivered 
nearly US$0.7bn in incremental gross revenue 
since 2010. Gross revenues from sales of 
GB&M products to CMB customers which are 
shared across the two global businesses grew 
by over US$0.1bn in 2012 or by 5%, mainly 
driven by sales of foreign exchange products. 
• We continued to benefit from GB&M’s e-FX 
platform to deliver our standard foreign 
exchange products to customers more 
efficiently. We also addressed demand for  
alternative sources of finance, providing our 
customers with access to debt and equity capital 
markets and offering specialised financing, such 
as Project and Export Finance, via GB&M. 
• Dedicated executives are now in place in both 
CMB and GPB to promote cross-business 
referral activities and support the collaboration 
between the businesses. For example, the Global 
Priority Clients initiative was launched in 2012 
to service the Group’s largest ultra-high net 
worth clients’ corporate and personal needs 
jointly. 
• In 2012, we launched our trade credit insurance 
offering in Hong Kong, Brazil and the UK. It 
will be rolled out to further markets in the first 
half of 2013, including Turkey, France, 
Singapore and Malaysia.  
Simplify processes and enhance risk management 
controls by adopting a global operating model 
• The successful adoption of a global model has 
enabled us to deliver a number of benefits, 
notably simplified processes for our customers, 
enhanced governance and compliance oversight, 
and sustainable cost savings across the business.  
• We have made significant progress in 
simplifying and reducing the time to complete 
our credit renewal process, implementing 
improvements in 17 key markets with further 
countries in scope for the first quarter of 2013. 
In addition, we have deployed a consistent 
model for cross-border account opening to 
facilitate the on-boarding of new international 
customers. 
• The sustainable cost savings of over US$100m 
achieved through process re-engineering and 
organisational effectiveness have been 
reinvested in both front line staff and our Risk 
and Compliance function. We introduced 
enhanced consistent Know Your Customer 
procedures, a global product governance board 
and dedicated resources to improve governance 
oversight. This investment, combined with our 
values-based approach to relationship 
management, is helping to foster a disciplined 
and constructive culture of risk management 
in CMB while encouraging balanced and 
sustainable growth.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > GB&M 
68
Global Banking and Markets 
GB&M provides tailored financial 
solutions to major government, 
corporate and institutional clients 
worldwide.
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income .......... 6,960  7,263 7,343 
Net fee income ................. 3,329  3,227 3,664 
Net trading income
78
 ........ 5,690  5,204 5,830 
Other income .................... 2,294 1,363 2,075 
Net operating income
21
.. 18,273  17,057 18,912 
LICs
76
 ............................... (670) (984) (990)
Net operating income .... 17,603  16,073 17,922 
Total operating expenses .. (9,907) (9,722) (9,228)
Operating profit ............. 7,696  6,351 8,694 
Income from associates
77
... 824 698 521 
Profit before tax ............. 8,520  7,049 9,215 
RoRWA
66
 .........................  2.1%  1.8%  2.5% 
Record reported revenues from  
corporate and institutional  
debt issuance 
77%
of profit before tax  
from faster-growing regions 
Most Innovative  
Investment Bank of the Y ear 
(The Banker Investment Banking Awards 2012) 
Strategic direction 
GB&M continues to pursue its well-established ‘emerging 
markets-led and financing-focused’ strategy, with the objective of 
being a leading international wholesale bank. This strategy has 
evolved to include a greater emphasis on connectivity between the 
global businesses, across the regions and within GB&M, 
leveraging the Group’s extensive distribution network. 
We focus on four strategic imperatives: 
• reinforce client coverage and client-led solutions for major 
government, corporate and institutional clients; 
• continue to selectively invest in the business to support the 
delivery of an integrated suite of products and services; 
• enhance collaboration with other global businesses, particularly 
CMB, to appropriately service the needs of our international 
client base; and 
• focus on business re-engineering to optimise operational 
efficiency and reduce costs. 
For footnotes, see page 120. 
The commentary is on a constant currency basis unless stated 
otherwise. 
Review of performance 
• GB&M reported profit before tax of US$8.5bn, 
21% higher than in 2011. On a constant 
currency basis, profit before tax increased by 
24% despite a significant net charge relating 
to credit and debit derivative valuation 
adjustments. The rise in profit before tax was 
driven by strong revenue growth, notably in 
Rates and Credit, together with significantly 
lower credit risk provisions than in 2011, partly 
offset by higher operating expenses. GB&M is 
well positioned for growth in faster-growing 
regions with record reported revenues in Hong 
Kong (US$2.8bn), Rest of Asia-Pacific 
(US$4.0bn) and Latin America (US$1.8bn).  
• In the fourth quarter a net charge of US$385m 
was reported in net trading income as a result of 
a change in estimation methodology in respect 
of credit valuation adjustments on derivative 
assets of US$903m and debit valuation 
adjustments on derivative liabilities of 
US$518m to reflect evolving market practices 
(see Note 15 on the Financial Statements).  
• Notwithstanding the charge noted above, 
revenues rose by 10%, primarily due to 
significantly higher trading revenues in 
Rates and Credit, notably in Europe, as spreads 
tightened and investor sentiment improved 
following stimuli by central banks globally. 
Balance Sheet Management reported higher 
gains on the disposal of available-for-sale debt 
securities, largely in the UK, while Payments 
and Cash Management benefited from growth in 
average liability balances, increased transaction 
volumes and new mandates. These increases 
were partly offset by a fall in revenues from our 
Equities business due to lower client activity 
as market volumes declined. Revenues in 2012 
also included adverse fair value movements 
from own credit spreads on structured liabilities 
of US$629m compared with a favourable fair 
value movement of US$458m reported in 2011. 
• Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions decreased by US$300m compared 
with 2011. Credit risk provisions declined 
significantly, from US$515m in 2011 to 
US$117m in 2012, driven by lower impairment 
charges on Greek sovereign debt, and on 
available-for-sale ABSs in our legacy portfolio 
reflecting an improvement in underlying asset 
prices. This was partly offset by a US$97m 
increase in loan impairment charges as a result 
of a small number of specific impairments in  69
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Global Banking and on the legacy credit loans 
and receivables portfolio. 
• Operating expenses increased by US$393m to 
US$9.9bn, predominantly due to a customer 
redress provision of US$331m relating to 
interest rate protection products in the UK (see 
page 32). Performance costs rose, albeit at a 
lower rate of growth than net operating income, 
which resulted in a lower total compensation 
ratio than in 2011. 2011 also included a credit 
of US$108m (US$111m as reported) relating to 
defined benefit pension obligations in the UK, 
which did not recur.
Management view of total operating income 
2012
US$m 
2011 
US$m 
2010
US$m 
Global Markets
79
 ........ 8,733  8,098  9,173 
Credit ..................... 779   335  1,649
Rates ...................... 1,771   1,341  2,052
Foreign Exchange .. 3,215   3,272  2,752
Equities .................. 679   961  755
Securities Services . 1,663   1,673  1,511
Asset and Structured 
Finance ................ 626 516  454
Global Banking .......... 5,568 5,401  4,621 
Financing and Equity 
Capital Markets .. 3,071  3,233  2,852
Payments and Cash 
Management
80
 ..... 1,744  1,534  1,133
Other transaction 
services
81
 ............. 753 634  636
Balance Sheet
Management
82
 ........ 3,738  3,488  4,102 
Principal Investments  125 209  319 
Debit valuation 
adjustment .............. 518 – – 
Other
83
 ........................ (409) (139) 697 
Total operating  
income...................... 18,273  17,057  18,912 
Balance Sheet Management revenues included a notional tax 
credit on income earned from tax-exempt investments of 
US$116m in 2012 (2011: US$85m; 2010: US$50m), which is 
offset above within ‘Other.’ 
For footnotes, see page 120. 
• Included in the table above are the following 
amounts in relation to the change in credit 
valuation adjustment estimation methodology: 
 2012
US$m
Credit .................................................................... (52)
Rates ..................................................................... (837)
Foreign Exchange ................................................. (7)
Equities ................................................................. (7)
Total ...................................................................... (903)
• Global Markets delivered a strong performance 
in an uncertain financial and economic 
environment, in part due to a US$444m increase 
in Rates revenues. This was despite significant 
adverse fair value movements from own credit 
spreads on structured liabilities as spreads 
tightened, compared with favourable 
movements reported in 2011, together with a 
credit valuation adjustment of US$837m in 
2012. Revenues in Credit increased by 
US$453m due to strong trading income, mainly 
in Europe, as spreads tightened on corporate 
debt securities. Additionally, we achieved 
record reported revenues from primary market 
issuance, mainly within Credit, with revenues 
in Europe, Hong Kong and North America 
increasing as we enhanced regional coverage 
and actively captured growth in client demand 
for debt capital financing.
• Foreign Exchange income was broadly in line 
with 2011, as higher revenues from enhanced 
collaboration between GB&M and CMB, and 
increased volumes from the improvement in our 
electronic pricing and distribution capabilities, 
offset the effect of less volatile markets in 2012. 
Notwithstanding the capture of higher market 
share within a number of our target emerging 
markets, Equities revenues decreased by 27%, 
driven by lower client activity as market 
volumes declined against the backdrop of 
economic and fiscal uncertainty in Europe and 
North America. This was coupled with adverse 
fair value movements on structured liabilities 
compared with favourable movements in 2011.  
• In Global Banking, Financing and Equity 
Capital Markets revenues were broadly 
unchanged compared with 2011 as lower 
advisory and underwriting fees, mainly in 
Europe, reflecting the challenging market 
environment, were partly offset by higher 
Project and Export Finance revenues, as deal 
volumes increased, and as we captured a higher 
market share of public and private sector 
investment in infrastructure development in 
emerging markets. Payments and Cash 
Management revenues increased by 15% due to 
higher average liability balances and an increase 
in transaction volumes. We increased our focus 
on cross-selling Payments and Cash 
Management products to selected international 
customers and saw a rise in new mandates.  
• In ‘Other transaction services’, revenues 
increased by 24% as the Global Trade and 
Receivables Finance business benefited from 
enhanced collaboration between Global Banking  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > GB&M 
70
relationship managers and specialist sales teams 
and the expansion of the Commodity and 
Structured Trade Finance offering leading to 
higher revenues in Europe and Rest of Asia-
Pacific. Revenues in Rest of Asia-Pacific also 
increased as a result of growth in export lending 
and improved spreads. 
• Balance Sheet Management revenues rose by 
US$324m due to higher gains on the disposal 
of available-for-sale debt securities as part of 
structural interest rate risk management of the 
balance sheet, notably in Europe. Net interest 
income declined in Europe, however, as yield 
curves continued to flatten and liquidity from 
maturities and sales of available-for-sale debt 
securities was re-invested at lower prevailing 
rates. In addition, we placed a greater portion 
of our liquidity with central banks. Higher net 
interest income was reported in Rest of Asia-
Pacific due to higher yields and portfolio growth 
in mainland China, and in Latin America due to 
lower funding costs in Brazil as interest rates 
declined.
• Principal Investments revenue declined by 
US$76m compared with 2011 owing to higher 
impairments, mainly on three available-for-sale 
equity securities, two of which were in our 
direct investment business in run-off. This 
was offset in part by higher realised gains on 
disposals. 
Strategic imperatives 
Reinforce client coverage and client-led solutions 
• Our multinational coverage teams continued to 
expand our offerings of cross-product solutions 
for our clients and delivered revenue growth, 
particularly in faster-growing regions as we 
successfully executed a number of notable cross-
border transactions. This included providing 
financing and advisory services to clients through 
our Project and Export Financing business, which 
resulted in HSBC being awarded ‘Best Project 
Finance House’ in Asia, the Middle East and 
Latin America in the Euromoney Awards for 
Excellence 2012.
• To further strengthen client coverage and product 
expertise, we invested in selective recruitment in 
key strategic markets. In Rest of Asia-Pacific, we 
enhanced our advisory, debt capital markets and 
credit and lending businesses through a number 
of senior appointments in the Resources and 
Energy and the Financial Institutions groups. 
We also appointed a Co-Head of Global Banking 
in Brazil to drive strategic dialogue with key 
clients and develop our advisory business in 
Latin America. 
• We continued to develop our distinctive 
geographical franchise to enhance client 
coverage, particularly within debt capital 
markets. A number of successfully executed 
transactions, notably in emerging markets, 
demonstrated the benefit of partnering between 
regional and global product teams. These 
partnerships facilitated the delivery of 
innovative solutions and alternative funding 
opportunities for our clients. As a result, HSBC 
was awarded ‘Best Global Emerging Market 
Debt House’ in the Euromoney Awards for 
Excellence 2012. Additionally, we increased our 
market share of, and maintained our leading 
position in, emerging markets debt issuance. 
Enhance core product strengths and selectively 
develop new capabilities 
• We continued to develop cross-product 
capabilities in the growing renminbi market. 
Earlier in the year, we issued the first 
international renminbi bond outside Chinese 
sovereign territory. Since then, a number of 
significant transactions were supported by in-
depth collaboration between regional teams, 
reinforcing HSBC’s position as the leading 
house for international renminbi issuance. In 
recognition of these achievements, HSBC was 
awarded ‘RMB House of the Year’ in the 2012
Asia Risk Awards, along with ‘Best for overall 
products/services’ and ‘Most likely RMB 
products/services provider’ in the 2012
Asiamoney Offshore RMB Services survey. 
• In Foreign Exchange, we remained focused on 
enhancing product offerings in our e-FX 
platforms for a broader client base, particularly 
for CMB and RBWM customers. This included 
the launch of our ‘Dynamic Currency 
Conversion’ product within our transactional 
Foreign Exchange business in the UK in time 
for the Olympics, along with a real-time online 
foreign currency margin trading product in 
Hong Kong. Our strength in foreign exchange 
capabilities, particularly in emerging markets, 
was recognised by several awards during the 
year including ‘Best Bank for Foreign 
Exchange’ in Asia-Pacific and ‘Best Bank for 
Emerging Asian currencies’ in the 2012 FX 
Week Best Banks Awards. Our innovation and 
achievements in the renminbi market 
contributed to HSBC also being awarded 
‘Foreign Exchange House of the Year’ in the 
2012 Structured Products Asia Awards. 71
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
• As a result of recent investment in our equity 
execution platform and research capabilities in 
emerging markets, we progressed in repositioning 
the business for future growth and enhanced our 
ability to respond to client needs. We are now 
ranked in the top five of equities brokers in Hong 
Kong, while our ranking in the Asiamoney 2012 
Brokers Poll for Asian Equity Research and Sales 
rose from fifth in 2011 to second in 2012.  
• In a challenging economic environment, our 
clients demand visibility and control of their 
intra-day cash positions. To facilitate this, 
we expanded the Global Liquidity Solutions 
platform within Payments and Cash 
Management, and it is now live in 27 countries. 
We were also the first foreign bank to gain 
approval to establish an automated, cross-border 
pooling structure in mainland China. The pilot 
scheme, which aims to centralise foreign 
currency management for multinational 
companies by connecting their onshore and 
offshore cash management structures, will 
enable our clients to manage their cash positions 
more efficiently. 
• We are actively managing our legacy credit 
exposures and exited from certain positions, 
including ABSs in the UK and certain structured 
credit positions and related hedges in the US 
during 2012. We will look to reduce the size of 
this portfolio further as opportunities arise, 
using the economic framework put in place in 
2011 (see page 18). 
Collaborate with other global businesses to deliver 
incremental revenues
• We have worked closely with CMB to provide 
their clients with appropriate GB&M products 
and this has delivered nearly US$0.7bn in 
incremental gross revenue since 2010. Gross 
revenues, which are shared across the two global 
businesses, grew by over US$0.1bn in 2012, or 
by 5%, mainly driven by sales of foreign 
exchange products. A number of appointments 
during the year, including a new Head of 
Commercial Banking Coverage for Asia-Pacific 
in Global Banking, further strengthened 
collaboration efforts and enhanced our ability 
to meet the financing needs of our clients. 
• We continued to enhance collaboration across the 
Group through the Institutional Private Clients 
(‘IPC’) initiative with GPB and the Premier 
referrals initiative with RBWM, leading to higher 
revenues and increased Premier account openings 
respectively, compared with 2011. We also 
appointed a Head of Coverage in Hong Kong to 
strengthen our Global Banking franchise and 
deliver on IPC initiatives in the region. 
Strategic re-engineering to deliver sustainable 
cost savings 
• The successful implementation of the 
organisational design we announced in 2011, 
and our continued resource optimisation through 
re-engineering, delivered over US$200m of 
sustainable savings in 2012.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > GPB  
72
Global Private Banking 
GPB serves high net worth individuals 
and families with complex and 
international needs. 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income .......... 1,294  1,439 1,345 
Net fee income ................. 1,232  1,382 1,299 
Other income ................... 646 471 449 
Net operating income
21
.. 3,172  3,292 3,093 
LIC (charges)/  
recoveries
76
 ................... (27) (86) 12 
Net operating income .... 3,145  3,206 3,105 
Total operating expenses .. (2,143) (2,266) (2,035)
Operating profit ............. 1,002  940 1,070 
Income/(expense) from 
associates
77
.................... 7 4 (16)
Profit before tax ............. 1,009  944 1,054 
RoRWA
66
.........................  4.6%   3.9%  4.1% 
Significant progress towards rationalising 
and repositioning our business  
Over US$70m 
 of sustainable cost savings
Outstanding Private Bank  
in Asia-Pacific and in the Middle East 
(Private Banker International Awards, 2012) 
Strategic direction 
GPB works with high net worth clients to manage and preserve 
their wealth while connecting them to global opportunities. We 
focus on three strategic imperatives: 
• implementing a new operating model to manage the business 
globally and better service client needs, with an enhanced 
systems platform and adherence to the highest risk and 
compliance standards in the industry; 
• intensifying collaboration within the Group, particularly with 
CMB, to access entrepreneur wealth creation; and 
• capturing growth by focusing investment on the most attractive 
developed and faster-growing wealth markets, where GPB can 
access the Group’s client franchise and its strong local and 
international product capabilities. 
For footnotes, see page 120. 
The commentary is on a constant currency basis unless stated 
otherwise. 
Review of performance 
• Reported profit before tax of US$1.0bn was 7% 
higher than in 2011 on a reported basis and 8% 
higher on a constant currency basis.
• On an underlying basis, which excludes the gain 
on the sale of our operations in Japan (US$67m) 
and associated operating results, profit before 
tax was broadly unchanged as lower operating 
expenses and decreased loan impairment 
charges and other credit risk provisions were 
largely offset by reduced revenues.  
• Revenue declined by 3%, primarily due to lower 
fee income. Brokerage fees fell, reflecting a 
reduction in client transaction volumes due, in 
part, to lower volatility. Fees from assets under 
management and account service fees also 
declined as challenging market conditions in the 
latter half of 2011 led to a fall in average client 
assets in 2012, coupled with a reduction in client 
numbers as we repositioned our target client 
base. Net interest income was lower as higher 
yielding positions matured, opportunities for 
reinvestment were limited by lower prevailing 
yields and we selectively managed our 
exposures to eurozone sovereign debt. Narrower 
liability spreads and lower deposit balances in 
Switzerland and the sale of our operations in 
Japan also contributed to the fall in net interest 
income. These factors were partly offset by 
gains on the sale of our operations in Japan and 
our headquarters building in Switzerland of 
US$67m and US$53m, respectively. 
• Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions reduced by 68% as a result of the 
non-recurrence of charges relating to available-
for-sale Greek sovereign debt securities and 
lower individually assessed and collective 
impairments in the UK. These factors were 
partly offset by lower recoveries in the US.
• Operating expenses decreased by 4%, primarily 
due to a managed reduction in average staff 
numbers and lower performance costs. The 
decrease in staff costs was partly offset by 
higher customer redress provisions, costs 
relating to the merger of pension funds in 
Switzerland, and increased restructuring and 
other related costs. 73
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Client assets
84
2012 2011 
US$bn US$bn
At 1 January ...................................... 377 390
Net new money ................................. (7) 13
Value change ..................................... 17 (20)
Exchange and other .......................... 11 (6)
At 31 December ................................ 398 377
• Client assets, which include FuM and cash 
deposits, increased by US$21bn, driven by the 
inclusion of custody assets in client assets and 
favourable market and foreign exchange 
movements, partly offset by negative net new 
money and the disposal of our operations in 
Japan. Negative net new money included a 
small number of large client withdrawals and 
reflected lower inflows as we became more 
selective in establishing new client 
relationships, as well as the adoption of more 
stringent compliance and tax transparency 
standards. We also stopped marketing in 
certain non-strategic countries. In addition, we 
implemented a redefined segmentation model 
to reposition our client base towards higher net 
worth international and domestic relationships. 
This programme, along with a review of certain 
client relationships with a view to reducing 
control risk, resulted in a reduction of around 
US$4.5bn of client assets in 2012. 
• ‘Total client assets’, which also include some 
non-financial assets held in client trusts, 
increased from US$496bn at 31 December 2011 
to US$517bn at 31 December 2012 largely due 
to market movements partly offset by negative 
net new money as noted above. 
• Our return on assets, defined as the percentage 
of our revenues to our average client assets, 
was unchanged as the reduction in revenues 
corresponded with the fall in average client 
assets.
Strategic imperatives 
• 2012 was a year of transition for GPB as we 
repositioned our business model and target 
client base to focus investment in selected 
priority markets, enhance our compliance and 
risk frameworks and encourage better alignment 
with the other global businesses. We are 
targeting higher net worth international and 
domestic customers and have built on existing 
product strengths and leveraged Group 
capabilities to meet their needs. We expect 
this period of transition and implementation 
to continue throughout 2013. 
Implementing a more focused business model that 
better services client needs 
• We implemented a new target operating model 
based on six ‘global markets’ (North Asia; 
South East Asia; North America; Latin America; 
Europe; and Middle East, North Africa and 
Turkey). This enables us to operate as an 
integrated global business rather than a 
federation of private banks and to provide our 
clients with globally consistent products and 
services and improved co-ordination of 
marketing and servicing activity. 
• We sold or closed a number of non-strategic, 
underperforming businesses in order to 
rationalise our business and focus on priority 
markets. Disposals included our operations in 
Japan, our UK property advisory business, a 
portfolio of non-strategic clients in Monaco, 
our domestic trust business in Malaysia and a 
branch of our UK business in Ireland. 
• Our compliance and risk framework was 
strengthened by the establishment of a GPB 
Global Standards Committee and a revised risk 
appetite framework. The implementation of 
ongoing workstreams including tax transparency 
and cross-border marketing will be accelerated 
in 2013.
• We enhanced our global front office systems 
with the roll out of Global Vision in 
Switzerland, Global Client Relationship 
Management in the US and Global Private 
Wealth Solutions in the Channel Islands, which 
provide integrated databases to support effective 
client management. We will continue to roll 
these systems out to other locations during 
2013.
Developing closer collaboration across the Group 
• We leveraged existing relationships across the 
Group in order to access wealth created by 
entrepreneurs who already bank with HSBC 
on the business side. Referral flows from other 
global businesses generated net new money of 
US$5.4bn. To further support referrals with 
CMB, a collaboration framework was put in 
place, dedicated executives appointed and 
referral targets agreed.  
• We worked with RBWM to define and promote 
a Group-wide wealth offering. GPB and RBWM 
now operate a systematic process for the review 
and referral of clients to ensure they receive the 
service most appropriate to their needs.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > GPB / Other 
74
• The Global Priority Clients initiative was 
launched with GB&M and CMB to service 
jointly the Group’s largest ultra-high net worth 
clients with corporate and personal needs 
through a dedicated single point of contact. The 
framework has been defined, clients identified 
for joint coverage and investment specialists 
assigned, and we have begun to roll out a new 
credit advisory model to fund credit 
transactions. 
Capturing growth in faster-growing and domestic 
markets 
• We continued to focus on faster-growing 
markets, and attracted positive net new money 
of US$1.9bn and US$0.5bn from clients in Asia 
and the Middle East, respectively. 
• Our product range was further developed 
during 2012; in particular, we made progress in 
strengthening our Alternatives platform, with 
four new real estate ‘club deals’ and two private 
equity launches in the year raising more than 
US$1.3bn. Further launches are expected 
in 2013. 
Other
73
‘Other’ contains the results of certain 
property transactions, unallocated 
investment activities, centrally held 
investment companies, movements in 
fair value of own debt, central support 
and functional costs with associated 
recoveries, HSBC’s holding company 
and financing operations. 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest expense ........ (730) (911) (998)
Net fee income ................ 194 34 32 
Net trading expense ........ (537) (355) (311)
Change in credit spread 
on long-term debt ......... (4,327) 4,161 (258)
Other changes in fair  
value ............................. (1,136) 78 42
Net income/(expense)  
from financial  
instruments designated  
at fair value .................. (5,463) 4,239 (216)
Other income .................. 8,868  6,138 6,153 
Net operating income
21
. 2,332  9,145 4,660 
LIC recoveries
76
 .............. – – 3 
Net operating income .... 2,332  9,145 4,663 
Total operating expenses  (9,369) (7,492) (5,918)
Operating profit/(loss) .. (7,037) 1,653 (1,255)
Income from associates
77
47 9 94 
Profit/(loss) before tax .. (6,990) 1,662 (1,161)
For footnotes, see page 120. 
The commentary is on a constant currency basis unless stated 
otherwise. 75
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Notes 
• The reported loss before tax of US$7.0bn in 
2012 compared with reported profit before tax 
of US$1.7bn in 2011. On a constant currency 
basis, pre-tax loss increased by US$8.7bn. 
• These results included adverse movements of 
US$5.2bn on the fair value of our own debt 
attributable to a tightening of our own credit 
spreads in 2012, notably in Europe and North 
America, compared with favourable movements 
of US$3.9bn in 2011. Reported results also 
included a number of gains and losses on 
disposal (see page 27). These included a gain of 
US$3.0bn on the disposal of our associate, Ping 
An. Our remaining shareholding has been 
classified as a financial investment (see Note 26 
on the Financial Statements). In addition, we 
reported a gain on disposal of US$130m from 
the sale of our shareholding in a property 
company in the Philippines. Reported profits in 
2011 included accounting gains of US$181m 
relating to the dilution of our shareholding in 
Ping An, partly offset by a remeasurement loss 
of US$48m relating to Ping An’s consolidation 
of Ping An Bank (formerly known as Shenzhen 
Development Bank). 
• On an underlying basis, excluding the items 
noted above, the pre-tax loss increased by 
US$2.5bn, driven by higher operating expenses, 
notably the charge of US$1.9bn relating to US 
fines and penalties paid as part of the settlement 
of investigations into past inadequate 
compliance with anti-money laundering and 
sanctions laws. In addition, revenues declined 
due to adverse fair value movements 
of US$553m on the contingent forward sale 
contract relating to Ping An. 
• Net fee income increased by US$166m, due 
in part to fees received under the transition 
services agreement entered into following the 
sale of the Card and Retail Services business 
in North America. 
• Net trading expense increased from US$353m 
to US$537m, driven by adverse fair value 
movements on the contingent forward sale 
contract relating to Ping An. This was partly 
offset by lower adverse fair value movements on 
non-qualifying hedges in 2012. This was driven 
by non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings, 
mainly related to cross-currency swaps used to 
economically hedge fixed rate long-term debt, 
on which there were favourable movements of 
US$122m in 2012 compared with adverse fair 
value movements of US$276m in 2011. 
• Gains less losses from financial investments 
included gains of US$314m on the sale of our 
non-strategic investments in four Indian banks. 
• Excluding the movements in the fair value of 
our own debt, Net expense from financial 
instruments designated at fair value of 
US$248m compared with net income of 
US$293m in 2011. This was due to adverse fair 
value movements in 2012 from interest and 
exchange rate ineffectiveness in the hedging of 
long-term debt designated at fair value, issued 
principally by HSBC Holdings and its European 
and North American subsidiaries, compared 
with favourable fair value movements in 2011. 
• We reported a gain of US$3.0bn on the disposal 
of our associate, Ping An. Our remaining 
shareholding has been classified as a financial 
investment. 
• Other operating income decreased by 9%, due 
to lower intra-group recharges from centralised 
operational activities due to divestments and on-
going cost savings, notably in North America. 
This was partly offset by a gain of US$130m 
from the sale of our shareholding in a property 
company in the Philippines. 
• Operating expenses increased by 27% to 
US$9.4bn, primarily due to fines and penalties 
paid as part of the settlement of investigations 
into past inadequate compliance with anti-
money laundering and sanctions laws of 
US$1.9bn, of which US$1.5bn was attributed 
to and paid by HNAH and its subsidiaries and 
US$375m was paid by HSBC Holdings. In 
addition, there were inflationary pressures 
in certain of our Latin American and Asian 
markets. However, the charge relating to the 
UK bank levy declined as the current year 
charge of US$571m was partly offset by an 
adjustment of US$99m in the 2011 bank levy 
charge of US$570m as the basis of calculation 
was clarified. Costs related to operational 
activities also fell due to divestments and on-
going cost savings, notably in North America. 
These costs are recorded in ‘Other’ and charged 
to global businesses through a recharge 
mechanism, with income reported in ‘Other 
operating income’.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > Analysis  
76
Analysis by global business 
HSBC profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data 
2012
 Retail 
 Banking 
 and Wealth 
Management
 US$m 
Commercial
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other
73
 US$m 
 Inter– 
 segment 
 elimination
85
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
Profit before tax
Net interest income/(expense) .... 20,298  10,361 6,960 1,294 (730) (511) 37,672 
Net fee income ............................ 7,205  4,470 3,329 1,232 194 – 16,430 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest  
income .................................... 276 617 3,588 476 (549) – 4,408 
Net interest income on  
trading activities ..................... 28 16 2,102 14 12 511 2,683 
Net trading income/(expense)
78
 .. 304 633 5,690 490 (537) 511 7,091 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives .............................. – – – – (4,327) – (4,327)
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... 1,893  250 1,094 – (1,136) – 2,101 
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... 1,893  250 1,094 – (5,463) – (2,226)
Gains less losses from  
financial investments .............. 96 22 730 (3) 344 – 1,189 
Dividend income ......................... 24 18 148 6 25 – 221
Net earned insurance premiums . 11,191  1,786 25 42 – – 13,044 
Gains on disposal of US branch 
network, US cards business  
and Ping An ............................ 3,735  277 – – 3,012  – 7,024 
Other operating income .............. 1,472  536 313 151 5,487  (5,859) 2,100 
Total operating income ............ 46,218  18,353 18,289 3,212 2,332  (5,859) 82,545 
Net insurance claims
86
 ................ (12,357) (1,802) (16) (40) – – (14,215)
Net operating income
21
............. 33,861  16,551 18,273 3,172 2,332  (5,859) 68,330 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions ..... (5,515) (2,099) (670) (27) – – (8,311)
Net operating income ............... 28,346  14,452 17,603 3,145 2,332  (5,859) 60,019 
Employee expenses
87
.................. (5,532) (2,247) (3,764) (915) (8,033) – (20,491)
Other operating expenses ........... (14,237) (5,351) (6,143) (1,228) (1,336) 5,859  (22,436)
Total operating expenses ............ (19,769) (7,598) (9,907) (2,143) (9,369) 5,859  (42,927)
Operating profit/(loss) .............. 8,577  6,854 7,696 1,002 (7,037) – 17,092 
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures ................... 998 1,681 824 7 47 – 3,557 
Profit/(loss) before tax .............. 9,575  8,535 8,520 1,009 (6,990) – 20,649 
 %  %  %  %  %  % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ................................  46.4   41.3  41.3  4.9  (33.9)  100.0 
Cost efficiency ratio ...................  58.4   45.9  54.2  67.6  –  62.8 
Balance sheet data
74
US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ....................... 378,040  288,033 283,842 45,213 2,495  997,623 
Total assets ................................. 536,244  363,659 1,942,470 118,440 201,741  (470,016) 2,692,538 
Customer accounts ...................... 562,151  338,405 332,115 105,772 1,571  1,340,014  77
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
2011
 Retail 
 Banking 
 and Wealth 
Management 
 US$m 
 Commercial 
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other
73
 US$m 
 Inter– 
 segment 
 elimination
85
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit before tax    
Net interest income/(expense) .... 24,101  9,931 7,263 1,439 (911) (1,161) 40,662 
Net fee income ............................ 8,226  4,291 3,227 1,382 34  – 17,160 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest  
income .................................... (562)  565 3,306 415 (441) – 3,283 
Net interest income on  
trading activities ..................... 43   19 1,898 16 86  1,161  3,223 
Net trading income/(expense)
78
 .. (519) 584 5,204 431 (355) 1,161  6,506 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives .............................. –  – – – 4,161 – 4,161
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... (761)  33 (72) – 78 – (722)
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... (761) 33 (72) – 4,239  – 3,439 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments .............. 124  20 761 3 (1) – 907 
Dividend income ......................... 27  15 75 7 25  – 149 
Net earned insurance premiums . 10,882  1,956 47 – (13) – 12,872 
Other operating income .............. 907  483 577 30 6,127  (6,358)  1,766 
Total operating income ............... 42,987  17,313 17,082 3,292 9,145  (6,358) 83,461 
Net insurance claims
86
 ................ (9,454) (1,702) (25) – – – (11,181)
Net operating income
21
 ............... 33,533  15,611 17,057 3,292 9,145  (6,358) 72,280 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions ..... (9,319) (1,738) (984) (86) – – (12,127)
Net operating income ................. 24,214  13,873 16,073 3,206 9,145  (6,358) 60,153 
Employee expenses
87
.................. (6,538)  (2,184) (4,196) (1,351) (6,897) – (21,166)
Other operating expenses ........... (14,664)  (5,037) (5,526) (915) (595) 6,358  (20,379)
Total operating expenses ............ (21,202) (7,221) (9,722) (2,266) (7,492) 6,358  (41,545)
Operating profit .......................... 3,012  6,652 6,351 940 1,653  – 18,608 
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures ................... 1,258  1,295 698 4 9  – 3,264 
Profit before tax .......................... 4,270  7,947 7,049 944 1,662  – 21,872 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ................................  19.6    36.3  32.2  4.3  7.6      100.0 
Cost efficiency ratio ...................  63.2    46.3  57.0  68.8  81.9      57.5 
        
Balance sheet data
74
       
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ....................... 357,907 262,039 276,463 41,856 2,164  940,429 
Total assets ................................. 540,548  334,966 1,877,627 119,839 180,126 (497,527) 2,555,579 
Customer accounts ...................... 529,017 306,174 306,454 111,814 466  1,253,925 
For footnotes, see page 120.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Global businesses > Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios // Geographical regions > Summary 
78
Disposals, held for sale and run-off 
portfolios
In implementing our strategy, we have sold or 
agreed to sell a number of businesses and 
investments across the Group. We expect these 
disposals to have a significant effect on both the 
revenue and the profitability of the global businesses 
in the future. In addition, significant portfolios are 
being run down. We expect the losses on these 
portfolios to continue to affect the global businesses 
in the future. 
The table below presents the contribution of 
these businesses and investments to the historical 
results of global businesses. We do not expect the 
historical results to be indicative of future results 
because of disposal or run-off. Fixed allocated costs, 
included in total operating costs, will not necessarily 
be removed upon disposal and have been separately 
identified on page 120. 
Summary income statements for disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios
69,70
2012
 Retail
 Banking
 and Wealth
 Management
 US$m 
 Commercial
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global 
Private 
 Banking 
 US$m 
 Other
 US$m 
Net interest income/(expense) ...................................... 4,281 133 35 8 (2)
Net fee income .............................................................. 380 – 1 8 –
Net trading income/(expense)
78
 .................................... (204) 4 160 – 2
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments 
designated at fair value ............................................ 6 2 10 – (785)
Gains less losses from financial investments ................... 32 1 (70) – –
Dividend income ........................................................... 3 – – – –
Net earned insurance premiums ................................... 518 203 25 – (1)
Other operating income/(expense) ............................... 40 20 (3) (1) –
Total operating income/(expense) ............................. 5,056 363 158 15 (786)
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in 
liabilities to policyholders ........................................ (297) (129) (17) – –
Net operating income/(expense)
21
.............................. 4,759 234 141 15 (786)
Loan impairment charges and other credit  
risk provisions .......................................................... (2,980) (4) (168) – –
Net operating income/(expense) ................................ 1,779 230 (27) 15 (786)
Total operating expenses .............................................. (2,376) (164) (165) (24) (18)
Operating profit/(loss) ................................................ (597) 66 (192) (9) (804)
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures ............ 633 89 64 – –
Profit/(loss) before tax ................................................ 36 155 (128) (9) (804)
By geographical region 
Europe ........................................................................... 2 – (283) (1) –
Hong Kong ................................................................... 27 13 6 – –
Rest of Asia-Pacific ...................................................... 612 91 57 (8) –
Middle East and North Africa ...................................... 10 – 36 – –
North America .............................................................. (656) 9 2 – (785)
Latin America ............................................................... 41 42 54 – (19)
Profit/(loss) before tax .................................................. 36 155 (128) (9) (804)
Gain on sale .................................................................. 4,074 476 22 64 3,103 
For footnotes, see page 120.  79
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Geographical regions 
Summary ...................................................................... 79
Europe .......................................................................... 81
Hong Kong ................................................................... 88
Rest of Asia-Pacific ..................................................... 93
Middle East and North Africa ..................................... 99
North America ............................................................. 104
Latin America .............................................................. 111
Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios ............ 117
Summary
Additional information on results in 2012 may be 
found in the ‘Financial Summary’ on pages 372 to 
515.
In the analysis of profit by geographical regions 
that follows, operating income and operating expenses 
include intra-HSBC items of US$3,358m (2011: 
US$3,421m; 2010: US$3,125m). 
Profit/(loss) before tax 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m  % US$m  % US$m  % 
Europe ....................................................................... (3,414) (16.5) 4,671  21.3 4,302   22.6 
Hong Kong ............................................................... 7,582  36.7 5,823  26.6 5,692   29.9 
Rest of Asia-Pacific .................................................. 10,448  50.6 7,471  34.2 5,902   31.0 
Middle East and North Africa .................................. 1,350  6.5 1,492  6.8 892   4.7 
North America .......................................................... 2,299  11.1 100  0.5 454  2.4 
Latin America ........................................................... 2,384  11.6 2,315  10.6 1,795   9.4 
20,649  100.0 21,872  100.0 19,037  100.0 
Total assets
74
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m  % US$m  % 
Europe ...................................................................................................................... 1,389,240  51.6 1,281,945 50.3 
Hong Kong .............................................................................................................. 518,334  19.3 473,024 18.5 
Rest of Asia-Pacific ................................................................................................. 342,269  12.7 317,816 12.4 
Middle East and North Africa ................................................................................. 62,605  2.3 57,464 2.2 
North America ......................................................................................................... 490,247  18.2 504,302 19.7 
Latin America .......................................................................................................... 131,277  4.9 144,889 5.7 
Intra-HSBC items .................................................................................................... (241,434) (9.0) (223,861) (8.8)
2,692,538  100.0 2,555,579  100.0 
Risk-weighted assets
88
At 31 December 
2012 2011
 US$bn  %  US$bn  % 
Total ......................................................................................................................... 1,123.9 1,209.5  
Europe ...................................................................................................................... 314.7 27.6 340.2 27.8 
Hong Kong .............................................................................................................. 111.9 9.8 105.7 8.6
Rest of Asia-Pacific ................................................................................................. 302.2 26.4 279.3 22.8 
Middle East and North Africa ................................................................................. 62.2 5.4 58.9 4.8
North America ......................................................................................................... 253.0 22.2 337.3 27.6 
Latin America .......................................................................................................... 97.9 8.6 102.3 8.4
For footnotes, see page 120.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Europe 
80
Selected items included in profit before tax by geographical region 
Fair value movements arising from changes in own credit spreads
26
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Europe ......................................................................................................................... (4,110) 2,947 (198)
Hong Kong ................................................................................................................. – – (6)
Rest of Asia-Pacific .................................................................................................... (3) 2 (1)
Middle East and North Africa .................................................................................... (12) 14 – 
North America ............................................................................................................ (1,090) 970 142 
(5,215) 3,933 (63)
Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions
75
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Europe ......................................................................................................................... (3) – 286 
Hong Kong ................................................................................................................. 420 82 136 
Rest of Asia-Pacific .................................................................................................... 4,048 1,141 188 
Middle East and North Africa .................................................................................... (18) 54 (42)
North America ............................................................................................................ 4,888 2,192 66 
Latin America ............................................................................................................. 144 181 – 
9,479 3,650 634 
For footnotes, see page 120. 81
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Europe 
Our principal banking operations in Europe are 
HSBC Bank plc in the UK, HSBC France, HSBC 
Bank A.S. in Turkey, HSBC Bank Malta p.l.c., 
HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA and HSBC 
Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG. Through these 
subsidiaries we provide a wide range of 
banking, treasury and financial services to 
personal, commercial and corporate customers 
across Europe. 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income .......... 10,394  11,001 11,250 
Net fee income ................. 6,169  6,236 6,371 
Net trading income .......... 2,707  2,161 2,863 
Other income/(expense) ... (1,662) 4,848 2,266 
Net operating income
21
 .. 17,608  24,246 22,750 
LICs
76
 ............................... (1,921) (2,512) (3,020)
Net operating income .... 15,687  21,734 19,730 
Total operating expenses . (19,095) (17,069) (15,445)
Operating profit/(loss) ... (3,408) 4,665 4,285 
Income/(expense) from 
associates
77
 .................... (6) 6 17 
Profit/(loss) before tax ... (3,414) 4,671 4,302 
Cost efficiency ratio ........  108.4 %   70.4%  67.9% 
RoRWA
66
 .........................  (1.0%)   1.5%  1.3% 
Year-end staff numbers ... 70,061 74,892 75,698 
Strong Rates and Credit performance  
as investor sentiment improved
40%
reduction in RBWM 
loan impairment charges 
US$2.3bn
of customer redress  
provisions in the UK  
For footnotes, see page 120. 
Economic background
The UK economy remained weak in 2012, with little 
growth in underlying activity. Preliminary data 
showed that the level of real Gross Domestic Product 
(‘GDP’) contracted by 0.3% in the fourth quarter, as 
economic activity fell back after a boost related to 
the Olympic Games. Despite the lacklustre economy, 
the labour market remained fairly resilient, with the 
unemployment rate in the three months to December 
down to 7.8% from 8.4% in the same period in 2011. 
In response to the stagnating economy, the Bank of 
England (‘BoE’) increased the size of its Asset 
Purchase Facility to £375bn (US$606bn) and 
launched a new scheme, Funding for Lending, aimed 
at increasing the supply of credit. Consumer Prices 
Index (‘CPI’) inflation fell during the first half of the 
year but remained above the BoE’s 2% target. In the 
fourth quarter, it rose back to 2.7%, partly due to 
increases in tuition fees and energy prices. 
The eurozone returned to recession in 2012 as 
the initial resilience in France and Germany was 
more than offset by deepening contractions in the 
periphery, where domestic demand was dragged 
down by austerity and private sector deleveraging. 
Inflation slowed from 2.7% at the end of 2011 to 
2.2% in 2012 and the European Central Bank 
(‘ECB’) cut the refinance (‘refi’) rate by 0.25% to 
0.75% in July. The sovereign crisis worsened again 
in the first half of 2012 but early signs of a roadmap 
for future integration of the economic and monetary 
union, additional support for Greece and, most 
importantly, the ECB’s commitment to supporting 
the euro through its Outright Monetary Transactions 
bond-buying programme succeeded in lowering 
peripheral government bond spreads to their lowest 
level since March 2012.  
Review of performance 
Our operations in Europe reported a pre-tax loss of 
US$3.4bn, compared with a profit of US$4.7bn in 
2011. On a constant currency basis, pre-tax profits 
declined by US$8.0bn. 
In 2012, there were adverse movements of 
US$4.1bn on our own debt designated at fair value, 
resulting from changes in credit spreads, compared 
with favourable movements of US$2.9bn in 2011. 
On an underlying basis, pre-tax profits decreased 
by US$930m due to higher operating expenses 
reflecting a US$1.4bn increase in the provision for 
customer redress programmes in the UK, in 
particular relating to the possible mis-selling of PPI 
and interest rate protection products. This was partly 
offset by higher GB&M revenues, notably in the 
Rates and Credit  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Europe 
82
Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses 
 Retail
 Banking
 and Wealth 
Management 
 US$m 
Commercial 
 Banking 
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and 
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
2012
UK ........................................................ 343 832 (111) 235 (6,355) (5,056)
France
60
 ................................................ 135 203 514 (11) (263) 578
Germany .............................................. 29 64 283 40 (72) 344
Malta .................................................... 39 52 31 – – 122
Switzerland .......................................... – 2 1 133 – 136
Turkey .................................................. (32) 71 104 – 1 144
Other .................................................... (5) (16) 164 102 73 318
509 1,208 986 499 (6,616) (3,414)
2011       
UK ........................................................ 1,330 1,227 (265) 192 1,037 3,521 
France
60
 ................................................ 69 192 (194) 16 18 101 
Germany .............................................. 36 69 203 28 16 352 
Malta .................................................... 31 72 21 – – 124 
Switzerland .......................................... – (8) – 225 – 217 
Turkey .................................................. 7 62 87 2 – 158 
Other .................................................... (151) 73 225 94 (43) 198 
1,322 1,687 77 557 1,028 4,671 
2010       
UK ........................................................ 1,181 827 1,772 223 (1,605) 2,398 
France
60
 ................................................ 138 135 376 18 26 693 
Germany .............................................. 36 32 231 30 4 333 
Malta .................................................... 37 56 17 – – 110 
Switzerland .......................................... – (5) – 265 – 260 
Turkey .................................................. 64 80 105 1 – 250 
Other .................................................... (144) 80 202 103 17 258 
1,312 1,205 2,703 640 (1,558) 4,302 
For footnote, see page 120. 
businesses as spreads on eurozone bonds tightened 
and investor sentiment improved. In addition, 
impairment charges fell due to lower credit risk 
provisions in GB&M, notably in the legacy credit 
portfolio, and improved delinquency rates in RBWM 
in the UK as we continued to improve the quality of 
these portfolios with a higher proportion of secured 
lending.
We made significant progress in reshaping 
our business in Europe. The disposal of non-core 
businesses simplified our European portfolio, 
allowing us to concentrate resources on businesses 
where we can deliver sustainable profits and growth 
while managing risks effectively. We exited from 
Hungary, Georgia, Slovakia, and RBWM in Russia 
and Poland, and sold Property Vision in the UK, our 
insurance and reinsurance businesses in Ireland and 
the retail equities brokerage in Greece. 
During 2012, we made progress with our 
restructuring programme to align our businesses 
in each country to their respective global business 
operating models in order to reduce complexity 
and lower our costs in a sustainable way. Total 
restructuring costs (including impairment of assets) 
of US$299m were incurred across Europe as a 
result of  organisational effectiveness and other 
initiatives, which delivered sustainable cost savings 
of approximately US$770m. 
In RBWM, we continued to drive strong growth 
in mortgage lending in the UK through the success 
of our competitive offerings and marketing 
campaigns. Our share of new UK mortgage lending 
in 2012 was 12%, up from the 10% share of new 
lending in 2011, while maintaining a loan-to-value 
ratio of 58%. We have approved new mortgage 
lending of £19bn (US$32bn) during 2012, compared 
with our original lending commitment of £15bn 
(US$24bn), with £5bn (US$8bn) approved for first 
time buyers. Wealth Management revenue was 
marginally lower during the year reflecting the 
challenging economic environment. Our Wealth 
Management products and services were redesigned 
in accordance with the FSA’s Retail Distribution 
Review, which was introduced on 1 January 2013, 
and we continue to offer a competitive fee-based 
financial advice service to Premier customers. The  83
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
expansion of the RBWM business continued in 
Turkey, where we are targeting mass affluent 
customers.  
In CMB, we continued to invest in the UK, and 
have increased the number of International 
Relationship Managers to over 200 during the year. 
In the first half of 2012, we launched an 
International SME fund in the UK to support UK 
businesses that trade, or aspire to trade, 
internationally. By the end of 2012, we had approved 
lending through the fund of £5.1bn (US$8.2bn), 
exceeding the original target of £4.0bn (US$6.5bn), 
and provided £12bn (US$20bn) of gross new lending 
to UK SMEs, including the renewal of overdraft and 
other lending facilities. Over 80% of small business 
lending applications received during the year were 
approved. Revenue from international customers 
increased and our focus on this client base, together 
with targeted growth initiatives such as deposit 
acquisition and regional pricing strategies, led to 
a rise in Payments and Cash Management and 
Global Trade and Receivable Finance income.  
Revenues from CMB’s collaboration with 
GB&M increased primarily from sales of foreign 
exchange products. During the year, we made a 
provision for the possible mis-selling of interest rate 
protection products and the sale of these products to 
customers in our Business Banking segment, which 
serves SMEs, was withdrawn. 
GB&M continued to develop cross-product 
capabilities in the growing renminbi market. Early in 
the year, we issued the first international renminbi 
bond outside sovereign Chinese territory. Since then, 
a number of significant transactions were supported 
by in-depth collaboration between European and 
other regional teams which reinforced our position 
as the leading house for international renminbi 
issuance. In Foreign Exchange, the focus remained 
on enhancing product offerings in our e-FX 
platforms for a broader client base, particularly to 
RBWM and CMB customers. This included the 
launch of a ‘Dynamic Currency Conversion’ product 
within the transactional Foreign Exchange business. 
To enhance coverage efforts in Global Banking, the 
Corporate Finance Group was established to 
strengthen the financial advisory and event financing 
business. Payments and Cash Management won a 
number of mandates and implemented the Global 
Liquidity Solutions platform to provide advanced 
liquidity management functionality for its clients. In 
addition, our legacy credit exposure was reduced in 
Europe by exiting from certain positions and the 
business will reduce the size of this portfolio further 
as opportunities arise. 
In GPB, we revised our medium-term strategic 
plan to focus the business on investing in priority 
markets with a redefined client offering that 
builds on product strengths and leverages Group 
capabilities. We concentrated on higher net worth 
international and domestic customers, enhancing our 
compliance and risk framework and improving 
alignment with the other global businesses.  
Our activities are likely to be affected by 
proposed legislation in the UK arising from the 
recommendations of the UK Independent 
Commission on Banking (‘ICB’) to ring-fence the 
retail bank from wholesale operations and to require 
the retail bank to have a greater primary loss 
absorbing capacity. Proposed changes in regulations 
are likely to affect how we conduct activities, with 
the potential to curtail the types of business we carry 
out and increase the costs of doing business. The 
implementation of any proposed changes will take a 
considerable amount of time and involve significant 
cost (see page 132). 
The following commentary is on a constant 
currency basis. 
Net interest income decreased by 3%. Balance 
Sheet Management revenues declined, principally in 
the UK, as yield curves continued to flatten and 
liquidity arising from maturities and sales of 
available-for-sale debt securities was re-invested at 
lower prevailing rates. In addition we placed a 
greater portion of our liquidity with central banks. 
GPB was similarly affected as higher yielding 
positions matured and as we managed selectively our 
exposures to eurozone sovereign debt. Legacy credit 
revenues in the UK also fell as a result of higher 
interest expense on structured debt issued at the end 
of 2011, coupled with lower effective yields on 
assets. RBWM net interest income declined mainly 
in the UK due to lower deposit spreads reflecting 
strong competition in the low interest rate 
environment. This was partly offset by strong growth 
in average residential mortgage balances and 
improved lending spreads in the UK, along with 
higher personal lending and cards balances in 
Turkey as the business expanded. In addition, net 
interest income in CMB benefited from higher 
average customer account balances as we continued 
to attract deposits through our Payments and Cash 
Management products as a result of competitive 
pricing, while average lending balances also rose, 
mainly in the UK, despite muted demand for credit.  
Net fee income increased by 2%. CMB fee 
income rose due to higher transaction volumes 
reflecting new mandates in Payments and Cash 
Management. RBWM fee income also increased due  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Europe 
84
to lower commissions paid as a result of the run-off 
and subsequent disposal of the insurance businesses 
in Ireland. These increases were partly offset by a 
fall in brokerage fees in GPB, reflecting a reduction 
in client transaction volumes, due in part to lower 
market volatility. Fees from assets under 
management and account services also declined, as 
challenging market conditions in the latter half of 
2011 led to a fall in average client assets in 2012, 
coupled with a reduction in client numbers as we 
repositioned our target client base.  
Net trading income increased by 27%, primarily 
due to significantly higher Rates trading revenues 
in the UK and France, and higher Credit trading 
revenues, mainly in the UK, as spreads tightened and 
investor sentiment improved following stimuli by 
central banks. This was despite significant adverse 
fair value movements in Rates, including a charge 
from own credit spreads on structured liabilities as 
spreads tightened which compared with a gain 
reported in 2011, together with a charge as a result 
of a change in estimation methodology in respect of 
credit valuation adjustments on derivative assets (see 
Note 15 on the Financial Statements). Revenues in 
our legacy credit portfolio increased due to price 
appreciation and redemption at par of certain assets. 
Foreign Exchange income was also stronger due to 
higher income from GB&M’s ongoing collaboration 
with CMB, and increased volumes from 
improvements in our electronic pricing and 
distribution capabilities, although this was partly 
offset by the effect of less volatile markets in 2012. 
In addition, trading income benefited from the 
change in estimation methodology for debit 
valuation adjustments on derivative liabilities 
(see Note 15 on the Financial Statements). 
There were lower adverse fair value movements 
on non-qualifying hedges, driven by favourable fair 
value movements on non-qualifying hedges in 
HSBC Holdings, compared with adverse fair value 
movements in 2011, reflecting the less pronounced 
decline in long-term US interest rates relative to 
sterling and euro interest rates than in 2011. This 
was partly offset by higher adverse movements on 
non-qualifying hedges in European operating entities 
as interest rates fell. 
Adverse foreign exchange movements were 
reported on assets held as economic hedges of 
foreign currency debt designated at fair value 
compared with favourable movements in 2011. 
These offset favourable foreign exchange 
movements on the foreign currency debt which are 
reported in ‘Net expense from financial instruments 
designated at fair value’. 
Net expense from financial instruments 
designated at fair value increased by US$4.8bn. 
Excluding adverse fair value movements due to the 
change in credit spreads on our own debt held at 
fair value, net income from financial instruments 
designated at fair value of US$1.9bn in 2012 
compared with a net expense of US$374m in 
2011. This reflected favourable foreign exchange 
movements on foreign currency debt designated 
at fair value issued as part of our overall funding 
strategy compared with adverse movements in 2011, 
with an offset reported in ‘Net trading income’. In 
addition, net investment gains were recognised on 
the fair value of assets held to meet liabilities under 
insurance and investment contracts as market 
conditions improved, compared with net investment 
losses in 2011. The corresponding movement in 
liabilities to customers is recorded under ‘Net 
insurance claims incurred and movement in 
liabilities to policyholders’ to the extent that 
these investment gains or losses are attributable to 
policyholders holding unit-linked insurance policies 
and insurance or investment contracts with DPF. 
Gains less losses from financial investments
decreased by US$133m. This was driven by higher 
impairments in GB&M in the UK of available-for-
sale equity securities due to significant write-downs 
in 2012 on three holdings, two of which were in our 
direct investment business in run-off. The decline 
was also driven by losses on the disposal of legacy 
assets, also in GB&M in the UK (see page 27), 
together with the non-recurrence of gains in 2011 on 
the disposal of available-for-sale debt securities in 
our Insurance business in RBWM. These factors 
were partly offset by higher gains on the disposal of 
available-for-sale debt securities in Balance Sheet 
Management, mainly in the UK, as part of structural 
interest rate risk management activities, coupled 
with a rise in disposal gains in Principal Investments 
in GB&M. 
Net earned insurance premiums decreased by 
6%. This mainly reflected lower life insurance sales 
in RBWM in France as a result of the adverse 
economic environment and increased competition 
from other banking products. The run-off and 
subsequent disposal of the insurance businesses in 
Ireland in 2012 also contributed to the decline. This 
was partly offset by a rise in net earned premiums 
in the UK due, in part, to the sale of a unit-linked 
insurance product through two new third party 
platforms. 
Other operating income decreased by US$95m. 
GB&M incurred losses on the sale of certain 
syndicated loans in the UK. In addition, gains in  85
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
2011 on the disposal of a property fund did not 
recur.
Net insurance claims incurred and movement 
in liabilities to policyholders increased by 40%, 
driven by net investment gains on the fair value of 
the assets held to support policyholder contracts, 
compared with net losses in 2011. This was partly 
offset by lower reserves established for new 
business, reflecting the decline in premiums in 
France.
Loan impairment charges and other credit 
risk provisions decreased by 22% to US$1.9bn. 
GB&M reported lower credit risk provisions, mainly 
in the UK, on available-for-sale ABSs, driven by an 
improvement in underlying asset prices, as well as 
lower charges on Greek sovereign debt. These were 
coupled with a reduction in loan impairment charges 
in RBWM, notably in the UK, as we continued to 
pro-actively identify and monitor customers facing 
financial hardship and focused on growing higher 
quality lending. As a result, delinquency rates 
improved across both the secured and unsecured 
lending portfolios. This was partly offset by an 
increase in loan impairment charges in RBWM in 
Turkey, reflecting business expansion. In addition, 
there were higher individually assessed provisions in 
CMB reflecting, mainly, the challenging economic 
conditions in the UK, Greece, Spain and Turkey. 
Operating expenses increased by 15%, driven 
by higher charges relating to UK customer redress 
programmes with US$2.3bn reported in 2012, 
compared with a charge of US$890m (US$898m as 
reported) in 2011. In 2012 we included an additional 
charge of US$1.7bn for estimated redress for the 
possible mis-selling of PPI policies and US$598m in 
relation to the possible mis-selling of interest rate 
protection products in previous years, of which 
US$268m related to the 
estimated redress to be paid to customers and the 
remainder to costs of closing out these positions 
and related administration costs. A charge relating to 
the US Office of Foreign Asset Control (‘OFAC’) 
investigation of US$375m was also incurred in 
HSBC Holdings, along with the UK bank levy of 
US$571m. This was partly offset by an adjustment 
of US$99m in the 2011 bank levy charge of 
US$570m as the basis of calculation was clarified. In 
addition, 2011 included a credit of US$570m 
(US$587m as reported) arising from the defined 
benefit pension obligations in the UK which did 
not recur. Restructuring costs of US$299m were 
US$92m lower than in 2011, as the review initiated 
in 2011 to improve cost efficiency continued to be 
implemented and we completed disposals and exits 
in Europe. 
Excluding these items, operating expenses 
marginally increased compared with 2011. Our 
organisational effectiveness initiatives progressed, 
delivering sustainable cost savings of approximately 
US$770m in 2012. This enabled us to reinvest in, 
and reallocate capital, to our designated growth 
businesses such as our mortgage offering, our 
international CMB business and our home and 
priority growth markets (UK, France, Germany 
and Turkey), as well as launching the M&S Bank in 
the UK. 
Operating expenses in Europe 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
HSBC Holdings .................... 2,063 1,664 
UK ......................................... 11,993 9,989 
Continental Europe ............... 5,237 5,563 
Intra-region eliminations ...... (198) (147)
Total operating expenses ...... 19,095 17,069  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Europe 
86
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Europe 
2012
 Retail 
Banking 
and Wealth 
Management
 US$m 
Commercial
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m 
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
85
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
Profit before tax
Net interest income/(expense) .... 5,437  3,228 1,409 820 (543) 43 10,394 
Net fee income ............................ 2,622  1,658 1,032 848 9 – 6,169 
Trading income excluding net 
interest income ....................... 67 26 848 216 25 – 1,182 
Net interest income on trading 
activities .................................. 7 14 1,500 14 33 (43) 1,525 
Net trading income
78
 ................... 74 40 2,348 230 58 (43) 2,707 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives .............................. – – – – (3,091) – (3,091)
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... 770 139 1,073 – (1,106) – 876
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... 770 139 1,073 – (4,197) – (2,215)
Gains less losses from  
financial investments .............. (5) (1) 375 (3) (2) – 364
Dividend income ......................... – 1 104 3 3 – 111
Net earned insurance premiums . 3,150  438 – 42 – – 3,630 
Other operating income .............. 84 58 88 61 796 (9) 1,078 
Total operating income/ 
(expense) ................................ 12,132  5,561 6,429 2,001 (3,876) (9) 22,238 
Net insurance claims
86
 ................ (4,054) (536) – (40) – – (4,630)
Net operating income/ 
(expense)
21
............................. 8,078  5,025 6,429 1,961 (3,876) (9) 17,608 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions ..... (347) (1,109) (436) (29) – – (1,921)
Net operating income/ 
(expense) ................................ 7,731  3,916 5,993 1,932 (3,876) (9) 15,687 
Total operating expenses ............ (7,225) (2,708) (4,999) (1,431) (2,741) 9 (19,095)
Operating profit/(loss) .............. 506 1,208 994 501 (6,617) – (3,408)
Share of profit/(loss) in
associates and joint ventures .. 3 – (8) (2) 1 – (6)
Profit/(loss) before tax .............. 509 1,208 986 499 (6,616) – (3,414)
 %  %  %  %  %  % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ................................  2.5   5.9  4.8  2.4  (32.0)  (16.5)
Cost efficiency ratio ...................  89.4   53.9  77.8  73.0  (70.7)  108.4 
Balance sheet data
74
US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ....................... 170,002  105,796 156,798 29,963 881 463,440 
Total assets ................................. 240,744  132,718 1,044,507 76,145 75,513  (180,387) 1,389,240 
Customer accounts ...................... 191,024  121,648 184,473 57,125 739 555,009  87
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
2011
 Retail 
Banking
and Wealth 
Management
 US$m  
 Commercial 
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m  
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
85
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit before tax    
Net interest income/(expense) .... 5,653  3,107 2,102 936 (574) (223) 11,001 
Net fee income ............................ 2,633  1,640 989 942 32  – 6,236 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest  
income .................................... 40   5 602 191 (201) – 637 
Net interest income on trading 
activities.................................. 11   16 1,205 16 53  223  1,524 
Net trading income/(expense)
78
 .. 51  21 1,807 207 (148) 223  2,161 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives .............................. –  – – – 3,180  – 3,180 
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... (672)  (21) (65) – 46  – (712)
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... (672) (21) (65) – 3,226  – 2,468 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments .............. 51  (1) 453 1 11  – 515 
Dividend income ......................... 1  1 42 4 1  – 49 
Net earned insurance premiums . 3,768  381 – – (13) – 4,136 
Other operating income .............. 95  58 187 5 760  74  1,179 
Total operating income ............... 11,580  5,186 5,515 2,095 3,295  74  27,745 
Net insurance claims
86
 ................ (3,212) (287) – – – – (3,499)
Net operating income
21
 ............... 8,368  4,899 5,515 2,095 3,295  74  24,246 
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other credit  
risk provisions ........................ (596) (960) (876) (82) 2  – (2,512)
Net operating income ................. 7,772  3,939 4,639 2,013 3,297  74  21,734 
Total operating expenses ............ (6,450) (2,252) (4,569) (1,456) (2,268) (74) (17,069)
Operating profit .......................... 1,322  1,687 70 557 1,029  – 4,665 
Share of profit/(loss) in
associates and joint ventures .. – – 7 – (1) – 6 
Profit before tax .......................... 1,322  1,687 77 557 1,028  – 4,671 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ................................  6.0    7.7  0.4  2.5  4.7      21.3 
Cost efficiency ratio ...................  77.1    46.0  82.8  69.5  68.8      70.4 
        
Balance sheet data
74
       
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ....................... 150,205  98,154 156,903 28,378 696   434,336 
Total assets ................................. 210,140 124,049 1,021,486 77,410 63,141 (214,281) 1,281,945 
Customer accounts ...................... 176,134  104,530 154,208 58,265 267   493,404 
For footnotes, see page 120.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Hong Kong 
88
Hong Kong 
HSBC’s principal banking subsidiaries in Hong 
Kong are The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited and Hang Seng Bank 
Limited. The former is the largest bank 
incorporated in Hong Kong and is our flagship 
bank in the Asia-Pacific region. It is one of Hong 
Kong’s three note-issuing banks, accounting for 
more than 60% by value of banknotes in 
circulation in 2012.
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income .......... 5,316  4,691 4,246 
Net fee income ................. 3,335  3,097 2,962 
Net trading income .......... 1,463  1,189 1,312 
Other income ................... 2,308  1,705 1,682 
Net operating income
21
.. 12,422  10,682 10,202 
LICs
76
 ............................... (74) (156) (114)
Net operating income .... 12,348  10,526 10,088 
Total operating expenses . (4,848) (4,758) (4,431)
Operating profit ............. 7,500  5,768 5,657 
Income from associates
77
 . 82 55 35 
Profit before tax ............. 7,582  5,823 5,692 
Cost efficiency ratio ........  39.0   44.5%  43.4% 
RoRWA
66
 .........................  7.0%   5.3%  5.0% 
Year-end staff numbers ... 27,742 28,984 29,171 
24%
growth in underlying profit before tax 
Market leader in offshore renminbi bond 
issuance 
Best Commercial Bank 2012 
(FinanceAsia) 
For footnotes, see page 120. 
Economic background
The Hong Kong economy started 2012 on a strong 
footing, but lost momentum in the second quarter as 
global trade flows slowed and the mainland Chinese 
economy cooled, causing GDP to contract slightly. 
Domestic demand stayed resilient, however, 
supported by continued wage growth, and firm job 
market conditions and asset prices. This underpinned 
investment and private consumption growth, leading 
the economy back into expansion in the third quarter 
(0.6%, quarter-on-quarter, seasonally adjusted). 
Slower economic momentum and deflationary 
pressures in mainland China allowed the pressure on 
Hong Kong’s asset prices to ease through most of 
2012, resulting in reduced CPI inflation of 4.1%, 
compared with 5.3% in 2011. 
Review of performance 
Reported pre-tax profits from our operations in Hong 
Kong were US$7.6bn compared with US$5.8bn in 
2011, an increase of 30% on both a reported and a 
constant currency basis. 
Reported profits included gains on the sale of 
our shares in Global Payments Asia-Pacific Ltd 
of US$212m and the HSBC and Hang Seng Bank 
general insurance businesses of US$117m and 
US$46m, respectively. Excluding these gains and 
associated operating results, underlying profit of 
US$7.2bn increased by 24%, driven by higher 
net interest income in CMB and RBWM, the gain of 
US$314m on the sale of non-strategic investments in 
India, higher trading revenues in GB&M, increased 
fee income in both CMB and GB&M, and a 
reduction in loan impairment charges. These 
favourable movements were partly offset by higher 
operating expenses. 
In RBWM, we continue to develop our Wealth 
Management services for our retail customers and 
launched new investment funds, including the 
Global High Yield Bond Fund which attracted over 
US$1bn of subscriptions by the end of the year. The 
sale of the general insurance businesses enabled us 
to focus on life insurance manufacturing, where we 
maintained our market leadership position. We also 
led the market in deposits, mortgages, mandatory 
provident funds and credit cards. We maintained our 
prudent lending approach with average loan-to-value 
ratios of 48% on new mortgage drawdowns and an 
estimated 32% on the portfolio as a whole. We now 
offer renminbi current accounts for non-residents 
and launched the first mobile payment solution in the 
region, enabling contactless credit card transactions 
through Visa payWave terminals.  89
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Profit/(loss) before tax by global business 
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
2010
US$m 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management .................................................................. 3,694 3,022  3,001 
Commercial Banking .................................................................................................. 2,188 1,608  1,352 
Global Banking and Markets ...................................................................................... 1,518 1,316  1,347 
Global Private Banking .............................................................................................. 249 188  227 
Other ........................................................................................................................... (67) (311) (235)
7,582 5,823  5,692 
In CMB, we capitalised on our international 
connectivity and our standing as a leading trade 
finance bank to grow trade-related revenues by 10%, 
particularly with mainland China. The collaboration 
between CMB and GB&M continued to strengthen, 
with revenue growth of 13%, most notably from the 
provision of foreign exchange products to our 
corporate customers. We won the FinanceAsia
award for ‘Best Commercial Bank 2012’ and ten 
Asiamoney awards for Payments and Cash 
Management, including the ‘Best Local Cash 
Management Bank’ for small, medium and large 
corporates.
In GB&M, we led the market in Hong Kong 
dollar bond issuance and were the leading 
bookrunner for corporate high yield bonds in Asia 
excluding Japan. We continued to lead the market in 
offshore renminbi bond issuance with several high-
profile deals completed in 2012 for multinationals 
accessing the market.  
We also reinforced our position as a leading 
international bank for offshore renminbi products, 
winning the Asia Risk ‘Renminbi House of the Year’ 
award and all seven product categories in 
Asiamoney’s ‘Offshore Renminbi Survey’. 
The following commentary is on a constant 
currency basis. 
Net interest income was 13% higher than 
in 2011, notably in CMB and RBWM, driven by 
increased customer loans and deposit balances and 
by growth in the insurance portfolio. 
In RBWM, we continued to grow our average 
mortgage balances, reflecting continued strength in 
the property market. In CMB, average term and 
trade-related lending balances were higher as we 
capitalised on trade and capital flows.  
Asset spreads in CMB were marginally wider 
than in 2011 on trade-related and other lending due 
to repricing, though they began to narrow towards 
the end of the year. 
Net interest income also rose due to higher 
average deposit balances, notably in RBWM, in 
part reflecting reduced net outflows from customer 
accounts into investments. In addition, deposit 
spreads widened. 
Net fee income of US$3.3bn was 7% higher than 
in 2011. Fees rose from increased transaction 
volumes in trade services, remittances and account 
services as we continued to intermediate 
international trade and capital flows. Fee income 
also increased in both CMB and GB&M as we 
arranged more debt issues for our customers to 
satisfy their funding requirements while the market 
for corporate debt improved. In RBWM, fees from 
unit trusts rose reflecting increased sales volumes, 
despite customers increasingly preferring lower 
risk products with lower fees. These increases were 
largely offset by a reduction in brokerage income 
from lower market turnover as a result of weaker 
investor sentiment. 
Net trading income increased by 23% from 
lower adverse fair value movements on derivatives 
relating to certain provident funds, following 
reductions in long-term investment returns in 2011. 
There was also a strong performance in GB&M, 
notably in Rates trading activities, which reflected 
increased client demand for risk management 
products, particularly in yen and renminbi, in part 
from increased cross-currency debt issuance by 
corporates. Credit trading revenues also rose, in 
part due to increased client activity. This was 
partly offset by a net charge as a result of a change in 
estimation methodology in respect of the valuation 
adjustments on derivatives. 
Net income from financial instruments 
designated at fair value was US$447m compared 
with an expense of US$540m in 2011, due to net 
investment gains on assets held by the Insurance 
business (compared with net losses in 2011) as a 
result of more favourable equity market conditions. 
To the extent that these investment gains were 
attributed to policyholders of unit-linked insurance 
policies and insurance contracts with DPF, there was 
a corresponding increase in ‘Net insurance claims 
incurred and movement in liabilities to 
policyholders’. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Hong Kong 
90
Gains less losses from financial investments
were US$322m compared with US$25m in 2011, 
largely from the gain of US$314m on the sale of our 
shares in four non-strategic investments in India. 
Net earned insurance premiums grew by 17% 
following increased new sales and renewals of life 
insurance products. The growth in premiums 
resulted in a corresponding increase in ‘Net 
insurance claims incurred and movement in 
liabilities to policyholders’. 
Other operating income of US$1.9bn was 
US$235m higher than in 2011. We completed the 
sale of our shares in Global Payments Asia-Pacific 
Ltd and the HSBC and Hang Seng Bank general 
insurance businesses, realising gains of US$212m, 
US$117m and US$46m, respectively. While the 
value of the PVIF asset rose, this was not to the same 
extent as in 2011 as increased insurance sales in 
2012 were more than offset by lower positive 
assumption updates during 2012 compared with 
2011and the non-recurrence of the benefit from the 
refinement to the PVIF asset calculation in 2011. 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in 
liabilities to policyholders increased by 38%, driven  
by net investment gains on fair value of the assets 
held to support policyholder contracts, compared 
with net losses in 2011. In addition, policyholder 
liabilities were established for new business, 
reflecting the higher premiums, though this was 
partly offset by the disposal of the insurance 
businesses in 2012.
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions reduced to US$74m from US$157m 
in 2011, largely due to lower specific impairment 
charges in CMB and the non-recurrence of charges 
relating to available-for-sale Greek sovereign debt 
securities.
Operating expenses increased by 2%, primarily 
due to higher systems implementation and 
processing costs as we continued to invest in our 
technology infrastructure, and increased property 
rental costs. Salaries and wages were broadly 
unchanged as wage inflation was largely offset by 
reduced average staff numbers as we continued to 
improve efficiency across our operations, generating 
sustainable annual savings of approximately 
US$190m.  91
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Hong Kong 
2012
 Retail 
 Banking 
and Wealth 
Management
 US$m 
Commercial
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m 
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
85
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax
Net interest income/(expense) .... 2,851  1,629 1,087 149 (482) 82 5,316 
Net fee income ............................ 1,769  850 548 155 13 – 3,335 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest  
income .................................... 176 163 666 170 (2) – 1,173 
Net interest income on  
trading activities ..................... 10 2 352 – 8 (82) 290
Net trading income
78
 ................... 186 165 1,018 170 6 (82) 1,463 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives .............................. – – – – – – –
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... 511 (53) 23 – (34) – 447
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... 511 (53) 23 – (34) – 447
Gains less losses from  
financial investments .............. – – 2 7 313 – 322
Dividend income ......................... – 1 5 – 18 – 24
Net earned insurance premiums . 5,294  655 8 – – – 5,957 
Other operating income .............. 711 253 77 13 1,152  (282) 1,924 
Total operating income ............ 11,322  3,500 2,768 494 986 (282) 18,788 
Net insurance claims
86
 ................ (5,757) (602) (7) – – – (6,366)
Net operating income
21
............. 5,565  2,898 2,761 494 986 (282) 12,422 
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other credit  
risk provisions ........................ (97) 3 17 3 – – (74)
Net operating income ............... 5,468  2,901 2,778 497 986 (282) 12,348 
Total operating expenses ............ (1,819) (719) (1,263) (248) (1,081) 282 (4,848)
Operating profit/(loss) .............. 3,649  2,182 1,515 249 (95) – 7,500 
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures ................... 45 6 3 – 28 – 82
Profit/(loss) before tax .............. 3,694  2,188 1,518 249 (67) – 7,582 
 %  %  %  %  %  % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ................................  17.9   10.6  7.3  1.2  (0.3)  36.7 
Cost efficiency ratio ...................  32.7   24.8  45.7  50.2  109.6   39.0 
Balance sheet data
74
US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ....................... 62,533  62,944 40,223 6,464 1,449  173,613 
Total assets ................................. 96,185  72,056 256,295 20,705 81,085  (7,992) 518,334 
Customer accounts ...................... 201,649  90,152 34,171 19,566 670 346,208  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Hong Kong / Rest of Asia-Pacific 
92
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Hong Kong (continued) 
2011
 Retail 
 Banking 
and Wealth 
Management
 US$m 
 Commercial 
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global 
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m 
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
85
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax    
Net interest income/(expense) .... 2,571  1,317 1,051 173 (464) 43  4,691 
Net fee income ............................ 1,741  706 475 160 15  – 3,097 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest  
income .................................... 120   169 652 135 (116) – 960 
Net interest income on  
trading activities ..................... 9   1 246 – 16  (43) 229 
Net trading income/(expense)
78
 .. 129  170 898 135 (100) (43) 1,189 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives .............................. –  – – – – – –
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... (475)  (72) (5) – 15  – (537)
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... (475) (72) (5) – 15  – (537)
Gains less losses from  
financial investments .............. 3  10 21 – (10) – 24 
Dividend income ......................... – 1 14 – 24  – 39 
Net earned insurance premiums . 4,317  758 13 – – – 5,088 
Other operating income .............. 505  175 79 8 1,185  (268) 1,684 
Total operating income ............... 8,791  3,065 2,546 476 665  (268) 15,275 
Net insurance claims
86
 ................ (3,887) (697) (9) – – – (4,593)
Net operating income
21
 ............... 4,904  2,368 2,537 476 665  (268) 10,682 
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other credit  
risk provisions ........................ (77) (66) 23 (36) – – (156)
Net operating income ................. 4,827  2,302 2,560 440 665  (268) 10,526 
Total operating expenses ............ (1,811) (703) (1,248) (252) (1,012) 268  (4,758)
Operating profit/(loss) ................ 3,016  1,599 1,312 188 (347) – 5,768 
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures ................... 6  9 4 – 36  – 55 
Profit/(loss) before tax ................ 3,022  1,608 1,316 188 (311) – 5,823 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ................................  13.8    7.3  6.0  0.9  (1.4)     26.6 
Cost efficiency ratio ...................  36.9    29.7  49.2  52.9  152.2      44.5 
        
Balance sheet data
74
       
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ....................... 56,296  54,986 39,667 5,447 1,269   157,665 
Total assets ................................. 85,866  63,516 238,892 20,680 84,782  (20,712) 473,024 
Customer accounts ...................... 181,316  79,225 35,283 19,622 (101)  315,345 
For footnotes, see page 120.  93
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Rest of Asia-Pacific 
We offer a full range of banking and financial 
services in mainland China, mainly through our 
local subsidiary, HSBC Bank (China) Company 
Limited. We also participate indirectly in 
mainland China through our primary associate, 
Bank of Communications.
Outside mainland China, we conduct 
business in 21 countries and territories in the 
Rest of Asia-Pacific region, primarily through 
branches and subsidiaries of The Hongkong 
and Shanghai Banking Corporation, with 
particularly strong coverage in Australia, India, 
Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore.
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income ........... 5,391  5,102 3,828 
Net fee income .................. 2,083  2,111 1,932 
Net trading income ........... 1,053  1,658 1,618 
Other income .................... 5,057  1,842 1,854 
Net operating income
21
 ... 13,584  10,713 9,232 
LICs
76
 ................................ (436) (267) (439)
Net operating income ..... 13,148  10,446 8,793 
Total operating expenses .. (5,806) (5,806) (5,143)
Operating profit .............. 7,342  4,640 3,650 
Income from associates
77
 .. 3,106  2,831 2,252 
Profit before tax .............. 10,448  7,471 5,902 
Cost efficiency ratio .........  42.7 %   54.2%  55.7% 
RoRWA
66
 .......................... 3.5%   3.1%  3.1% 
Year-end staff numbers .... 85,024 91,051 91,607 
Over US$3bn 
gains recognised following 
strategic disposals in 2012
9%
growth in lending balances 
(on a constant currency basis)
‘Best Domestic Cash Management Bank’ 
(Euromoney) 
across 14 countries in the region
For footnotes, see page 120. 
Economic background 
In mainland China, economic growth slowed 
through the first three quarters of 2012 due to a 
decline in external demand driven by the eurozone 
crisis, the effect of tightening domestic monetary 
policy measures and sharp de-stocking by industry. 
This greater than expected deceleration and 
increasing pressure on the labour market prompted 
policy makers to ease monetary policy in the 
summer of 2012, following two interest rate 
cuts totalling 50bps and two cuts in the reserve 
requirement ratio amounting to 100bps in the 
first half of the year, and speeded up the approval of 
new infrastructure projects. As these measures took 
effect, the mainland Chinese economy began to 
show signs of recovery in the fourth quarter of 2012. 
GDP slowed to 7.8% in 2012 from 9.3% in 2011, but 
remained above Beijing’s target of 7.5%. CPI 
inflation was a modest 2.6%.  
Japan’s economy experienced a turbulent 2012. 
After a very strong start supported by reconstruction 
demand and government subsidies, growth turned 
sharply negative in the third quarter as tepid overseas 
demand prompted a deep slump in exports and 
manufacturing. Sentiment improved by the end of 
2012. The Bank of Japan took steps to ease monetary 
policy in 2012, establishing a 1% inflation goal in 
February 2012 and expanding its Asset Purchase 
Programme by JPY46 trillion (US$534bn).  
Slowing global trade reduced growth in the Rest 
of Asia-Pacific region. South Korea’s full-year 
growth slowed to 2.1% in 2012, the lowest annual 
rate for three years, as the slowdown in global trade 
hit the export-dependent economy hard in the third 
quarter. To support domestic demand, the Bank of 
Korea lowered its policy rate from 3.25% to 2.75%. 
Singapore’s economy slowed notably, with GDP 
growth declining to 1.2% in 2012 from 5% the year 
before. 2012 was a tumultuous year for Taiwan’s
export-reliant economy, as both western and 
mainland China demand weakened, particularly from 
April onwards. However, the impetus provided by 
key electronic product launches helped to maintain 
manufacturing activity and jobs, enabling domestic 
demand to underpin growth more effectively than it 
did in earlier recessions. The other ASEAN 
(Association of Southeast Asian Nations) countries 
demonstrated more resilience, supported by domestic 
growth. Growth in Indonesia was driven by 
favourable demographics and a growing middle-
income class. In Thailand, rebuilding activity and 
policy support after the floods in 2011 led to a 
rebound in economic activity. Growth in India
continued to slow during the course of 2012, with   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Rest of Asia-Pacific 
94
Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses 
 Retail
 Banking
 and Wealth 
 Management 
 US$m 
 Commercial 
 Banking 
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and 
 Markets 
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
2012
Australia ............................................... 97 38 184 – (44) 275
India ..................................................... 41 89 497 7 175 809
Indonesia .............................................. 29 124 146 – 7 306
Mainland China ................................... 838 1,724 1,257 (4) 2,525  6,340 
Ping An ............................................ 622 82 60 – 2,459  3,223 
Other associates ............................... 268 1,466 591 – – 2,325 
Other mainland China ..................... (52) 176 606 (4) 66 792
Malaysia ............................................... 183 131 242 – 8 564
Singapore ............................................. 201 139 296 97 (65) 668
Taiwan ................................................. 62 36 136 – – 234
Vietnam................................................. 9 45 57 – 9 120
Other .................................................... 57 276 510 59 230 1,132 
1,517 2,602 3,325 159 2,845  10,448 
2011       
Australia ............................................... 88 106 108 – 5 307 
India ..................................................... (14) 122 539 5 161 813 
Indonesia .............................................. 6 89 157 – 7 259 
Mainland China ................................... 1,112 1,340 1,116 (4) 117 3,681 
Ping An ............................................ 946 – 63 – 117 1,126
Other associates ............................... 233 1,150 466 – – 1,849
Other mainland China ..................... (67) 190 587 (4) – 706
Malaysia ............................................... 173 118 228 1 9 529 
Singapore ............................................. 183 133 189 97 (7) 595 
Taiwan ................................................. 45 23 130 – 12 210 
Vietnam................................................. – 51 79 – 24 154 
Other .................................................... 48 264 543 (8) 76 923 
 1,641 2,246 3,089 91 404 7,471 
2010       
Australia ............................................... 59 96 95 – 8 258 
India ..................................................... (83) 71 508 4 179 679 
Indonesia .............................................. 12 94 116 – (3) 219 
Mainland China ................................... 839 833 683 (7) 217 2,565 
Ping An ............................................ 797 – 51 – 188 1,036
Other associates ............................... 176 746 392 – – 1,314
Other mainland China ..................... (134) 87 240 (7) 29 215
Malaysia ............................................... 120 88 194 – (1) 401 
Singapore ............................................. 169 87 100 84 84 524 
Taiwan ................................................. 31 36 87 – (7) 147 
Vietnam................................................. (7) 50 61 – 7 111 
Other .................................................... 22 201 644 – 131 998 
 1,162 1,556 2,488 81 615 5,902 
weaker external demand, the lagged effects of 
monetary policy normalisation and the absence in 
recent years of structural policies and infrastructure 
investment playing a role in the slowdown. 
Encouragingly, the government embarked on a 
reform programme towards the end of the year 
which helped lift sentiment and stabilise growth.  
Growth in the Australian economy was uneven 
in 2012 as it absorbed a mining boom which had the 
effect of slowing investment in other sectors. For 
2012 as a whole, growth was strong at around 3.5%. 
Unemployment edged up to 5.4%. In response to 
the global slowdown and to help re-balance growth 
away from mining and towards the non-mining 
sectors, the Reserve Bank of Australia reduced its 
cash rate from 4.25% to 3.00%. 
Review of performance 
Our operations in the Rest of Asia-Pacific region 
reported pre-tax profits of US$10.4bn compared 
with US$7.5bn in 2011, an increase of 40% or 
41% on a constant currency basis.   95
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Reported profits included a gain on the disposal 
of our associate, Ping An of US$3.0bn. Our 
remaining shareholding has been classified as a 
financial investment (see Note 26 on the Financial 
Statements). Reported profits also included gains 
from the sale of the RBWM business in Thailand 
(US$108m), the GPB business in Japan (US$67m) 
and our interest in a property company in the 
Philippines (US$130m). Reported profits in 2011 
included an accounting gain of US$181m arising 
from the dilution of our shareholding in Ping An, 
offset by a remeasurement loss of US$48m on its 
consolidation of Ping An Bank (formerly Shenzhen 
Development Bank). 
On an underlying basis, which excludes the 
items described above and the associated operating 
results, pre-tax profit rose by 2%. This was driven 
by higher net interest income, notably from Balance 
Sheet Management in GB&M in mainland China, 
and strong growth in average lending balances 
across most of the region, as well as increased profits 
from our associates in mainland China. These factors 
were partly offset by adverse fair value movements 
of US$553m on the contingent forward sale contract 
related to the Ping An sale, the effect of which was 
offset in 2013 on completion of the transaction, 
and higher operating expenses, in part due to 
restructuring costs arising from the ongoing strategic 
review of our businesses and support functions in 
the region. Loan impairment charges also rose from 
a small number of specific corporate impairment 
charges, but remained low as credit quality remained 
broadly stable. 
We maintained our focus on our key priority 
growth markets in the region. In mainland China, 
we continued to invest in our branch network and 
at the end of the year had 141 HSBC China outlets, 
20 HSBC rural bank outlets and 46 Hang Seng 
Bank outlets. We invested a further US$1.7bn in 
BoCom to maintain our interest of 19.03% in this 
strategically important associate and reinforce our 
position as the leading foreign bank in mainland 
China.  
In Malaysia, we now have the largest branch 
network amongst foreign banks and were designated 
‘Best Bank’ for the 10th consecutive year by the 
Asset Triple A Country Awards.
In RBWM, we made progress in re-shaping the 
business in line with our strategy, completing the 
disposal of the non-strategic business in Thailand 
and announcing the sale of our life insurance 
business in Taiwan. With our focus on secured 
lending, we recorded mortgage growth in mainland 
China, Singapore, Australia and Malaysia, reflecting 
the continued strength of the property market and the 
expansion of our distribution network. 
In CMB, trade revenues grew as we capitalised 
on our global network to capture cross-border trade 
and capital flows, particularly with mainland China. 
We continued to strengthen our infrastructure to 
capture the outbound opportunities from mainland 
China and now have 14 ‘China desks’ established 
globally to assist customers with their international 
trade requirements. Significant new mandates in 
2012 in CMB and GB&M reflected investment in 
our Payments and Cash Management infrastructure. 
We were recognised as ‘Best Domestic Cash 
Management Bank’ by Euromoney in fourteen 
countries across the region, ‘Best Overall Cash 
Management Bank in Asia’ by Global Finance and 
‘Best International Trade Bank in China’ by Trade
Finance Magazine.
In GB&M, we continued to be a key participant 
in the internationalisation of the renminbi and 
enhanced our Payments and Cash Management 
systems with renminbi capabilities. We continued to 
build our debt and equity capital markets capabilities 
in key countries in the region and were involved in 
several significant government and large corporate 
issues in Australia, Singapore, India and Indonesia. 
Revenues from the collaboration between CMB 
and GB&M increased by 13% as we enhanced sales 
coordination between the global businesses.  
The following commentary is on a constant 
currency basis. 
Net interest income increased by 8%, notably in 
mainland China from Balance Sheet Management, 
arising from growth in the debt securities portfolio 
and improved yields, as well as from increased 
trade-related and term lending in CMB and GB&M.  
We grew average deposit balances, notably in 
GB&M and CMB reflecting new Payments and Cash 
Management mandates, and in RBWM from deposit 
acquisition. The benefit of this growth was partly 
offset by narrower liability spreads reflecting rate 
cuts and liquidity easing measures by central banks. 
In RBWM, residential mortgage balances grew, 
primarily in Singapore, Australia, Malaysia and 
mainland China, reflecting the continued strength of 
property markets and expansion of our distribution 
network. However, net interest income was broadly 
unchanged due to the effect of the sale of the 
RBWM business in Thailand and narrower asset 
spreads in a number of countries attributable to 
competitive pricing pressures. 
Net fee income increased by US$29m, primarily 
in GB&M, from higher fee income from our  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Rest of Asia-Pacific 
96
participation in more debt capital markets 
transactions across the region as we continued to 
strengthen our capabilities in this area, and lower 
regulatory fee expenses on Foreign Exchange and 
Rates transactions in mainland China as volumes 
reduced. RBWM reported higher income from cards 
in Australia from increased spending and card 
issuance and Wealth Management fees in mainland 
China. The increase from cards was more than offset 
by the discontinuation of our Premier business in 
Japan, the sale of our RBWM business in Thailand, 
and a fall in fund management fees as we saw a 
move into lower yielding products reflecting 
investor’s lower risk appetite. 
Net trading income decreased by 34% compared 
with 2011, mainly from adverse fair value 
movements on the contingent forward sale contract 
of US$553m relating to Ping An (see Note 2b on 
the Financial Statements). Trading income was also 
lower, primarily in mainland China due to lower 
GB&M revenues in Foreign Exchange reflecting 
reduced volatility. These were partly offset by a 
net favourable movement as a result of a change in 
estimation methodology in respect of the valuation 
adjustments on derivatives. 
Net income from financial instruments designated 
at fair value was US$110m in 2012 compared with a 
net expense of US$19m in 2011. This was driven by 
net investment gains on assets held by the Insurance 
business, primarily in Singapore, due to positive 
equity market movements. To the extent that these 
investment gains were attributed to policyholders of 
unit-linked insurance policies and insurance contracts 
with DPF, there was a corresponding increase in ‘Net
insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities 
to policyholders’. 
Gains less losses from financial investments 
were US$16m compared with net losses of US$23m 
in 2011, due to a disposal gain on investments 
managed by a private equity fund and a gain on the 
sale of government debt securities in India. 
Net earned insurance premiums rose by 7% 
to US$812m as a result of increased renewals and 
new business volumes in mainland China, Singapore 
and Taiwan. The growth in premiums resulted in a 
corresponding increase in ‘Net insurance claims 
incurred and movement in liabilities to 
policyholders’.  
We reported a Gain on disposal of Ping An, an 
associate of Mainland China, of US$3.0bn. Our 
remaining shareholding has been classified as a 
financial investment. 
Other operating income increased by US$201m 
due to gains on the sale of our RBWM business in 
Thailand of US$108m, our GPB business in Japan of 
US$67m and our interest in a property company in 
the Philippines of US$130m. These were partly 
offset by the non-recurrence of an accounting gain 
of US$181m arising from the dilution of our 
shareholding in Ping An in 2011. 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in 
liabilities to policyholders increased by 22%, driven 
by net investment gains on the fair value of the 
assets held to support the policyholder contracts 
compared with net losses in 2011. In addition, 
policyholder liabilities were established for new 
business, reflecting the rise in premiums across 
mainland China, Singapore and Taiwan. 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions increased by US$170m as a result of 
individually assessed impairments on a single 
corporate exposure in Australia and a small number 
of corporate exposures in other countries in the 
region as well as a credit risk provision on an 
available-for-sale debt security in GB&M. These 
were partly offset by an impairment release in 
Singapore compared with a charge in 2011.  
Operating expenses increased by 3%, due to 
restructuring and other related costs of US$131m 
(2011: US$45m) incurred across several countries 
as part of the ongoing strategic review of our 
businesses and support functions in the region. 
This resulted in a net reduction of approximately 
6,000 FTE staff numbers and generated sustainable 
annual savings of approximately US$200m, which 
were more than offset by inflationary pressures and 
investment for business growth, including branch 
expansion in mainland China. Costs also increased 
from a litigation provision of US$98m made in 
respect of a long-standing court case and the write 
down by US$51m of our interest in a joint venture.  
Share of profit from associates and joint ventures 
increased by US$212m, driven by higher profits from 
BoCom and Industrial Bank which reflected loan 
growth and higher fee income, partly offset by 
increased operating expenses and loan impairment 
charges. The contribution from Ping An reduced due 
to market valuation losses on equity securities held 
by their insurance business, which reflected volatile 
domestic equity markets, partly offset by increased 
income from the banking business, Ping An Bank. 
The disposal of  Ping An and the dilution of our 
holding in Industrial Bank, following its issue of 
additional share capital to third parties on 7 January 
2013, are expected to have a significant impact on 
future profits in the region.  97
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Profit before tax and balance sheet data – Rest of Asia-Pacific 
2012
 Retail 
 Banking 
and Wealth 
Management
 US$m 
Commercial
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m 
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
85
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
Profit before tax
Net interest income ..................... 1,787  1,396 2,156 102 137 (187) 5,391 
Net fee income/(expense) ........... 854 499 666 71 (7) – 2,083 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income . 96 188 1,002 67 (592) – 761
Net interest income/(expense)  
on trading activities ................ (6) (3) 100 – 14 187 292
Net trading income/(expense)
78
 .. 90 185 1,102 67 (578) 187 1,053 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives .............................. – – – – (4) – (4)
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... 109 1 (3) – 3 – 110
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... 109 1 (3) – (1) – 106
Gains less losses from  
financial investments .............. (1) 2 (10) – 25 – 16
Dividend income ......................... – – 1 – 4 – 5
Net earned insurance premiums . 569 243 – – – – 812
Gain on disposal of Ping An ....... – – – – 3,012  – 3,012 
Other operating income .............. 211 64 82 68 1,571  (172) 1,824 
Total operating income ............ 3,619  2,390 3,994 308 4,163  (172) 14,302 
Net insurance claims
86
 ................ (523) (195) – – – – (718)
Net operating income
21
............. 3,096  2,195 3,994 308 4,163  (172) 13,584 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions ..... (234) (154) (48) – – – (436)
Net operating income ............... 2,862  2,041 3,946 308 4,163  (172) 13,148 
Total operating expenses ............ (2,238) (993) (1,279) (149) (1,319) 172 (5,806)
Operating profit ........................ 624 1,048 2,667 159 2,844  – 7,342 
Share of profit in associates 
and joint ventures ................... 893 1,554 658 – 1 – 3,106 
Profit before tax ........................ 1,517  2,602 3,325 159 2,845  – 10,448 
 %  %  %  %  %  % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ................................  7.3   12.6  16.1  0.8  13.8   50.6 
Cost efficiency ratio ...................  72.3   45.2  32.0  48.4  31.7   42.7 
Balance sheet data
74
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ....................... 46,027  43,968 44,721 3,238 165 138,119 
Total assets ................................. 55,509  59,123 201,774 12,142 24,534  (10,813) 342,269 
Customer accounts ...................... 63,230  44,865 64,392 11,095 39 183,621  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Rest of Asia-Pacific / Middle East and North Africa 
98
Profit before tax and balance sheet data – Rest of Asia-Pacific (continued) 
2011
 Retail 
 Banking 
and Wealth 
Management
 US$m 
 Commercial 
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global 
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m 
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
85
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit before tax    
Net interest income ..................... 1,838  1,254 1,964 116 123  (193) 5,102 
Net fee income/(expense) ........... 904  513 621 82 (9) – 2,111 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income . 94   156 1,153 66 (90) – 1,379 
Net interest income/(expense)  
on trading activities ................ (2)  1 76 – 11  193  279 
Net trading income/(expense)
78
 .. 92  157 1,229 66 (79) 193  1,658 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives .............................. –  – – – 4  – 4 
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... (38)  2 1 – 15  – (20)
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... (38) 2 1 – 19  – (16)
Gains less losses from  
financial investments .............. – 2 (25) 1 (1) – (23)
Dividend income ......................... – – 2 – – – 2 
Net earned insurance premiums . 493  266 – – – – 759 
Other operating income .............. 145  72 75 5 1,592  (178) 1,711 
Total operating income ............... 3,434  2,266 3,867 270 1,645  (178) 11,304 
Net insurance claims
86
 ................ (351) (240) – – – – (591)
Net operating income
21
............... 3,083  2,026 3,867 270 1,645  (178) 10,713 
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other credit  
risk provisions ........................ (222) 10 (57) 2 – – (267)
Net operating income ................. 2,861  2,036 3,810 272 1,645  (178) 10,446 
Total operating expenses ............ (2,409) (945) (1,268) (181) (1,181) 178  (5,806)
Operating profit .......................... 452  1,091 2,542 91 464  – 4,640 
Share of profit/(loss) in
associates and joint ventures .. 1,189  1,155 547 – (60) – 2,831 
Profit before tax .......................... 1,641  2,246 3,089 91 404  – 7,471 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ................................  7.5    10.3  14.1  0.4  1.9      34.2 
Cost efficiency ratio ...................  78.1    46.6  32.8  67.0  71.8      54.2 
        
Balance sheet data
74
       
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ....................... 40,970  38,404 41,114 3,190 190   123,868 
Total assets ................................. 54,484  50,688 195,549 12,879 16,616  (12,400) 317,816 
Customer accounts ...................... 60,831  40,423 60,855 11,872 31   174,012 
For footnotes, see page 120.  99
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Middle East and North Africa 
The network of branches of HSBC Bank Middle 
East Limited, together with HSBC’s subsidiaries 
and associates, gives us the widest coverage in 
the region. Our associate in Saudi Arabia, The 
Saudi British Bank (40% owned), is the 
Kingdom’s sixth largest bank by total assets. 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income .......... 1,470  1,432 1,367 
Net fee income ................. 595 627 677 
Net trading income .......... 390 482 370 
Other income ................... (25) 66 (4)
Net operating income
21
.. 2,430  2,607 2,410 
LICs
76
 ............................... (286) (293) (627)
Net operating income .... 2,144  2,314 1,783 
Total operating expenses .. (1,166) (1,159) (1,078)
Operating profit ............. 978 1,155 705 
Income from associates
77
. 372 337 187 
Profit before tax ............. 1,350  1,492 892 
Cost efficiency ratio ........  48.0%    44.5%  44.7% 
RoRWA
66
 .........................  2.2%   2.6%  1.6% 
Year-end staff numbers ... 8,765 8,373 8,676 
Completed two acquisitions and  
made progress on the  
Group’s six filters 
Approximately 
US$70m
sustainable cost savings from our  
organisational effectiveness programmes 
4th
consecutive year: 
Best Regional Cash 
Management Provider 
in the Middle East  
Euromoney
5th
consecutive year: 
Best Trade Finance 
Bank in the Middle 
East and North Africa 
Global Trade Review 2012  
For footnotes, see page 120. 
Economic background  
Real GDP in the Middle East and North Africa
region grew by an estimated 4.5% in 2012. 
However, this weighted aggregate figure masked a 
wide disparity between oil producers (5.1%) and 
non-oil producers (2.9%). For the Gulf Cooperation 
Council’s top performers, energy output volumes 
remained high and revenues rose, fuelling 
government spending-driven domestic demand 
which fed through to a stronger non-oil private 
sector performance, job creation and a recovery in 
bank lending. Saudi Arabia (which recorded growth 
of nearly 7% in 2012), Qatar (6%) and Oman (5%) 
fell into this category. In the UAE, more muted 
fiscal and monetary stimuli meant overall growth 
was slower, but Dubai’s export-oriented service 
sector recorded a good recovery in 2012, and Abu 
Dhabi picked up in the second half of the year. 
Despite the strong growth, inflation remained low 
across the Gulf region.
In Egypt, growth remained weak, held back by 
ongoing political uncertainty which continued to 
weigh on domestic and foreign investment and 
consumption. Pressure on public finances and 
Egypt’s external accounts remained pronounced, 
with the Egyptian pound weakening significantly. 
Elsewhere in the oil importing parts of the region, 
the pressures were not as great, but in Lebanon, 
Jordan, Morocco and Tunisia, growth fell and their 
external balances deteriorated, with the latter three, 
following a significant worsening of public finances, 
approaching the International Monetary Fund for 
assistance by the end of the year.  
Review of performance 
Our operations in the Middle East and North Africa 
reported a profit before tax of US$1.4bn, a decrease 
of 10% compared with 2011. On a constant currency 
basis, pre-tax profits decreased by 9%. 
Our reported results in 2012 included an 
investment loss on a subsidiary of US$85m and 
adverse movements of US$12m on our own debt 
designated at fair value resulting from tightening 
credit spreads, partly offset by gains recognised on 
acquisitions totalling US$21m. Reported profits 
in 2011 included a dilution gain of US$27m on our 
holding in HSBC Saudi Arabia Ltd following its 
merger with SABB Securities Ltd and a loss of 
US$7m relating to the disposal of our Private Equity 
business. On an underlying basis, excluding the 
items noted above, profit before tax decreased by 
3% as a result of a small number of significant 
impairments on GB&M exposures.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Middle East and North Africa 
100
Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses 
 Retail
 Banking
 and Wealth 
 Management 
 US$m 
 Commercial 
 Banking 
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and 
 Markets 
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
2012
Egypt .................................................... 67 71 157 – (5) 290
Qatar .................................................... 9 36 84 – – 129
United Arab Emirates .......................... 143 235 141 1 (56) 464
Other .................................................... (27) 125 29 – (37) 90
MENA (excluding Saudi Arabia) ........ 192 467 411 1 (98) 973
Saudi Arabia ........................................ 60 120 170 9 18 377
252 587 581 10 (80) 1,350 
2011       
Egypt .................................................... 43 55 129 – (2) 225 
Qatar .................................................... (4) 35 81 – – 112 
United Arab Emirates .......................... 134 240 200 (6) 7 575 
Other .................................................... 17 109 93 – – 219 
MENA (excluding Saudi Arabia) ........ 190 439 503 (6) 5 1,131 
Saudi Arabia ........................................ 57 98 140 4 62 361 
 247 537 643 (2) 67 1,492 
2010       
Egypt .................................................... 38 82 77 – (2) 195 
Qatar .................................................... 19 52 67 – – 138 
United Arab Emirates .......................... 17 186 121 1 (1) 324 
Other .................................................... 19 57 (19) – – 57 
MENA (excluding Saudi Arabia) ........ 93 377 246 1 (3) 714 
Saudi Arabia ........................................ 25 107 53 (16) 9 178 
 118 484 299 (15) 6 892 
During 2012, we focused on simplifying our 
operations in the Middle East and North Africa by 
disposing of non-strategic businesses and continuing 
to improve our organisational efficiency while 
investing in strategic acquisitions. 
We made significant progress in integrating 
our operations in Oman with OIB following the 
merger in June 2012. The combined entity, HSBC 
Bank Oman S.A.O.G., of which we own 51%, is 
now the third largest bank in the Sultanate. We also 
completed the acquisition of the onshore retail and 
commercial banking business of Lloyds Banking 
Group in the UAE in the fourth quarter of 2012. 
Lloyds’ strong presence in expatriate retail banking 
and commercial banking was a good strategic fit 
with our position as the leading international bank in 
the UAE. We also completed the disposal of 80.1% 
of our Private Equity business in December. We 
announced in September our agreement to sell our 
operations in Pakistan and, in October, the 
restructuring of our Amanah business in the region 
outside Saudi Arabia. 
We remained focused on our priority markets, 
delivering profit growth in Egypt and Saudi Arabia. 
The strong performance in Egypt was driven by 
robust deposit growth in RBWM which led to higher 
net interest income. We also achieved growth in 
profits from our associates, mainly The Saudi British 
Bank, which won the Euromoney award for 
excellence as ‘The Best Bank in Saudi Arabia’ and 
‘The Best Debt House in Saudi Arabia’. Although 
profit before tax declined in the UAE as a result of 
the impairments in GB&M noted above, it remains a 
priority market for HSBC and the economy 
continued to improve in 2012. 
Delivery of sustainable cost savings remained 
a priority for 2012. Our organisational effectiveness 
initiatives included streamlining procedures by 
delayering our management structure and 
transferring additional operational processes to 
our global service centres. We realised about 
US$70m in sustainable savings from our 
organisational effectiveness programmes. 
In RBWM, we remained focused on growing 
Wealth Management revenues. We entered into a 
strategic alliance with Zurich Life International 
(‘Zurich’) in 2012 to provide wealth and general 
insurance products to our customers in the region. 
Our focus on foreign exchange resulted in increased 
transaction volumes, which provided us with higher  101
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Wealth Management revenues for 2012. In addition, 
we enhanced our internet banking capabilities in the 
UAE to provide improved security and rolled out our 
digital solution for mobile banking in the region to 
allow customers greater accessibility. 
In CMB, we continued to support internationally 
oriented SMEs. This was evidenced by the launch 
of our third SME fund in the UAE of AED1bn 
(US$272m), targeted at international trade 
customers. We continued to invest in the Global 
Trade and Receivables Finance client service and 
business development teams, and enhanced our 
Receivables Finance products across the region. We 
endeavoured to strengthen this position by holding 
mainland China and Turkey events to focus on these 
emerging trade routes. 
Our Payments and Cash Management business 
continued to record strong revenue growth, and was 
named ‘The Best Cash Management House in the 
Middle East 2012’ in the Euromoney awards for 
excellence for the fourth consecutive year. 
In GB&M, we continued to focus on ‘South-
South’ connectivity. We leveraged our global 
expertise to provide access to Asian investors for 
issuers in the region with funding requirements with 
our dedicated coverage teams on our mainland China, 
South Korea and India desks in the UAE and Saudi 
Arabia. We also completed a significant number 
of bond issuances, reflecting the continuing investor 
appetite for the region’s debt. We won several 
Euromoney awards for excellence including ‘The Best 
Debt House in the Middle East’ and ‘The Best Flow 
House in the Middle East’. GB&M also won Global 
Investor’s ‘The Best Domestic Custodian’. 
The following commentary is on a constant 
currency basis. 
Net interest income rose by 3%, driven by higher 
average deposit balances in RBWM, primarily savings 
accounts in Egypt, reflecting the competitive pricing 
introduced at the beginning of the year. Despite this, 
we benefited from wider spreads as interest rates rose 
in Egypt. Net interest income in CMB was in line with 
2011 as higher income resulting from the merger with 
OIB was offset by competitive asset pricing across 
most of the region. 
Net fee income decreased by 4% due to a decline 
in credit and lending, Securities Services and 
advisory fees in GB&M, which were affected by 
lower levels of deal activity and the challenging 
political and economic environment. Fees also 
declined in RBWM due to higher reward scheme 
charges in the UAE following revisions to the 
agreement with our partner aimed at improving card 
utilisation, partly offset by higher insurance revenues 
as a result of the strategic alliance with Zurich. The 
decline in fees was also attributable to our exit from 
domestic private banking in the UAE. These factors 
were partly offset by higher trade import fees in 
CMB in Algeria, Oman and Jordan driven by higher 
volumes from targeted sales activity. 
Net trading income decreased by 18%, mainly 
due to unfavourable credit valuation adjustments on 
trading positions relating to a small number of 
exposures in GB&M. We also reported adverse fair 
value movements on certain economic hedges as well 
as on structured liabilities as credit spreads tightened. 
This was partly offset by higher revaluation gains on 
equity holdings in Principal Investments. 
Gains less losses from financial investments 
increased by US$17m, driven by the non-recurrence 
of impairments on two available-for-sale equity 
securities in 2011, together with gains on the disposal 
of available-for-sale equity and debt securities in 
2012.
Other operating income decreased by US$89m, 
driven by the US$85m investment loss on a 
subsidiary.
Loan impairment charges and other credit 
risk provisions decreased by US$6m. Lower 
impairments in RBWM attributable to an 
improvement in delinquency rates reflected the 
repositioning of the book towards higher quality 
lending in previous years. In addition, CMB recorded 
a modest reduction in loan impairment charges as 
higher customer recoveries were largely offset by 
individually assessed impairments. These were partly 
offset by significant loan impairment charges recorded 
for a small number of large exposures in GB&M.  
Operating expenses increased by 1% as a result 
of employee and legal costs relating to the merger of 
our Omani operations with OIB and the acquisition of 
the onshore retail and commercial banking business of 
Lloyds Banking Group in the UAE. This was partially 
offset by the benefit arising from sustainable cost 
saving initiatives implemented in 2011 and throughout 
2012. Excluding the effect of the two acquisitions, we 
reduced both our employee numbers and our cost 
base.
Share of profits from associates and joint 
ventures increased by 10%, mainly from The Saudi 
British Bank. This was driven by higher revenue 
resulting from strong balance sheet growth, together 
with lower costs derived from effective control and 
monitoring.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Middle East and North Africa  
102
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Middle East and North Africa 
2012
 Retail 
 Banking 
and Wealth 
Management
 US$m 
Commercial
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m 
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
85
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax
Net interest income ..................... 597 492 367 1 42 (29) 1,470 
Net fee income/(expense) ........... 164 279 160 1 (9) – 595
Trading income excluding net 
interest income ....................... 68 94 208 – 3 – 373
Net interest income/(expense)  
on trading activities ................ – 2 30 – (44) 29 17
Net trading income/(expense)
78
 .. 68 96 238 – (41) 29 390
Net income from financial 
instruments designated at  
fair value ................................. – – – – (12) – (12)
Gains less losses from  
financial investments .............. – – 9 – – – 9
Dividend income ......................... – – 5 – – – 5
Other operating income/ 
(expense) ................................ (16) 21 14 1 47 (94) (27)
Total operating income ............ 813 888 793 3 27 (94) 2,430 
Net insurance claims
86
 ................ – – – – – – –
Net operating income
21
............. 813 888 793 3 27 (94) 2,430 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions ..... (55) (110) (119) (2) – – (286)
Net operating income ............... 758 778 674 1 27 (94) 2,144 
Total operating expenses ............ (561) (311) (264) – (124) 94 (1,166)
Operating profit/(loss) .............. 197 467 410 1 (97) – 978
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures ................... 55 120 171 9 17 – 372
Profit/(loss) before tax .............. 252 587 581 10 (80) – 1,350 
 %  %  %  %  %  % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ................................  1.2   2.8 2.8  –  (0.3)  6.5 
Cost efficiency ratio ...................  69.0   35.0  33.3  –  459.3   48.0 
Balance sheet data
74
US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ....................... 5,828  13,559 8,699 – – 28,086 
Total assets ................................. 6,562  15,651 36,582 50 6,840  (3,080) 62,605 
Customer accounts ...................... 19,802  12,826 6,880 3 72 39,583  103
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
2011
 Retail 
 Banking 
and Wealth 
Management
 US$m 
 Commercial 
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global 
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m 
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
85
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax    
Net interest income ...................... 589  496 371 2 2  (28) 1,432 
Net fee income/(expense) ............ 173  271 173 13 (3) – 627 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income 62   95 266 1 (1) – 423 
Net interest income/(expense)  
on trading activities ................. –  – 32 – (1) 28  59 
Net trading income/(expense)
78
 ... 62  95 298 1 (2) 28  482 
Net income from financial 
instruments designated at  
fair value .................................. – – – – 10  – 10 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments ............... 1  1 (7) – (3) – (8)
Dividend income .......................... 1  1 3 – – – 5 
Other operating income/ 
(expense) ................................. 22  11 11 (1) 124  (108) 59 
Total operating income ................ 848  875 849 15 128  (108) 2,607 
Net insurance claims
86
 ................. – – – – – – –   
Net operating income
21
 ................ 848  875 849 15 128  (108) 2,607 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions ...... (126) (116) (51) – – – (293)
Net operating income .................. 722  759 798 15 128  (108) 2,314 
Total operating expenses ............. (535) (320) (295) (21) (96) 108  (1,159)
Operating profit/(loss) ................. 187  439 503 (6) 32  – 1,155 
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures .................... 60  98 140 4 35  – 337 
Profit/(loss) before tax ................. 247  537 643 (2) 67  – 1,492 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax .................................  1.1    2.5  2.9 –  0.3      6.8 
Cost efficiency ratio ....................  63.1    36.6  34.7  140.0  75.0      44.5 
        
Balance sheet data
74
       
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ........................ 4,921  12,446 8,479 26 3   25,875 
Total assets .................................. 6,549  14,556 34,676 72 4,792  (3,181) 57,464 
Customer accounts ....................... 18,549  10,943 6,703 114 113   36,422 
For footnotes, see page 120.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > North America 
104
North America 
Our North American businesses are located in 
the US, Canada and Bermuda. Operations in 
the US are primarily conducted through HSBC 
Bank USA, N.A., and HSBC Finance, a national 
consumer finance company. HSBC Markets 
(USA) Inc. is the intermediate holding company 
of, inter alia, HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. HSBC 
Bank Canada and HSBC Bank Bermuda operate 
in their respective countries. 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income .......... 8,117  11,480 12,439 
Net fee income ................. 2,513  3,308 3,664 
Net trading income/ 
(expense) ....................... 507 (362) 314 
Gains on disposals of US 
branch network and  
cards business ................ 4,012  – – 
Other income/(expense) ... (456) 1,574 630 
Net operating income
21
.. 14,693  16,000 17,047 
LICs
76
 ............................... (3,457) (7,016) (8,295)
Net operating income .... 11,236  8,984 8,752 
Total operating expenses . (8,940) (8,919) (8,322)
Operating profit ............. 2,296  65 430 
Income from associates
77
.. 3 35 24 
Profit before tax ............. 2,299  100 454 
Cost efficiency ratio ........ 60.8 %   55.7%  48.8% 
RoRWA
66
 .........................  0.8%   –  0.1% 
Year-end staff numbers ... 22,443 30,981 33,865 
Gross balances in the CML portfolio,  
including loans held for sale, down by 
US$6.8bn 
to US$43bn
US$3.6bn 
reduction in loan impairment charges, 
including US$1.3bn relating to  
Card and Retail Services
Record reported pre-tax profit of 
US$1.1bn
from our Canadian operations 
For footnotes, see page 120. 
Economic background 
In the US, real GDP expanded by 2.2% in 2012, 
following 1.8% growth in 2011. Consumer spending 
increased at a moderate pace as households 
continued to pay down debt and rebuild wealth. 
The housing market improved in 2012. Residential 
investment rose by 11.9%, climbing from a multi-
decade low in 2011. Sales of new and existing 
homes also increased, and house prices rose 
modestly during the year. The growth in fixed 
investment by business faltered in the middle of 
2012, evidenced by a slowdown in capital equipment 
orders, but began to recover towards the end of the 
year. Export growth slowed to 3.2% in 2012, about 
half the growth recorded in 2011. Fiscal consolidation 
continued to hold back the economy. Budgetary caps 
on spending contributed to a 2.2% decline in federal 
government expenditure in 2012, in real terms. State 
and local government expenditure also continued to 
contract, though the severity of the cutbacks 
diminished compared with 2011. 
Inflation was generally subdued in 2012. 
Headline and core CPI inflation for the year were 
each recorded at 2.1%. High unemployment and low 
wage growth continued to hold back labour costs. 
In addition, prices for goods imported into the US 
experienced very little inflation in 2012. The Federal 
Reserve continued to pursue a highly supportive 
monetary policy. At meetings in January, September, 
and December, the Federal Open Market Committee 
adjusted its forward guidance for an exceptionally 
low federal funds rate and agreed on open-ended 
purchases of longer-term securities in an effort to 
maintain downward pressure on interest rates, 
support mortgage markets and help make broader 
financial conditions more accommodating. 
In Canada, GDP growth slowed in 2012 to 2.0% 
from 2.6% in 2011. The slowdown in economic 
activity was particularly notable in the second half of 
the year. One factor contributing to the slowdown, 
which took effect in July 2012, was the introduction 
of measures by the federal government to cool the 
housing market by tightening mortgage lending 
conditions. House prices, home sales and housing 
starts declined after those initiatives came into force. 
In addition, exports fell sharply with the deceleration 
in global manufacturing activity and global trade, and 
temporary disruptions in energy production in 
Eastern Canada and capacity constraints on Western 
Canada pipelines. An uncertain US economic outlook 
together with weakness in key Canadian commodity 
prices and a sharp decline in corporate   105
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses 
 Retail
 Banking
 and Wealth 
 Management 
 US$m 
 Commercial 
 Banking 
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and 
 Markets 
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
2012
US ........................................................ 2,746 637 661 72 (2,901) 1,215 
Canada ................................................. 207 577 314 (1) (16) 1,081 
Bermuda ............................................... 42 (15) (18) 1 (7) 3
Other .................................................... – – – – – –
2,995 1,199 957 72 (2,924) 2,299 
2011       
US ........................................................ (2,861) 431 567 83 782 (998)
Canada ................................................. 147 545 265 – 8 965 
Bermuda ............................................... 49 26 43 7 9 134 
Other .................................................... – – – – (1) (1)
 (2,665) 1,002 875 90 798 100 
2010       
US ........................................................ (2,305) 402 1,284 113 (39) (545)
Canada ................................................. 131 505 227 – 4 867 
Bermuda ............................................... 58 32 38 (3) 7 132 
Other .................................................... – – – 1 (1) – 
 (2,116)939 1,549 111 (29) 454 
performance weighed on business investment. 
Headline CPI inflation fell steadily through the year 
to 1.5%, from 2.9% in 2011. Though the Bank of 
Canada slightly tightened monetary policy early in 
2012, the economic slowdown and the decline in the 
rate of CPI inflation led the Bank to leave rates on 
hold throughout the year. 
Review of performance 
Our operations in North America reported a profit 
before tax of US$2.3bn in 2012, compared with 
US$100m in 2011. Our reported profits included 
gains in the US of US$3.1bn and US$864m 
on completion of the sale of the Card and Retail 
Services business in May 2012 and the 195 non-
strategic retail branches in May and August 2012, 
respectively. Also included in our reported profits 
was US$618m relating to profit before tax in 
Card and Retail Services prior to the disposal (2011: 
US$2.1bn). In addition, we recorded a gain of 
US$83m from the sale of the full service retail 
brokerage business in Canada. We also recognised 
US$1.2bn of adverse movements on our own debt 
designated at fair value resulting from tightening in 
credit spreads, compared with favourable 
movements of US$964m in 2011.  
On an underlying basis, our pre-tax loss of 
US$1.5bn in 2012 compared with a pre-tax loss 
of US$3.1bn in 2011. This was due to lower loan 
impairment charges, primarily in CML, reflecting 
a decline in lending balances as the portfolio 
continued to run off, lower delinquency levels, and 
higher revenue mainly driven by lower adverse 
movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC 
Finance. This was partly offset by higher operating 
expenses due to fines and penalties paid of 
US$1.5bn by HNAH and its subsidiaries as part 
of the settlement of investigations into inadequate 
compliance with anti-money laundering laws in the 
past.
Underlying profit before tax in Canada rose, 
as revenues benefited from an increase in fees from 
commercial lending activities and collaboration 
with GB&M, higher Rates revenue due to increased 
trading volumes, and higher revenues in Balance 
Sheet Management reflecting an increase in gains on 
sales of available-for-sale assets. These results were 
partly offset by lower net interest income due to the 
closure of the Canadian consumer finance company 
to new business, spread compression from strong 
competition and the prolonged low interest rate 
environment. Our operations in Bermuda reported 
a significantly reduced profit before tax, primarily 
due to higher loan impairment charges on a small 
number of exposures in GB&M and CMB.  
We made significant progress in disposing of 
businesses not aligned with our long-term strategy. 
On completing the sale of our US Card and Retail 
Services business, we transferred over 5,000 
employees and certain real estate facilities to the 
purchaser. In addition, we entered into a transition 
services agreement to support some of the account  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > North America 
106
servicing operations until all systems, processes and 
equipment are integrated into the purchaser’s 
existing infrastructure. We also completed the sale of 
the retail branches, principally in upstate New York, 
recognising gains of US$586m in RBWM and 
US$278m in CMB.  
In Canada, we completed the sale of the full 
service retail brokerage business. We also 
announced the closure of our consumer finance 
business, which had net customer loan balances 
of US$1.5bn at 31 December 2012, and ceased the 
origination of loans as this business did not fit with 
our core strategy.  
We continued to manage the run-off of lending 
balances in our CML portfolio and, in the third 
quarter of 2012, we reclassified non-real estate 
personal loan balances of US$3.7bn, net of 
impairment allowances, from our CML portfolio 
to ‘Assets held for sale’ as we actively marketed the 
portfolio. We also identified real estate secured loan 
balances, with a carrying amount of US$3.8bn, 
which, as part of our strategy, we have announced 
we plan to actively market in multiple transactions 
over the next two years. At 31 December 2012, the 
carrying value of the non-real estate and the real 
estate secured loans which we intend to sell was 
approximately US$1bn greater than their estimated 
fair value. We expect to recognise a loss on sale for 
these loans over the next few years, the actual 
amount of which will depend on market conditions 
at the time of the sales. It is expected that reduction 
in these loans in our CML portfolio will be capital 
accretive and will reduce funding requirements, 
accelerate the winding down of the portfolio and also 
alleviate some of the operational burdens, given that 
these loans are servicing intensive and subject to 
foreclosure delays. 
At 31 December 2012, lending balances 
in CML, including loans held for sale, were 
US$43bn, a decline of 14% from December 2011, of 
which 8% was attributable to the balances written 
off.
We incurred costs of US$221m in 2012 (2011: 
US$235m) as a result of restructuring activities in 
the region. These costs were mainly related to the 
business disposals, the closure of our consumer 
finance operations in Canada and the continuation of 
our organisational effectiveness initiatives. We also 
achieved approximately US$230m of additional 
sustainable cost savings in 2012, primarily derived 
from operational efficiencies.  
Following the disposals noted above, we are 
reshaping our US operations to focus on core 
activities and are continuing to reposition our 
businesses in both the US and Canada towards 
international customers. 
In RBWM, we continued to develop our 
Wealth Management capabilities across the region, 
targeting internationally connected customers in key 
US and Canadian urban centres. Our relationship-
based model offers a suite of wealth services 
incorporating HSBC and third-party products, 
enabling our internationally-minded customers to 
invest in global markets. In the US, we launched a 
renminbi fixed income fund to provide investors 
with the opportunity to access mainland China’s 
bond market. 
In CMB, we increased the number of 
relationship managers and specialist sales staff in 
2012 in areas with strong international connectivity, 
notably the West Coast, South East and Midwest of 
the US, leading to higher lending balances than in 
2011. In Canada, we introduced the first renminbi 
currency account. We also established dedicated 
sales teams to enhance CMB’s collaboration with 
GB&M. In addition, in CMB and GB&M, we 
continued to target companies with international 
banking requirements, leading to a rise in Global 
Trade and Receivables Finance revenues in both the 
US and Canada.
In GB&M, we continued to work on delivering 
integrated solutions for our customers across the 
region, increasing our lending to Latin American 
corporates. In addition, we actively reduced our 
legacy credit exposure in the US by exiting certain 
positions. We will continue to reduce the size of this 
portfolio as opportunities arise. 
The following commentary is on a constant 
currency basis. 
Net interest income decreased by 29% to 
US$8.1bn, due to the loss of income from the Card 
and Retail Services business together with the 
continued reduction of the CML portfolio in run-off. 
Also contributing to the decrease was a change in 
composition of our lending book towards higher 
levels of lower yielding real estate loans. 
Net fee income decreased by 24% to US$2.5bn, 
primarily due to the sale of the Card and Retail 
Services business, the retail branches and the full 
service retail brokerage business in Canada. This 
was partly offset by fees from the transition service 
agreement with the purchaser of the Card and Retail 
Services business and increased revenues from debt 
capital markets origination activity due to the strong 
debt issuance market.  107
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Net trading income of US$507m was US$871m 
higher than in 2011, primarily due to lower adverse 
fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in 
RBWM as long-term interest rates declined to a 
lesser extent than in 2011. This was partly offset by 
an increase from US$92m in 2011 to US$134m in 
2012 of loss provisions for mortgage loan repurchase 
obligations related to loans previously sold. 
Net trading income increased in GB&M during 
2012 as a result of the improved performance of 
economic hedges used to manage interest rate risk, 
which benefited from a more stable interest rate 
environment. Rates revenue was higher due to 
increased trading volumes. In addition, credit market 
conditions generally reflected tighter credit spreads, 
which led to higher income from our credit-related 
products. These factors were partly offset by adverse 
fair value movements on structured liabilities as own 
credit spreads tightened, together with the closure of 
our bank notes business in 2011, and a reduction in 
foreign exchange revenue as a result of lower trading 
volumes in less volatile markets.  
Net loss from financial instruments designated 
at fair value was US$1.2bn compared with net gains 
of US$964m in 2011. We recognised adverse fair 
value movements on our own debt designated at fair 
value as credit spreads tightened during 2012, having 
widened in 2011. In addition, there were adverse fair 
value movements from interest rate ineffectiveness 
in the economic hedging of our long-term debt 
during the year.  
Gains on disposal of US branch network and 
cards business included a gain of US$3.1bn from the 
sale of the Card and Retail Services business and 
US$864m from the sale of 195 retail branches in 
upstate New York. 
Other operating income increased by US$176m 
to US$405m, reflecting lower losses on foreclosed 
properties due to the reduction in foreclosure 
activity, less deterioration in housing prices during 
2012 and, in some markets, improvements in pricing 
compared with 2011. 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions decreased by 51% to US$3.5bn, mainly in 
the US, reflecting lower lending balances in CML as 
we continued to run off the portfolio, and lower 
delinquency levels. Loan impairment charges 
remained adversely affected by delays in expected 
cash flows from mortgage loans due, in part, to 
delays in foreclosure processing and the higher costs 
to obtain and realise collateral, although the effects 
were less pronounced than in 2011. In addition, loan 
impairment charges declined by US$1.3bn due to the 
sale of the Card and Retail Services business. These 
decreases were partly offset by an adjustment made 
following a review completed in the fourth quarter of 
2012 which concluded that the estimated average 
period of time from current status to write-off was 
ten months for real estate loans (previously a period 
of seven months was used). 
In CMB and GB&M, loan impairment charges 
increased, mainly in Bermuda, due to individually 
assessed impairments on a small number of 
exposures. Credit quality in Canada remained 
broadly unchanged. 
Operating expenses increased by less than 1% to 
US$8.9bn, primarily due to a US$1.5bn charge for 
the settlement of investigations noted above. 
Compliance costs increased by US$307m, mainly 
due to investment in process enhancements and 
infrastructure related to anti-money laundering and 
Bank Secrecy Act consent orders, along with actions 
to address the regulatory consent orders relating to 
foreclosure activities. In addition, following a review 
of our mortgage foreclosure process, we entered into 
an agreement in principle with US regulators to pay 
into a fund and provide other customer assistance to 
help eligible borrowers who were active in 
foreclosure during 2009 and 2010 and were 
financially disadvantaged during the process, for 
which we recognised a US$104m expense in 2012. 
These increases were partly offset by the effect of 
the sale of the Card and Retail Services business and 
organisational effectiveness initiatives to reduce 
costs as we achieved approximately US$230m of 
additional sustainable cost savings primarily derived 
from operational efficiencies. Average employee 
numbers decreased from organisational effectiveness 
initiatives and business disposals. In addition, 
marketing costs fell and costs of holding foreclosed 
properties declined, while software impairment 
charges in 2011 did not recur.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > North America 
108
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – North America 
2012
 Retail 
 Banking 
and Wealth 
Management
 US$m 
Commercial 
 Banking
89
US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m 
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
85
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax
Net interest income ..................... 5,481  1,443 948 192 118 (65) 8,117 
Net fee income ............................ 923 562 716 124 188 – 2,513 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income  (216) 47 466 20 16 – 333
Net interest income on trading 
activities .................................. 17 1 91 – – 65 174
Net trading income/(expense)
78
 .. (199) 48 557 20 16 65 507
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives .............................. – – – – (1,219) – (1,219)
Net income from other financial 
instruments designated at 
fair value ................................. – – – – – – –
Net expense from financial 
instruments designated at  
fair value ................................. – – – – (1,219) – (1,219)
Gains less losses from  
financial investments .............. 27 – 223 (7) 8 – 251
Dividend income ......................... 15 11 32 3 – – 61
Net earned insurance premiums . 193 – – – – – 193
Gains on disposal of US branch 
network and cards business .... 3,735  277 – – – – 4,012 
Other operating income .............. 173 149 191 5 1,787  (1,899) 406
Total operating income ............ 10,348  2,490 2,667 337 898 (1,899) 14,841 
Net insurance claims
86
 ................ (148) – – – – – (148)
Net operating income
21
............. 10,200  2,490 2,667 337 898 (1,899) 14,693 
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other  
credit risk provisions .............. (3,241) (148) (71) 3 – – (3,457)
Net operating income ............... 6,959  2,342 2,596 340 898 (1,899) 11,236 
Total operating expenses ............ (3,966) (1,144) (1,639) (268) (3,822) 1,899  (8,940)
Operating profit/(loss) .............. 2,993  1,198 957 72 (2,924) – 2,296 
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures ................... 2 1 – – – – 3
Profit/(loss) before tax .............. 2,995  1,199 957 72 (2,924) – 2,299 
 %  %  %  %  %  % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ................................  14.5  5.8  4.6  0.3  (14.2)  11.1 
Cost efficiency ratio ...................  38.9   45.9  61.5  79.5  425.6   60.8 
Balance sheet data
74
US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m US$m 
Loans and advances to customers 
(net) reported in: 
– loans and advances to 
customers (net) .................... 76,414  36,387 22,498 5,457 – 140,756 
– assets held for sale
(disposal groups) ................. 3,899 – – – – 3,899 
Total assets ................................. 101,103 48,604 345,040 8,828 12,659  (25,987) 490,247 
Customer accounts reported in: 
– customer accounts ............... 57,758  48,080 29,595 13,553 51 149,037  109
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
2011
 Retail 
 Banking 
and Wealth 
Management 
 US$m  
Commercial 
 Banking
89
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global 
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m  
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
85
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax    
Net interest income ..................... 8,931  1,528 893 187 9  (68) 11,480 
Net fee income/(expense) ........... 1,836  551 773 149 (1) – 3,308 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income  (946)  34 261 17 (26) – (660)
Net interest income/(expense)  
on trading activities ................ 25   1 205 – (1) 68  298 
Net trading income/(expense)
78
 .. (921) 35 466 17 (27) 68  (362)
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives .............................. –  – – – 967 – 967
Net income/(expense) from  
other financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... –  – (5) – 2  – (3)
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ........... – – (5) – 969  – 964 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments .............. 58  7 195 – 2  – 262 
Dividend income ......................... 15  9 13 3 – – 40 
Net earned insurance premiums . 236  – – – – – 236 
Other operating income .............. (125) 110 193 11 2,244  (2,207) 226 
Total operating income ............... 10,030  2,240 2,528 367 3,196  (2,207) 16,154 
Net insurance claims
86
 ................ (154) – – – – – (154)
Net operating income
21
 ............... 9,876  2,240 2,528 367 3,196  (2,207) 16,000 
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other  
credit risk provisions .............. (6,929) (105) (11) 30 (1) – (7,016)
Net operating income ................. 2,947  2,135 2,517 397 3,195  (2,207) 8,984 
Total operating expenses ............ (5,615) (1,166) (1,642) (307) (2,396) 2,207  (8,919)
Operating profit/(loss) ................ (2,668) 969 875 90 799  – 65 
Share of profit/(loss) in
associates and joint ventures .. 3  33 – – (1) – 35 
Profit/(loss) before tax ................ (2,665) 1,002 875 90 798  – 100 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ................................  (12.2)   4.6  4.0  0.4  3.7      0.5 
Cost efficiency ratio ...................  56.9    52.1  65.0  83.7  75.0      55.7 
        
Balance sheet data
74
       
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to customers 
(net) reported in:        
– loans and advances to 
customers (net) .................... 86,490  32,215 19,289 4,753 –  142,747 
– assets held for sale
(disposal groups) ................. 31,058 520 – – –  31,578 
Total assets ................................. 144,278  43,747 320,783 7,138 10,378  (22,022) 504,302
Customer accounts reported in:        
– customer accounts ............... 63,558  47,003 30,465 14,862 94   155,982 
– liabilities of disposal
groups held for sale ............. 10,104 5,040 – – –  15,144 
For footnotes, see page 120.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > North America / Latin America 
110
North America RBWM – profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data 
2012 2011
 Card and  
 Retail  
 Services  
 US$m 
 Run-off 
 portfolios 
 US$m 
 Rest of
 RBWM
 US$m 
 North 
 America
  RBWM
 US$m 
 Card and
 Retail
 Services
 US$m 
 Run-off  
 portfolios 
 US$m  
 Rest of
 RBWM
 US$m  
 North
  America
 RBWM 
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax    
Net interest income .................... 1,267 2,563 1,651 5,481 4,128 2,990 1,813 8,931 
Net fee income/(expense) .......... 395 33 495 923 1,273 (49) 612 1,836 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income – (226) 10 (216) – (1,145) 199 (946)
Net interest income on  
trading activities .................... – – 17 17 – – 25 25
Net trading income/(expense)
78
 . – (226) 27 (199) – (1,145) 224 (921)
Gains less losses from  
financial investments ............. – – 27 27 – 55 3 58 
Dividend income ........................ – 3 12 15 – 5 10 15 
Net earned insurance premiums . – – 193 193 – 230 6 236 
Gains on disposal of US branch 
network and cards business ... 3,148 – 587 3,735 – – – – 
Other operating income 
/(expense) .............................. 7 23 143 173 61 (185) (1) (125)
Total operating income ........... 4,817 2,396 3,135 10,348 5,462 1,901 2,667 10,030 
Net insurance claims
86
 ............... – – (148) (148) – (156) 2 (154)
Net operating income
21
 ............ 4,817 2,396 2,987 10,200 5,462 1,745 2,669 9,876 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions .... (322) (2,569) (350) (3,241) (1,600) (4,982) (347) (6,929)
Net operating income/ 
(expense) ............................... 4,495 (173) 2,637 6,959 3,862 (3,237) 2,322 2,947 
Total operating expenses ........... (729) (1,103) (2,134) (3,966) (1,801) (1,238) (2,576) (5,615)
Operating profit/(loss) ............. 3,766 (1,276) 503 2,993 2,061 (4,475) (254) (2,668)
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures .................. – 2 – 2 – 3 – 3 
Profit/(loss) before tax ............. 3,766 (1,274) 503 2,995 2,061 (4,472) (254) (2,665)
 %  %  %  %  %  %  %   % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ...............................  18.2  (6.2) 2.4  14.5  9.4  (20.4)   (1.2)   (12.2)
Cost efficiency ratio ..................  15.1  46.0  71.4  38.9  33.0  70.9   96.5   56.9 
    
Balance sheet data
74
    
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Loans and advances to customers 
(net) reported in:     
–  loans and advances to  
customers ........................... – – 76,414 76,414 – 43,543 42,947 86,490 
–  assets held for sale ............ – – 1,921 – 29,137 – 1,921 31,058 
Total assets ................................ – – 101,103 101,103 30,635 56,830 56,813 144,278 
Customer accounts reported in:     
–  customer accounts ............. – – 57,758 57,758 – – 63,558 63,558 
–  liabilities of disposal  
groups held for sale ........... – – 10,104 – – – 10,104 10,104 
For footnotes, see page 120. 111
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Latin America 
Our operations in Latin America principally 
comprise HSBC Bank Brasil S.A.-Banco 
Múltiplo, HSBC México, S.A., HSBC Bank 
Argentina S.A. and HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A. 
In addition to banking services, we operate 
insurance businesses in Brazil, Mexico, 
Argentina and Panama. 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income .......... 6,984  6,956 6,311 
Net fee income ................. 1,735  1,781 1,749 
Net trading income .......... 971 1,378 733 
Other income ................... 1,261  1,338 938 
Net operating income
21
.. 10,951  11,453 9,731 
LICs
76
 ............................... (2,137) (1,883) (1,544)
Net operating income .... 8,814  9,570 8,187 
Total operating expenses .. (6,430) (7,255) (6,394)
Operating profit ............. 2,384  2,315 1,793 
Income from associates
77
. – – 2 
Profit before tax ............. 2,384  2,315 1,795 
Cost efficiency ratio ........  58.7%    63.3%  65.7% 
RoRWA
66
 .........................  2.4%   2.3%  2.0% 
Year-end staff numbers ... 46,556 54,035 56,044 
Significant progress on reducing 
fragmentation in our portfolio of businesses 
Strong underlying revenue growth 
across all global businesses 
US$475m 
increase in LICs
76
(on an underlying basis)
For footnotes, see page 120. 
Economic background
Brazil’s GDP growth slowed further in 2012, mostly 
due to the effects of higher input costs, concern 
about global financial stability, and domestic 
regulatory uncertainty. Despite growth remaining 
low, consumer inflation remained above the 4.5% 
inflation target pursued by the Central Bank, ending 
2012 at 5.8%. 
By contrast, growth held up well in Mexico
in 2012 led, in particular, by favourable industrial 
exports to the US. Enhanced competitiveness helped 
Mexican exports to gain a larger share of total US 
imports. Domestically, demand stayed largely 
unchanged, encouraged by labour reforms passed 
by the new administration. Despite the growth 
figures, inflation ended 2012 slightly below 4% 
and converging on the 3% inflation target pursued 
by Banco de Mexico. 
Argentina reported a sharp slowdown in 2012. 
Balance of payments restrictions gradually escalated 
from capital flows to the current account, including 
imports of intermediate goods, which generated 
disruption in production and deterioration in 
business confidence. Despite this sharp slowdown, 
inflation continued to remain high, partly due to 
regulated price increases and import restrictions that 
lowered domestic supply. 
Review of performance 
Our operations in Latin America reported a profit 
before tax of US$2.4bn in 2012, 3% higher than in 
2011 and an increase of 16% on a constant currency 
basis. This included a gain of US$102m following 
the completion of the sale of our general insurance 
manufacturing business in Argentina, a loss of 
US$62m on the sale of our operations in Costa Rica, 
Honduras and El Salvador and a loss of US$96m 
recognised following the reclassification of our non-
strategic businesses in Colombia, Peru, and Paraguay 
to ‘Assets held for sale.’ 
On an underlying basis, pre-tax profits rose by 
19%, primarily due to increased revenues across 
all global businesses, partly offset by higher loan 
impairment charges. In RBWM, the revenue increase 
reflected growth in average lending balances in 
Argentina and a higher yielding portfolio mix in 
Brazil while, in CMB, it resulted from continued 
balance sheet growth in Brazil which was driven by 
a strong demand for trade-related lending and higher 
balances of Payment and Cash Management current 
accounts in Argentina. In addition, there were higher 
Balance Sheet Management revenues in Brazil 
following a downward movement in interest rates 
which HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Latin America  
112
Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses 
 Retail
 Banking
 and Wealth
 Management 
 US$m 
 Commercial 
 Banking 
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
 and
 Markets 
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
2012
Argentina ............................................. 209 169 174 – (46) 506
Brazil .................................................... 94 359 696 17 (43) 1,123 
Mexico ................................................. 338 176 201 2 (18) 699
Panama ................................................. 29 62 48 2 – 141
Other .................................................... (62) (15) 34 (1) (41) (85)
608 751 1,153 20 (148) 2,384 
2011       
Argentina ............................................. 91 107 148 – (2) 344 
Brazil .................................................... 241 566 515 13 (105) 1,230 
Mexico ................................................. 403 129 268 4 (178) 626 
Panama ................................................. 23 59 52 3 (9) 128 
Other .................................................... (55) 6 66 – (30) (13)
 703 867 1,049 20 (324) 2,315 
2010       
Argentina ............................................. 89 90 105 – – 284 
Brazil .................................................... 151 382 430 6 64 1,033 
Mexico ................................................. 174 24 210 4 (11) 401 
Panama ................................................. 48 57 33 2 – 140 
Other .................................................... (100) 1 51 (2) (13) (63)
 362 554 829 10 40 1,795 
lowered the cost of funding. In Brazil, loan 
impairment charges rose, primarily as a result of 
increased delinquency rates in RBWM and CMB, 
particularly in the Business Banking portfolio, 
reflecting lower economic growth in 2012. Loan 
impairment charges improved during the second half 
of 2012, mainly due to lower collective portfolio 
provisions in Brazil.  
We made significant progress in reducing the 
fragmentation in our Latin American businesses 
through disposals in our non-strategic markets. In 
May 2012, we announced the sale of our businesses 
in Colombia, Peru, Uruguay and Paraguay, with 
completion expected in 2013. We will continue to 
offer full branch services to our customers during 
transition. In the second half of 2012, we completed 
the sale of our businesses in Costa Rica, El Salvador 
and Honduras. In addition, we completed the sale of 
our general insurance manufacturing business in 
Argentina and announced the agreement to sell a 
portfolio of general insurance assets and liabilities in 
Mexico with completion expected in 2013. Under 
the terms of these agreements, the purchasers will 
provide general insurance products to HSBC to sell 
to our retail customers in the two countries. This 
long-term collaboration will broaden and strengthen 
the suite of general insurance products available to 
our customers. In February 2013, we announced an 
agreement to sell our operations in Panama. The 
transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and 
other conditions and is expected to complete by the 
third quarter of 2013. 
In our RBWM business, we made good progress 
in developing a wealth management service that 
addresses our customers’ needs and we strengthened 
our sales force capabilities to capture wealth creation 
in the region. Wealth Management revenues 
increased by over US$275m or 36%. This included 
the favourable effect of the recognition of a PVIF 
asset in Brazil. Excluding this gain, Wealth 
Management revenues rose by 17%, mainly from 
insurance and mutual funds.  
In CMB, we worked closely with GB&M 
to ensure our clients had access to appropriate 
products. In addition, our relationships with CMB 
payroll customers enabled us to increase personal 
lending to their employees, who became our RBWM 
customers. We were able to provide support to 
companies as they grow internationally through our 
Global Trade and Receivables Finance products, and 
used our international expertise to capture trade and 
capital flows, notably in the Brazil-China trade 
corridors. We continued to strengthen our service to 
international SMEs by increasing the number of 
specialist International Relationship Managers in 
Brazil.
In GB&M, we continued to target international  113
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
corporate customers throughout Latin America. 
We were awarded ‘First place in International Debt 
Capital Markets’ by the Brazilian Financial and 
Capital Markets Association and ‘Best Project 
Finance House in Latin America’ from Euromoney.
We also maintained a strong presence in the foreign 
exchange and derivatives markets. 
Across the region, we continued to implement 
measures to improve operational efficiency, 
incurring US$167m of restructuring costs in 2012. 
We achieved a 14% net reduction of almost 7,500 
FTEs, including more than 4,000 employees 
transferred with the disposals described earlier, and 
approximately US$285m of additional sustainable 
savings. 
The following commentary is on a constant 
currency basis. 
Net interest income increased by 12% compared 
with 2011, with growth across all global businesses. 
In RBWM, net interest income rose due to 
higher average lending volumes, mainly in personal 
loans and credit cards in Argentina as a result 
of successful marketing and sales campaigns. We 
also benefited from a change in the composition of 
the lending book in Brazil as we increased our 
balances of higher yielding assets. Net interest 
income from deposits also increased due to higher 
balances in current accounts in Mexico and savings 
accounts in Argentina supported by marketing 
campaigns.  
In CMB, higher net interest income reflected a 
rise in average loans and advances to customers in 
Brazil, driven by strong demand for trade-related 
lending and our focus on corporate relationships and 
sectors with potential for international expansion. 
Net interest income also rose in Argentina, mainly in 
Payments and Cash Management current accounts, 
reflecting higher balances which were supported by 
successful marketing campaigns, and wider spreads 
driven by a rise in interest rates. 
In GB&M, net interest income increased, 
notably in Balance Sheet Management in Brazil, as 
we benefited from the downward movements in 
interest rates which lowered the cost of funding 
assets in this portfolio. 
Net fee income increased by 8% to US$1.7bn, 
mainly due to higher Payments and Cash 
Management revenues, which benefited from 
mandates from new customers and repricing 
initiatives in Argentina and Brazil. Fee income was 
also higher as a result of the sale of the general 
insurance business as fee expense associated with 
this business was no longer incurred. 
Net trading income of US$971m was 19% lower 
than in 2011, primarily due to lower reverse repos 
driven by positions in GB&M in Brazil that had 
matured but had not been renewed, and lower 
income related to government debt securities. This 
was partly offset by gains in the Rates business as a 
result of favourable rate movements. 
Net income from financial instruments 
designated at fair value increased by 39%, or 
US$187m, mainly in Brazil, reflecting higher 
investment gains arising from favourable equity and 
debt market movements and growth in policyholder 
assets from higher sales of unit-linked pension 
products. To the extent that these investment gains 
were attributed to policyholders there was a 
corresponding increase in ‘Net insurance claims 
incurred and movement in liabilities to 
policyholders’. 
Gains less losses from financial investments 
of US$226m were 79% or US$100m higher than in 
2011, primarily in Brazil due to gains on sale of 
shares in non-strategic investments and disposals of 
government debt securities in GB&M in 2012, partly 
offset by the non-recurrence of a gain in GB&M on 
the sale of shares in a Mexican listed company in 
2011.
Net earned insurance premiums increased by 
5% to US$2.5bn, driven by increased sales in Brazil 
of unit-linked pension products and term life 
insurance products. Premiums also rose in Mexico, 
mainly due to growth in sales of an endowment 
product. In Argentina, premiums were lower, 
following the sale of the general insurance business 
in 2012. 
Other operating income decreased by 8% 
to US$253m, driven by a loss of US$62m on the 
sale of our operations in Costa Rica, Honduras and 
El Salvador, and a loss of US$96m recognised 
following the reclassification of our non-strategic 
businesses in Colombia, Peru, and Paraguay to held 
for sale. In addition, in 2011, we reported a gain on 
sale of the Mexican pension administration business, 
HSBC Afore, of US$83m and a gain on the sale and 
leaseback of branches of US$53m. These factors 
were partly offset by the favourable effect of the 
recognition of a PVIF asset in Brazil of US$119m 
relating to unit-linked pensions, together with an 
increase in the value of new term life business in 
Brazil, as well as the gain on sale of the general 
insurance business in Argentina of US$102m. 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in 
liabilities to policyholders increased by 15%, driven 
by higher net investment gains on the fair value of 
the assets held to support policyholder contracts. In  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Latin America  
114
addition, liabilities to policyholders were established 
for new business, reflecting the increase in premiums 
in Brazil, though this was partly offset by the 
disposal of the general insurance business in 
Argentina in 2012.  
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions increased by 29%. This was mainly in 
Brazil, driven by increased delinquency rates in 
RBWM and CMB, particularly in Business Banking, 
reflecting lower economic growth in 2012. We took 
a number of steps to reposition our portfolios in 
RBWM and CMB including reducing third-party 
originations and lowering credit limits where 
appropriate. We also improved our collections 
capabilities. Loan impairment charges improved 
during the second half of the year in Brazil. 
Operating expenses decreased by US$83m 
compared with 2011. Restructuring costs declined 
by US$137m as 2011 included costs associated with 
the consolidation of the branch network and 
the reorganisation of regional and country support 
functions. These restructuring initiatives and our 
continued efforts to exercise strict cost control and 
progress with our organisational effectiveness 
programmes resulted in approximately US$285m of 
additional sustainable cost savings and a net 7% 
reduction in average FTEs of around 4,000 in 2012. 
These savings were partly offset by inflationary 
pressures, union-agreed wage increases in Brazil and 
Argentina and a payment of fines and penalties of 
US$29m in connection with non-compliance with 
anti-money laundering systems and controls 
including requirements to report unusual 
transactions, in Mexico.  115
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Latin America 
2012
 Retail 
 Banking 
and Wealth 
Management
 US$m 
Commercial
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m 
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
85
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax
Net interest income/(expense) .... 4,145  2,173 993 30 (2) (355) 6,984 
Net fee income ............................ 873 622 207 33 – – 1,735 
Trading income excluding  
net interest income ................. 85 99 398 3 1 – 586
Net interest income on  
trading activities ..................... – – 29 – 1 355 385
Net trading income
78
 ................... 85 99 427 3 2 355 971
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives .............................. – – – – – – –
Net income from other financial 
instruments designated at 
fair value ................................. 503 163 1 – – – 667
Net income from financial 
instruments designated at  
fair value ................................. 503 163 1 – – – 667
Gains less losses from  
financial investments .............. 75 21 131 – – – 227
Dividend income ......................... 9 5 1 – – – 15
Net earned insurance premiums . 1,985  450 17 – – – 2,452 
Other operating income/(expense)  309 (9) 6 3 134 (190) 253
Total operating income ............ 7,984  3,524 1,783 69 134 (190) 13,304 
Net insurance claims
86
 ................ (1,875) (469) (9) – – – (2,353)
Net operating income
21
............. 6,109  3,055 1,774 69 134 (190) 10,951 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions ..... (1,541) (581) (13) (2) – – (2,137)
Net operating income ............... 4,568  2,474 1,761 67 134 (190) 8,814 
Total operating expenses ............ (3,960) (1,723) (608) (47) (282) 190 (6,430)
Operating profit/(loss) .............. 608 751 1,153 20 (148) – 2,384 
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures ................... – – – – – – –
Profit/(loss) before tax .............. 608 751 1,153 20 (148) – 2,384 
 %  %  %  %  %  % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ................................  2.9   3.6  5.6  0.1  (0.7)  11.6 
Cost efficiency ratio ...................  64.8   56.4  34.3  68.1  210.4   58.7 
Balance sheet data
74
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ....................... 17,236  25,379 10,903 91 – 53,609 
Total assets ................................. 36,141  35,507 58,272 570 1,110  (323) 131,277 
Customer accounts ...................... 28,688  20,834 12,604 4,430 – 66,556  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Latin America / Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios 
116
2011
 Retail 
 Banking 
and Wealth 
Management
 US$m 
 Commercial 
 Banking
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking
and
 Markets
 US$m 
 Global 
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m 
 Inter- 
 segment 
 elimination
85
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax    
Net interest income/(expense) .... 4,519  2,229 882 25 (7) (692) 6,956 
Net fee income ............................ 939  610 196 36 – – 1,781 
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income  68   106 372 5 (7) – 544 
Net interest income on  
trading activities ..................... –  – 134 – 8  692  834 
Net trading income
78
 ................... 68  106 506 5 1  692  1,378 
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives .............................. –  – – – – – –
Net income from other financial 
instruments designated at 
fair value ................................. 424  124 2 – – – 550
Net income from financial 
instruments designated at  
fair value ................................. 424  124 2 – – – 550 
Gains less losses from  
financial investments .............. 11  1 124 1 – – 137 
Dividend income ......................... 10  3 1 – – – 14 
Net earned insurance premiums . 2,068  551 34 – – – 2,653 
Other operating income .............. 265  57 32 2 222  (250) 328 
Total operating income ............... 8,304  3,681 1,777 69 216  (250) 13,797 
Net insurance claims
86
 ................ (1,850) (478) (16) – – – (2,344)
Net operating income
21
 ............... 6,454  3,203 1,761 69 216  (250) 11,453 
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions ..... (1,369) (501) (12) – (1) – (1,883)
Net operating income ................. 5,085  2,702 1,749 69 215  (250) 9,570 
Total operating expenses ............ (4,382) (1,835) (700) (49) (539) 250  (7,255)
Operating profit/(loss) ................ 703  867 1,049 20 (324) – 2,315 
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures ................... – – – – – – – 
Profit/(loss) before tax ................ 703  867 1,049 20 (324) – 2,315 
    
  %  %  %  %  %     % 
Share of HSBC’s profit  
before tax ................................  3.2    4.0  4.8  0.1  (1.5)     10.6 
Cost efficiency ratio ...................  67.9    57.3  39.8  71.0  249.5      63.3 
        
Balance sheet data
74
       
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ....................... 19,025  25,834 11,011 62 6   55,938 
Total assets ................................. 39,231  38,410 66,241 1,660 417  (1,070) 144,889 
Customer accounts ...................... 28,629  24,050 18,940 7,079 62   78,760 
For footnotes, see page 120.  117
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Disposals, held for sale and run-off 
portfolios
In implementing our strategy, we have sold or agreed 
to sell a number of businesses and investments 
across the Group. We expect these disposals to have 
a significant effect on both the revenue and the 
profitability of the geographical regions in the future. 
In addition, significant portfolios are being run 
down. We expect the losses on these portfolios to  
continue to affect the geographical regions in the 
future.
The table below presents the contribution of 
these businesses and investments to the historical 
results of geographical regions. We do not expect the 
historical results to be indicative of future results 
because of disposal or run-off. Fixed allocated costs, 
included in total operating costs, will not necessarily 
be removed upon disposal and have been separately 
identified on page 52. 
Summary income statements for disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios
69,70
2012
 Europe  Hong Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-Pacific  MENA 
 North 
  America 
 Latin
 America 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income ............................ (54) 15 40 31 4,051 372
Net fee income/(expense) .................. (4) (45) (3) 10 401 30
Net trading income/(expense) ........... 68 (6) 5 54 (186) 27
Net income/(expense) from financial  
instruments designated at  
fair value ....................................... 10 – 5 – (785) 3
Gains less losses from financial 
investments ................................... (70) – – – 26 7
Dividend income ................................ – – – – 3 –
Net earned insurance premiums ........ 1 229 133 – 190 192
Other operating income/(expense) .... (1) – 17 – 29 11
Total operating income/(expense) .. (50) 193 197 95 3,729 642
Net insurance claims incurred 
and movement in liabilities  
to policyholders ............................. (1) (119) (95) – (138) (90)
Net operating income/(expense)
21
 ..... (51) 74 102 95 3,591 552
Loan impairment charges and  
other credit risk provisions ........... (167) – – (2) (2,919) (64)
Net operating income/(expense) ..... (218) 74 102 93 672 488
Total operating expenses ................... (66) (37) (122) (47) (2,104) (371)
Operating profit/(loss) ..................... (284) 37 (20) 46 (1,432) 117
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures ......................... 2 9 772 – 2 1
Profit/(loss) before tax...................... (282) 46 752 46 (1,430) 118
By global business 
Retail Banking and Wealth  
Management ................................. 2 27 612 10 (656) 41
Commercial Banking ......................... – 13 91 – 9 42
Global Banking and Markets ............. (283) 6 57 36 2 54
Global Private Banking ..................... (1) – (8) – – –
Other .................................................. – – – – (785) (19)
Profit/(loss) before tax ....................... (282) 46 752 46 (1,430) 118
Net gain/(loss) on sale ....................... (3) 375 3,317 (85) 4,095 40
For footnotes, see page 120.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Geographical regions > Other information > FuM / Property / EDTF  
118
Other information 
Funds under management and assets held in 
custody 
Funds under management 
2012 2011
US$bn US$bn
Funds under management
At 1 January ................................ 847 925
Net new money ........................... 5 2
Value change .............................. 49 (40)
Exchange and other .................... 9 (40)
At 31 December .......................... 910 847
 At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$bn US$bn
Funds under management by 
business
Global Asset Management ......... 425 396
Global Private Banking .............. 288 259
Affiliates ..................................... 3 3
Other ........................................... 194 189
910 847
Funds under management (‘FuM’) at 31 December 
2012 amounted to US$910bn, an increase of 7% 
compared with 31 December 2011. Total fund 
holdings increased in 2012, reflecting favourable 
market movements, the inclusion of custody assets 
in client assets in GPB and net new money inflows 
from Global Asset Management.  
Global Asset Management funds, including 
emerging market funds, increased by 7% to 
US$425bn compared with 31 December 2011, 
driven by favourable global market movements and 
net inflows of US$16bn, mainly from sales of long-
term funds, notably fixed income and multi-asset 
products, in Rest of Asia-Pacific, Hong Kong and 
Latin America. 
GPB funds increased by 11% on 31 December 
2011 to US$288bn, mainly due to the inclusion of 
custody assets in client assets and favourable equity 
market and foreign exchange movements. Negative 
net new money was driven by net outflows in 
Europe, primarily due to a programme to reposition 
our client base towards higher net worth 
international and domestic relationships, and a 
review of certain client relationships with a view to 
reducing control risk, largely offset by net inflows 
originating from emerging markets. 
Other FuM increased by 3% to US$194bn, 
primarily due to favourable equity market 
movements partly offset by the disposal of the full 
service retail brokerage business in Canada. 
Assets held in custody and under 
administration 
Custody is the safekeeping and servicing of 
securities and other financial assets on behalf of 
clients. At 31 December 2012, we held assets as 
custodian of US$6.0 trillion, 16% higher than 
the US$5.2 trillion held at 31 December 2011. This 
was mainly driven by favourable market movements 
together with increased new business and favourable 
movements in foreign exchange. 
Our assets under administration business, which 
includes the provision of various support function 
activities including the valuation of portfolios of 
securities and other financial assets on behalf of 
clients, complements the custody business. At 
31 December 2012, the value of assets held 
under administration by the Group amounted to 
US$2.9 trillion, compared with US$2.6 trillion 
in 2011. 
Property 
At 31 December 2012, we operated from some 
8,650 operational properties worldwide, of which 
approximately 2,150 were located in Europe, 2,600 
in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, 550 in North 
America, 2,950 in Latin America and 400 in the 
Middle East and North Africa. These properties had 
an area of approximately 59.7m square feet (2011: 
65.7m square feet). 
Our freehold and long leasehold properties, 
together with all our leasehold land in Hong Kong, 
were valued in 2012. The value of these properties 
was US$9.7bn (2011: US$8.9bn) in excess of their 
carrying amount in the consolidated balance sheet an 
historical cost based measure. In addition, properties 
with a net book value of US$1.3bn (2011:US$1.3bn) 
were held for investment purposes.  
Our operational properties are stated at cost, 
being historical cost or fair value at the date of 
transition to IFRSs (their deemed cost) less any 
impairment losses, and are depreciated on a basis 
calculated to write off the assets over their estimated 
useful lives. Properties owned as a consequence of 
an acquisition are recognised initially at fair value. 
Further details are included in Note 24 on the 
Financial Statements. 119
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Detailed list of disclosures in this report arising from EDTF recommendations 
Type of risk Recommendation Disclosure Page
General 1 The risks to which the business is exposed. 124 to 126
2 Our risk appetite and stress testing. 126 to 128
3 Top and emerging risks, and the changes during the reporting period. 130 to  134
4 Discussion of future regulatory developments affecting our business 
model and Group profitability, and its implementation in Europe. 132 and 288 to 292
5 Group Risk Committee, and their activities. 323 to 328
6 Risk culture and risk governance and ownership. 124
Risk governance, risk 
management and 
business model 
7 Diagram of the risk exposure by global business segment. 20
8 Stress testing and the underlying assumptions. 127 to 128
Capital adequacy and 
risk-weighted assets 
9 Pillar 1 capital requirements, and the impact for global systemically 
important banks. 
For calculation of Pillar 1 capital requirements,  
see pages 10 to 14 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 document. 
295 to 296 and 291 to 
292
10 Reconciliation of the accounting balance sheet to the regulatory 
balance sheet. 
288
11 Flow statement of the movements in regulatory capital since the 
previous reporting period, including changes in core tier 1, tier 1 and 
tier 2 capital. 
285
12 Discussion of targeted level of capital, and the plans on how to 
establish this. 
288
13 Analysis of risk-weighted assets by risk type, global business and 
geographical region, and market risk RWAs. 
282 to 283
14 For analysis of the capital requirements for each Basel asset class,  
see pages 10 to 14, 23, 58 and 61 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 document. 
15 For analysis of credit risk for each Basel asset class,  
see pages 23 to 28 and 32 to 38 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 document. 
16 Flow statements reconciling the movements in risk-weighted assets 
for each risk-weighted asset type. 
283 and 284
17 For discussion of Basel credit risk model performance,  
see pages 39 to 41 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 document. 
Liquidity 18 Analysis of the Group’s liquid asset buffer. 206 to 207
Funding 19 Encumbered and unencumbered assets analysed by balance sheet 
category.
211
20 Consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet 
commitments analysed by remaining contractual maturity at the 
balance sheet date. 
485 to 492
21 Analysis of the Group’s sources of funding and a description of our 
funding strategy. 
209 to 211
Market risk 22 Relationship between the market risk measures for trading and non-
trading portfolios and the balance sheet, by business segment. 
218 to 219
23 Discussion of significant trading and non-trading market risk factors. 220 to 223
24 VAR assumptions, limitations and validation. 266 to 267
25 Discussion of stress tests, reverse stress tests and stressed VAR. 267
Credit risk 26 Analysis of the aggregate credit risk exposures, including details of 
both personal and wholesale lending. 
139 to 141
27 Discussion of the policies for identifying impaired loans, defining 
impairments and renegotiated loans, and explaining loan forbearance 
policies.
162 and 254 to 259
28 Reconciliations of the opening and closing balances of impaired loans 
and impairment allowances during the year. 
163 and 172 
29 Analysis of counterparty credit risk that arises from derivative 
transactions.
452 to 453
30 Discussion of credit risk mitigation, including collateral held for all 
sources of credit risk. 
163 to 168
Other risks 31 Quantified measures of the management of operational risk. 227 to 230
32 Discussion of publicly known risk events. 131 to 134 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Footnotes  
120
Footnotes to pages 2 to 119 
Financial highlights 
1 Dividends recorded in the financial statements are dividends per ordinary share declared in a year and are not dividends in respect of, 
or for, that year. The third interim dividend for 2011 of US$0.09 was paid on 18 January 2012. The fourth interim dividend for 2011 of 
US$0.14 was paid on 2 May 2012. First, second and third interim dividends for 2012, each of US$0.09 per ordinary share, were paid
on 5 July 2012, 4 October 2012 and 12 December 2012, respectively. Note 10 on the Financial Statements provides more information
on the dividends declared in 2012. On 4 March 2013 the Directors declared a fourth interim dividend for 2012 of US$0.45 per ordinary
share in lieu of a final dividend, which will be payable to ordinary shareholders on 8 May 2013 in cash in US dollars, or in pounds 
sterling or Hong Kong dollars at exchange rates to be determined on 29 April 2013, with a scrip dividend alternative. The reserves 
available for distribution at 31 December 2012 were US$38,175m. 
 Quarterly dividends of US$15.50 per 6.2% non-cumulative Series A US dollar preference share, equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 
per Series A American Depositary Share, each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A US dollar preference share, were paid on 
15 March 2012, 15 June 2012, 17 September 2012 and 17 December 2012. 
 Quarterly coupons of US$0.508 per security were paid with respect to 8.125% capital securities on 17 January 2012, 16 April 2012, 
16 July 2012 and 15 October 2012. 
 Quarterly coupons of US$0.50 per security were paid with respect to 8% capital securities on 15 March 2012, 15 June 2012, 
17 September 2012 and 17 December 2012. 
2 The return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity is defined as profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company 
divided by average ordinary shareholders’ equity. 
3 Return on average invested capital is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders. Average invested capital is measured 
as average total shareholders’ equity after adding back goodwill previously amortised or written-off directly to reserves, deducting
average equity preference shares issued by HSBC Holdings and deducting/(adding) average reserves for unrealised gains/(losses) on
effective cash flow hedges and available-for-sale securities and property revaluation reserves. This measure reflects capital initially
invested and subsequent profit. 
4 The cost efficiency ratio is defined as total operating expenses divided by net operating income before loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions. 
5 Each American Depositary Share represents five ordinary shares. 
6 Total shareholder return is defined as the growth in share value and declared dividend income during the relevant period. 
7 The Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index. 
  8 The Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index.  
  9 The Morgan Stanley Capital International World Bank Index. 
10 The core tier 1 capital ratio for 2012 and 2011 includes the effect of the Basel 2.5 rules.
Business and operating models and KPIs
11 Based upon pro forma post-tax profits allocation. See page 349 for details. 
12 Intermediation of securities, funds and insurance products, including Securities Services in GB&M. 
13 Merger and acquisition, ECM, event and project financing, and co-investments in GPB. 
14 Including Foreign Exchange, Rates, Credit and Equities. 
15 Including portfolio management. 
16 Including private trust and estate planning (for financial and non-financial assets). 
17 Including hedge funds, real estate and private equity. 
18 Vehicle Finance was sold in 2010.
19 ‘Transactions’ refers to the sale or closure of non-strategic businesses or non-core investment.
20 Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa, and Latin America. 
21 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as ‘revenue.’ 
22 The sum of balances presented does not agree to consolidated amounts because inter-company eliminations are not presented here.
23 For definitions of HSBC UK, HBAP and HSBC US, see footnotes 40 to 42, respectively, on page 249. Subsidiaries of these entities are 
not included unless there is unrestricted transferability of liquidity between the subsidiaries and the parent. ‘Other entities’ (footnote 43 
on page 249) comprise our other main banking subsidiaries and, as such, includes businesses spread across a range of locations, in 
many of which we may require a higher ratio of net liquid assets to customer liabilities to reflect local market conditions. 
Reconciliations of reported and underlying profit/(loss) before tax
24 ‘Currency translation adjustment’ is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the 
average rates of exchange applicable in the current year. 
25 Positive numbers are favourable: negative numbers are unfavourable. 
26 Changes in fair value due to movements in own credit spread on long-term debt issued. This does not include the fair value changes
due to own credit spread on structured notes issued, derivatives and other hybrid instruments included within trading liabilities.
27 Other income in this context comprises where applicable net trading income, net income/(expense) from other financial instruments
designated at fair value, gains less losses from financial investments, dividend income, net earned insurance premiums and other
operating income less net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders. 
28 Individual reconciliations by global businesses and geographical regions are available on www.hsbc.com. 
29 Underlying performance eliminates the effects of acquisitions, disposals and changes of ownership levels of subsidiaries, associates
and businesses so we can view results on a like-for-like basis. We achieve this by eliminating gains and losses on disposal or dilution in 
the year incurred and by removing material results of operations from all the years presented. For example, if a disposal was made in 
the current year after four months of operations, the results of the disposed of business would be removed from the results of the current 
year and the previous year as if the disposed of business did not exist in those years. 
30 In addition, the operating results of these disposals were removed from underlying results. 
31 The presentation of the ‘Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit/(loss) before tax’ for 2011 compared with 2010 has not been 
updated to reflect the change in presentation in 2012 splitting underlying reconciliations from the constant currency reconciliations. 
The presentational change had no material impact on results. 
32 These columns comprise the net increments or decrements in profits in the current year compared with the previous year which are 
attributable to acquisitions or disposals, gains on the dilution of interests in associates and/or movements in fair value of own debt  121
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
attributable to credit spread. The inclusion of acquisitions and disposals is determined in the light of events each year. 
33 Excluding adjustments in 2010. 
Financial summary
34 In 2008, an impairment charge of US$10,564m to fully write off goodwill in PFS in North America was reported in ‘Total operating 
expenses’. This amount is excluded from ‘Total operating expenses’ in calculating the ratio. 
35 The effect of the bonus element of the rights issue in 2009 has been included within the basic and diluted earnings per share. 
36 Dividends per ordinary share expressed as a percentage of basic earnings per share. 
37 For full description of the Ping An forward contract, see page 470. 
38 In 2011, ‘Deferred variable compensation awards-accelerated amortisation’ was included as a notable cost item. In 2012, this item
recurs but is now considered part of our operating cost base and therefore has been excluded from notable items in both years.
39 Net interest income includes the cost of funding trading assets, while the related external revenues are reported in ‘Trading income’. 
In our global business results, the cost of funding trading assets is included with GB&M’ s net trading income as interest expense.
40 Gross interest yield is the average annualised interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets (‘AIEA’).  
41 Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan 
fees, and the average annualised interest rate paid on average interest-bearing funds. 
42 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA.
43 In 2011, ‘Other interest-earning assets’ includes the average assets of disposal groups held for sale. In prior years other interest-
earning assets included intercompany eliminations. In 2012, intercompany eliminations have been included in the relevant line item.
44 Interest income on trading assets is reported as ‘Net trading income’ in the consolidated income statement.
45 Interest income on financial assets designated at fair value is reported as ‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair 
value’ in the consolidated income statement. 
46 Including interest-bearing bank deposits only. 
47 Interest expense on financial liabilities designated at fair value is reported as ‘Net income on financial instruments designated at fair 
value’ in the consolidated income statement, other than interest on own debt which is reported in ‘Interest expense’.
48 Including interest-bearing customer accounts only.  
49 The cost of internal funding of trading assets was US$511m (2011: US$1,161m; 2010: US$902m) and is excluded from the reported 
‘Net trading income’ line and included in ‘Net interest income’. However, this cost is reinstated in ‘Net trading income’ in our global 
business reporting. 
50 Net trading income includes a charge of US$629m (2011: income of US$458m; 2010: income of US$23m), associated with changes in 
the fair value of issued structured notes and other hybrid instrument liabilities derived from movements in HSBC issuance spreads. 
51 Other changes in fair value include gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in
conjunction with HSBC’ s long-term debt issued. 
52 Discretionary participation features. 
53 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders arise from both life and non-life insurance business. For 
non-life business, amounts reported represent the cost of claims paid during the year and the estimated cost of notified claims. For life 
business, the main element of claims is the liability to policyholders created on the initial underwriting of the policy and any subsequent 
movement in the liability that arises, primarily from the attribution of investment performance to savings-related policies. Consequently, 
claims rise in line with increases in sales of savings-related business and with investment market growth. 
Consolidated balance sheet
54 Net of impairment allowances. 
55 The calculation of capital resources, capital ratios and risk-weighted assets for 2012 and 2011 is on a Basel 2.5 basis. All other
comparatives are on a Basel II basis. 
56 Capital resources are total regulatory capital, the calculation of which is set out on page 286. 
57 Including perpetual preferred securities, details of which can be found in Note 33 on the Financial Statements. 
58 The definition of net asset value per share is total shareholders’ equity, less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities, 
divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue. 
59 ‘Currency translation adjustment’ is the effect of translating the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and associates for the previous 
year-end at the rates of exchange applicable at the current year-end. 
60 See Note 26 on the Financial Statements. 
61 France primarily comprises the domestic operations of HSBC France, HSBC Assurances Vie and the Paris branch of HSBC Bank plc. 
62 The classification of customer accounts by country within Europe has changed from amounts formerly disclosed. Certain balances 
which were previously presented within the country of domicile of the consolidating legal entity are now presented on the basis of the 
country of account origination. The most significant effect of this change is on Switzerland, where the balance of US$45,283m 
previously disclosed at 31 December 2011 has been restated as US$19,888m on the new basis. 
Economic profit
63 Expressed as a percentage of average invested capital. 
64 Average invested capital is measured as average total shareholders’ equity after: 
–  adding back the average balance of goodwill amortised pre-transition to IFRSs or subsequently written-off, directly to reserves (less 
goodwill previously amortised in respect of the French regional banks sold in 2008); 
–  deducting the average balance of HSBC’ s revaluation surplus relating to property held for own use. This reserve was generated when 
determining the deemed carrying cost of such properties on transition to IFRSs and will run down over time as the properties are sold; 
–  deducting average preference shares and other equity instruments issued by HSBC Holdings; and 
–  deducting average reserves for unrealised gains/(losses) on effective cash flow hedges and available-for-sale securities. 
65 Return on invested capital is profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company, which can be found in Note 11 on the 
Financial Statements on page 426. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Footnotes // Risk > Risk profile 
122
Reconciliation of RoRWA measures 
66 Risk-weighted assets (‘RWA’ s) and pre-tax return on average risk-weighted assets (‘RoRWA’). 
67 Underlying RoRWA is calculated using underlying pre-tax return and reported average RWAs at constant currency and adjusted for the
effects of business disposals. 
68 ‘Other’ includes treasury services related to the US Consumer and Mortgage Lending business and commercial operations in run-off.
US CML includes loan portfolios within the run-off business that are designated held for sale.
Disposals, held for sale and run-off portfolios 
69 The results of operations of disposed businesses are stated up to and including the date of disposal. The results of operations of 
businesses held for sale and run-off portfolios are for 2012.  
70 The summary income statements present the historical results of disposals, held-for-sale and run-off portfolios to provide information 
on trends. The historical results are those which appear in the Group IFRS income statement and include fixed allocated costs which
will not necessarily be removed or reduced upon disposal or run-off. Fixed allocated costs included in total operating expenses are 
disclosed separately on page 38. The results of disposed businesses exclude gains on sale and post disposal income and expenditure 
items; for example, restructuring costs. The results of businesses held for sale exclude losses recognised upon reclassification to the 
held-for-sale category. These losses are disclosed in Note 26 on the Financial Statements. 
71 ‘US CML’ includes non-real estate personal loans that were reclassified to ‘Assets held for sale’ during 2012. At 31 December 2012, the 
carrying value of this portfolio, net of transferred impairment allowances, was US$3.4bn. The portfolio contributed interest income of 
US$813m and loan impairment charges of US$347m to profit before tax in 2012. ‘Other’ includes treasury services related to the US
Consumer and Mortgage Lending business and commercial operations in run-off. 
72 ‘Reduction in RWAs on disposal’ for disposal and held-for-sale portfolios are shown exclusive of operational risk RWAs as these are not 
immediately released on disposal. RWAs for held-for-sale and run-off portfolios are shown inclusive of operational risk RWAs. 
Global businesses and geographical regions  
73 The main items reported under ‘Other’ are certain property activities, unallocated investment activities, centrally held investment
companies, gains arising from the dilution of interests in associates and joint ventures, part of the movement in the fair value of our 
long-term debt designated at fair value (the remainder of the Group’ s movement on own debt is included in GB&M) and HSBC’ s 
holding company and financing operations. The results also include net interest earned on free capital held centrally, operating costs 
incurred by the head office operations in providing stewardship and central management services to HSBC, and costs incurred by the
Group Service Centres and Shared Service Organisations and associated recoveries. In addition, fines and penalties as part of the
settlement of investigations into past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanctions laws together with the UK bank 
levy are recorded in ‘Other’. 
74 Assets by geographical region and global businesses include intra-HSBC items. These items are eliminated, where appropriate, under
the heading ‘Intra-HSBC items’ or ‘inter-segment elimination’, as appropriate. 
75 For divested businesses, this includes the gain or loss on disposal and material results of operations as described on page 26.
76 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions. 
77 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures. 
78 In the analysis of global businesses, net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets 
and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, together with related external and internal interest income and interest expense, 
and dividends received; in the statutory presentation internal interest income and expense are eliminated. 
79 In 2012, Global Markets included an adverse fair value movement of US$629m on the widening of credit spreads on structured 
liabilities (2011: favourable fair value movement of US$458m; 2010: favourable fair value movement of US$23m).
80 Total income earned on payments and cash management products in the Group amounted to US$6.2bn (2011: US$5.6bn; 2010: 
US$4.4bn), of which US$4.5bn was in CMB (2011: US$4.0bn; 2010: US$3.3bn) and US$1.7bn was in GB&M (2011: US$1.5bn; 2010: 
US$1.1bn). 
81 Total income earned on other transaction services in the Group amounted to US$3.6bn (2011: US$3.2bn; 2010: US$2.7bn), of which
US$2.8bn was in CMB relating to trade and receivables finance (2011: US$2.6bn; 2010: US$2.1bn) and US$753m was in GB&M of 
which US$738m related to trade and receivables finance (2011: US$601m; 2010: US$523m) and US$15m related to banknotes and 
other (2011: US$33m; 2010: US$113m). 
82 In each Group entity, Balance Sheet Management is responsible for managing liquidity and funding under the supervision of the local
Asset and Liability Management Committee. Balance Sheet Management also manages the non-trading interest rate positions of the 
entity transferred to it within a Global Markets limit structure. Balance Sheet Management revenues include notional tax credits on 
income earned from tax-exempt investments of US$116m in 2012, US$85m in 2011 and US$50m in 2010, which are offset within 
‘Other’.
83 ‘Other’ in GB&M includes net interest earned on free capital held in the global business not assigned to products, allocated funding 
costs and gains resulting from business disposals. Within the management view of total operating income, notional tax credits are 
allocated to the businesses to reflect the economic benefit generated by certain activities which is not reflected within operating income, 
for example notional credits on income earned from tax-exempt investments where the economic benefit of the activity is reflected in tax 
expense. In order to reflect the total operating income on an IFRS basis, the offset to these tax credits are included within ‘Other’. 
84 ‘Client assets’ are translated at the rates of exchange applicable for their respective period-ends, with the effects of currency translation 
reported separately. The main components of client assets are funds under management, which are not reported on the Group’ s balance
sheet, and customer deposits, which are reported on the Group’ s balance sheet.
85 Inter-segment elimination comprises (i) the costs of shared services and Group Service Centres included within ‘Other’ which are
recovered from global businesses, and (ii) the intra-segment funding costs of trading activities undertaken within GB&M. HSBC’ s
Balance Sheet Management business, reported within GB&M, provides funding to the trading businesses. To report GB&M’ s ‘Net 
trading income’ on a fully funded basis, ‘Net interest income’ and ‘Net interest income/(expense) on trading activities’ are grossed up to 
reflect internal funding transactions prior to their elimination in the inter-segment column. 
86 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders. 
87 ‘Employee expenses’ comprise costs directly incurred by each global business. The reallocation and recharging of employee and other
expenses directly incurred in the ‘Other’ category are shown in ‘Other operating expenses’. 
88 RWAs are non-additive across geographical regions due to market risk diversification effects within the Group. 
89 CMB results include US$128m (2011: US$110m) of net operating income and US$43m (2011: US$23m) of profit before tax, related to 
low income housing tax credit investments in the US which are offset within the ‘Other’ segment.  123
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Risk
 Page App
1
Risk profile
2
 .................................................... 123
–
Risk governance .............................................. – 252
Managing risk
2
 ............................................... 124
–
Risks faced by HSBC ...................................... 124
–
Risk culture ...................................................... 124
–
Risk governance and ownership ...................... 124
–
Risk profile ...................................................... 126
–
Risk appetite .................................................... 126
–
Stress testing .................................................... 127 –
Areas of special interest ................................ 128
–
Compliance ...................................................... 128
–
Commercial real estate .................................... 128
–
Eurozone crisis ................................................. 129
–
Personal lending – US lending ......................... 130 –
Top and emerging risks
2
 ............................... 130
–
Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk ............. 
131 –
Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks  
to our business model .................................. 
132 –
Risks related to our business operations, 
governance and internal control systems .... 134 –
Credit risk
4
 ..................................................... 137 252
Eurozone exposures
4
 ...................................... 192
Liquidity and funding
3
 .................................. 203 261
Market risk
4
 .................................................... 217 265
Operational risk
2
 ............................................ 227 270
Compliance risk ............................................... 230 271
Fiduciary risk ................................................... 231 273
Risk management of insurance operations
3
232 273
Other material risks
2
 ..................................... 246 –
Reputational risk .............................................. 246 278
Pension risk ...................................................... 246 278
Sustainability risk ............................................ 249 280
1 Appendix to Risk – risk policies and practices.
2 Unaudited.     3 Audited.     4 Audited where indicated.
For details of HSBC’s policies and practices 
regarding risk management and governance 
see the Appendix to Risk on page 252. 
Risk profile 
(Unaudited) 
Managing our risk profile 
• A strong balance sheet remains core to our 
philosophy. 
• Our portfolios remain aligned to our risk appetite 
and strategy. 
• Our risk management framework is supported by 
strong forward-looking risk identification.  
Maintaining capital strength and 
strong liquidity position 
• Our core tier 1 capital ratio remains strong at 
12.3%. 
• We have sustained our strong liquidity position 
throughout 2012. 
• Our ratio of customer advances to deposits 
remains below 90%. 
Strong governance  
• Robust risk governance and accountability is 
embedded across the Group. 
• The Board, advised by the Group Risk 
Committee, approves our risk appetite.  
• The compliance control function is being 
restructured and expanded to improve focus on 
financial crime and regulatory compliance. 
• Our global risk operating model supports 
adherence to globally consistent standards and 
risk management policies across the Group. 
Our top and emerging risks
• Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk. 
• Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risk to our 
business model. 
• Risks related to our business operations, 
governance and internal control systems.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Managing risk 
124
Managing risk
(Unaudited) 
Risks faced by HSBC 
All of our activities involve, to varying degrees, the 
analysis, evaluation, acceptance and management of 
risks or combinations of risks. These are described in 
the table below. 
Risk culture 
All staff are required to identify, assess and 
manage risk within the scope of their assigned 
responsibilities. Our global standards set the tone 
from the top and are central to our approach to 
balancing risk and reward. Personal accountability 
is reinforced by our HSBC Values, with staff 
expected to act with courageous integrity in 
conducting their duties and being: 
• dependable, doing the right thing; 
• open to different ideas and culture; and 
• connected to our customers, regulators and each 
other.
Staff are supported by a disclosure line which 
enables them to raise concerns in a confidential 
manner. We also have in place a suite of mandatory 
training to ensure a clear and consistent attitude is 
communicated to staff; our mandatory training not 
only focuses on the technical aspects of risk but also 
on our attitude towards risk and the behaviours 
expected by our policies. 
Our risk culture is reinforced by our approach to 
remuneration, which is discussed in the Report of the 
Remuneration Committee on page 347. Individual 
awards are based on the achievement of both 
financial and non-financial (relating to our values) 
objectives which are aligned to our global strategy.  
Risk governance and ownership 
An established risk governance framework and 
ownership structure ensures oversight of and 
accountability for the effective management of risk 
at Group, regional and global business levels. The 
governance structure for the management of risk is 
set out in the report of the Group Risk Committee on 
page 323, with similar arrangements in place in 
major operating subsidiaries. This structure has been 
augmented by the establishment of the Financial 
System Vulnerabilities Committee, details of which 
are set out on page 328. Our risk management 
framework fosters the continuous monitoring of the 
risk environment and an integrated evaluation of 
risks and their interactions. Integral to our risk 
management framework are risk appetite, stress 
testing and the identification of top and emerging 
risks, all of which are discussed below. 
Description of risks 
Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk 
Credit risk 
The risk of financial loss if a 
customer or counterparty fails 
to meet an obligation under a 
contract.  
Credit risk arises principally 
from direct lending, trade 
finance and leasing business, 
but also from certain other 
products such as guarantees 
and derivatives. 
Credit risk:
• is measured as the amount which could be lost if a customer or 
counterparty fails to make repayments. In the case of derivatives, the 
measurement of exposure takes into account the current mark to 
market value to HSBC of the contract and the expected potential 
change in that value over time caused by movements in market rates; 
• is monitored within limits, approved by individuals within a 
framework of delegated authorities. These limits represent the peak 
exposure or loss to which HSBC could be subjected should the 
customer or counterparty fail to perform its contractual obligations; 
and
• is managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines 
clear and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk 
managers. 
Liquidity and funding risk
The risk that we do not have 
sufficient financial resources 
to meet our obligations as they 
fall due or that we can only do 
so at excessive cost.  
Liquidity risk arises from 
mismatches in the timing of 
cash flows.  
Funding risk arises when the 
liquidity needed to fund 
illiquid asset positions cannot 
be obtained at the expected 
terms and when required.
Liquidity and funding risk:  
• is measured using internal metrics including stressed operational cash 
flow projections, coverage ratio and advances to core funding ratios; 
• is monitored against the Group’s liquidity and funding risk framework 
and overseen by regional Asset and Liability Management 
Committees (‘ALCO’s), Group ALCO and the Risk Management 
Meeting; and 
• is managed on a stand-alone basis with no reliance on any Group 
entity (unless pre-committed) or central bank unless this represents 
routine established business as usual market practice.  125
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk 
Market risk 
The risk that movements in 
market factors, including 
foreign exchange rates and 
commodity prices, interest 
rates, credit spreads and 
equity prices, will reduce our 
income or the value of our 
portfolios.
Exposure to market risk is 
separated into two portfolios: 
• Trading portfolios comprise 
positions arising from 
market-making and 
warehousing of customer-
derived positions 
• Non-trading portfolios 
comprise positions that 
primarily arise from the 
interest rate management of 
our retail and commercial 
banking assets and 
liabilities, financial 
investments designated as 
available for sale and held 
to maturity, and exposures 
arising from our insurance 
operations 
Market risk: 
• is measured in terms of value at risk, which is used to estimate 
potential losses on risk positions as a result of movements in market 
rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of 
confidence, augmented with stress testing to evaluate the potential 
impact on portfolio values of more extreme, though plausible, events 
or movements in a set of financial variables; 
• is monitored using measures including the sensitivity of net interest 
income and the sensitivity of structural foreign exchange which are 
applied to the market risk positions within each risk type; and 
• is managed using risk limits approved by the GMB for HSBC 
Holdings and our various global businesses. These units are allocated 
across business lines and to the Group’s legal entities. 
Operational risk 
The risk of loss resulting from 
inadequate or failed internal 
processes, people and systems 
or from external events, 
including legal risk (along 
with accounting, tax, security 
and fraud, people, systems, 
projects, operations and 
organisational change risk).
Operational risk arises from 
day to day operations or 
external events, and is relevant 
to every aspect of our business
Operational risk: 
• is measured using both the top risk analysis process and the risk 
and control assessment process, which assess the level of risk and 
effectiveness of controls; 
• is monitored using key indicators and other internal control activities; 
and
• is primarily managed by global business and functional managers. 
They identify and assess risks, implement controls to manage 
them and monitor the effectiveness of these controls utilising the 
operational risk management framework. The Global Operational Risk 
and Internal Control function is responsible for the framework and for 
overseeing the management of operational risks within businesses and 
functions. 
Compliance risk 
The risk that we fail to observe 
the letter and spirit of all 
relevant laws, codes, rules, 
regulations and standards of 
good market practice, and 
incur fines and penalties and 
suffer damage to our business 
as a consequence.
Compliance risk is part of 
operational risk, and arises 
from rules, regulations, other 
standards and Group policies, 
including those relating to 
anti-money laundering, anti-
bribery and corruption, 
conduct of business, counter- 
terrorist financing and 
sanctions compliance. 
Compliance risk:  
• is measured by reference to identified metrics, incident assessments 
(whether affecting HSBC or the wider industry), regulatory feedback 
and the judgement and assessment of the managers of our global 
businesses and functions; 
• is monitored against our compliance risk assessments and metrics, the 
results of the monitoring and control activities of the second line of 
defence functions, including the Global Compliance function, and the 
results of internal and external audits and regulatory inspections; and  
• is managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies 
and procedures, training employees in them, and monitoring activity 
to assure their observance. Proactive risk control and/or remediation 
work is undertaken where required. 
Insurance risk 
The risk that over time, the 
combined cost of acquiring 
and administering a contract, 
claims and benefits may 
exceed the aggregate amount 
of premiums received and 
investment income.
Insurance risk arises from 
mortality and morbidity 
experience. Lapse and 
surrender rates and if, the 
policy has a savings element, 
the performance of the assets 
held to support the liabilities 
also impact the cost of claims 
and benefits. The performance 
of assets supporting insurance 
liabilities depends on financial 
risks such as market, credit 
and liquidity. 
Insurance risk: 
• is measured in terms of life insurance liabilities and non-life written 
premiums for their respective contract types; 
• is monitored by the Group Insurance Risk Management Committee, 
which checks the risk profile of the insurance operations against a risk 
appetite for insurance business agreed by the GMB; and 
• is managed both centrally and locally using product design, 
underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Managing risk 
126
Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and management of risk 
Fiduciary risk 
The risk of breaching our 
fiduciary duties. 
Fiduciary risk arises from our 
business activities where we 
act in a fiduciary capacity as 
Trustee, Investment Manager 
or as mandated by law or 
regulation. 
Fiduciary risk:  
• is measured by monitoring against risk appetite; 
• is monitored through the use of key indicators; and 
• is managed within the designated businesses via a comprehensive 
policy framework. 
Reputational risk 
The risk that illegal, unethical 
or inappropriate behaviour by 
the Group itself, members of 
staff or clients or 
representatives of the Group 
will damage HSBC’s 
reputation, leading, 
potentially, to a loss of 
business, fines or penalties.
Reputational risk encompasses 
negative reaction not only to 
activities which may be illegal 
or against regulations, but also 
to activities that may be 
counter to societal standards, 
values and expectations. It 
arises from a wide variety of 
causes, including how we 
conduct our business and the 
way in which clients to whom 
we provide financial services, 
and bodies who represent 
HSBC, conduct themselves.  
Reputational risk: 
• is measured by reference to our reputation as indicated by our dealings 
with all relevant stakeholders, including media, regulators, customers 
and employees;  
• is monitored through a reputational risk management framework, 
taking into account the results of the compliance risk monitoring 
activity outlined above; and  
• is managed by every member of staff and is covered by a number of 
policies and guidelines. There is a clear structure of committees and 
individuals charged with mitigating reputational risk, including the 
Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee and regional/business 
equivalents.  
Pension risk 
The risk that contributions 
from Group companies and 
members fail to generate 
sufficient funds to meet the 
cost of accruing benefits for 
the future service of active 
members, and the risk that the 
performance of assets held in 
pension funds is insufficient to 
cover existing pension 
liabilities.
Pension risk arises from 
investments delivering an 
inadequate return, economic 
conditions leading to 
corporate failures, adverse 
changes in interest rates or 
inflation, or members living 
longer than expected 
(longevity risk). 
Pension risk includes 
operational risks listed above. 
Pension risk: 
• is measured in terms of the schemes’ ability to generate sufficient 
funds to meet the cost of their accrued benefits; 
• is monitored through the specific risk appetite that has been developed 
at both Group and regional levels; and 
• is managed locally through the appropriate pension risk governance 
structure and globally through the Risk Management Meeting. 
Sustainability risk 
The risk that the 
environmental and social 
effects of providing financial 
services outweigh the 
economic benefits. 
Sustainability risk arises from 
the provision of financial 
services to companies or 
projects which run counter to 
the needs of sustainable 
development. 
Sustainability risk: 
• is measured by assessing the potential sustainability effect of a 
customer’s activities and assigning a Sustainability Risk Rating to 
all high risk transactions;  
• is monitored quarterly by the Risk Management Meeting and monthly 
by Group Sustainability Risk management; and 
• is managed using sustainability risk policies covering project finance 
lending and sector-based sustainability polices for sectors with high 
environmental or social impacts.  
Risk profile 
Risks are assumed by our global businesses in 
accordance with their risk appetite and are managed 
at Group, global business and regional levels. All 
risks are identified through our risk map process, 
which sets out the Group’s risk profile in relation to 
key risk categories in different regions and global 
businesses. In addition to those listed above, risks 
including model, financial management, capital, 
Islamic finance and strategic risk are identified and 
monitored through the risk map process. 
These risks are then regularly assessed through 
our risk appetite framework, subjected to stress 
testing and considered for classification as top and 
emerging risks. These processes are discussed in 
further detail below.
Credit, market and operational risks are measured 
using the Pillar 1 framework for regulatory capital 
through the allocation of risk-weighted assets. We 
measure other risks using our economic capital model 
under Pillar 2 (as described in our Pillar 3 Disclosures 
2012 report.)
Risk appetite 
Risk appetite is set out in the Group’s Risk Appetite 
Statement, which describes the types and levels of 
risk that the Group is prepared to accept in executing 
our strategy. It is approved by the Board on the 
advice of the Group Risk Committee, and is a key  127
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
component of our risk management framework. It 
is central to the annual planning process, in which 
global businesses, geographical regions and 
functions are required to articulate their risk 
appetite statements. These are aligned with Group 
strategy, and provide a risk profile of each global 
business, region or function in the context of the 
risk categories discussed above. 
Quantitative and qualitative metrics are assigned 
to nine key categories: earnings, capital, liquidity 
and funding, securitisations, cost of risk, intra-group 
lending, strategic investments, risk categories and 
risk diversification and concentration. Measurement 
against the metrics: 
• guides underlying business activity, ensuring 
it is aligned to risk appetite statements; 
• informs risk-adjusted remuneration;  
• enables the key underlying assumptions to be 
monitored and, where necessary, adjusted 
through subsequent business planning cycles; 
and
• promptly identifies business decisions needed 
to mitigate risk. 
Some of the core metrics that are measured, 
monitored and presented to the Board monthly are 
tabulated below: 
Risk appetite metrics
Target Actual
Core tier 1 ratio ........... 9.5% to 10.5%  12.3% 
Return on equity ......... 12% to 15%  8.4% 
Return on RWAs ........ 1.8% to 2.6%  1.8% 
Dividend payout ratio . 40% to 60%  55.4% 
Cost efficiency ratio ... 48% to 52%  62.8% 
Advances to customer 
accounts ratio........... Below 90% 74.4% 
Cost of risk (LICs) ...... Below 20% of 
operating income 9.9% 
Stress testing 
Our stress testing and scenario analysis programme 
is central to the monitoring of top and emerging risks. 
We conduct a range of Group stress-testing scenarios 
including, but not limited to, severe global economic 
downturn, country, sector and counterparty failures 
and a variety of projected major operational risk 
events. The outcomes of the stress testing are used 
to assess the potential demand for regulatory capital 
under the various scenarios. We also participate, 
where appropriate, in scenario analyses requested by 
regulatory bodies.  
In the course of 2012, we examined several 
scenarios reflecting potential developments in the 
eurozone and more widely. Those reported to senior 
management during 2012 included an assessment of 
the annual operating plan 2012 under two 
macroeconomic stress scenarios, as described below. 
The results of the two scenarios demonstrated that 
HSBC would remain satisfactorily capitalised under 
the mild and severe scenarios after taking account of 
assumed management actions. 
In addition to the suite of risk scenarios 
considered for the Group, each major HSBC 
subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic and 
event-driven scenario analyses specific to their region. 
Stress testing is used across risk categories such 
as market risk, liquidity and funding risk and credit 
risk to evaluate the potential impact of stress scenarios 
on portfolio values, structural long-term funding 
positions, income or capital. 
Stress scenario assumptions 
Scenario Mild scenario assumptions Severe scenario assumptions 
Assumptions • the situation in Greece worsens and there is 
an orderly default in Greece; 
• Greek banks also default and, with support from the 
EU and the International Monetary Fund, are bailed 
out;
• increasing bond yields in Portugal, Ireland, Spain 
and Italy trigger further fiscal austerity measures, 
and governments strive to disassociate their 
countries from Greece; 
• through financial and trade linkages, an orderly 
default in Greece results in the spread of contagion 
to the rest of the world; 
• the UK, US and emerging markets are adversely 
affected, albeit to varying degrees; and  
• slower global demand curbs growth and increases 
the risk premium on interest rates as well as 
commodity prices.  
• a disorderly default in Greece, where the eurozone 
governments are unable to ring-fence peripheral 
countries and their banks; 
• default of Portugal and Ireland with increases in 
bond yields for high debt countries; 
• the ensuing credit crunch together with declining 
business and consumer confidence more than offset 
any relief gained from the depreciation of the euro; 
• investors become increasingly uncomfortable with 
the US and the UK’s fiscal positions, with the severe 
scenario resulting in a global slowdown; and 
• emerging economies are less affected by the 
financial shock.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Managing risk / Areas of special interest  
128
We also conduct reverse stress testing. 
Reverse stress testing is a process of working 
backwards from the event of non-viability of the 
business model to identification of a range of events 
that could bring that event about. Non-viability 
might occur before the bank’s capital is depleted, 
and could result from a variety of events. These 
include idiosyncratic, systemic or combinations of 
events, and/or could imply failure of the Group’s 
holding company or one of its major subsidiaries and 
does not necessarily mean the simultaneous failure 
of all the major subsidiaries. 
We use reverse stress testing as part of our risk 
management process to strengthen resilience by 
helping to inform early-warning triggers, 
management actions and contingency plans to 
mitigate against potential stresses and vulnerabilities 
which the Group might face. 
Areas of special interest 
(Unaudited) 
Compliance 
In 2012, we experienced increasing levels of 
compliance risk as regulators and other agencies 
pursued investigations into historical activities, 
and we continued to work with them in relation 
to existing issues. Manifestation of these risks 
included an appearance before the US Senate 
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations and the 
Deferred Prosecution Agreement reached with US 
authorities in relation to investigations regarding 
inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering 
and sanctions law, plus a related undertaking with 
the FSA. We have also been involved in 
investigations into the mis-selling of interest 
rate derivative products to SMEs in the UK and 
investigations and reviews related to certain past 
submissions made by panel banks and the process 
for making submissions in connection with the 
setting of Libor, Euribor and other benchmark 
interest and foreign exchange rates.  
With a new senior leadership team and a new 
strategy in place since 2011, we have already taken 
significant steps to address these issues including 
making changes to strengthen compliance, risk 
management and culture. These steps, which should 
also enhance our compliance risk management 
capabilities, include the following: 
• the creation of a new global structure which will 
make HSBC easier to manage and control; 
• simplifying our business through the ongoing 
implementation of our organisational 
effectiveness programme and our five economic 
filters strategy;  
• developing a sixth global risk filter which 
should help to standardise our approach to 
doing business in higher risk countries;  
• substantially increasing resources, doubling 
global expenditure and significantly 
strengthening Compliance as a control 
(rather than as an advisory) function; 
• continuing to roll out the HSBC Values 
programme that defines the way everyone 
in the Group should act; 
• appointing a new Chief Legal Officer and Head 
of Group Financial Crime Compliance with 
particular expertise and experience in US law 
and regulation; 
• appointing a new Global Head of Regulatory 
Compliance and starting to restructure the 
Global Compliance function accordingly; 
• designing and implementing new global 
standards by which we conduct our businesses; 
and
• enforcing a consistent global sanctions policy.  
It is clear from both our own and wider industry 
experience that the level of activity among regulators 
and law enforcement agencies in investigating 
possible breaches of regulations has increased, and 
that the direct and indirect costs of such breaches can 
be significant. Coupled with a substantial increase in 
the volume of new regulation, much of which has 
some element of extra-territorial reach, and the 
geographical spread of our businesses, we believe 
that the level of inherent compliance risk that we 
face as a Group will continue to remain high for the 
foreseeable future. 
Commercial real estate 
Our exposure to commercial real estate lending 
continued to be concentrated in Hong Kong, the UK, 
Rest of Asia-Pacific and North America. The market 
in Hong Kong and most other Asian markets in 
which we conduct commercial real estate lending, 
after relative buoyancy in 2011, began to stabilise 
in 2012, partly due to initiatives taken by various 
supervisory authorities. In the UK, many regions 
were negatively affected by weak growth in the 
economy, though London and the South East, where 
more than 50% of our UK CRE lending is based, 
continued to exhibit relative strength. In North 
America, the market remained stable, in part 
supported by the continued low levels of interest 
rates.  129
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Refinance risk, which is subject to close 
scrutiny in key commercial real estate markets, is 
the risk that a loan which is due to be repaid through 
refinancing over the short term cannot, at maturity, 
be refinanced on current market terms. Such cases 
may either lead to the loan being treated as impaired 
because the borrower’s ability to pay is considered 
doubtful or, if refinanced by HSBC, may result in it 
being treated as a renegotiated loan because of the 
degree of forbearance required (see page 161 for 
a description of renegotiated loans). In commercial 
real estate markets, refinance risk can arise 
particularly when a loan is serviced exclusively by 
the property to which it relates, i.e. when the bank 
does not, or is not able to, place principal reliance 
on other cash flows available to the borrower. 
We monitor the commercial real estate portfolio, 
assessing those drivers that may indicate potential 
issues with refinancing. The principal driver is the 
vintage of the loan, where origination reflected 
previous market norms which no longer apply in the 
current market. Examples are higher loan-to-value 
ratios and/or lower interest cover ratios. The range 
of refinancing sources in the local market is also an 
important consideration, with concern increasing 
when this is restricted to banks and when bank 
liquidity is limited. In addition, the quality of 
underlying fundamentals such as tenant reliability, 
ability to let, and the condition of the property itself 
is also important, as it influences property value. 
With the exception of the UK, in our material 
commercial real estate portfolios globally, the 
behaviour of the market and the quality of assets 
does not cause undue concern. In the UK, the above 
drivers combine to cause a concern regarding our 
sensitivity to risks of refinance that warrant 
enhanced management attention.  
At 31 December 2012, the UK had US$24.5bn 
of commercial real estate loans, of which US$7.4bn 
were due to be refinanced within the next 12 months, 
of which US$2.4bn were assessed as possessing 
characteristics that indicated an increased risk of 
refinancing difficulty. Such cases are monitored 
closely with US$1.9bn already under special 
management within our Loan Management Units. 
US$0.9bn were disclosed as impaired with 
impairment allowances of US$0.4bn. Where these 
loans are not considered impaired it is because, 
while they may possess characteristics that indicate a 
potential issue with refinancing, as described above, 
there is no evidence to indicate that all contractual 
cash flows will not be recovered or that the loans 
will need to be refinanced on terms we would 
consider below market norms. 
The relevance of current market conditions to 
impairment assessment is particularly relevant over 
a 12-month period. Over a 12 to 24-month horizon, 
US$3.3bn of UK commercial real estate and 
other property-related lending loans are due to be 
refinanced. Reviews of more sensitive assets due 
between 12 and 24 months have been conducted 
to ensure that there are no further cases currently 
requiring special management or that should be 
considered impaired. 
Eurozone crisis 
Eurozone countries are members of the EU and 
part of the euro single currency bloc. The peripheral 
eurozone countries are those that have exhibited 
levels of market volatility that exceeded other 
eurozone countries, demonstrating fiscal or political 
uncertainty which may persist through the first half 
of 2013. In 2012, in spite of improvements through 
austerity and structural reforms, the peripheral 
eurozone countries of Greece, Ireland, Italy, 
Portugal, Spain and Cyprus continued to exhibit 
a high ratio of sovereign debt to GDP or short to 
medium-term maturity concentration of their 
liabilities, with Greece, Spain and Cyprus seeking 
assistance. 
Exposure to eurozone countries is analysed in 
the table on page 193. 
Risk reduction in 2012 
At 31 December 2012, our net exposure to the 
peripheral eurozone countries was US$38bn, 
including net exposure to sovereign borrowers, 
agencies and banks of US$12bn. During the year, 
we continued to reduce our overall net exposure 
to sovereigns, agencies and banks of peripheral 
eurozone countries. In addition, we continued to 
actively reduce exposures to counterparties 
domiciled in other eurozone countries that had 
exposures to sovereigns and/or banks in peripheral 
eurozone countries of sufficient size to threaten their 
on-going viability in the event of an unfavourable 
conclusion to the current crisis. 
This was undertaken through an analysis of 
publicly available information, reviews of external 
analyst reports and meetings with the counter-
parties’ officials. Vulnerable counterparties were 
identified and subjected to enhanced monitoring, and 
our exposure was managed in a similar manner to 
the monitoring and management of direct exposures 
to the peripheral eurozone countries. One of the 
primary issues underpinning this process was the 
management of our surplus liquidity, resulting in the  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Areas of special interest / Top and emerging risks 
130
placement of funds directly with central banks in the 
most highly-rated countries. 
Our businesses in peripheral eurozone countries 
are funded from a mix of local deposits, local 
wholesale funding and intra-Group loans extended 
from HSBC operations with surplus funds. Intra-
Group funding carries the risk that a member country 
might exit the eurozone and redenominate its 
national currency, which could result in a significant 
currency devaluation. A description of risks relating 
to currency redenomination in the event of the exit 
of a eurozone member is provided on page 131. 
Risk management and contingency planning 
There is an established framework for dealing with 
counterparty and systemic crisis situations, both 
regionally and globally, which is complemented by 
regular specific and enterprise-wide stress testing 
and scenario planning. The framework functions 
both in pre and in-crisis situations and ensures that 
we have detailed operational plans in the event of 
an adverse scenario materialising. It was deployed in 
2011 and has continued to operate throughout 2012 
to ensure that pre-crisis preparation remains apposite 
and robust. 
The main focus of preparation for eurozone exit 
continues to be on Greece and Spain although, as the 
eurozone situation has developed in 2012, we have 
also considered other scenarios including contagion 
risk to non-eurozone countries or the exit of a higher 
impact eurozone member. Management actions 
include regular meetings of a Eurozone Major 
Incident Group and a tested regional eurozone 
contingency plan covering all global businesses and 
functions. The plan considers payments, legal, client 
account, internal and external communication and 
regulatory and compliance issues associated with 
eurozone breakup. 
Personal lending – US lending 
The slight improvement in US economic conditions 
continued throughout 2012. Real GDP grew by 2.2% 
and consumer spending growth remained moderate. 
Threats to economic growth remained, primarily 
with the uncertainty in the housing market and 
elevated unemployment levels, although both of 
them demonstrated modest improvements during the 
year. 
We remained focused on managing the run-off 
of balances in our HSBC Finance portfolio and 
completed the sales of our US Card and Retail 
Services business and 195 retail branches principally 
in upstate New York in 2012. Total lending 
balances, including loans held for sale, within HSBC 
Finance were US$43bn at 31 December 2012, a 
decline of US$6.8bn compared with the end of 2011. 
The rate at which balances in the CML portfolio are 
declining continues to be affected by the lack of 
refinancing opportunities available to customers and 
the continued impact of the temporary suspension of 
foreclosure activity in 2010. Foreclosure processing 
has now resumed in substantially all states, although 
there continues to be a backlog of loans which have 
not yet been referred to foreclosure. In addition, our 
loan modification programmes, which are designed 
to improve cash collections and avoid foreclosure, 
continued to slow repayment rates. 
In the third quarter of 2012, we reclassified non-
real estate personal loan balances of US$3.7bn, 
net of impairment allowances, from our consumer 
finance portfolio to ‘Assets held for sale’ as we 
actively marketed the portfolio. We also identified 
real estate secured loan balances, with a carrying 
amount of US$3.8bn which, as part of our strategy, 
we have announced that we plan to actively market 
in multiple transactions generally over the next two 
years. At 31 December 2012, the carrying value of 
the non-real estate and the real estate secured loans 
which we intend to sell was approximately US$1bn 
greater than their estimated fair value. We expect to 
recognise a loss on sale for these loans over the next 
few years, the actual amount of which will depend 
on market conditions at the time of the sales. 
Total mortgage lending in the US was US$55bn 
at 31 December 2012, a decline of 7% compared 
with the end of 2011, mainly due to the continued 
run-off of the CML portfolio. 
Top and emerging risks 
(Unaudited) 
Identifying and monitoring top and emerging risks 
is integral to our approach to risk management. We 
define a ‘top risk’ as being a current, emerged risk 
which has arisen across any of our risk categories, 
regions or global businesses and has the potential to 
have a material impact on our financial results or our 
reputation and the sustainability of our long-term 
business model, and which may form and crystallise 
within a one-year horizon. We consider an 
‘emerging risk’ to be one which has large uncertain 
outcomes that may form beyond a one-year horizon 
which, if they were to crystallise, could have a 
material effect on our long-term strategy. Our top 
and emerging risk framework enables us to focus 
on current and forward looking aspects of our risk 
exposures and ensure our risk profile remains in line 
with our risk appetite and that our appetite remains 
appropriate. Our current top and emerging risks are 
as follows:  131
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk 
• Emerging market slowdown. 
• Macroeconomic risks within developed 
economies.
• Increased geopolitical risk in certain 
regions. 
Emerging market slowdown 
World growth is slowing as demand in mature 
economies is subdued and credit availability and 
investment activity remain constrained. A number 
of mature economies are implementing austerity 
measures in order to reduce their deficits and public 
debt. This is expected to help resolve the sovereign 
and banking crisis in the medium term but, in the 
short term, it is limiting growth, leaving labour 
markets weak and thereby making fiscal 
consolidation a bigger challenge. This is affecting 
the rest of the world through lower trade, reduced 
international financing as banks are deleveraging, 
and the potential disruption to capital flows. In 
addition, it makes emerging countries more 
vulnerable to a slowdown in mature economies. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• Trade and capital flows may contract as a result 
of lower world production, banks deleveraging, 
the introduction of protectionist measures in 
certain markets or the emergence of geopolitical 
risks, which in turn might curtail profitability.
• A prolonged period of low interest rates due 
to policy actions taken to address the economic 
crisis in mature economies will constrain 
through spread compression and low returns 
on assets the interest income we earn from 
investing our excess deposits.
• During 2012, we continued to reduce our 
sovereign and financial institution counterparty 
credit positions in peripheral eurozone 
countries. In addition, we actively sought to 
identify and reduce exposures to those 
counterparties domiciled in core European 
countries that had exposures to sovereigns 
and/or banks in peripheral eurozone countries of 
sufficient size to threaten their ongoing viability 
in the event of an unfavourable conclusion to 
the current situation. 
Macroeconomic risks within developed 
economies
There is still some risk of one or more countries 
leaving the euro, although the situation improved 
in 2012. Even without a eurozone break-up, 
the currency will remain vulnerable to market 
perception. Banks in some countries remain very 
fragile and the rest of the European banking industry 
could be affected through its exposure to the weakest 
countries. Banks are therefore expected to continue 
to deleverage. In the current context of very low 
growth due to austerity measures, this could further 
aggravate the economic crisis and could push 
European countries into a vicious circle of economic 
crisis and sovereign difficulties. Although our 
exposure to the peripheral eurozone countries is 
relatively limited, we are exposed to counterparties 
in the core European countries which could be 
affected by any sovereign or currency crisis. Our 
eurozone exposures are described in more detail on 
page 192.
Potential impact on HSBC
• We could incur significant losses stemming 
from the exit of one or more countries from 
the eurozone and the redenomination of their 
currencies.
• Our exposures to European banks may come 
under stress, heightening the potential for credit 
and market risk losses, if the sovereign debt and 
banking system crisis in the region increases the 
need to recapitalise parts of the sector.
• In the event of contagion from stress in the 
peripheral eurozone sovereign and financial 
sectors, our ability to borrow from other 
financial institutions or to engage in funding 
transactions may be adversely affected by 
market dislocation and tightening liquidity. 
• A sovereign default without co-ordinated 
intervention to protect the rest of the eurozone 
could trigger banking defaults in companies 
with which we do business and have a knock-on 
effect on the global banking system. We have 
actively managed the risk of sovereign defaults 
during 2012 by reducing exposures and other 
measures. 
• In seeking to manage and mitigate these risks, 
we have prepared and tested detailed operational 
contingency plans to deal with such a scenario. 
However, such plans may not be adequate or 
may not prove effective. 
Increased geopolitical risk in certain regions 
Weak global economic growth is exacerbating the 
risk of protectionism and some countries may 
impose restrictions on trade or on capital flows to 
protect their domestic economies.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Top and emerging risks 
132
In Egypt, the political process remains in 
transition with a continuing risk of instability. In 
addition, the fighting in Syria may disrupt global 
international relations, with tensions between Israel 
and Iran adding to the risks in the region. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• Our results are subject to the risk of loss from 
unfavourable political developments, currency 
fluctuations, social instability and changes in 
government policies on matters such as 
expropriation, authorisations, international 
ownership, interest-rate caps, foreign exchange 
transferability and tax in the jurisdictions in 
which we operate. Actual conflict could bring 
about loss of life among our staff and physical 
damage to our assets. 
• We have increased our monitoring of the 
geopolitical and economic outlook, in particular 
in countries where we have material exposures 
and a physical presence. Our internal credit risk 
rating of sovereign counterparties takes these 
factors into account and drives our appetite for 
conducting business in those countries. Where 
necessary, we adjust our country limits and 
exposures to reflect our appetite and mitigate 
these risks as appropriate. 
Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks 
to our business model 
• Regulatory developments affecting our 
business model and Group profitability. 
• Regulatory investigations, fines, 
sanctions and requirements relating to 
conduct of business and financial crime 
negatively affecting our results and 
brand. 
• Dispute risk. 
Financial service providers face increasingly 
stringent and costly regulatory and supervisory 
requirements, particularly in the areas of capital 
and liquidity management, conduct of business, 
operational structures and the integrity of financial 
services delivery. Increased government intervention 
and control over financial institutions, together with 
measures to reduce systemic risk, may significantly 
alter the competitive landscape. These measures may 
be introduced as formal requirements in a supra-
equivalent manner and to differing timetables across 
regulatory regimes. 
Regulatory developments affecting our 
business model and Group profitability 
Several regulatory changes are likely to affect our 
activities, both of the Group as a whole and of some 
or all of our principal subsidiaries. These changes 
include (i) the introduction of Basel III measures in 
the EU through CRD IV and uncertainty on both the 
timing and final form of implementation given that 
certain areas, such as, the operation of capital buffers 
have yet to be finalised and the technical guidance 
from the European Banking Authority (‘EBA’) 
across numerous areas has yet to be published, (ii) a 
new regulatory structure within the UK comprising 
the Financial Policy Committee (‘FPC’), Prudential 
Regulatory Authority (‘PRA’) and Financial 
Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) and, in particular, the 
effects of the ability of the FPC to seek additional 
capital for lending to sectors perceived as higher 
risk, (iii) the designation of the Group by the 
Financial Stability Board as a global systemically 
important bank; (iv) proposed legislation in the UK 
to give effect to the recommendations of the ICB in 
relation to ‘ring-fencing’ of the UK retail banking 
from wholesale banking activities, the structural 
separation of other activities envisaged in legislative 
proposals in the US (including the Volcker Rule 
proposed under the Dodd-Frank Act) and in France 
and, in the EU, considerations following the 
Liikanen Group recommendations; (v) changes in 
the regime for the operation of capital markets with 
increasing standardisation, central clearing, reporting 
and margin requirements; (vi) requirements flowing 
from arrangements for the recovery and resolution of 
the Group and its main operating entities; and (v) 
changing standards for the conduct of business. 
There is also continued risk of further changes to 
regulation relating to remuneration and other taxes. 
Potential impact on HSBC
• Proposed changes relating to capital and 
liquidity requirements, remuneration and/or 
taxes could increase the Group’s cost of doing 
business, reducing future profitability.  
• Proposed changes in and the implementation of 
regulations for derivatives and central 
counterparties, the ICB ring-fencing proposals, 
recovery and resolution plans, the Volcker Rule 
and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act 
(‘FATCA’) may affect the manner in which we 
conduct our activities and structure ourselves, 
with the potential both to increase the costs of 
doing business and curtail the types of business 
we can carry out, with the risk of decreased 
profitability as a result. Due to the fact that the 
development and implementation of many of  133
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
these various regulations are in their early 
stages, it is not possible to estimate the effect, 
if any, on our operations. 
We are closely engaged with the governments 
and regulators in the countries in which we operate 
to help ensure that the new requirements are properly 
considered and can be implemented in an effective 
manner. We are also ensuring that our capital and 
liquidity plans take into account the potential effects 
of the changes. Capital allocation and liquidity 
management disciplines have been expanded to 
incorporate future increased capital and liquidity 
requirements and drive appropriate risk management 
and mitigating actions. 
Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions 
and requirements relating to conduct of 
business and financial crime negatively 
affecting our results and brand 
Financial service providers are at risk of regulatory 
sanctions or fines related to conduct of business 
and financial crime. The incidence of regulatory 
proceedings and other adversarial proceedings 
against financial service firms is increasing. 
In December 2012, HSBC reached agreement 
with US authorities in relation to investigations 
regarding inadequate compliance with anti-money 
laundering, the US Bank Secrecy Act and sanctions 
law. This includes a DPA with the US Department of 
Justice (‘DoJ’). We also reached agreement to 
achieve a resolution with all other US government 
agencies that have investigated our past conduct 
related to these issues, and finalised an undertaking 
with the FSA to comply with certain forward-
looking obligations with respect to anti-money 
laundering and sanctions requirements over a five-
year term. Under these agreements, we made 
payments totalling US$1,921m to US authorities 
and undertook to continue cooperating fully with US 
and UK regulatory and law enforcement authorities 
and take further action to strengthen our compliance 
policies and procedures. Over the five-year term 
of the agreement with the DoJ and the FSA, an 
independent monitor (who will, for FSA purposes, 
be a ‘skilled person’ under section 166 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA)) will 
evaluate and assess our progress in fully 
implementing these and other measures it 
recommends and will produce regular assessments of 
the effectiveness of our Compliance function. 
As reflected in the agreement entered into with 
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
(‘OCC’) in December 2012 (the ‘GLBA 
Agreement’), the OCC has determined that HSBC 
Bank USA is not in compliance with the 
requirements which provide that a national bank and 
each depository institution affiliate of the national 
bank must be both well capitalised and well 
managed in order to own or control a financial 
subsidiary. As a result, HSBC Bank USA and its 
parent holding companies, including HSBC, no 
longer meet the qualification requirements for 
financial holding company status, and may not 
engage in any new types of financial activities 
without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve 
Board. In addition, HSBC Bank USA may not 
directly or indirectly acquire control of, or hold an 
interest in, any new financial subsidiary, nor 
commence a new activity in its existing financial 
subsidiary, unless it receives prior approval from the 
OCC.
In the UK, the FSA has continued to increase its 
focus on ‘conduct risk’ including attention to sales 
processes and incentives, product and investment 
suitability and conduct of business concerns more 
generally. These measures are concerned principally, 
but not exclusively, with the conduct of business 
with retail customers and in conjunction with this 
focus, the UK regulators are making increasing use 
of existing and new powers of intervention and 
enforcement, including powers to consider past 
business undertaken and implement customer 
compensation and redress schemes or other, 
potentially significant remedial work. Additionally, 
the UK and other regulators increasingly take actions 
in response to customer complaints either specific to 
an institution or more generally in relation to a 
particular product. We have seen recent examples of 
this approach in the context of the mis-selling of 
payment protection insurance and of interest rate 
derivative products to SMEs.  
The Group also continues to be subject to a 
number of other regulatory proceedings, including 
investigations and reviews by various regulators and 
competition and enforcement authorities around the 
world, including in the UK, the US, Canada, the 
EU, Switzerland and Asia, who are conducting 
investigations and reviews  related to certain past 
submissions made by panel banks and the process 
for making submissions in connection with the 
setting of London interbank offered rates (‘Libor’), 
European interbank offered rates (‘Euribor’) and 
other benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates. 
As certain HSBC entities are members of such 
panels, HSBC and/or its subsidiaries have been the 
subject of regulatory demands for information and 
are cooperating with those investigations and 
reviews. In addition, HSBC and other panel banks 
have been named as defendants in private lawsuits  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Top and emerging risks 
134
filed in the US with respect to the setting of Libor, 
including putative class action lawsuits which have 
been consolidated before the US District Court for 
the Southern District of New York. The complaints 
in those actions assert claims against HSBC and 
other panel banks under various US laws including 
US antitrust laws, the US Commodities Exchange 
Act, and state law. 
Potential impact on HSBC
• It is difficult to predict the outcome of the 
regulatory proceedings involving our 
businesses. Unfavourable outcomes may have 
a material adverse effect on our reputation, 
brand and results, including loss of business 
and withdrawal of funding. 
• In relation to the DPA, the Group has committed 
to take or continue to adhere to a number of 
remedial measures. Breach of the DPA at any 
time during its term may allow the DoJ or the 
New York County District Attorney’s Office to 
prosecute HSBC in relation to the matters which 
are the subject of the DPA. 
• In relation to the GLBA Agreement, if all of our 
affiliate depositary institutions are not in 
compliance with these requirements within the 
time periods specified in the GLBA Agreement, 
HSBC could be required either to divest HSBC 
Bank USA or to divest or terminate any 
financial activities conducted in reliance on the 
Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (‘GLB Act’). Similar 
consequences could result for subsidiaries of 
HSBC Bank USA that engage in financial 
activities in reliance on expanded powers 
provided for in the GLB Act. Any such 
divestiture or termination of activities would 
have an adverse material effect on the 
consolidated results and operation of HSBC. 
• The UK and other regulators may identify future 
industry-wide mis-selling or other issues that 
could affect the Group. This may lead from 
time to time to: (i) significant direct costs or 
liabilities (including in relation to mis-selling); 
and (ii) changes in the practices of such 
businesses which benefit customers at a cost 
to shareholders. Further, decisions taken in the 
UK by the Financial Ombudsman Service in 
relation to customer complaints (or any overseas 
equivalent that has jurisdiction) could, if applied 
to a wider class or grouping of customers, have 
a material adverse effect on the operating 
results, financial condition and prospects of 
the Group.
Steps to address many of the requirements of 
the DPA and the GLBA Agreement have either 
already been taken or are under way. These 
include simplifying the Group’s control structure, 
strengthening the governance structure with new 
leadership appointments, revising key policies and 
establishing bodies to implement single global 
standards shaped by the highest or most effective 
standards available in any location where the Group 
operates, as well as substantially increasing spending 
and staffing in the anti-money laundering and 
regulatory compliance areas in the past few years. 
There can be no assurance that these steps will be 
effective or that HSBC will not have to take 
additional remedial measures in the future to comply 
with the terms of the DPA or the GLBA Agreement. 
Dispute risk 
The current economic environment has increased the 
Group’s exposure to actual and potential litigation. 
Further details are provided in Note 43 on the 
Financial Statements. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
Dispute risk gives rise to potential financial loss 
and significant reputational damage which could 
adversely affect customer and investor confidence. 
Risks related to our business operations, 
governance and internal control systems 
• Regulatory commitments and consent 
orders including under the Deferred 
Prosecution Agreements. 
• Challenges to achieving our strategy in 
a downturn. 
• Internet crime and fraud. 
• Level of change creating operational 
complexity and heightened operational 
risk.
• Information security risk. 
• Model risk. 
Regulatory commitments and consent 
orders including under the Deferred 
Prosecution Agreements 
There is a risk that we fail to meet our deadlines or 
we are judged to have material gaps in our plans or 
implementation compared with the requirements of 
the DPAs and other orders. Further details of this 
risk are provided on page 128.  135
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Potential impact on HSBC 
If, during the term of the DPA, HSBC is determined 
to have breached the DPA, the DoJ or the New York 
County District Attorney’s Office may prosecute 
HSBC in relation to the matters which are the 
subject of the DPA. The FSA may, in similar vein, 
take enforcement action against the Group as a result 
of a breach of the DPA or of our related 
undertakings to the FSA.
Challenges to achieving our strategy in a 
downturn 
The external environment remains challenging 
and the structural changes which the financial 
sector is going through are creating obstacles to 
the achievement of strategic objectives. This, 
combined with the prolonged global economic 
slowdown, could affect the achievement of our 
strategic targets for the Group as a whole and our 
global businesses. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• The slowdown may put pressure on our ability 
to earn returns on equity in excess of our cost 
of equity while operating within the overall 
parameters of our risk appetite.  
• Through our strategic initiatives, which have 
heightened the focus on capital allocation and 
cost efficiency, we are actively seeking to 
manage and mitigate this risk. 
Internet crime and fraud 
With the ever-growing acceptance of and demand 
for internet and mobile services by customers, HSBC 
is increasingly exposed to fraudulent and criminal 
activities via these channels. Internet crime could 
result in financial loss and/or customer data and 
sensitive information being compromised. Along 
with internet fraud, the overall threat of external 
fraud may increase during adverse economic 
conditions, particularly in retail and commercial 
banking.
We also face the risk of breakdowns in 
processes or procedures and systems failure or 
unavailability, and our business is subject to 
disruption from events that are wholly or partially 
beyond our control, such as internet crime and acts 
of terrorism. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• Internet crime and fraud may give rise to losses 
in service to customers and/or economic loss to 
HSBC. The same threats apply equally when we 
rely on external suppliers or vendors to provide 
services to us and our customers.  
• We have increased our defences through 
enhanced monitoring and have implemented 
additional controls, such as two-factor 
authentication, to reduce the possibility of 
losses from fraud. We continually assess these 
threats as they evolve and adapt our controls to 
mitigate them. 
Level of change creating operational 
complexity and heightened operational risk 
There are many drivers of change affecting HSBC 
and the banking industry, including new banking 
regulations, the increased globalisation of economic 
and business activities, new products and delivery 
channels and organisational change. 
Operational complexity has the potential to 
heighten all types of operational risk arising from 
our activities. These risks include process errors, 
systems failures and fraud. Complexity can also 
increase operational costs. 
The implementation of our strategy to simplify 
our business, which involves withdrawing from 
certain markets, presents disposal risks which 
must be carefully managed. Implementing 
organisational changes to support the Group’s 
strategy also requires close management oversight. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• The implementation of our strategy has involved 
the re-organisation and clarification of 
management accountabilities. There is 
consequently a risk that issues are missed during 
the transition. This change activity is being 
monitored through a comprehensive review 
programme and robust governance 
arrangements. 
• Critical systems failure and a prolonged loss of 
service availability could cause serious damage 
to our ability to serve our customers, breach 
regulations under which we operate and cause 
long-term damage to our business, reputation 
and brand. Systems and controls could be 
degraded as a result of organisational 
effectiveness initiatives unless there is strong 
governance and an oversight framework to 
monitor the risk and control environment. 
We seek to ensure that our critical systems 
infrastructure, including IT services, essential 
buildings, offshore processes and key vendors, 
is constantly monitored and properly resourced 
to mitigate against systems failures.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Top and emerging risks // Credit risk 
136
• We pro-actively review relevant external events 
and assess the impact they may have on our 
systems. Within HSBC, we have a strong focus 
on industry best practices. We rigorously test 
and review all planned updates to our systems 
environment. All changes are risk-assessed, and 
appropriate mitigating controls are required for 
any planned changes classified as high risk. 
During periods of heightened risk, comprehensive 
change embargoes are imposed to minimise the 
risk of customers being affected. Following the 
systems outage at a major UK bank in 2012, we 
assessed our own exposure to similar risks and 
implemented appropriate steps in mitigation. 
We also assessed the systems scheduling tools 
used in the Group. There are controls in place to 
manage inter-dependencies, report exceptions 
and alert file data corruption. These additional 
controls are intended to ensure that the effect of 
any similar product failure at HSBC would be 
limited. In addition, a continuity test of a similar 
problem within our major datacentres in the UK 
and Hong Kong was conducted in the second 
half of 2012. 
• The potential effects of disposal risks include 
regulatory breaches, industrial action, loss of 
key personnel and interruption to systems and 
processes during business transformation, and 
they can have both financial and reputational 
implications. Steps taken to manage these risks 
proactively include maintaining a close dialogue 
with regulators and customers and involving 
HR, legal, compliance and other functional 
experts. Some disposals also involve 
Transitional Service Agreements where there 
are ongoing risks, which are subject to close 
management oversight. 
Information security risk 
The security of our information and technology 
infrastructure is crucial for maintaining our banking 
applications and processes while protecting our 
customers and the HSBC brand. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• These risks give rise to potential financial loss 
and reputational damage which could adversely 
affect customer and investor confidence. Loss 
of customer data would also trigger regulatory 
breaches which could result in fines and 
penalties being incurred. 
• We have invested significantly in addressing 
this risk through increased training to raise staff 
awareness of the requirements and enhanced 
multi-layered controls protecting our 
information and technical infrastructure. 
Model risk 
More stringent regulatory requirements governing 
the development of parameters applied to and 
controls around models used for measuring risk can 
give rise to changes, including increases in capital 
requirements. Furthermore, the changing external 
economic and legislative environment and changes 
in customer behaviour can lead to the assumptions 
we have made in our models becoming invalid. 
Potential impact on HSBC
• These model risks can result in a potentially 
increased and volatile capital requirement. 
• We continue to address these risks through 
enhanced model development, independent 
review and model oversight to ensure our 
models remain fit for purpose.  137
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Credit risk
 Page App
1
Tables Page 
Credit risk management .........................................  252 
Summary of credit risk in 2012 .......................... 139 Maximum exposure to credit risk .......................................... 139
Loans and advances excluding held for sale: total  
exposure, impairment allowances and charges ................ 139
Personal lending ................................................................... 140
Wholesale lending ................................................................. 141
Credit quality of gross loans and advances .......................... 142
Impairment of loans and advances ........................ 143 LICs by geographical region ................................................ 143
LICs by industry .................................................................... 143
Assets held for sale ................................................ 143
Loans and advances to customers and banks measured at 
amortised cost ................................................................... 143
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions . 144
Credit exposure .................................................... 144
Maximum exposure to credit risk .......................... 144 Maximum exposure to credit risk .......................................... 146
Loans and other credit-related commitments ....................... 146
Personal lending ................................................... 147 Total personal lending .......................................................... 147
Mortgage lending ................................................... 148 Mortgage lending products ................................................... 149
Mortgage lending in the US .................................. 150 HSBC Finance US CML – residential mortgages ................ 150
Credit quality of personal lending in the US ......... 151 HSBC Finance: foreclosed properties in the US .................. 151
Trends in two months and over contractual delinquency  
in the US ............................................................................ 152
Wholesale lending ................................................ 152 Total wholesale lending ........................................................ 153
Corporate and commercial .................................... 154
Financial (non-bank) .............................................. 154
Loans and advances to banks ................................ 154
Credit quality of financial instruments ............. 154 253 Credit quality classification .................................................. 253
2012 compared with 2011 ..................................... 154 Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality ......... 155
Past due but not impaired gross financial 
instruments ........................................................ 156
Past due but not impaired loans and advances to  
customers and banks by geographical region .................. 157
Ageing analysis of days past due but not impaired gross 
financial instruments ......................................................... 157
Renegotiated loans and forbearance ...................... 158 254 Renegotiated loans and advances to customers ................... 158
Renegotiated loans and advances to customers by  
geographical region .......................................................... 158
2012 compared with 2011 ..................................... 159
HSBC Finance loan modifications and re-ageing . 159 Gross loan portfolio of HSBC Finance real estate  
secured balances ............................................................... 161
Movement in HSBC Finance renegotiated real estate 
balances ............................................................................. 161
Number of renegotiated real estate secured accounts 
remaining in HSBC Finance’s portfolio ........................... 161
Corporate and commercial forbearance ................ 161
Impaired loans ....................................................... 162 Movement in impaired loans by geographical region .......... 163
Collateral .............................................................. 163
Collateral and other credit enhancements held ..... 163 Residential mortgage loans ................................................... 164
Commercial real estate loans and advances by collateral ... 165
Other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank)  
loans and advances by collateral ..................................... 166
Loans and advances to banks including loan commitments  
by collateral ...................................................................... 167
Collateral and other credit enhancements obtained 168 Carrying amount ................................................................... 168
Impairment of loans and advances .................... 168 258 Impairment allowances on loans and advances to  
customers by geographical region .................................... 169
Net loan impairment charge to the income statement by 
geographical region .......................................................... 170
2012 compared with 2011 ..................................... 170
Further analysis of impairment .............................. 172 Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector ..... 174
Movement in impairment allowances on loans and  
advances to customers and banks ..................................... 175 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Summary in 2012 
138
 Page App
1
Tables Page 
Impairment of loans and advances  
Further analysis of impairment (continued) 
Individually and collectively assessed impairment charge  
to the income statement by industry sector ....................... 175
Net loan impairment charge to the income statement .......... 176
Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of gross  
loans and advances to customers by geographical region  176
Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average 
gross loans and advances to customers ............................ 177
Reconciliation of reported and constant currency changes  
by geographical region ..................................................... 177
Impairment assessment ..........................................  258 
Concentration of exposure .................................. 178 259 Trading assets ........................................................................ 178
Gross loans and advances by industry sector........................ 179
Gross loans and advances to customers by industry sector 
and by geographical region .............................................. 181
Loans and advances to banks by geographical region ......... 182
Gross loans and advances to customers by country ............. 182
HSBC Holdings .................................................... 184 HSBC Holdings – maximum exposure to credit risk ............ 184
Securitisation exposures and other structured 
products ............................................................ 184 259 
Business model ...................................................... 185
Exposure in 2012 ................................................... 185 Overall exposure of HSBC .................................................... 185
Movement in the available-for-sale reserve ......................... 186
Securities investment conduits .............................. 186 Available-for-sale reserve and economic first loss  
protection in SICs, excluding Solitaire ............................. 186
Impairment methodologies .................................... 186 260 
Analysis of exposures and significant  
movements ......................................................... 186
Carrying amount of HSBC’s consolidated holdings of ABSs, 
and direct lending held at fair value through profit or loss 187
Transactions with monoline insurers ..................... 189 HSBC’s exposure to derivative transactions entered into 
directly with monoline insurers ........................................ 189
Leveraged finance transactions .......................... 190 HSBC’s exposure to leveraged finance transactions ............ 190
Representations and warranties related to 
mortgage sales and securitisation activities ..
191
1 Appendix to Risk - risk policies and practices. 139
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a 
customer or counterparty fails to meet an 
obligation under a contract. It arises 
principally from direct lending, trade finance 
and leasing business, but also from certain 
other products such as guarantees and credit 
derivatives and from holding assets in the 
form of debt securities. 
There were no material changes to our policies and 
practices for the management of credit risk in 2012. 
A summary of our current policies and 
practices regarding credit risk is provided in 
the Appendix to Risk on page 252. 
Summary of credit risk in 2012 
(Unaudited)
Maximum exposure to credit risk 
At 31 December 
2012 2011 
US$m US$m 
Trading assets ................................ 367,177  309,449 
Financial assets designated at  
fair value .................................... 12,714  12,926 
Derivatives ..................................... 357,450  346,379 
Loans and advances held at 
amortised cost ............................ 1,150,169  1,121,416 
– to banks ................................... 152,546   180,987
– to customers ............................ 997,623   940,429
Financial investments .................... 415,312  392,834 
Assets held for sale ........................ 9,292  37,808 
Other assets .................................... 203,561  192,024 
Off-balance sheet exposures .......... 624,462  694,228 
– financial guarantees and  
similar contracts .................... 44,993   39,324
– loan and other credit-related 
commitments ......................... 579,469   654,904
3,140,137 3,107,064 
In 2012, net loans and advances to customers 
continued to represent our most significant exposure 
to credit risk, making up 32% of total credit 
exposure compared with 30% in 2011. Other 
significant components of our credit exposures were 
financial investments at 13%, unchanged from 2011, 
trading assets at 12% (2011: 10%) and derivatives at 
11% (unchanged from 2011). Loans and advances to 
banks fell as a proportion of the Group’s credit 
exposure from 6% in 2011 to 5% in 2012. Off-
balance sheet assets contributed 20% of our total 
credit exposure, mainly relating to loan and other 
credit-related commitments (2011: 22%). 
Of our net loans and advances to customers, 
corporate and commercial lending made up the 
largest proportion at 51% (2011: 49%), with 
significant exposures in Europe, Hong Kong and 
Rest of Asia-Pacific. First lien residential mortgages 
represented 30% of total gross loans and advances, 
mainly in the UK, the US and Hong Kong. Other 
personal lending (including second lien residential 
mortgages) made up the bulk of the remaining 
exposure.
Loans and advances excluding held for sale: total 
exposure, impairment allowances and charges 
(Unaudited)
 2012   2011 
 US$bn   US$bn 
At 31 December 
Total gross loans and advances (A)  1,166.3   1,139.1 
Impairment allowances ................... 16.2   17.6 
– as a percentage of A ................ 1.39%   1.55% 
Loans and advances net of 
impairment allowances.................. 1,150.2   1,121.5 
Year ended 31 December 
Impairment charges ........................ 8.2   11.5 
The increase in corporate and commercial 
lending stemmed mainly from Europe, due to a rise 
in overdrafts which did not meet accounting criteria 
for netting against corresponding current account 
balances. Increases in North America reflected 
CMB’s focus on target segments in the US, partly 
offset by the continued decline in balances in the 
run-off CML portfolio. In addition, during the year 
we reclassified US$3.7bn of non-real estate personal 
loan balances in the CML portfolio and US$2.2bn of 
lending balances associated with certain operations 
in Latin America, net of impairment allowances, to 
‘Assets held for sale’. The disposal of the Card and 
Retail Services business in the US during the year 
did not contribute to the decline as the related 
balances had been transferred to ‘Assets held for 
sale’ during 2011. 
The increase in first lien residential mortgages 
reflected the success of marketing campaigns and 
competitive pricing in the UK, the continued strength 
of the property market in Hong Kong and distribution 
network expansion in Rest of Asia-Pacific. 
Within net loans and advances, loan impairment 
allowances fell by US$1.4bn, driven by run-off in the 
CML portfolio and the reclassification of non-real 
estate personal loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’. 
Trading assets include debt securities 
(principally government and government-related 
securities), reverse repo and stock borrowing 
balances. Balances recovered in 2012 from the 
subdued levels seen at the end of 2011, when client 
activity declined due to the eurozone debt concerns 
dominating the global economy. 
Loans and advances to banks fell, driven by a 
reduction in reverse repo balances, in part reflecting 
the redeployment of liquidity in Europe to central  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Summary in 2012 
140
banks, together with maturities and repayments in 
Hong Kong.
Loan and other credit-related commitments 
declined from US$655bn to US$579bn. The 
reduction in exposure in 2012 was largely driven by 
the sale of Card and Retail Services in the US. 
For a more detailed analysis of our maximum exposure 
to credit risk, see page 144.
Personal lending 
(Unaudited) 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia- 
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
2012
First lien residential mortgages  
Gross amount (B) .................................................. 135,172 52,296 36,906 2,144 70,133  5,211  301,862 
Impairment allowances ......................................... 489 4 66 136 4,163  47 4,905 
–  as a percentage of B .......................................... 0.4% 0.0% 0.2% 6.3% 5.9% 0.9% 1.6% 
Other personal lending
1
Gross amount (C) .................................................. 51,102 18,045 12,399 4,088 14,221  13,376  113,231 
Impairment allowances ......................................... 977 57 143 189 684 1,257  3,307 
–  as a percentage of C .......................................... 1.9% 0.3% 1.2% 4.6% 4.8% 9.4% 2.9% 
Total personal lending  
Gross amount (D) ................................................. 186,274 70,341 49,305 6,232 84,354  18,587  415,093 
Impairment allowances ......................................... 1,466 61 209 325 4,847  1,304  8,212 
– as a percentage of D ........................................... 0.8% 0.1% 0.4% 5.2% 5.7% 7.0% 2.0% 
2011        
First lien residential mortgages        
Gross amount (E) .................................................. 119,902 46,817 32,136 1,837 73,278  4,993  278,963 
Impairment allowances ......................................... 441 12 58 126 4,578  106  5,321 
–  as a percentage of E .......................................... 0.4% 0.0% 0.2% 6.9% 6.2%  2.1%  1.9% 
Other personal lending
1
        
Gross amount (F) .................................................. 46,245 16,364 11,445 3,432 22,058  15,118  114,662 
Impairment allowances ......................................... 1,111 52 138 198 1,768  1,172  4,439 
–  as a percentage of F .......................................... 2.4% 0.3% 1.2% 5.8% 8.0%  7.8%  3.9% 
Total personal lending         
Gross amount (G) ................................................. 166,147 63,181 43,581 5,269 95,336  20,111  393,625 
Impairment allowances ......................................... 1552 64 196 324 6,346  1,278  9,760 
–  as a percentage of G .......................................... 0.9% 0.1% 0.4% 6.1% 6.7%  6.4%  2.5% 
For footnote, see page 249. 
Our personal lending balances increased from 
US$394bn at 31 December 2011 to US$415bn at 
31 December 2012, compared with the end of 2011. 
This was primarily due to growth in residential 
mortgages in Europe, Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-
Pacific. In Europe, this was due to successful 
marketing campaigns and competitive pricing in the 
UK. The growth in mortgage balances in Hong Kong 
was driven by the low interest rate environment, and 
robust residential property market. The latter was 
also a factor in Rest of Asia-Pacific, most notably in 
Singapore, mainland China, Australia and Malaysia. 
This growth in total personal lending balances was 
partly offset by a decline in North America, in part 
due to the run-off of the CML portfolio and the 
reclassification of non-real estate personal loan 
balances to ‘Assets held for sale’. In Latin America 
personal lending decreased, mainly reflecting the 
transfer of balances relating to the operations in 
Colombia, Peru and Paraguay to ‘Assets held for 
sale’ in the second quarter of 2012, as well as lower 
balances in Brazil, where we continued to manage 
down our exposure to non-strategic portfolios. 
Impairment allowances declined by 16%, 
primarily in North America in the CML portfolio, 
reflecting the reclassification of non-real estate 
personal loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’ and 
the continued run-off. In Hong Kong and Rest of 
Asia-Pacific, impairment allowances remained at 
low levels throughout 2012. In Europe, in other 
personal lending, impairment allowances as a 
percentage of lending balances, declined from 2.4% 
to 1.9% as we focused our lending growth on higher 
quality assets.
For a more detailed analysis of our personal lending, see 
page 147.  141
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Wholesale lending 
(Unaudited)
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia- 
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
2012
Corporate and commercial  
Gross amount (H) ................................................. 226,755 99,199 85,305 22,452 48,083 35,590 517,384 
Impairment allowances ......................................... 3,537 383 526 1,312 732 856 7,346 
–  as a percentage of H .......................................... 1.56% 0.39% 0.62% 5.84% 1.52% 2.41% 1.42% 
Financial
2
Gross amount (I) ................................................... 101,052 28,046 48,847 10,394 27,400 18,122 233,861 
Impairment allowances ......................................... 358 29 11 174 37 2 611
–  as a percentage of I ........................................... 0.35% 0.10% 0.02% 1.67% 0.14% 0.01% 0.26% 
         
2011      
Corporate and commercial        
Gross amount (J) ................................................... 209,760 91,592 77,887 21,152 41,775 35,930 478,096 
Impairment allowances ......................................... 3,256 492 576 1,242 756 729 7,051 
–  as a percentage of J ........................................... 1.55% 0.54% 0.74% 5.87% 1.81%  2.03%  1.47% 
       
Financial
2
        
Gross amount (K) ................................................. 118,077 38,632 50,492 9,739 27,648 22,743 267,331 
Impairment allowances ......................................... 484 26 11 166 135 3 825 
–  as a percentage of K .......................................... 0.41% 0.07% 0.02% 1.70% 0.49%  0.01%  0.31% 
For footnote, see page 249. 
At 31 December 2012, our corporate and 
commercial lending balances were US$517bn. The 
increase of 8% compared with the end of 2011 was 
mainly in the international trade and services sector, 
largely in Europe despite muted demand for credit, 
and in Hong Kong, driven by growth in trade finance 
volumes as we capitalised on trade and capital flows. 
In the manufacturing sector in Europe, balances 
increased due to growth in the UK of overdraft 
balances and corresponding customer accounts 
which did not, however, meet netting criteria under 
accounting rules. 
Financial sector lending decreased from 
US$267bn at 31 December 2011 to US$234bn 
at 31 December 2012. This was mainly in Europe 
due to a fall in reverse repo activity as liquidity was  
redeployed to central banks, together with maturities 
and repayments in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-
Pacific.
Impairment allowances remained at low levels 
as a percentage of wholesale lending balances. In 
North America, impairment allowances as a 
percentage of financial lending balances declined 
from 0.49% to 0.14% reflecting a few large write-
offs in 2012. Lending balances in this category 
remained broadly unchanged. In Europe, impairment 
allowances declined from US$484m to US$358m 
reflecting the disposal of a small number of 
exposures.
For a more detailed analysis of our wholesale lending, 
see page 152. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Summary in 2012 
142
Credit quality of gross loans and advances 
(Unaudited)
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
2012
Neither past due nor impaired ................................... 500,599 200,110 179,337 35,628 127,457  65,520  1,108,651 
Of which renegotiated ........................................... 3,871 275 199 1,300 6,061  1,109  12,815 
Past due but not impaired .......................................... 2,339 1,311 2,974 975 7,721 3,591 18,911 
Of which renegotiated ........................................... 371 8 35 168 3104 133 3,819 
Impaired .................................................................... 11,145 477 1,147 2,474 20,345 3,188 38,776 
Of which renegotiated ........................................... 5,732 109 318 921 16,997  1516 25,593 
2011      
Neither past due nor impaired ................................... 480,173 191,691 168,571 32,550 131,785 72,534 1,077,304 
Of which renegotiated ........................................... 5,136 309 264 1,532 6,570 909 14,720 
        
Past due but not impaired .......................................... 1,990 1,107 2,319 1,165 10,216 3,212 20,009 
Of which renegotiated ........................................... 282 4 47 311 4,061 168 4,873 
        
Impaired .................................................................... 11,819 608 1,070 2,445 22,758 3,039 41,739 
Of which renegotiated ........................................... 6,046 134 137 812 17,844 1,399 26,372 
At 31 December 2012, US$1,109bn of gross loans 
and advances were classified as neither past due nor 
impaired. This was an increase of 3%, mainly in 
Europe and in Rest of Asia-Pacific. 
At 31 December 2012, US$19bn of gross loans 
and advances were classified as past due but not 
impaired compared with US$20bn at the end of 
2011. The largest concentration of these balances 
was in HSBC Finance. The decline of 5% was 
mainly in North America due to the reclassification 
of non-real estate personal loan balances to ‘Assets 
held for sale’, as well as the continued run-off of the 
mortgage balances in the CML portfolio. This was 
partly offset by an increase in Rest of Asia-Pacific 
in the personal and corporate and commercial 
sectors. 
Gross loans and advances classified as impaired 
decreased by 7%, mainly in North America due to 
the continued run-off of the CML portfolio, as well 
as the reclassification of non-real estate personal 
loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’ in our CML 
portfolio.
Renegotiated loans totalled US$42bn at 
31 December 2012, compared with US$46bn at 
the end of 2011. North America accounted for the 
largest volume of renegotiated loans which 
amounted to US$26bn or 62% of total renegotiated 
loans at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$28bn or 
62%), most of which were first lien residential 
mortgages held by HSBC Finance. Of the total 
renegotiated loans in North America, US$17bn were 
presented as impaired at 31 December 2012 (2011: 
US$18bn). Of total renegotiated loans, US$3.8bn 
were presented as past due but not impaired at 
31 December 2012, down from US$4.9bn at 31 
December 2011. This was mainly in North America 
in the CML portfolio due to the reclassification of 
non-real estate personal loan balances to ‘Assets 
held for sale’ as well as the continued run-off of the 
lending balances. 
For a more detailed analysis of the credit quality of 
financial instruments, see page 154. 143
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Impairment of loans and advances 
(Unaudited)
Loan impairment charges by geographical region 
0
1,500
3,000
4,500
6,000
7,500
Europe Hong Kong Rest of
Asia-Pacific
MENA North
America
Latin
America
2012 2011
US$m
Loan impairment charges by industry
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
First lien
residential
mortgages
Other
personal
lending
Corporate
commercial
Commercial
real estate
Financial
2012 2011
US$m
Loan impairment charges decreased from US$12bn 
to US$8.2bn on a reported basis, a decline of 29% 
compared with 2011. On a constant currency basis, 
they were 27% lower. 
The improvement in loan impairment charges 
was most significant in RBWM in North America 
due to the continued decline in the CML portfolio 
that is in run-off and the sale of the Card and Retail 
Services business.  
This was in part reduced by higher loan 
impairment charges in Latin America. In Brazil, 
delinquencies in RBWM and CMB increased, 
reflecting lower economic growth in 2012. In Rest 
of Asia-Pacific, loan impairment charges increased 
as a result of individually assessed impairments on a 
single corporate exposure in Australia and a small 
number of corporate exposures in other countries. 
For a more detailed analysis of the impairment of loans 
and advances, see page 154.
Assets held for sale 
During 2012, the growth in gross loans and advances 
was affected by a reclassification of certain lending 
balances to ‘Assets held for sale’. Disclosures 
relating to assets held for sale are provided in the 
following credit risk management tables, primarily 
where the disclosure is relevant to the measurement 
of these financial assets: 
• Maximum exposure to credit risk (page 146); 
• Distribution of financial instruments by credit 
quality (page 155); and 
• Ageing analysis of days past due but not 
impaired gross financial instruments (page 157). 
Although gross loans and advances and related 
impairment allowances are reclassified from ‘Loans 
and advances to customers’ and ‘Loans and 
advances to banks’ in the balance sheet, there is no 
equivalent income statement reclassification. As a 
result, charges for loan impairment losses shown in 
the credit risk disclosures include loan impairment 
charges relating to financial assets classified as 
‘Assets held for sale’. 
Loans and advances to customers and banks measured at amortised cost 
(Audited) 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
 Gross 
 loans and 
 advances 
 Impairment
  allowances
 on loans and
 advances 
 Gross 
 loans and 
 advances  
 Impairment 
 allowances 
 on loans and 
 advances 
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Reported in ‘Loans and advances to customers and banks’ ......... 1,166,338 16,169 1,139,052 17,636 
Reported in ‘Assets held for sale’ ................................................ 7,350 718 37,273 1,614 
1,173,688 16,887 1,176,325 19,250  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Summary in 2012 / Credit exposure  
144
The lending balances in ‘Assets held for sale’ 
at the end of 2012 included non-real estate personal 
loan balances from our CML portfolio in North 
America and balances associated with the disposal 
of our operations in Colombia, Paraguay and Peru, 
net of impairment allowances. The lending balances 
and impairment allowances reported in ‘Assets held 
for sale’ at the end of 2011 included the US Card 
and Retail Services portfolio which was disposed 
of in 2012. As the latter was reclassified in 2011, 
the disposal had no impact on the year on year 
movement in loans and advances or impairment 
allowances in 2012. 
Lending balances held for sale continue to be 
measured at amortised cost less allowances for 
impairment; such carrying amounts may differ from 
fair value. Any difference between the carrying 
amount and the sales price, which is the fair value 
at the time of sale, would be recognised as a gain or 
loss. See Note 16 on the Financial Statements for the 
carrying amount and the fair value at 31 December 
2012 of loans and advances to banks and customers 
classified as held for sale. 
The table below analyses the amount of loan 
impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 
(‘LIC’s) arising from assets held for sale. They 
primarily related to the non-real estate personal loans 
reclassified to held-for-sale in the CML portfolio, as 
well as to the US Card and Retail Services business 
classified as such at 31 December 2011 which was 
sold in 2012. 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions
(Unaudited) 
 2012 
US$m 
LICs arising from: 
–  disposals and assets held for sale ........ 766
–  assets not held for sale ......................... 7,545 
8,311 
Credit exposure 
Maximum exposure to credit risk 
(Audited) 
In 2012, our exposure to credit risk remained well 
diversified across asset classes. We increased our 
overall exposure to credit risk in 2012, largely from 
increases in trading assets in Europe and North 
America, driven by higher client trading activity. 
Loans and advances to customers also rose, mainly 
in the UK, Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific. 
‘Maximum exposure to credit risk’ table (page 146)  
The table presents our maximum exposure to credit risk from 
balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments 
before taking account of any collateral held or other credit 
enhancements (unless such enhancements meet accounting 
offsetting requirements). For financial assets recognised on 
the balance sheet, the maximum exposure to credit risk equals 
their carrying amount; for financial guarantees and similar 
contracts granted, it is the maximum amount that we would 
have to pay if the guarantees were called upon. For loan 
commitments and other credit-related commitments that are 
irrevocable over the life of the respective facilities, it is 
generally the full amount of the committed facilities. 
Loans and advances 
Our maximum exposure to loans and advances 
carried at amortised cost increased by 3% compared 
with the end of 2011. The rise primarily reflected 
growth in residential mortgage balances in the UK 
following the continued focus on sales and 
competitive pricing, the ongoing strength of the 
property market in Hong Kong and in Rest of Asia-
Pacific, coupled with expansion of our distribution 
network in the latter. Term and trade-related lending 
rose in Europe despite muted demand for credit in 
the UK and in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, 
reflecting our focus on corporate and commercial 
customers that trade internationally. Lending also 
rose in Europe as overdraft balances that did not 
meet netting criteria increased in the UK, with a 
corresponding rise in related customer accounts. In 
North America corporate and commercial lending 
increased, reflecting our focus on target segments in 
the US. 
These increases were partly offset by a decline 
in North America from repayments and write-offs 
on the run-off CML portfolio. In addition, during 
the year we reclassified US$3.7bn of non real estate 
personal loan balances in the CML portfolio and 
US$2.2bn of lending balances associated with 
certain operations in Latin America, net of 
impairment allowances, to ‘Assets held for sale’. 
Reverse repo balances also declined, mainly in 
Europe.
Our exposure to loans and advances to banks 
decreased in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific 
due to maturities and repayments, and in Europe as 
reverse repo balances declined due, in part, to the 
redeployment of liquidity to central banks. Balances 
also decreased in Latin America. 
The loans and advances offset adjustment in the 
table on page 146 primarily relates to customer loans 
and deposits and balances arising from repo and 
reverse repo transactions where there is a 
legally enforceable right of offset in the event of 
counterparty default and where, as a result, there is 
a net exposure for credit risk management purposes.  145
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
However, as there is no intention to settle these 
balances on a net basis under normal circumstances, 
they do not qualify for net presentation for 
accounting purposes. 
Financial investments 
Maximum exposure to financial investments 
increased by 6% compared with the end of 2011. 
This largely reflected the deployment of surplus 
liquidity into available-for-sale investments, notably 
treasury bills in Hong Kong and highly rated debt 
securities in North America. 
Trading assets 
In 2012, our exposure to trading assets rose by 19% 
reflecting increased client activity compared with the 
subdued levels seen in 2011. This resulted in higher 
reverse repo balances in Europe and North America, 
and higher securities borrowing balances in Rest of 
Asia-Pacific and Europe, which vary in line with 
levels of trading activity.
Cash and balances at central banks 
The Group’s maximum exposure to cash and 
balances at central banks increased by 9%, driven 
by redeployment of excess liquidity in Europe and 
Hong Kong to central banks. This reflected the 
Group’s risk appetite coupled with growth in 
customer deposit balances. In North America, we 
reduced balances at the US Federal Reserve as 
surplus liquidity was redeployed into highly-rated 
financial investments. 
Derivatives 
Our maximum exposure to derivatives increased 
slightly, primarily reflecting a rise in the fair value 
of interest rate derivative contracts in Europe and, 
to a lesser extent, in the US due to downward 
movements in yield curves in major currencies. 
This was partly offset by a decrease in the fair value 
of credit derivative contracts, primarily in Europe 
and the US, as credit spreads tightened. Nearly half 
of all trades are exchange traded or otherwise settled 
centrally, the majority of these being interest rate 
derivatives. 
The derivative offset amount in the table on 
page 146 relates to exposures where the counterparty 
has an offsetting derivative exposure with HSBC, a 
master netting arrangement is in place and the credit 
risk exposure is managed on a net basis, or the 
position is specifically collateralised, normally in 
the form of cash. At 31 December 2012, the total 
amount of such offsets was US$311bn (2011: 
US$306bn), of which US$270bn (2011: US$272bn) 
were offsets under a master netting arrangement, 
US$39bn (2011: US$33bn) was collateral received 
in cash and US$1.8bn (2011: US$0.7bn) was other 
collateral. These amounts do not qualify for net 
presentation for accounting purposes as settlement 
is not intended to be made on a net basis. 
Other credit risk mitigants 
While not disclosed as offset in the maximum 
exposure to credit risk table on page 146, other 
arrangements including short positions in securities 
and financial assets held as part of linked insurance/  
investment contracts where the risk is predominately 
borne by the policyholder, reduce our maximum 
exposure to credit risk. In addition, we hold 
collateral in respect of individual loans and advances 
(see page 163). 
Loans and other credit-related commitments 
Loans and other credit-related commitments remain 
well diversified across geographical regions. For 
more details, see page 146. 
Counterparty analysis of notional contract amounts of derivatives by product type 
(Unaudited) 
Traded over the counter 
Traded on
recognised
exchanges
Settled by
central
counterparties 
Not settled 
by central 
counterparties Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
HSBC 
Foreign exchange .......................................................................... 27,869 11,156 4,413,532  4,452,557 
Interest rate ................................................................................... 837,604 12,316,673 8,459,665  21,613,942 
Equity ............................................................................................ 225,452 270,216  495,668 
Credit ............................................................................................ 73,281 828,226  901,507 
Commodity and other ................................................................... 19,006 61,213  80,219 
1,109,931 12,401,110 14,032,852  27,543,893 
The purpose for which HSBC uses derivatives is set out in Note 19 on the Financial Statements.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Credit exposure / Personal lending  
146
Maximum exposure to credit risk 
(Audited) 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
 Maximum
 exposure  Offset  Net 
 Maximum 
 exposure   Offset   Net 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Cash and balances at central banks .................... 141,532 – 141,532 129,902 – 129,902 
Items in the course of collection from other  
banks ............................................................... 7,303 – 7,303 8,208 – 8,208 
Hong Kong Government certificates of 
indebtedness ................................................... 22,743 – 22,743 20,922 – 20,922 
Trading assets ..................................................... 367,177 (19,700) 347,477 309,449 (4,656) 304,793 
Treasury and other eligible bills ..................... 26,282 – 26,282 34,309 – 34,309
Debt securities ................................................ 144,677 – 144,677 130,487 – 130,487
Loans and advances to banks ......................... 78,271 – 78,271 75,525 – 75,525
Loans and advances to customers .................. 117,947 (19,700) 98,247 69,128 (4,656) 64,472
Financial assets designated at fair value ............ 12,714 – 12,714 12,926 – 12,926 
Treasury and other eligible bills ..................... 54 – 54 123 – 123
Debt securities ................................................ 12,551 – 12,551 11,834 – 11,834
Loans and advances to banks ......................... 55 – 55 119 – 119
Loans and advances to customers .................. 54 – 54 850 – 850
Derivatives .......................................................... 357,450 (310,859) 46,591 346,379 (305,616) 40,763 
Loans and advances held at amortised cost ........ 1,150,169 (95,578) 1,054,591 1,121,416 (87,978) 1,033,438 
– to banks ........................................................ 152,546 (3,732) 148,814 180,987 (3,066) 177,921
– to customers ................................................. 997,623 (91,846) 905,777 940,429 (84,912) 855,517
Financial investments ......................................... 415,312 – 415,312 392,834 – 392,834 
Treasury and other similar bills ...................... 87,550 – 87,550 65,223 – 65,223
Debt securities ................................................ 327,762 – 327,762 327,611 – 327,611
Assets held for sale ............................................. 9,292 (164) 9,128 37,808 (204) 37,604 
– disposal groups ............................................ 5,359 (164) 5,195 37,746 (204) 37,542
– non-current assets held for sale ................... 3,933 – 3,933 62 – 62
Other assets ......................................................... 31,983 – 31,983 32,992 – 32,992 
Endorsements and acceptances ...................... 12,032 – 12,032 11,010 – 11,010
Other ............................................................... 19,951 – 19,951 21,982 – 21,982
Financial guarantees and similar contracts ........ 44,993 – 44,993 39,324 – 39,324 
Loan and other credit-related commitments
3
 ..... 579,469 – 579,469 654,904 – 654,904 
3,140,137 (426,301) 2,713,836 3,107,064 (398,454) 2,708,610 
For footnote, see page 249. 
Loan and other credit-related commitments 
(Unaudited) 
 Asia  Europe  Americas  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Personal.......................................................................................... 79,021 80,596 31,566  191,183 
Corporate and commercial ........................................................... 139,897 91,957 110,401  342,255 
Financial ........................................................................................ 10,330 15,080 20,621  46,031 
229,248 187,633 162,588  579,469 
At 31 December 2011     
Personal.......................................................................................... 76,901 76,658 139,458  293,017 
Corporate and commercial ........................................................... 122,618 84,797 101,861  309,276 
Financial ........................................................................................ 8,646 21,060 22,905  52,611 
 208,165 182,515 264,224  654,904 
A description of loan and other credit related 
commitments is set out in Note 40 on the Financial 
Statements. The reduction in the total amount from 
2011 to 2012 is mainly due to the disposal of the US 
Cards business and US branch network in 2012. In 
the table above, Asia includes amounts in Hong 
Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and the Middle East and 
North Africa.  147
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Personal lending 
(Unaudited)
We provide a broad range of secured and unsecured 
personal lending products to meet customer needs. 
Given the diverse nature of the markets in which 
we operate, the range is not standard across 
all countries but is tailored to meet the demands 
of individual markets. 
Personal lending includes advances to customers 
for asset purchases, such as residential property, 
where the loans are typically secured by the assets 
being acquired. We also offer loans secured on 
existing assets, such as first and second liens on 
residential property; unsecured lending products 
such as overdrafts, credit cards and payroll loans; 
and debt consolidation loans which may be secured 
or unsecured. 
Total personal lending 
(Unaudited)
 UK 
 Rest of 
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong  US
4
 Rest of 
 North 
 America 
 Other 
 regions
5
 Total 
US$m US$m US$m  US$m US$m  US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
First lien residential mortgages ............ 127,024 8,148 52,296 49,417 20,716 44,261 301,862 
Other personal lending ......................... 23,446 27,656 18,045 7,382 6,839 29,863 113,231 
– motor vehicle finance .................... – 24 – – 20 3,871 3,915
– credit cards .................................... 11,369 3,060 5,930 821 735 8,881 30,796
– second lien residential mortgages . 508 – – 5,959 363 131 6,961
– other ............................................... 11,569 24,572 12,115 602 5,721 16,980 71,559
Total personal lending (A) .................... 150,470 35,804 70,341 56,799 27,555 74,124 415,093 
Impairment allowances on personal 
lending
First lien residential mortgages ........ (425) (64) (4) (4,133) (30) (249) (4,905)
Other personal lending ..................... (576) (401) (57) (590) (94) (1,589) (3,307)
– motor vehicle finance .................... – (4) – – (1) (144) (149)
– credit cards .................................... (150) (184) (28) (40) (14) (385) (801)
– second lien residential mortgages . (44) – – (542) (6) – (592)
– other ............................................... (382) (213) (29) (8) (73) (1,060) (1,765)
Total ...................................................... (1,001) (465) (61) (4,723) (124) (1,838) (8,212)
– as a percentage of A ............................ 0.7% 1.3% 0.1% 8.3% 0.5% 2.5% 2.0%
   
At 31 December 2011    
First lien residential mortgages ............ 111,224 8,678 46,817 52,484 20,794 38,966 278,963
Other personal lending ......................... 22,218 24,027 16,364 14,087 7,971 29,995 114,662 
– motor vehicle finance .................... – 24 – 20 29 4,494 4,567
– credit cards .................................... 11,279 2,192 5,304 833 1,262 8,618 29,488
– second lien residential mortgages . 694 – – 7,063 468 233 8,458
– other ............................................... 10,245 21,811 11,060 6,171 6,212 16,650 72,149
Total personal lending (B) .................... 133,442 32,705 63,181 66,571 28,765 68,961 393,625 
Impairment allowances on personal 
lending
       
First lien residential mortgages ........ (383) (58) (12) (4,551) (27) (290) (5,321)
Other personal lending ..................... (745) (366) (52) (1,659) (109) (1,508) (4,439)
– motor vehicle finance .................... – (4) – – – (164) (168)
– credit cards .................................... (177) (148) (22) (46) (35) (406) (834)
– second lien residential mortgages . (42) (1) – (740) (9) – (792)
– other ............................................... (526) (213) (30) (873) (65) (938) (2645)
Total ...................................................... (1,128) (424) (64) (6,210) (136) (1,798) (9,760)
– as a percentage of B ............................ 0.8% 1.3% 0.1% 9.3% 0.5% 2.6% 2.5%
For footnotes, see page 249.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Personal lending  
148
In 2012, the credit quality of the majority of 
our personal lending portfolios improved, reflecting 
the continued low levels of interest rates and strong 
customer repayments in many markets, as well 
as actions taken in previous years to tighten our 
lending criteria and focus on higher quality and 
secured assets.  
In the US, the origination of new personal 
lending was limited as we have discontinued all 
new consumer finance real estate lending following 
the closure of the consumer finance distribution 
network. Customer lending balances across HSBC 
Finance portfolios continued to decline and, in May 
and August 2012 respectively, we completed the 
sales of the Card and Retail Services business and 
non-strategic branches, in the US. We continue to 
explore options to accelerate the liquidation of the 
CML portfolio and, to this effect, reclassified certain 
non-real estate personal loan balances, net of 
impairment allowances, to ‘Assets held for sale’ 
as we actively marketed this portfolio. 
The commentary that follows is on a constant 
currency basis. 
At 31 December 2012, the Group’s exposure 
to personal lending was US$415bn, 3% higher than 
at 31 December 2011, reflecting a rise in first lien 
residential mortgage lending, partly offset 
by a reduction in other personal lending. Loan 
impairment allowances on our personal lending 
portfolios were US$8.2bn compared with US$9.8bn 
at the end of 2011, while the ratio of loan 
impairment allowances to total personal lending 
reduced from 2.4% at 31 December 2011 to 2.0% 
at 31 December 2012. This decline reflected 
volume and performance-based improvements, 
predominantly in our US portfolios, due to the 
continued run-off of the CML portfolio as well as 
the reclassification of impairment allowances on 
non-real estate personal loan balances to ‘Assets 
held for sale’. We also continued to focus on 
growing our lower-risk residential mortgage 
portfolios in the UK, Hong Kong and rest of Asia-
Pacific, where our loss experience and impairment 
allowance requirements are typically lower. 
Loan impairment charges in our personal 
lending portfolios were US$5.4bn in 2012, 
US$3.8bn or 41% lower than in 2011 and 
representing 66% of the overall Group’s LICs. 
The decline was predominantly in the US reflecting 
the reduction in balances in the CML portfolio and 
the sale of the Card and Retail Services business in 
May 2012. 
At 31 December 2012, total personal lending 
increased by US$13.7bn reflecting growth in first 
lien residential mortgages, notably in the UK, Hong 
Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific. Balances in the 
UK increased following the success of marketing 
campaigns and competitive pricing. The rise in Hong 
Kong reflected the low interest rate environment and 
active property market, whereas growth in the 
Rest of Asia-Pacific, mainly in Singapore, mainland 
China, Australia and Malaysia, reflected the 
continued strength of property markets and 
expansion of our distribution network. 
Total personal lending balances in the US at 
31 December 2012 were US$57bn, a decrease of 
15% compared with the end of 2011. The decline 
reflected the run-off of our CML portfolio, which 
also fell due to the reclassification of non-real estate 
personal loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’.  
In Latin America, personal lending decreased by 
4% compared with 31 December 2011, following a 
reduction in other personal lending in Brazil, where 
we managed down our exposure to non-strategic 
portfolios and focused on higher quality lending 
including first lien residential mortgage lending. 
This complemented a range of corrective actions, 
including improving our collections capabilities, 
reducing third party originations and improving 
credit scoring models. These actions were 
implemented to limit our exposure to further market 
weakness following a rise in delinquency in 2011 
which continued in 2012. We also reclassified 
lending balances in Colombia, Paraguay and Peru to 
‘Assets held for sale’. 
Mortgage lending 
(Unaudited)
We offer a wide range of mortgage products 
designed to meet customer needs, including capital 
repayment, interest-only, affordability and offset 
mortgages. 
Group credit policy prescribes the range of 
acceptable residential property loan-to-value 
(‘LTV’) thresholds with the maximum upper limit 
for new loans set between 75% and 95%. Specific 
LTV thresholds and debt-to-income ratios are 
managed at regional and country levels and, 
although the parameters must comply with Group 
policy, strategy and risk appetite, they differ in the 
various locations in which we operate to reflect the 
local economic and housing market conditions, 
regulations, portfolio performance, pricing and other 
product features.   149
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
The commentary that follows is on a constant 
currency basis. 
At 31 December 2012, total mortgage lending, 
comprising first lien and second lien residential 
mortgages, was US$309bn, 5% higher than at the 
end of 2011. Our most significant concentrations 
of mortgage lending were in the UK, the US and 
Hong Kong. 
Mortgage lending products 
(Unaudited)
 UK 
 Rest of
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong  US
4
 Rest  
 of North 
 America  
 Other 
 regions
5
 Total 
US$m US$m US$m  US$m US$m  US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
First lien residential mortgages ............ 127,024 8,148 52,296 49,417  20,716  44,261  301,862 
Second lien residential mortgages......... 508 – – 5,959  363 131 6,961 
Total mortgage lending (A) ..................  
127,532 8,148 52,296 55,376  21,079  44,392  308,823 
Second lien as a percentage of A ......... 0.4% – 0.0% 10.8% 1.7% 0.3% 2.3% 
Impairment allowances on mortgage 
lending .............................................. (469) (64) (4) (4,675) (36) (249) (5,497)
First lien residential mortgages ........ (425) (64) (4) (4,133) (30) (249) (4,905)
Second lien residential mortgages .... (44) – – (542) (6) – (592)
Interest-only (including offset) 
mortgages .......................................... 49,650 52 30 – 531 1,146  51,409 
Affordability mortgages, including 
adjustable-rate mortgages (‘ARM’s)... 6 532 19 18,456  – 5,135  24,148 
Other ..................................................... 99 – – – – 204 303
Total interest-only, affordability 
mortgages and other ......................... 49,755 584 49 18,456  531 6,485  75,860 
– as a percentage of A ....................... 39.0% 7.2% 0.1% 33.3% 2.5% 14.6% 24.6% 
        
At 31 December 2011        
First lien residential mortgages ............ 111,224 8,678 46,817 52,484 20,794 38,966 278,963 
Second lien residential mortgages ........ 694 – – 7,063 468 233 8,458 
Total mortgage lending (B) .................. 111,918 8,678 46,817 59,547 21,262 39,199 287,421 
Second lien as a percentage of B .......... 0.6%  – – 11.9% 2.2%  0.6%  2.9%
Impairment allowances on mortgage 
lending.............................................. (425) (59) (12) (5,291) (36) (290) (6,113)
First lien residential mortgages ........ (383) (58) (12) (4,551) (27) (290) (5,321)
Second lien residential mortgages ... (42) (1) – (740) (9) – (792)
Interest-only (including offset) 
mortgages ......................................... 46,886 48 46 – 667 1,210 48,857 
Affordability mortgages, including 
ARMs ............................................... 177 496 31 17,089 277 6,863 24,933 
Other ..................................................... 106 – – – – 189 295 
Total interest-only, affordability  
mortgages and other ......................... 47,169 544 77 17,089 944 8,262 74,085 
– as a percentage of B ....................... 42.1%  6.3% 0.2% 28.7% 4.4%  21.1%  25.8%
For footnotes, see page 249. 
Mortgage lending in the UK was US$128bn at 
31 December 2012, representing the Group’s largest 
concentration of mortgage exposure, an increase of 
9% compared with the end of 2011. 
The credit quality of our UK mortgage portfolio 
remained high, reflecting actions taken in previous 
years which included restrictions on lending to 
purchase residential property for the purpose of  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Personal lending  
150
rental. Almost all lending was originated through our 
own sales force, and the self-certification of income 
was not permitted. The majority of our mortgage 
lending in the UK was to existing customers who 
held current or savings accounts with HSBC. The 
average LTV ratio for new business was 59% during 
December 2012, while loan impairment charges and 
delinquency levels in our UK mortgage book 
remained stable, aided by the continued low levels 
of interest rates.  
Interest-only mortgage products in the UK 
totalled US$50bn or 39% of the UK mortgage 
portfolio, US$23bn or (47%) of which related to the 
first direct offset product where customers may 
adopt a capital repayment profile or make significant 
regular or one-off repayments, but are able to redraw 
additional funds within the agreed limit. 
Our affordability underwriting criteria for 
interest-only products are consistent with those 
for equivalent capital repayment mortgages, and 
such products are typically originated at more 
conservative LTV ratios. We monitor specific risk 
characteristics within the interest-only portfolio, 
such as current LTV ratio, age at expiry, current 
income levels and credit bureau scores. There 
are currently no concentrations of higher risk 
characteristics that cause the interest-only portfolio 
to be considered as carrying unduly high credit 
risk, and delinquency and impairment charges 
remain low, demonstrating similar performance 
characteristics to our capital repayment products. 
We run contact programmes to ensure we build an 
informed relationship with customers whereby they 
receive the appropriate support in meeting the final 
repayment of principal and understand the 
alternative repayment options available. 
In Hong Kong, mortgage lending was US$52bn, 
an increase of 11% compared with the end of 2011. 
The quality of our mortgage book was strong with 
loan impairment charges at very low levels. The 
average LTV ratio on new mortgage lending was 
48% and the average LTV for the overall portfolio 
was 32%. 
Mortgage balances in Rest of Asia-Pacific grew 
by 10% to US$37bn, mainly in Singapore, mainland 
China, Australia and Malaysia reflecting the 
continued strength of property markets and 
expansion of our distribution networks.  
Mortgage lending in the US 
(Unaudited)
In the US, total mortgage lending balances were US$
55bn at 31 December 2012, a decline of 
7% compared with the end of 2011. Overall, US 
mortgage lending represented 13% of our total 
personal lending and 18% of our total mortgage 
lending, compared with 15% and 20%, respectively, 
at 31 December 2011.  
HSBC Finance 
At 31 December 2012, mortgage lending balances 
at HSBC Finance were US$39bn, a decline of 12% 
compared with the end of 2011 due to the continued 
run-off of the CML portfolio.
Our CML portfolio continued to be affected 
by high unemployment levels and a housing market 
that is slow to recover. In addition, our loan 
modification programmes, which are designed 
to manage customer relationships, improve cash 
collections and avoid foreclosure, contributed to 
slower loan repayment rates. 
HSBC Finance US CML
6
– residential mortgages 
(Unaudited)
At 31 December 
 2012   2011 
 US$m   US$m 
Residential mortgages 
First lien ....................................... 35,092 39,608 
Second lien ................................... 3,651 4,520 
Total (A) ...................................... 38,743 44,128 
Impairment allowances ................ 4,480 5,088 
– as a percentage of (A) ...........  11.6%   11.5% 
For footnote, see page 249. 
HSBC Bank USA 
In HSBC Bank USA, we continued to sell a 
substantial portion of new originations to the 
secondary market as a means of managing our 
interest rate risk and improving structural liquidity. 
Mortgage lending balances of US$17bn at 31 
December 2012 remained broadly unchanged 
compared with the end of 2011, despite an increase 
in first lien residential mortgages, driven by 
increased origination to our Premier customers 
including higher balances of adjustable-rate 
mortgages. This was offset by a decline in other 
mortgages.  151
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Credit quality of personal lending in the US 
(Unaudited)
For further information on renegotiated loans in 
North America, see page 158. 
Mortgage lending 
In our CML first lien residential mortgage portfolio, 
two months and over delinquent balances were 
US$7.6bn at 31 December 2012, compared with 
US$7.9bn at 31 December 2011. The decline mainly 
reflected the continued run-off of balances and the 
improvement in economic conditions. The reduction 
was partly offset by the increase in late stage 
delinquency driven by the suspension of foreclosure 
activities which began in late 2010. In our HSBC 
Bank USA portfolio, two months and over 
delinquent balances increased by 8% to US$1.4bn 
due also to foreclosure delays. 
In the US, second lien mortgage balances 
declined by 16% to US$6.0bn at 31 December 2012, 
representing 11% of the overall US mortgage 
lending portfolio. Two months and over delinquent  
balances were US$477m at 31 December 2012 
compared with US$674m at 31 December 2011. 
The majority of second lien residential 
mortgages are taken up by customers who hold 
a first lien mortgage issued by a third party. Second 
lien residential mortgage loans have a risk profile 
characterised by higher LTV ratios, because in 
the majority of cases the loans were taken out 
to complete the refinancing of properties. Loss 
severity on default of second lien loans has typically 
approached 100% of the amount outstanding, as any 
equity in the property is consumed through the 
repayment of the first lien loan. 
Impairment allowances for these loans are 
determined by applying a roll-rate migration analysis 
which captures the propensity of these loans to 
default based on past experience. Once we believe 
that a second lien residential mortgage loan is likely 
to progress to write-off, the loss severity assumed in 
establishing our impairment allowance is close to 
100% in the CML portfolios, and more than 80% in 
HSBC Bank USA.  
HSBC Finance: foreclosed properties in the US 
(Unaudited)
Half-year ended   Year ended
 31 December
 2012
 31 December
 2012
 30 June 
 2012  
 Year
 ended 
 2011
Number of foreclosed properties at end of period ................................... 2,973 2,973 2,836 3,511 
Number of properties added to foreclosed inventory in the period ............. 6,827 3,212 3,615 11,187 
Average loss on sale of foreclosed properties
7
 ........................................ 6% 6%  7%  8% 
Average total loss on foreclosed properties
8
 ............................................ 54% 53% 55%  56% 
Average time to sell foreclosed properties (days) .................................... 172 166 179 185
For footnotes, see page 249. 
In late 2010, we suspended all new foreclosure 
proceedings and, in early 2011, ceased foreclosures 
where judgement had yet to be entered while we 
enhanced our processes. We have now resumed the 
processing of suspended foreclosures in substantially 
all states, although there remains a significant 
backlog which will take time to resolve. Loss 
severities may be increased by any additional delays 
in the processing of foreclosures. 
The number of foreclosed properties at HSBC 
Finance at 31 December 2012 decreased compared 
with the end of December 2011 as the rate at which 
properties were added to real estate owned inventory 
was slow as a result of the backlog in foreclosure 
activities and the continuing sales of these properties 
during 2012. We expect that the number of foreclosed  
properties added to the inventory will increase 
and this will continue to be affected by ongoing 
refinements to our processes and extended 
foreclosure timelines. 
The average total loss on foreclosed properties 
and the average loss on sale of foreclosed properties 
decreased compared with 2011. This reflected a 
greater proportion of properties sold where we 
had accepted a deed-in-lieu. Typically, losses on a 
deed-in-lieu are lower than losses from properties 
acquired through a standard foreclosure process. 
The decrease in the loss on sale also reflected a 
slowdown in the rate of decline in house prices 
during 2012 and, in some markets, improvements 
in pricing compared with 2011. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Personal lending / Wholesale lending 
152
Valuation of foreclosed properties in the US 
We obtain real estate by foreclosing on the collateral pledged 
as security for residential mortgages. Prior to foreclosure, 
carrying amounts of the loans in excess of fair value less costs 
to sell are written down to the discounted cash flows expected 
to be recovered, including from the sale of the property. 
Broker price opinions are obtained and updated every 180 days 
and real estate price trends are reviewed quarterly to reflect 
any improvement or additional deterioration. Our methodology 
is regularly validated by comparing the discounted cash flows 
expected to be recovered based on current market conditions 
(including estimated cash flows from the sale of the property) 
to the updated broker price opinion, adjusted for the estimated 
historical difference between interior and exterior appraisals. 
The fair values of foreclosed properties are initially determined 
based on broker price opinions. Within 90 days of foreclosure, 
a more detailed property valuation is performed reflecting 
information obtained from a physical interior inspection of 
the property and additional allowances or write-downs are 
recorded as appropriate. Updates to the valuation are 
performed no less than once every 45 days until the property 
is sold, with declines or increases recognised through changes 
to allowances.
Credit cards 
In the first half of 2012 we completed the sale 
of our US Card and Retail Services business, 
transferring general and private label credit card 
lending balances to the purchaser. The residual 
balances in the US at 31 December 2012 were 
related to HSBC Bank USA’s credit card 
programme. 
Personal non-credit card lending 
Personal non-credit card lending balances and two 
months and over delinquent balances in the US fell, 
largely due to the reclassification of non-real estate 
personal loan balances to ‘Assets held for sale’ and 
portfolio run-off, as this business is closed to new 
advances. 
Trends in two months and over contractual delinquency in the US 
(Unaudited)
At 31 December 
 2012  2011   2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
In personal lending in the US 
First lien residential mortgages .................................................................................. 8,926 9,065 8,632 
Consumer and Mortgage Lending .......................................................................... 7,629 7,922 7,618
Other mortgage lending .......................................................................................... 1,297 1,143 1,014
Second lien residential mortgages .............................................................................. 477 674 847 
Consumer and Mortgage Lending .......................................................................... 350 501 668
Other mortgage lending .......................................................................................... 127 173 179
Credit card .................................................................................................................. 27 714 957 
Private label ................................................................................................................ – 316 404 
Personal non-credit card ............................................................................................. 335 513 811 
Total ............................................................................................................................ 9,765 11,282 11,651 
% %   % 
As a percentage of the relevant loans and receivables balances 
First lien residential mortgages .................................................................................. 18.1  17.1   15.0 
Second lien residential mortgages ..............................................................................  8.0  8.5   9.1 
Credit card ..................................................................................................................  3.3  3.8   4.7 
Private label ................................................................................................................  –  2.5   3.0 
Personal non-credit card .............................................................................................  7.4  8.3   9.5 
Total ............................................................................................................................  16.1  11.4   10.7 
Wholesale lending 
(Unaudited)
Wholesale lending covers the range of credit 
facilities granted to sovereign borrowers, banks, 
non-bank financial institutions, corporate entities  
and commercial borrowers. Our wholesale portfolios 
are well diversified across geographical and industry 
sectors, with certain exposures subject to specific 
portfolio controls.  153
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Total wholesale lending 
(Unaudited)
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
 Latin
 America  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Corporate and commercial ................... 223,061 99,199 85,305 22,452 47,886 35,590 513,493 
– Manufacturing ............................... 56,690 10,354 19,213 3,373 9,731 12,788 112,149
– International trade and services ..... 70,954 33,832 32,317 9,115 13,419 9,752 169,389
– Commercial real estate .................. 33,279 23,384 9,286 865 6,572 3,374 76,760
– Other property-related ................... 7,402 16,399 6,641 2,103 7,607 380 40,532
– Government ................................... 2,393 2,838 1,136 1,662 774 1,982 10,785
– Other commercial
9
 ......................... 52,343 12,392 16,712 5,334 9,783 7,314 103,878
Financial (non-bank financial 
institutions)........................................ 55,732 4,546 4,255 1,196 13,935 1,594 81,258 
Asset-backed securities reclassified ...... 3,694 – – – 197 – 3,891 
Loans and advances to banks ............... 45,320 23,500 44,592 9,198 13,465 16,528 152,603 
Total wholesale lending (A) ................. 327,807 127,245 134,152 32,846 75,483 53,712 751,245 
Impairment allowances on wholesale 
lending
Corporate and commercial ................... 3,537 383 526 1,312 732 856 7,346 
– Manufacturing ............................... 611 86 129 210 84 287 1,407
– International trade and services ..... 992 233 185 360 189 329 2,288
– Commercial real estate .................. 1,011 5 62 156 214 103 1,551
– Other property-related ................... 164 20 81 241 102 13 621
– Government ................................... 15 – – 42 2 – 59
– Other commercial .......................... 744 39 69 303 141 124 1,420
Financial (non-bank financial 
institutions) ....................................... 318 29 11 157 37 2 554
Loans and advances to banks ............... 40 – – 17 – – 57
Total ...................................................... 3,895 412 537 1,486 769 858 7,957 
–  as a percentage of A ......................  1.19%  0.32%  0.40%  4.52%  1.02%  1.60%  1.06% 
        
At 31 December 2011        
Corporate and commercial ................... 204,984 91,592 77,887 21,152 41,271 35,930 472,816 
– Manufacturing ............................... 45,632 9,004 16,909 3,517 7,888 13,104 96,054
– International trade and services ..... 64,604 29,066 29,605 8,664 10,710 10,060 152,709
– Commercial real estate .................. 32,099 20,828 9,537 1,002 7,069 3,406 73,941
– Other property-related ................... 7,595 17,367 6,396 1,770 5,729 682 39,539
– Government ................................... 3,143 2,918 962 1,563 656 1,837 11,079
– Other commercial
9
 ......................... 51,911 12,409 14,478 4,636 9,219 6,841 99,494
Financial (non-bank financial 
institutions) ....................................... 63,671 3,473 3,183 1,168 12,817 1,907 86,219 
Asset-backed securities reclassified...... 4,776 – – – 504 – 5,280 
Loans and advances to banks ............... 54,406 35,159 47,309 8,571 14,831 20,836 181,112 
Total wholesale lending (B) .................. 327,837 130,224 128,379 30,891 69,423 58,673 745,427 
Impairment allowances on wholesale 
lending        
Corporate and commercial ................... 3,256 492 576 1,242 756 729 7,051 
– Manufacturing ............................... 571 107 287 202 95 243 1,505
– International trade and services ..... 962 316 154 428 166 298 2,324
– Commercial real estate .................. 892 4 39 159 179 83 1,356
– Other property-related ................... 155 15 22 154 154 16 516
– Government ................................... 4 – – 28 1 – 33
– Other commercial .......................... 672 50 74 271 161 89 1,317
Financial (non-bank financial 
institutions) ....................................... 435 26 11 149 76 3 700 
Loans and advances to banks ............... 49 – – 17 59 – 125 
Total ...................................................... 3,740 518 587 1,408 891 732 7,876 
–  as a percentage of B ......................  1.14%  0.40%  0.46%  4.56%  1.28%   1.25%   1.06% 
For footnote, see page 249.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Wholesale lending / Credit quality of financial instruments  
154
Corporate and commercial 
Corporate and commercial lending, excluding 
commercial real estate and other property-related 
lending, increased from US$365bn at 31 December 
2011 to US$400bn at 31 December 2012.  
At 31 December 2012, this represented 39% 
of total gross loans and advances to customers, 
compared with 38% at 31 December 2011. The 
growth was mainly in the international trade and 
services sector, where balances mainly increased 
in Europe despite muted demand for credit and, in 
Hong Kong, driven by growth in trade finance 
volumes as we capitalised on trade and capital flows. 
In the manufacturing sector, balances increased in 
Europe due to growth in the UK of overdraft balances 
and corresponding customer accounts which did not 
meet netting criteria under accounting rules.  
The aggregate of our commercial real estate 
and other property-related lending was US$117bn 
at 31 December 2012, 3% higher than at 31 December 
2011, representing 12% of total loans and advances to 
customers. This growth was mainly in Hong Kong, 
where demand for funds remained strong despite a 
degree of market stabilisation after a sustained period 
of buoyancy in the property investment and property 
development sectors. Commercial real estate and 
other property-related lending also grew in North 
America due to an increase in originations in 
commercial mortgages, which reflected our continued 
focus on expanding our core offering to gain a larger 
presence in key growth markets, including the West 
Coast, Southeast and Midwest of the US. 
For information on refinancing in commercial 
real estate lending, see page 128. 
Financial (non-bank) 
Financial (non-bank) lending decreased from 
US$86bn at 31 December 2011 to US$81bn at 
31 December 2012. This was mainly in Europe due 
to a decline in reverse repo activity, partly offset 
by higher balances in North America, due to an 
increase in reverse repo balances in Canada, and 
in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, driven by 
an increase in loans drawn by financial planning 
companies, leasing companies and insurance 
companies reflecting higher demand for funds 
from a small number of corporates. 
Loans and advances to banks 
Loans and advances to banks decreased from 
US$181bn at 31 December 2011 to US$153bn at 
31 December 2012. This was mainly driven by 
maturities and repayments in Hong Kong together 
with a decline in reverse repos in Europe reflecting, in 
part, the redeployment of liquidity to central banks. 
Credit quality of financial instruments  
(Audited)
A summary of our current policies and 
practices regarding the credit quality of 
financial instruments is provided in the 
Appendix to Risk on page 253. 
The five classifications describing the credit 
quality of our lending, debt securities portfolios 
and derivatives are defined on page 253. Additional 
credit quality information in respect of our 
consolidated holdings of ABSs is provided 
on page 259. 
For the purpose of the following disclosure, 
retail loans which are past due up to 89 days and are 
not otherwise classified as impaired in accordance 
with our disclosure convention (see page 253), are 
not disclosed within the expected loss (‘EL’) grade 
to which they relate, but are separately classified as 
past due but not impaired. 
2012 compared with 2011 
(Unaudited) 
We assess credit quality on all financial instruments 
which are subject to credit risk, as shown in the table 
on page 155. The balance of these financial 
instruments was US$2,516bn at 31 December 2012, 
an increase of 4% over 2011, of which US$1,690bn 
or 67% was classified as ‘strong’. This percentage 
declined marginally compared with 68% at 
31 December 2011. The proportion of financial 
instruments classified as ‘good’ remained broadly 
stable at 16% and the proportion of ‘satisfactory’ 
balances increased marginally from 12% to 14%. 
The proportion of ‘sub-standard’ financial 
instruments remained low at 2% in both 2012 
and 2011. 
The proportion of trading assets classified as 
‘strong’ declined from 75% to 65%. Overall trading 
assets rose, largely in Europe,  due to an increase in 
holdings of debt securities from 2011’s subdued 
levels which, coupled with the downgrading of 
certain eurozone countries, resulted in an absolute 
and relative increase in debt securities classified as 
‘good’. In addition, holdings of ‘strong’ treasury and 
other eligible bills fell both absolutely and relative to 
the rest of trading assets primarily in Hong Kong due 
to maturities without replacement of government 
bonds, while increased levels of reverse repo and 
stock lending balances with customers increased 
the proportion of ‘good’ and ‘satisfactory’ 
classifications compared with ‘strong’.  155
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
The proportion of financial investments 
categorised as ‘strong’ remained high at 86% and 
87%, at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 
respectively, as the year-on-year increase in 
balances was mainly due to the deployment of 
surplus liquidity into highly-rated government, 
quasi-government and supranational debt securities 
in North America and Hong Kong.  
The proportion of cash and balances at central 
banks considered ‘strong’ remained high at 98%, 
reflecting deployment of surplus liquidity into 
central banks in Europe, Hong Kong and Rest of 
Asia-Pacific.
The proportion of loans and advances held at 
amortised cost and categorised as ‘strong’ remained 
broadly flat compared with the end of 2011 at 54%. 
Derivative balances classified as ‘strong’ declined 
marginally from 81% to 79%; the movement in 
balances was mainly in Europe reflecting fair value 
movements of existing contracts. 
The following table shows our distribution of 
financial instruments by measures of credit quality:
Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality 
(Audited) 
Neither past due nor impaired  Past due Impair- 
 Strong  Good Satisfactory
 Sub-
 standard
 but not
 impaired Impaired 
 ment 
allowances
10
Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Cash and balances at central 
banks .................................... 138,124 3,235 147 26 141,532 
Items in the course of  
collection from other banks.. 6,661 203 439 – 7,303 
Hong Kong Government 
certificates of indebtedness .. 22,743 – – – 22,743 
Trading assets
11
 ........................ 237,078 60,100 66,537 3,462 367,177 
– treasury and other  
eligible bills .................. 20,793 4,108 1,340 41 26,282
– debt securities ................... 106,453 16,685 20,931 608 144,677
– loans and advances: 
to banks ........................ 49,133 21,018 7,418 702 78,271
to customers ................. 60,699 18,289 36,848 2,111 117,947
Financial assets designated at 
fair value
11
 ........................... 6,186 5,884 401 243 12,714 
– treasury and other eligible 
bills ............................... 54 – – – 54
– debt securities ................... 6,089 5,830 391 241 12,551
– loans and advances:  
to banks ........................ 43 – 10 2 55
to customers ................. – 54 – – 54
Derivatives
11
 ............................ 284,115 46,214 24,877 2,244 357,450 
Loans and advances held at 
amortised cost ...................... 625,091 246,323 213,241 23,996 18,911 38,776 (16,169) 1,150,169 
– to banks ............................. 117,220 23,921 10,575 772 10 105 (57) 152,546
– to customers
12
 ................... 507,871 222,402 202,666 23,224 18,901 38,671 (16,112) 997,623
Financial investments .............. 357,452 27,428 21,143 6,759 – 2,530 415,312 
– treasury and other similar 
bills ............................... 80,320 3,818 1,957 1,455 – – 87,550
– debt securities ................... 277,132 23,610 19,186 5,304 – 2,530 327,762
Assets held for sale .................. 2,425 3,287 2,311 314 387 1,286 (718) 9,292 
– disposal groups ................. 2,033 1,118 1,789 268 118 82 (49) 5,359
– non-current assets held  
for sale .......................... 392 2,169 522 46 269 1,204 (669) 3,933
Other assets .............................. 9,679 6,007 13,845 1,759 231 462 31,983 
– endorsements and 
acceptances ................... 1,995 4,344 5,195 483 7 8 12,032
– accrued income and other  7,684 1,663 8,650 1,276 224 454 19,951
Total financial instruments ...... 1,689,554 398,681 342,941 38,803 19,529 43,054 (16,887) 2,515,675  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Credit quality of financial instruments  
156
Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality (continued) 
Neither past due nor impaired  Past due Impair- 
 Strong  Good Satisfactory
 Sub-
 standard
 but not 
 impaired Impaired 
 ment 
allowances
10
Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011 
Cash and balances at central 
banks .................................... 126,926 2,678 263 35 129,902 
Items in the course of  
collection from other banks.. 7,707 150 350 1 8,208 
Hong Kong Government 
certificates of indebtedness .. 20,922 – – – 20,922 
Trading assets
11
 ........................ 231,594 37,182 39,171 1,502 309,449 
– treasury and other  
eligible bills .................. 33,199 538 564 8 34,309
– debt securities ................... 103,163 8,497 18,188 639 130,487
– loans and advances: 
to banks ........................ 49,021 20,699 5,186 619 75,525
to customers ................. 46,211 7,448 15,233 236 69,128
Financial assets designated at 
fair value
11
 ........................... 7,176 4,728 830 192 12,926 
– treasury and other eligible 
bills ............................... 123 – – – 123
– debt securities ................... 6,148 4,728 767 191 11,834
– loans and advances: 
to banks ........................ 55 – 63 1 119
to customers ................. 850 – – – 850
Derivatives
11
 ............................ 279,557 45,858 18,627 2,337 346,379 
Loans and advances held at 
amortised cost ...................... 609,081 245,352 194,661 28,210 20,009 41,739 (17,636) 1,121,416 
– to banks ............................. 144,815 28,813 6,722 568 39 155 (125) 180,987
– to customers
12
 ................... 464,266 216,539 187,939 27,642 19,970 41,584 (17,511) 940,429
Financial investments .............. 340,173 24,757 22,139 3,532 – 2,233 392,834 
– treasury and other similar 
bills ............................... 58,627 3,348 3,144 104 – – 65,223
– debt securities ................... 281,546 21,409 18,995 3,428 – 2,233 327,611
Assets held for sale .................. 14,365 12,587 7,931 536 2,524 1,479 (1,614) 37,808 
– disposal groups ................. 14,317 12,587 7,931 536 2,522 1,467 (1,614) 37,746
– non-current assets held  
for sale .......................... 48 – – – 2 12 – 62
Other assets .............................. 11,956 6,526 12,379 1,193 421 517 32,992 
– endorsements and 
acceptances ................... 1,789 4,075 4,629 504 10 3 11,010
– accrued income and other . 10,167 2,451 7,750 689 411 514 21,982
Total financial instruments ...... 1,649,457 379,818 296,351 37,538 22,954 45,968 (19,250) 2,412,836 
For footnotes, see page 249. 
Past due but not impaired gross financial 
instruments
(Audited) 
Past due but not impaired loans are those in respect 
of which the customer is in the early stages of 
delinquency and has failed to make a payment or a 
partial payment in accordance with the contractual 
terms of the loan agreement. This is typically when 
a loan is less than 90 days past due and there are no 
other indicators of impairment.  
Further examples of exposures past due but not 
impaired include individually assessed mortgages 
that are in arrears more than 90 days, but there are 
no other indicators of impairment and the value of 
collateral is sufficient to repay both the principal 
debt and all potential interest for at least one year, or 
short-term trade facilities past due more than 
90 days for technical reasons such as delays in 
documentation but there is no concern over the 
creditworthiness of the counterparty. When groups 
of loans are collectively assessed for impairment,  157
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
collective impairment allowances are recognised for 
loans classified as past due but not impaired. 
At 31 December 2012, US$19bn of loans and 
advances held at amortised cost were classified as 
past due but not impaired (2011: US$20bn). The 
largest concentration of these balances was in HSBC 
Finance. The decrease in 2012 was primarily in  
North America in the CML portfolio, due to the 
reclassification of non-real estate personal loan 
balances to ‘Assets held for sale’ as well as the 
continued run-off of the lending balances. This was 
partly offset by increases in Rest of Asia-Pacific 
relating to a number of corporate exposures across the 
region. The rise in Latin America was mainly in 
Panama in the corporate and commercial sector across 
various industries. In Europe, the increase in past due 
but not impaired loans mainly related to business 
expansion in Turkey. In Hong Kong, the rise was 
mainly in overdrafts and term lending. 
Past due but not impaired loans and advances to customers and banks by geographical region 
(Audited) 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
 Latin
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
31 December 2012 
Banks .............................................................. – – 10 – – – 10
Customers ....................................................... 2,339 1,311 2,964 975 7,721  3,591  18,901 
Personal ........................................................... 1,416 638 1,961 248 5,806  2,198  12,267 
Corporate and commercial ............................. 909 579 953 726 1,910  1,360  6,437 
Financial (non-bank financial institutions) .... 14 94 50 1 5 33 197
2,339 1,311 2,974 975 7,721  3,591  18,911 
31 December 2011        
Banks .............................................................. – 38 1 – – – 39 
Customers ....................................................... 1,990 1,069 2,318 1,165 10,216 3,212 19,970 
Personal........................................................... 1,362 715 1,626 166 7,941  2,141 13951
Corporate and commercial ............................. 614 346 680 997 2,159  1,059 5855
Financial (non-bank financial institutions) .... 14 8 12 2 116  12 164
 1,990 1,107 2,319 1,165 10,216 3,212 20,009 
Ageing analysis of days past due but not impaired gross financial instruments 
(Audited) 
 Up to 29
 days 
 30-59
 days 
 60-89
 days 
 90-179 
  days 
 180 days 
 and over  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Loans and advances held at amortised cost .......................... 14,236 3,189 1,262 200 24 18,911 
– to banks .......................................................................... 10 – – – – 10
– to customers ................................................................... 14,226 3,189 1,262 200 24 18,901 
Assets held for sale ............................................................... 251 84 48 2 2 387
– disposal groups .............................................................. 87 17 11 1 2 118 
– non-current assets held for sale ..................................... 164 67 37 1 – 269
Other assets ........................................................................... 122 37 24 12 36 231
– endorsements and acceptances ...................................... 6 1 – – – 7
– other ............................................................................... 116 36 24 12 36 224
14,609 3,310 1,334 214 62 19,529 
At 31 December 2011       
Loans and advances held at amortised cost .......................... 14,239 3,680 1,727 223  140  20,009 
– to banks .......................................................................... 39 – – – – 39 
– to customers ................................................................... 14,200 3,680 1,727 223  140  19,970 
Assets held for sale ............................................................... 1,563 644 307 8  2  2,524 
– disposal groups .............................................................. 1,563 644 307 7  1  2,522 
– non-current assets held for sale ..................................... – – – 1  1  2 
Other assets ........................................................................... 225 80 37 22  57  421 
– endorsements and acceptances ...................................... 7 2 – 1  – 10 
– other ............................................................................... 218 78 37 21  57  411 
 16,027 4,404 2,071 253  199  22,954  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Credit quality of financial instruments  
158
Renegotiated loans and forbearance 
(Audited) 
Current policies and procedures regarding 
renegotiated loans and forbearance are 
described in the Appendix to Risk on page 
254. 
The contractual terms of a loan may be modified for 
a number of reasons, which include changing market 
conditions, customer retention and other factors not 
related to the current or potential credit deterioration 
of a customer. Loans are classified as ‘renegotiated 
loans’ when their contractual payment terms have 
been modified because we have significant concerns 
about the borrowers’ ability to meet contractual 
payments when due. For the purposes of this 
disclosure, the term ‘forbearance’ is synonymous 
with the renegotiation of loans for these reasons. 
The following tables show the gross carrying 
amounts of the Group’s holdings of renegotiated 
loans and advances to customers by industry sector, 
geography and credit quality classification. 
Renegotiated loans and advances to customers 
(Audited) 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
 Neither 
 past 
 due nor 
 impaired 
 Past due 
 but not 
 impaired  Impaired  Total 
Neither
 past
 due nor 
 impaired 
 Past due 
 but not 
 impaired   Impaired   Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Personal ...................................... 7,952  3,524 18,279 29,755 8,133 4,401  19,125  31,659 
First lien residential  
mortgages .......................... 5,861  2,828 15,459 24,148 5,916 3,560  15,932  25,408 
Other personal
1
...................... 2,091 696 2,820 5,607 2,217 841  3,193  6,251 
Corporate and commercial ......... 4,608  295 6,892 11,795 6,338 472  6,756  13,566 
Manufacturing and 
international trade  
services .............................. 2,381  154 3,012 5,547 2,396 255 2,755 5,406
Commercial real estate and 
other property-related ........ 1,796  10 3,484 5,290 2,949 122 3,550  6,621 
Governments ......................... 177 – – 177 113 2  132  247 
Other commercial
9
 ................. 254 131 396 781 880 93  319  1,292 
Financial .................................... 255 – 422 677 249 –  491  740 
12,815  3,819 25,593 42,227 14,720 4,873  26,372  45,965 
Total renegotiated loans and advances to customers as a percentage 
of total gross loans and advances to customers .................................... 4.2%    4.8% 
For footnotes, see page 249. 
Renegotiated loans and advances to customers by geographical region 
(Audited) 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
 Latin
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
31 December 2012 
Personal ........................................................... 2,817 245 248 190 25,474 781 29,755 
First lien residential mortgages .................. 1,896 68 78 112 21,896 98 24,148 
Other personal
1
 ........................................... 921 177 170 78 3,578 683 5,607 
Corporate and commercial ............................. 6,829 147 300 1,859 685 1,975 11,795 
Manufacturing and international trade  
services ................................................... 3,002 22 193 659 191 1,480 5,547 
Commercial real estate and other  
property-related ...................................... 3,641 25 37 899 486 202 5,290 
Governments .............................................. – – – 2 – 175 177
Other commercial
9
...................................... 186 100 70 299 8 118 781
Financial ......................................................... 328 – 4 340 3 2 677
9,974 392 552 2,389 26,162 2,758 42,227 
Total impairment allowances on  
renegotiated loans ....................................... 1,547 16 96 546 3,864 485 6,554 
Individually assessed .................................. 1,545 15 63 543 39 213 2,418
Collectively assessed .................................. 2 1 33 3 3,825 272 4,136 159
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
  Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia- 
 Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
 Latin
 America  Total 
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
31 December 2011        
Personal........................................................... 2,524 285 267 220 27,773 590 31,659 
First lien residential mortgages................... 1,630 86 85 93 23,442  72 25,408
Other personal
1
 ........................................... 894 199 182 127 4,331  518 6,251
Corporate and commercial ............................. 8,453 157 181 2,198 700 1,877 13,566 
Manufacturing and international  
trade services .......................................... 3,013 32 104 887 174  1,196 5,406
Commercial real estate and other  
property-related ...................................... 4,897 29 45 913 522  215 6,621
Governments .............................................. – – – 5 –  242 247
Other commercial
9
 ...................................... 543 96 32 393 4  224 1,292
Financial ......................................................... 487 5 – 237 2 9 740 
 11,464 447 448 2,655 28,475 2,476 45,965 
Total impairment allowances on  
renegotiated loans ....................................... 1,821 20 64 300 5,017 448 7,670 
Individually assessed .................................. 1,760 19 41 300 44  147 2,311
Collectively assessed .................................. 61 1 23 – 4,973  301 5,359
For footnotes, see page 249. 
2012 compared with 2011 
(Unaudited)
Renegotiated loans totalled US$42bn at 
31 December 2012 (2011: US$46bn). North 
America accounted for the largest volume of 
renegotiated loans which amounted to US$26bn or 
62% of total renegotiated loans at 31 December 2012 
(2011: US$28bn or 62%), most of which were first 
lien residential mortgages held by HSBC Finance. 
Of the total renegotiated loans in North America, 
US$17bn were impaired at 31 December 2012 
(2011: US$18bn). The ratio of total impairment 
allowances to impaired loans at 31 December 2012 
was 23% (2011: 28%). This decrease was driven by 
a reduction in both impaired loans and impairment 
allowances as we continued to run-off the CML 
portfolio. As the portfolio has been closed to new 
business since 2007, the volume of first time 
renegotiations has reduced significantly. 
In Europe, renegotiated loans at 31 December 
2012 amounted to US$10bn (2011: US$11bn), 
constituting 24% of total renegotiated loans (2011: 
25%). Of the total renegotiated loans in Europe, 
US$5.7bn were impaired at 31 December 2012 
(2011: US$6.0bn), and the ratio of total impairment 
allowances to impaired loans at 31 December 2012 
was 27% (2011: 30%). This decline was driven by a 
reduction in both impaired loans and impairment 
allowances due to releases and write-offs of a 
number of non-performing loans as well as the sale 
of a number of exposures. The renegotiated loans in 
Europe largely consisted of commercial real estate 
and other property-related sector lending of 37% 
(2011: 43%) mainly in the UK, and manufacturing 
and international trade services sector lending of 
30% (2011: 26%). 
Forbearance within Latin America (primarily in 
Mexico and Brazil) was predominantly undertaken 
in the manufacturing and international trade services 
sector. The largest increase in renegotiated loans 
compared with 2011 was in this sector in Mexico. 
In addition, renegotiation activity in the personal 
lending portfolios increased in Brazil, where a 
collections campaign led to a significant increase 
in both the refinancing and debt consolidation 
portfolios.
In the Middle East and North Africa, 
renegotiated loans decreased compared with 2011, 
mainly in the corporate and commercial sector due to 
repayments and reduced exposures. Forbearance 
activity in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific 
remained insignificant. 
HSBC Finance loan modifications and re-ageing  
(Unaudited) 
HSBC Finance maintains loan modification and 
re-age (‘loan renegotiation’) programmes in order to 
manage customer relationships, improve collection 
opportunities and, if possible, avoid foreclosure. 
Since 2006, HSBC Finance has implemented 
an extensive loan renegotiation programme, and a 
significant portion of its loan portfolio has been 
subject to renegotiation at some stage in the life of 
the customer relationship as a consequence of the 
economic conditions in the US and the nature of 
HSBC Finance’s customer base.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Credit quality of financial instruments 
160
The volume of loans that qualify for modification 
has reduced significantly in recent years. We expect 
this trend to continue as HSBC Finance believes the 
percentage of its customers with unmodified loans 
who would benefit from loan modification in a way 
that would avoid non-payment of future cash flows 
is decreasing. In addition, volumes of new 
loan modifications are expected to decrease due to 
gradual improvements in economic conditions, the 
cessation of new real estate secured and personal non-
credit card receivables originations and the continued 
run-off of the CML portfolio. 
Types of loan renegotiation programme in HSBC Finance 
• A temporary modification is a change to the contractual 
terms of a loan that results in the giving up of a right to 
contractual cash flows over a pre-defined period. With a 
temporary modification the loan is expected to revert back 
to the original contractual terms, including the interest rate 
charged, after the modification period. An example is 
reduced interest payments. 
A substantial number of HSBC Finance modifications 
involve interest rate reductions. These modifications 
lower the amount of interest income HSBC Finance is 
contractually entitled to receive in future periods. 
Historically, modifications have generally been for six 
months, although extended modification periods are 
now more common. 
Loans that have been re-aged are classified as impaired with 
the exception of first-time loan re-ages that were less than 
60 days past due at the time of re-age. These remain 
classified as impaired until they have demonstrated a history 
of payment performance against their original contracted 
terms for at least 12 months. 
• A permanent modification is a change to the contractual 
terms of a loan that results in giving up a right to contractual 
cash flows over the life of the loan. An example is a 
permanent reduction in the interest rate charged.  
Permanent or long-term modifications which are due to an 
underlying hardship event remain classified as impaired for 
their full life. 
• The term ‘re-age’ describes a renegotiation by which the 
contractual delinquency status of a loan is reset to current 
after demonstrating payment performance. The overdue 
principal and/or interest is deferred and paid at a later date. 
Loan re-ageing enables customers who have been unable 
to make a small number of payments to have their loan 
delinquency status reset to current so that their credit score 
is not affected by the overdue balances. 
Loans that have been re-aged remain classified as impaired 
until they have demonstrated a history of payment 
performance against the original contractual terms for at 
least 12 months. 
A temporary or permanent modification may also lead to a 
re-ageing of a loan although a loan may be re-aged without 
any modification to its original terms and conditions.  
Where loans have been granted multiple concessions, 
subject to the qualifying criteria discussed below, the 
concession is deemed to have been made due to concern 
regarding the borrower’s ability to pay, and the loan is 
disclosed as impaired. The loan remains disclosed as 
impaired from that date forward until the borrower has 
demonstrated a history of repayment performance for the 
period of time required for either modifications or re-ages, 
as described above. 
Qualifying criteria 
For an account to qualify for renegotiation it must 
meet certain criteria. However, HSBC Finance 
retains the right to decline a renegotiation. The 
extent to which HSBC Finance renegotiates 
accounts that are eligible under its existing policies 
will vary depending upon its view of prevailing 
economic conditions and other factors which may 
change from year to year. In addition, exceptions 
to policies and practices may be made in specific 
situations in response to legal or regulatory 
agreements or orders. 
Renegotiated real estate secured and personal 
lending receivables are not eligible for a subsequent 
renegotiation for twelve or six months, respectively, 
with a maximum of five renegotiations permitted 
within a five-year period. Borrowers must be 
approved for a modification and generally make 
two minimum qualifying monthly payments within 
60 days to activate a modification. 
In certain circumstances where the debt has 
been restructured in bankruptcy proceedings, fewer 
or no payments may be required. Accounts whose 
borrowers are subject to a Chapter 13 plan filed 
with a bankruptcy court generally may be re-aged 
upon receipt of one qualifying payment, whereas 
accounts whose borrowers have filed for Chapter 7 
bankruptcy protection may be re-aged upon receipt 
of a signed reaffirmation agreement. In addition, for 
some products, accounts may be re-aged without 
receipt of a payment in certain special circumstances 
(e.g. in the event of a natural disaster or a hardship 
programme). 
2012 compared with 2011 
At 31 December 2012, renegotiated real estate secured 
accounts in HSBC Finance represented 86% (2011: 
86%) of North America’s total renegotiated loans; 
US$14bn (2011: US$16bn) of these renegotiated real 
estate secured loans were classified as impaired. This 
decline was mainly due to lower lending balances as 
we continued to run-off the CML portfolio. A 
significant portion of HSBC Finance’s renegotiated 
portfolio has received multiple renegotiations. 
Consequently, a significant proportion of loans 
included in the table below have undergone multiple 
re-ages or modifications. In this regard, multiple 
modifications have remained consistent at 75% to 
80% of total modifications. Further details of HSBC 
Finance’s real estate secured accounts and 
renegotiation programmes are provided below.  161
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Gross loan portfolio of HSBC Finance real estate secured balances 
(Unaudited)
Re-aged
13
Modified
and re-aged Modified 
Total re-
negotiated
loans
Total non- 
renegotiated 
loans
Total 
gross 
loans
Total 
impair- 
ment 
allowances 
Impair-
ment
allowances/
gross loans 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m %
31 December 2012 ........ 9,640 11,660 1,121 22,421 16,261 38,743 4,481 12
31 December 2011 ......... 10,265 12,829 1,494 24,588 19,540 44,128 5,088 12 
For footnote, see page 249. 
Movement in HSBC Finance renegotiated real estate balances 
(Unaudited) 
2012
US$m
At 1 January .............................................................................................................................................................................. 24,588
Additions ................................................................................................................................................................................... 1,221
Payments ................................................................................................................................................................................... (1,133)
Write-offs .................................................................................................................................................................................. (1,796)
Transfer to ‘Assets held for sale’ and ‘Other assets’ ............................................................................................................... (459)
At 31 December ........................................................................................................................................................................ 22,421
Number of renegotiated real estate secured accounts remaining in HSBC Finance’s portfolio 
(Unaudited) 
Number of renegotiated loans (000s) 
 Re-aged
 Modified
 and re-aged Modified Total 
 Total 
 number of 
 loans (000s)
31 December 2012 ........................................................... 117 107 11 235 427
31 December 2011 ............................................................ 121 112 14 246 469 
During 2012, the aggregate number of 
renegotiated loans reduced due to the run-off of the 
portfolio. Within the constraints of our Group credit 
policy, HSBC Finance’s policies allow for multiple 
renegotiations under certain circumstances, and a 
significant number of accounts received a second (or 
further) renegotiation during the year which does not 
appear in the statistics tabulated above because they 
present a loan as an addition to the volume of 
renegotiated loans on its first renegotiation only. 
At 31 December 2012, renegotiated loans were 58% 
(2011: 56%) of the total portfolio of HSBC 
Finance’s real estate secured accounts. 
Corporate and commercial forbearance 
(Unaudited) 
For the current policies and procedures 
regarding forbearance in the corporate and 
commercial sector, see the Appendix to Risk 
on page 257. 
Renegotiated loan balances in the corporate and 
commercial sector decreased by US$1.8bn. The 
majority of the decrease was due to falling 
renegotiated loan balances in the commercial real 
estate and other property-related sector in 2012, 
which fell by US$1.3bn. This was primarily in 
Europe although the commercial real estate sector, 
particularly in the UK, continued to experience 
weaker property values, with fewer financial 
institutions financing commercial real estate lending, 
renegotiated loan balances fell as refinements in 
forbearance identification procedures reduced the 
renegotiated loan balances in UK commercial real 
estate and other property-related lending. Excluding 
the change in basis of reporting renegotiated loans, 
total renegotiated loans in the commercial real estate 
and other property-related sector remained broadly 
unchanged.  
Within the commercial real estate and other 
property-related loans, the balances classified as 
‘impaired’ declined marginally compared with 2011. 
Balances classified as ‘past due but not impaired’ 
declined by US$112m, mainly in the Middle East 
and North Africa relating to a small number of 
exposures in the UAE. Balances classified as 
‘neither past due nor impaired’ declined by 39%, 
mainly in Europe reflecting the reduction in balances 
in the commercial real estate sector described above. 
The commercial real estate mid-market 
sector continued to experience higher levels of 
renegotiation activity than larger corporates, where 
borrowers remained generally better capitalised 
with access to wider funding market opportunities. 
When considering acceptable restructuring terms 
for commercial real estate loans in Europe, we take 
into account the ability of the customer to service  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Credit quality of financial instruments / Collateral 
162
the revised interest payments as a prerequisite. 
Similarly, for principal payment modifications, 
we require the customer to be capable of complying 
with the revised terms as a necessary pre-condition. 
When principal payments are modified and 
permanent forgiveness results, or when it is 
otherwise considered that there is no longer a 
realistic prospect of recovering outstanding 
principal, the affected balances are written off. 
When principal repayments are postponed, the 
customer is expected to be able to pay in line with 
the renegotiated terms, including meeting the 
postponed principal repayment if due from 
refinancing. In all cases, a loan renegotiation is 
only granted when it is expected that the customer 
will be able to meet the revised terms. 
Renegotiated loan balances in the manufacturing 
and international trade services sector increased in 
2012, mainly in Latin America from the restructuring 
of a small number of loans in Mexico. In the Middle 
East and North Africa, renegotiated loan balances 
decreased, partly due to the repayment of a significant 
loan in the UAE. 
Impaired loans 
(Audited) 
Impaired loans and advances are those that meet 
any of the following criteria: 
• loans and advances classified as CRR 9, 
CRR 10, EL 9 or EL 10 (a description of our 
internal credit rating grades is provided on 
page 253);
• retail exposures 90 days or more past due, 
unless individually they have been assessed 
as not impaired; or 
• renegotiated loans and advances that have been 
subject to a change in contractual cash flows as 
a result of a concession which the lender would 
not otherwise consider, and where it is probable 
that without the concession the borrower would 
be unable to meet its contractual payment 
obligations in full, unless the concession is 
insignificant and there are no other indicators 
of impairment. Renegotiated loans remain 
classified as impaired until there is sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction 
in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows, 
and there are no other indicators of impairment.  
For loans that are assessed for impairment 
on a collective basis, the evidence to support 
reclassification as no longer impaired typically 
comprises a history of payment performance against 
the original or revised terms, depending on the 
nature and volume of forbearance and the credit 
risk characteristics surrounding the renegotiation. 
For loans that are assessed for impairment on an 
individual basis, all available evidence is assessed 
on a case by case basis. 
In HSBC Finance, where a significant majority 
of HSBC’s loan forbearance activity occurs, the 
history of payment performance is assessed with 
reference to the original terms of the contract, 
reflecting the higher credit risk characteristics of 
this portfolio. The payment performance periods are 
monitored to ensure they remain appropriate to the 
levels of recidivism observed within the portfolio. 
Further disclosure about loans subject to 
forbearance is provided on page 254. Renegotiated 
loans and forbearance disclosures are subject to 
evolving industry practice and regulatory guidance.  163
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Movement in impaired loans by geographical region 
(Unaudited) 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
Impaired loans at 1 January 2012 ............................. 11,819 608 1,070 2,445 22,758  3,039  41,739 
Personal ................................................................ 2,797 190 388 428 21,094  1,646  26,543 
Corporate and commercial ................................... 8,113 372 667 1,798 1,517  1,391  13,858 
Financial
2
 .............................................................. 909 46 15 219 147 2 1,338 
Classified as impaired during the year ..................... 3,482 292 924 648 8,130  4,507  17,983 
Personal ................................................................ 933 169 549 73 7,363  2,807  11,894 
Corporate and commercial ................................... 2,481 123 375 531 739 1,696  5,945 
Financial
2
 .............................................................. 68 – – 44 28 4 144
Transferred from impaired to unimpaired  
during the year ...................................................... (1,164) (47) (85) (321) (4,223) (1,765) (7,605)
Personal ................................................................ (279) (38) (69) (32) (4,124) (1,124) (5,666)
Corporate and commercial ................................... (858) (5) (15) (289) (99) (640) (1,906)
Financial
2
 .............................................................. (27) (4) (1) – – (1) (33)
Amounts written off ................................................. (1,891) (217) (564) (264) (3,514) (2,112) (8,562)
Personal ................................................................ (632) (127) (373) (96) (3,227) (1,521) (5,976)
Corporate and commercial ................................... (1,212) (90) (191) (143) (202) (590) (2,428)
Financial
2
 .............................................................. (47) – – (25) (85) (1) (158)
Net repayments and other.......................................... (1,101) (159) (198) (34) (2,806) (481) (4,779)
Personal ................................................................ (353) (22) (56) (5) (2,380) (228) (3,044)
Corporate and commercial ................................... (466) (133) (136) (26) (363) (253) (1,377)
Financial
2
 .............................................................. (282) (4) (6) (3) (63) – (358)
At 31 December 2012 .............................................. 11,145 477 1,147 2,474 20,345  3,188  38,776 
Personal ................................................................ 2,466 172 439 368 18,726  1,580  23,751 
Corporate and commercial ................................... 8,058 267 700 1,872 1,592  1,604  14,093 
Financial
2
 .............................................................. 621 38 8 234 27 4 932
For footnote, see page 249. 
Collateral 
Collateral and other credit enhancements 
held
(Audited) 
Loans and advances held at amortised cost  
Although collateral can be an important mitigant 
of credit risk, it is the Group’s practice to lend on 
the basis of the customer’s ability to meet their 
obligations out of cash flow resources rather than 
rely on the value of security offered. Depending on 
the customer’s standing and the type of product, 
facilities may be provided unsecured. However, for 
other lending a charge over collateral is obtained and 
considered in determining the credit decision and 
pricing. In the event of default, the bank may utilise 
the collateral as a source of repayment.  
Depending on its form, collateral can have a 
significant financial effect in mitigating our exposure 
to credit risk. 
The tables below provide a quantification of 
the value of fixed charges we hold over a borrower’s 
specific asset (or assets) where we have a history 
of enforcing, and are able to enforce, the collateral in 
satisfying a debt in the event of the borrower failing 
to meet its contractual obligations, and where the 
collateral is cash or can be realised by sale in an 
established market. The collateral valuation in the 
tables below excludes any adjustments for obtaining 
and selling the collateral. 
We may also manage our risk by employing 
other types of collateral and credit  risk 
enhancements, such as second charges, other 
liens and unsupported guarantees, but the valuation 
of such mitigants is less certain and their financial 
effect has not been quantified. In particular, loans 
shown in the tables below as not collateralised or 
partially collateralised may benefit from such credit 
mitigants. 
Certain credit mitigants are used strategically in 
portfolio management activities. While single name 
concentrations arise in portfolios managed by Global 
Banking and Corporate Banking, it is only in Global 
Banking that their size requires the use of portfolio 
level credit mitigants. Across Global Banking risk 
limits and utilisations, maturity profiles and risk 
quality are monitored and managed pro-actively. 
This process is key to the setting of risk appetite 
for these larger, more complex, geographically  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Collateral
164
distributed customer groups. While the principal 
form of risk management continues to be at the 
point of exposure origination, through the lending 
decision-making process, Global Banking also 
utilises loan sales and credit default swap (‘CDS’) 
hedges to manage concentrations and reduce risk. 
These transactions are the responsibility of a 
dedicated Global Banking portfolio management 
team. Hedging activity is carried out within agreed 
credit parameters, and is subject to market risk limits 
and a robust governance structure. CDS mitigants 
are held at portfolio level and are not reported in the 
presentation below. 
Personal lending 
Residential mortgage loans including loan commitments by level of collateral 
(Audited) 
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
 Latin 
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Fully collateralised ..................... 141,673 53,478 43,662 2,106 59,799 5,193 305,911
Loan to value (‘LTV’) ratio: 
– less than 25% ....................... 11,733 8,090 4,438 125 3,703 319 28,408
– 25% to 50% ......................... 36,038 30,155 12,752 623 10,934 1,522 92,022
– 51% to 75% ......................... 60,395 12,770 19,625 1,001 26,582 2,295 122,668
– 76% to 90% ......................... 27,118 1,931 6,195 189 12,307 871 48,611
– 91% to 100% ....................... 6,389 532 652 168 6,273 186 14,200
Partially collateralised: 
– greater than 100% LTV ....... 2,967 2 376 85 10,210 16 13,656 
– collateral value .................... 2,565 1 323 76 8,684 12 11,661
Total residential mortgages ......... 144,640 53,480 44,038 2,191 70,009 5,209 319,567
       
At 31 December 2011        
Fully collateralised ..................... 125,702 46,532 38,381 1,761 60,794 4,891 278,061
LTV ratio: 
– less than 25%  ...................... 9,898 5,364 2,383 58 3,576 282 21,561
– 25% to 50% ......................... 31,601 19,643 9,978 336 10,593 1,350 73,501
– 51% to 75% ......................... 52,656 17,748 18,006 895 25,138 2,221 116,664
– 76% to 90% ......................... 23,919 2,884 7,624 304 13,590 876 49,197
– 91% to 100% ....................... 7,628 893 390 168 7,897 162 17,138
Partially collateralised:        
– greater than 100% LTV ....... 3,275 484 295 174 12,503 102 16,833 
– collateral value .................... 2,821 466 37 135 10,566 24 14,049
Total residential mortgages ......... 128,977 47,016 38,676 1,935 73,297 4,993 294,894
The above table shows residential mortgage lending 
including off-balance sheet loan commitments by 
level of collateral. Off-balance sheet commitments 
include loans that have been approved but which the 
customer has not yet drawn, and the undrawn portion 
of loans that have a flexible drawdown facility such 
as the offset mortgage product. The collateral 
included in the table above consists of first charges 
on real estate. 
The LTV ratio is calculated as the gross on-
balance sheet carrying amount of the loan and any 
off-balance sheet loan commitment at the balance 
sheet date divided by the value of collateral. The 
methodologies for obtaining residential property 
collateral values vary throughout the Group, but 
are typically determined through a combination 
of professional appraisals, house price indices or 
statistical analysis. Valuations must be updated on 
a regular basis and, as a minimum, at intervals of 
every three years. Valuations are conducted more 
frequently when market conditions or portfolio 
performance are subject to significant change or 
when a loan is identified and assessed as impaired. 
The LTV ratio bandings are consistent with 
our internal risk management reporting. While we 
do have mortgages in the higher LTV bands, our 
appetite for such lending is restricted and the larger 
portion of our portfolio is concentrated in the lower 
risk LTV bandings of 75% and below. 
Other personal lending 
Other personal lending consists primarily of 
overdrafts, credit cards and second lien mortgage  165
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
portfolios. Second lien lending is supported by 
collateral but the claim on the collateral is 
subordinate to the first lien charge. The majority of 
our second lien portfolios were originated in North 
America where loss experience on defaulted 
second lien loans has typically approached 100%; 
consequently, we do not generally attach any 
significant financial value to this type of collateral. 
Credit cards and overdrafts are usually unsecured. 
Corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) 
lending
Collateral held is analysed separately below for 
commercial real estate and for other corporate, 
commercial and financial (non-bank) lending. This 
reflects the difference in collateral held on the 
portfolios. In each case, the analysis includes off-
balance sheet loan commitments, primarily undrawn 
credit lines. 
Commercial real estate loans and advances including loan commitments by level of collateral 
(Audited) 
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
 Latin 
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Rated CRR/EL 1 to 7 
Not collateralised ........................ 7,068 10,790 3,647 569 181 2,083 24,338 
Fully collateralised ..................... 23,450 17,355 6,106 92 9,054 1,846 57,903 
Partially collateralised (A)........... 3,088 1,476 1,150 33 1,063 903 7,713 
– collateral value on A ................ 2,780 1,179 464 29 401 423 5,276 
33,606 29,621 10,903 694 10,298 4,832 89,954 
Rated CRR/EL 8 to 10 
Not collateralised ........................ 418 – – 14 34 105 571
Fully collateralised ..................... 1,261 2 60 8 408 141 1,880 
LTV ratio: 
– less than 25% ....................... 34 – 1 – 25 10 70
– 25% to 50% ......................... 119 1 55 7 86 8 276
– 51% to 75% ......................... 437 – 2 – 69 28 536
– 76% to 90% ......................... 501 – 1 – 58 63 623
– 91% to 100% ....................... 170 1 1 1 170 32 375
Partially collateralised (B) .......... 1,585 – 51 204 377 24 2,241 
– collateral value on B ................ 938 – 15 111 265 13 1,342 
3,264 2 111 226 819 270 4,692 
Total commercial real estate  
loans and advances ................. 36,870  29,623 11,014 920 11,117  5,102  94,646 
At 31 December 2011        
Rated CRR/EL 1 to 7        
Not collateralised ........................ 5,730 12,552 2,973 631 97 2,136 24,119 
Fully collateralised ..................... 24,547 11,734 6,929 65 8,506 1,706 53,487 
Partially collateralised (C) .......... 3,099 916 1,032 50 1,635 999 7,731 
– collateral value on C ................ 1,775 591 280 39 311 559 3,555
 33,376 25,202 10,934 746 10,238 4,841 85,337 
Rated CRR/EL 8 to 10        
Not collateralised ........................ 434 2 10 55 135 127 763 
Fully collateralised ..................... 1,413 2 23 74 521 196 2,229 
LTV ratio: 
– less than 25% ....................... 24 – – – 65 9 98
– 25% to 50% ......................... 140 2 – – 5 21 168
– 51% to 75% ......................... 935 – 1 – 217 28 1,181
– 76% to 90% ......................... 159 – 2 74 61 117 413
– 91% to 100% ....................... 155 – 20 – 173 21 369
Partially collateralised (D) .......... 1,921 – 42 181 401 3 2,548 
– collateral value on D ................ 1,083 – 26 89 246 1 1,445
 3,768 4 75 310 1,057 326 5,540 
Total commercial real estate  
loans and advances ................. 37,144 25,206 11,009 1,056 11,295 5,167 90,877 
The collateral included in the table above 
consists of fixed first charges on real estate and 
charges over cash for commercial real estate. These 
facilities are disclosed as not collateralised if they 
are unsecured or benefit from credit risk mitigation 
from guarantees, which are not quantified for the  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Collateral / Impairment of loans and advances 
166
purposes of this disclosure. In Hong Kong, market 
practice is for lending to major property companies 
to be typically secured by guarantees or unsecured. 
In Europe, facilities of a working capital nature are 
generally not secured by a first fixed charge and are 
therefore disclosed as not collateralised. 
The value of commercial real estate collateral is 
determined through a combination of professional 
and internal valuations and physical inspection. 
Due to the complexity of valuing collateral for 
commercial real estate, local valuation policies 
determine the frequency of review based on local 
market conditions. Revaluations are sought with 
greater frequency when, as part of the regular credit 
assessment of the obligor, material concerns arise in 
relation to the transaction which may reflect on the 
underlying performance of the collateral, or in 
circumstances where an obligor’s credit quality 
has declined sufficiently to cause concern that 
the principal payment source may not fully meet 
the obligation (i.e. the obligor’s credit quality 
classification indicates it is at the lower end, 
that is sub-standard, or approaching impaired). 
Where such concerns exist the revaluation method 
selected will depend upon the loan-to-value 
relationship, the direction in which the local 
commercial real estate market has moved since the 
last valuation and, most importantly, the specific 
characteristics of the underlying commercial real 
estate which is of concern. 
Other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) loans and advances including loan commitments by level of 
collateral rated CRR/EL 8 to 10 only 
(Audited) 
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
 Latin 
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Not collateralised ........................ 5,110 260 572 1,186 533 1,023 8,684 
Fully collateralised ..................... 1,463 82 146 132 478 284 2,585 
LTV ratio: 
– less than 25% ....................... 77 3 11 – 11  68 170
– 25% to 50% ......................... 192 4 62 6 49 84 397
– 51% to 75% ......................... 290 39 31 33 131 61 585
– 76% to 90% ......................... 196 24 11 18 96 17 362
– 91% to 100% ....................... 708 12 31 75 191 54 1,071 
Partially collateralised (A)........... 1,106 84 251 828 753 273 3,295 
– collateral value on A ................ 628 41 89 124 359 108 1,349 
7,679  426 969 2,146 1,764  1,580  14,564 
        
At 31 December 2011        
Not collateralised ........................ 5,583 349 795 1,695 801 1,546 10,769 
Fully collateralised ..................... 1,765 63 147 60 441 602 3,078 
LTV ratio: 
– less than 25% ....................... 173 4 10 3 16 106 312
– 25% to 50% ......................... 274 47 29 3 38 74 465
– 51% to 75% ......................... 587 11 32 31 51 96 808
– 76% to 90% ......................... 153 – 32 20 128 21 354
– 91% to 100% ....................... 578 1 44 3 208 305 1,139
Partially collateralised (B)........... 1,367 100 156 498 1,206 390 3,717 
– collateral value on B ................ 558 55 76 103 541 214 1,547
 8,715 512 1,098 2,253 2,448 2,538 17,564 
The collateral used in the assessment of the 
above lending primarily includes first legal charges 
over real estate and charges over cash in the 
commercial and industrial sector, and charges over 
cash and marketable financial instruments in the 
financial sector. Government sector lending is 
generally unsecured. 
It should be noted that the table above excludes 
other types of collateral which are commonly taken 
for corporate and commercial lending such as 
unsupported guarantees and floating charges over 
the assets of a customer’s business. While such 
mitigants have value, often providing rights in 
insolvency, their assignable value is insufficiently 
certain and they are assigned no value for disclosure 
purposes.  
As with commercial real estate, the value of 
real estate collateral included in the table above is  167
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
generally determined through a combination of 
professional and internal valuations and physical 
inspection. The frequency of revaluation is 
undertaken on a similar basis to commercial real 
estate loans and advances; however, for financing 
activities in corporate and commercial lending that 
are not predominantly commercial real estate-
oriented, collateral value is not as strongly correlated 
to principal repayment performance. Collateral 
values will generally be refreshed when an obligor’s 
general credit performance deteriorates and it is 
necessary to assess the likely performance of 
secondary sources of repayment should reliance 
upon them prove necessary. For this reason, the table 
above reports values only for customers with CRR 8 
to 10, recognising that these loans and advances 
generally have valuations which are comparatively 
recent. For the table above, cash is valued at its 
nominal value and marketable securities at their 
fair value. 
The difference between the collateral value and 
the value of partially collateralised lending disclosed 
in the tables above cannot be directly compared with 
any impairment allowances recognised in respect of 
impaired loans, as the loans may be performing in 
accordance with their contractual terms. When 
loans are not performing in accordance with their 
contractual terms, the recovery of cash flows may be 
affected by other cash resources of the customer, or 
other credit risk enhancements not quantified for the 
tables above. The Group’s policy for determining 
impairment allowances, including the effect of 
collateral on these impairment allowances, is 
described on page 258. 
Loans and advances to banks 
The following table shows loans and advances to 
banks, including off-balance sheet loan 
commitments by level of collateral. 
Loans and advances to banks including loan commitments by level of collateral 
(Audited) 
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
 Latin 
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Not collateralised ........................ 36,043 24,622 40,694 7,290 9,050 12,838 130,537
Fully collateralised ..................... 25,496 2,294 5,667 – 811 3,691 37,959 
Partially collateralised (A)........... 62 1,459 1,207 – – – 2,728 
– collateral value on A ............ 61 1,452 1,135 – – – 2,648
61,601 28,375 47,568 7,290 9,861 16,529 171,224
           
At 31 December 2011        
Not collateralised ........................ 25,896 34,892 42,586 9,337 14,132 19,516 146,359
Fully collateralised ..................... 31,515 1,365 6,927 32 978 1,238 42,055 
Partially collateralised (B)........... 146 50 445 – 784 114 1,539 
– collateral value on B ............ 104 50 207 – 702 88 1,151
 57,557 36,307 49,958 9,369 15,894 20,868 189,953
The collateral used in the assessment of the 
above lending relates primarily to cash and 
marketable securities. Loans and advances to banks 
are typically unsecured. Certain products such as 
reverse repos and stock borrowing are effectively 
collateralised and have been included in the 
above as fully or partly collateralised. The fully 
collateralised loans and advances to banks for 
Europe in the table above consist primarily of 
reverse repo agreements and stock borrowing. 
Derivatives
The International Swaps and Derivatives Association 
(‘ISDA’) Master Agreement is our preferred 
agreement for documenting derivatives activity. It 
provides the contractual framework within which 
dealing activity across a full range of over-the-
counter (‘OTC’) products is conducted, and 
contractually binds both parties to apply close-out 
netting across all outstanding transactions covered 
by an agreement if either party defaults or another 
pre-agreed termination event occurs. It is common, 
and our preferred practice, for the parties to execute 
a Credit Support Annex (‘CSA’) in conjunction 
with the ISDA Master Agreement. Under a CSA, 
collateral is passed between the parties to mitigate 
the counterparty risk inherent in outstanding 
positions. The majority of our CSAs are with 
financial institutional clients. 
We manage our counterparty exposure arising 
due to market risk on OTC derivative contracts 
through the use of collateral agreements with 
counterparties and netting agreements. We do not 
currently undertake active management of our  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Collateral / Impairment of loans and advances 
168
general OTC derivative counterparty exposure 
in the credit markets, although we may manage 
individual exposures in certain circumstances. 
A description of the derivative offset amount 
in the ‘Maximum exposure to credit risk’ table is 
provided on page 145. 
Other credit risk exposures 
In addition to collateralised lending described above, 
other credit enhancements are employed and 
methods used to mitigate credit risk arising from 
financial assets. These are described in more detail 
below. 
Securities issued by governments, banks and 
other financial institutions may benefit from 
additional credit enhancement, notably through 
government guarantees that reference these assets. 
Details of government guarantees are included in 
Notes 6, 10 and 12 on the Financial Statements. 
Corporate issued debt securities are primarily 
unsecured. Debt securities issued by banks and 
financial institutions include ABSs and similar 
instruments, which are supported by underlying 
pools of financial assets. Credit risk associated with 
ABSs is reduced through the purchase of CDS 
protection. Disclosure of the Group’s holdings of 
ABSs and associated CDS protection is provided 
on page 184. 
Trading assets include loans and advances held 
with trading intent, the majority of which consist of 
reverse repos and stock borrowing which, by their 
nature, are collateralised. Collateral accepted as 
security that the Group is permitted to sell or 
repledge under these arrangements is described 
in Note 36 on the Financial Statements. Trading 
assets also include money market term placements, 
which are unsecured. 
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit 
risk includes financial guarantees and similar 
arrangements that we issue or enter into, and loan 
commitments that we are irrevocably committed to. 
Depending on the terms of the arrangement, we may 
have recourse to additional credit mitigation in the 
event that a guarantee is called upon or a loan 
commitment is drawn and subsequently defaults. 
Further information about these arrangements is 
provided in Note 40 on the Financial Statements.
Collateral and other credit enhancements 
obtained
(Audited)
The carrying amount of assets obtained by taking 
possession of collateral held as security, or calling 
upon other credit enhancements, is as follows: 
Carrying amount at 
31 December 
 2012   2011 
US$m US$m 
Nature of assets 
Residential property ..................... 353 420
Commercial and industrial  
property .................................... 88 64
Other ............................................ 3 17
444 501
The significant reduction in residential 
properties was due to the suspension of foreclosure 
activities at the end of 2011 and during the first half 
of 2012 (see page 151). 
We make repossessed properties available for 
sale in an orderly fashion, with the proceeds used 
to reduce or repay the outstanding indebtedness. If 
excess funds arise after the debt has been repaid, 
they are made available to repay other secured 
lenders with lower priority or returned to the 
customer. We do not generally occupy repossessed 
properties for our business use. 
Impairment of loans and advances 
(Audited) 
A summary of our current policies and 
practices regarding impairment assessment 
is provided in the Appendix to Risk on 
page 258. 
The tables below analyse by geographical region the 
impairment allowances recognised for impaired 
loans and advances that are either individually 
assessed or collectively assessed, and collective 
impairment allowances on loans and advances 
classified as not impaired.  169
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers by geographical region 
(Audited)
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Gross loans and advances to customers  
Individually assessed impaired loans
14
 (A) .............. 9,959 398 1,019 2,251 1,849 1,295 16,771 
Collectively assessed
15
 (B) ....................................... 458,802 173,688 137,846 27,629 144,523 54,476 996,964 
Impaired loans
14
 ................................................... 1,121 79 128 197 18,482 1,893 21,900
Non-impaired loans
16
 ........................................... 457,681 173,609 137,718 27,432 126,041 52,583 975,064
Total (C) .................................................................... 468,761 174,086 138,865 29,880 146,372 55,771 1,013,735 
Impairment allowances (C) ...................................... 5,321 473 746 1,794 5,616 2,162 16,112 
Individually assessed (A) ..................................... 3,781 192 442 1,323 428 406 6,572
Collectively assessed (B) ..................................... 1,540 281 304 471 5,188 1,756 9,540
Net loans and advances ............................................ 463,440 173,613 138,119 28,086 140,756 53,609 997,623 
 %  %  %  %  %  %  % 
Allowances as a percentage of loans and advances: 
– individually assessed (A) ..................................  38.0  48.2  43.4  58.8  23.1  31.4  39.2 
– collectively assessed (B) ...................................  0.3  0.2  0.2  1.7  3.6  3.2  1.0 
– total (C) ..............................................................  1.1  0.3  0.5  6.0  3.8  3.9  1.6 
          
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011        
Gross loans and advances to customers        
Individually assessed impaired loans
14
 (E) .............. 10,490 519 963 2,187 1,832 563 16,554 
Collectively assessed
15
 (F) ........................................ 429,088 157,727 123,687 25,402 148,096 57,386 941,386
Impaired loans
14
 ................................................... 1,261 85 106 238 20,864 2,476  25,030
Non-impaired loans
16
 ........................................... 427,827 157,642 123,581 25,164 127,232 54,910  916,356
Total (G) ................................................................... 439,578 158,246 124,650 27,589 149,928 57,949 957,940 
Impairment allowances (G) ...................................... 5,242 581 782 1,714 7,181 2,011 17,511 
Individually assessed (E) ...................................... 3,754 288 505 1,250 416 324  6,537
Collectively assessed (F) ...................................... 1,488 293 277 464 6,765 1,687  10,974
Net loans and advances ............................................ 434,336 157,665 123,868 25,875 142,747 55,938 940,429
 %  %  %  %  %   %   % 
Allowances as a percentage of loans and advances:        
– individually assessed (E) ...................................  35.8  55.5  52.4  57.2  22.7  57.4  39.5 
– collectively assessed (F) ....................................  0.3  0.2  0.2  1.8  4.6  2.9  1.2 
– total (G) .............................................................  1.2  0.4  0.6  6.2  4.8  3.5  1.8 
For footnotes, see page 249.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Impairment of loans and advances  
170
Net loan impairment charge to the income statement by geographical region 
(Unaudited) 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
2012
Individually assessed impairment allowances ......... 1,387 (8) 97 205 258 200 2,139 
New allowances .................................................... 1,960 32 239 369 380 292 3,272 
Release of allowances no longer required ........... (516) (34) (117) (133) (85) (49) (934)
Recoveries of amounts previously written off ..... (57) (6) (25) (31) (37) (43) (199)
Collectively assessed impairment allowances ......... 487 92 243 50 3,204 1,945 6,021 
New allowances net of allowance releases .......... 839 117 368 94 3,296 2,254 6,968 
Recoveries of amounts previously written off ..... (352) (25) (125) (44) (92) (309) (947)
Total charge for impairment losses .......................... 1,874 84 340 255 3,462 2,145 8,160 
Customers ............................................................ 1,874 84 340 255 3,462 2,145 8,160 
         
2011       
Individually assessed impairment allowances ......... 1,262 18 67 199 243 126 1,915 
New allowances .................................................... 1,670 79 207 328 398 222  2,904
Release of allowances no longer required ........... (378) (41) (114) (80) (111) (74)  (798)
Recoveries of amounts previously written off ..... (30) (20) (26) (49) (44) (22)  (191)
Collectively assessed impairment allowances ......... 640 99 207 93 6,807 1,744 9,590 
New allowances net of allowance releases .......... 1,181 126 366 147 6,894 2,111  10,825
Recoveries of amounts previously written off ..... (541) (27) (159) (54) (87) (367)  (1,235)
Total charge for impairment losses .......................... 1,902 117 274 292 7,050 1870 11,505 
Banks ................................................................... (11) – – – (5) –  (16)
Customers ............................................................ 1,913 117 274 292 7,055 1,870  11,521
2012 compared with 2011 
(Unaudited) 
The following commentary is on a constant currency 
basis. 
Loan impairment allowances were US$16.2bn, a 
decline of 9% compared with 2011, reflecting lower 
lending balances in our US CML portfolio which 
included the reclassification of impairment 
allowances on non-real estate personal loan 
balances to ‘Assets held for sale’. Releases and 
recoveries of US$2.1bn were 3% lower, mainly in 
North America due to lower customer repayments in 
the corporate and commercial sector, as well as the 
non-recurrence of a number of releases and 
recoveries incurred in 2011 in Hong Kong and Rest 
of Asia-Pacific. 
Impaired loans were 3% of total gross loans and 
advances at the end of 2012, compared with 4% at 
31 December 2011. 
In Europe, new loan impairment allowances 
were US$2.8bn, broadly unchanged compared with 
2011. New collectively assessed loan impairment 
allowances declined by 28%, mainly in the UK 
personal lending book, as we focused our lending 
growth on higher quality assets and continued to 
pro-actively identify and monitor customers 
facing financial hardship. This resulted in lower 
delinquency rates across both the secured and 
unsecured lending portfolios. Individually assessed 
new loan impairment allowances increased by 21% 
across a range of sectors reflecting the challenging 
economic conditions in the UK, Greece, Spain and 
Turkey. In addition, a rise in impairments in Turkey 
was due to strong balance sheet growth in customer 
loans and advances in RBWM, notably in credit 
cards and personal loans, driven by business 
expansion. Impaired loans of US$11.1bn were 9% 
lower than at 31 December 2011, mainly due to 
increased focus on higher quality loans, lower 
delinquency rates and the continued low interest 
rate environment. 
Releases and recoveries in Europe were 
US$925m, broadly unchanged on 2011.  
In Hong Kong, new individually assessed loan 
impairment allowances fell by 28% compared 
with 2011 due to lower specific impairment charges 
in CMB. New collectively assessed loan impairment 
allowances also declined as delinquency rates 
continued to improve, reflecting stable loan growth 
and sound underlying economic conditions. Impaired 
loans declined by 22% from 31 December 2011, as a 
number of corporate loans in the international  171
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
trade sector were written off or upgraded following 
repayments, and delinquency rates reduced. 
Releases and recoveries in Hong Kong were 
US$65m, 27% lower than at the end of 2011 when 
an allowance relating to a loan in GB&M that was 
no longer considered impaired was released. 
New loan impairment allowances in Rest of 
Asia-Pacific increased by 8% to US$607m. 
This reflected higher new collectively assessed 
loan impairment allowances, mainly from the 
growth in Singapore of RBWM’s credit card 
portfolio. New individually assessed loan 
impairment allowances also increased, as a result of 
the impairment of a corporate exposure in Australia 
and individual charges on a small number of 
corporate exposures in India. Impaired loans in the 
region increased by 4% to US$1.1bn in 2012 due to 
the downgrade of a number of customers in Australia 
and Taiwan, partly offset by the restructuring of a 
significant loan in Singapore following the 
renegotiation of terms, which is therefore regarded 
as no longer impaired. 
Releases and recoveries in the region decreased 
by 7%, mainly in India as the cards portfolio 
continued to run off, and in Thailand following 
the sale of the RBWM business. These were 
partly offset by an impairment allowance release 
in Singapore compared with a charge in 2011. 
In the Middle East and North Africa, new 
loan impairment allowances decreased by 2% to 
US$463m in 2012. New collectively assessed loan 
impairment allowances declined, primarily in the 
UAE, due to the improvement in credit quality 
reflecting the repositioning of the book towards 
higher quality lending in previous years. New 
individually assessed loan impairment allowances 
rose due to significant loan impairment charges 
recorded for a small number of large exposures 
in GB&M. Impaired loans remained broadly 
unchanged compared with 31 December 2011. 
Releases and recoveries in the region increased 
by 14% to US$208m in 2012, mainly relating to 
a small number of exposures in UAE. 
In North America, new loan impairment 
allowances fell sharply, reducing by 50% to 
US$3.7bn. New collectively assessed loan 
impairment allowances declined, largely in the CML 
portfolio due to the reclassification of impairment 
allowances on non-real estate personal loan balances 
to ‘Assets held for sale’ as well as the continued run-
off in the residential portfolios. This was partly 
offset by a portfolio risk factor adjustment of 
US$225m which was made to increase the collective 
loan impairment allowances for our US mortgage 
lending portfolios. The adjustment was made 
following a review completed in the fourth quarter 
of 2012 which concluded that the estimated average 
period of time from current status to write-off was 
ten months for real estate loans (previously a period 
of seven months was used). During 2013, this 
revised estimate will be incorporated into the 
statistical impairment allowance models. It 
was also partly offset by new loan impairment 
allowances by HSBC Bank Bermuda on a small 
number of exposures. Releases and recoveries in 
North America declined by 11% to US$214m. This 
reflected lower levels of impairments being booked 
due to improving market conditions within the 
corporate and commercial sector. 
Impaired loans decreased by 11% in 2012 to 
US$20.3bn, due to the continued run-off of the CML 
portfolio which included the reclassification 
of certain non-real estate personal loan balances to 
held for sale.  
In Latin America, new loan impairment 
allowances increased by 23% to US$2.5bn. 
The increase in new collectively assessed loan 
impairment allowances was mainly in Brazil, driven 
by higher delinquency rates in RBWM and CMB, 
particularly in the Business Banking portfolio, 
reflecting lower economic growth in 2012. Impaired 
loans were 9% higher than at the end of 2011, driven 
by past growth in the CMB portfolio in Brazil. 
Releases and recoveries in Latin America 
decreased by 2% from the end of 2011 to US$401m, 
mainly in Brazil. 
For an analysis of loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions by global business, see 
page 41.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Impairment of loans and advances 
 172
Further analysis of impairment
Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector and by geographical region 
(Unaudited) 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
Impairment allowances at 1 January 2012 ................ 5,292 581 782 1,731 7,239 2,011 17,636 
Amounts written off ................................................. (2,375) (219) (540) (305) (4,181) (2,192) (9,812)
Personal .................................................................. (828) (128) (347) (126) (3,862) (1,614) (6,905)
– first lien residential mortgages ........................ (28) – (7) (2) (1,952) (70) (2,059)
– other personal
1
 ................................................. (800) (128) (340) (124) (1,910) (1,544) (4,846)
Corporate and commercial ..................................... (1,428) (91) (193) (154) (234) (577) (2,677)
– manufacturing and international trade  
and services ...................................................... (661) (91) (164) (137) (59) (498) (1,610)
– commercial real estate and other property-
related ............................................................... (377) – (8) (6) (97) (18) (506)
– other commercial
9
 ............................................ (390) – (21) (11) (78) (61) (561)
Financial
2
 ............................................................... (119) – – (25) (85) (1) (230)
Recoveries of amounts written off in previous  
years ....................................................................... 409 31 150 75 129 352 1,146 
Personal .................................................................. 354 30 132 50 88 312 966
– first lien residential mortgages ........................ 34 4 2 5 46 49 140
– other personal
1
 ................................................. 320 26 130 45 42 263 826
Corporate and commercial ..................................... 51 1 18 25 38 39 172
– manufacturing and international trade  
and services ...................................................... 16 1 5 2 7 28 59
– commercial real estate and other property-
related ............................................................... 9 – 11 – 19 2 41
– other commercial
9
 ............................................ 26 – 2 23 12 9 72
Financial
2
 ............................................................... 4 – – – 3 1 8
Charge to income statement ..................................... 1,874 84 340 255 3,462 2,145 8,160 
Personal .................................................................. 348 96 234 57 3,228 1,399 5,362 
– first lien residential mortgages ........................ (56) (11) 14 7 1,986 (30) 1,910
– other personal
1
 ................................................. 404 107 220 50 1,242 1,429 3,452
Corporate and commercial ..................................... 1,547 (14) 102 169 252 746 2,802 
– manufacturing and international trade 
and services ...................................................... 670 (12) 32 80 62 625 1,457
– commercial real estate and other property-
related ............................................................... 444 7 55 62 94 28 690
– other commercial
9
 ............................................ 433 (9) 15 27 96 93 655
Financial
2
 ............................................................... (21) 2 4 29 (18) – (4)
Exchange and other movements
18
 ............................ 161 (4) 14 55 (1,033) (154) (961)
At 31 December 2012............................................... 5,361 473 746 1,811 5,616 2,162 16,169 
Impairment allowances against banks: 
– individually assessed ......................................... 40 – – 17 – – 57
Impairment allowances against customers: 
– individually assessed ......................................... 3,781 192 442 1,323 428 406 6,572 
– collectively assessed
17
 ....................................... 1,540 281 304 471 5,188 1,756 9,540 
At 31 December 2012............................................... 5,361 473 746 1,811 5,616 2,162 16,169  173
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia- 
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin
 America   Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
Impairment allowances at 1 January 2011................ 5,740 629 959 1,669 9,234 2,010 20,241 
Amounts written off ................................................. (2,781) (210) (554) (187) (6,830) (1,918) (12,480)
Personal .................................................................. (1,685) (116) (391) (172) (6,591) (1,476) (10,431)
– first lien residential mortgages ........................ (25) – (6) (2) (2,545) (84)  (2,662)
– other personal
1
 ................................................. (1,660) (116) (385) (170) (4,046) (1,392)  (7,769)
Corporate and commercial ..................................... (1,066) (94) (161) (15) (233) (440) (2,009)
– manufacturing and international trade  
and services ...................................................... (554) (64) (120) (4) (100) (295)  (1,137)
– commercial real estate and other property-
related ............................................................... (265) (6) (13) (10) (83) (15)  (392)
– other commercial
9
 ............................................ (247) (24) (28) (1) (50) (130)  (480)
Financial
2
 ............................................................... (30) – (2) – (6) (2) (40)
Recoveries of amounts written off in previous  
years ....................................................................... 572 47 185 102 132 388 1,426 
Personal .................................................................. 525 31 168 53 101 297 1,175 
– first lien residential mortgages ........................ 21 4 3 – 39 19  86
– other personal
1
 ................................................. 504 27 165 53 62 278  1,089
Corporate and commercial ..................................... 44 16 12 49 30 91 242 
– manufacturing and international trade  
and services ...................................................... 19 16 8 2 8 82  135
– commercial real estate and other property-
related ............................................................... 7 – 1 – 8 4  20
– other commercial
9
 ............................................ 18 – 3 47 14 5  87
Financial
2
 ............................................................... 3 – 5 – 1 – 9 
Charge to income statement ..................................... 1,902 117 274 292 7,050 1,870 11,505 
Personal .................................................................. 610 77 215 124 6,887 1,405 9,318 
– first lien residential mortgages ........................ 98 (10) 5 42 3,899 69  4,103
– other personal
1
 ................................................. 512 87 210 82 2,988 1,336  5,215
Corporate and commercial ..................................... 1,277 37 55 146 122 477 2,114 
– manufacturing and international trade 
and services ...................................................... 416 57 35 25 42 326  901
– commercial real estate and other property-
related ............................................................... 498 – 9 150 48 59  764
– other commercial
9
 ............................................ 363 (20) 11 (29) 32 92  449
Financial
2
 ............................................................... 15 3 4 22 41 (12) 73 
Exchange and other movements
18
 ............................ (141) (2) (82) (145) (2,347) (339) (3,056)
At 31 December 2011 ............................................... 5,292 581 782 1,731 7,239 2,011 17,636 
Impairment allowances against banks:        
– individually assessed ......................................... 50 – – 17 58 – 125 
Impairment allowances against customers:        
– individually assessed ......................................... 3,754 288 505 1,250 416 324 6,537 
– collectively assessed
17
 ....................................... 1,488 293 277 464 6,765 1,687 10,974 
At 31 December 2011 ............................................... 5,292 581 782 1,731 7,239 2,011 17,636 
For footnotes, see page 249.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Impairment of loans and advances 
174
Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector 
(Unaudited) 
 2012  2011  2010   2009   2008 
 US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
Impairment allowances at 1 January ........................................... 17,636 20,241 25,649 23,972 19,212 
Amounts written off .................................................................... (9,812) (12,480) (19,300) (24,840) (17,955)
Personal ................................................................................... (6,905) (10,431) (16,458) (22,703) (16,625)
– first lien residential mortgages ......................................... (2,059) (2,662) (4,163) (4,704) (2,110)
– other personal
1
 .................................................................. (4,846) (7,769) (12,295) (17,999) (14,515)
Corporate and commercial ...................................................... (2,677) (2,009) (2,789) (1,984) (1,294)
– manufacturing and international trade and services ........ (1,610) (1,137) (1,050) (1,093) (789)
– commercial real estate and other property-related .......... (506) (392) (1,280) (327) (115)
– other commercial
9
 ............................................................ (561) (480) (459) (564) (390)
Financial
2
 ................................................................................. (230) (40) (53) (153) (36)
Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years .................. 1,146 1,426 1,020 890 834 
Personal ................................................................................... 966 1,175 846 712 686 
– first lien residential mortgages ......................................... 140 86 93 61 19
– other personal
1
 .................................................................. 826 1,089 753 651 667
Corporate and commercial ...................................................... 172 242 156 170 142 
– manufacturing and international trade and services ........ 59 135 92 123 76
– commercial real estate and other property-related .......... 41 20 21 9 6
– other commercial
9
 ............................................................ 72 87 43 38 60
Financial
2
 ................................................................................. 8 9 18 8 6 
Charge to income statement ........................................................ 8,160 11,505 13,548 24,942 24,131 
Personal ................................................................................... 5,362 9,318 11,187 19,781 20,950 
– first lien residential mortgages ......................................... 1,910 4,103 3,461 4,185 5,000
– other personal
1
 .................................................................. 3,452 5,215 7,726 15,596 15,950
Corporate and commercial ...................................................... 2,802 2,114 2,198 4,711 2,879 
– manufacturing and international trade and services ........ 1,457 901 909 2,392 1,573
– commercial real estate and other property-related .......... 690 764 660 1,492 755
– other commercial
9
 ............................................................ 655 449 629 827 551
Financial
2
 ................................................................................. (4) 73 163 450 302 
Exchange and other movements
18
 ............................................... (961) (3,056) (676) 685 (2,250)
At 31 December ........................................................................... 16,169 17,636 20,241 25,649 23,972 
Impairment allowances against banks:     
– individually assessed ............................................................ 57 125 158 107 63 
Impairment allowances against customers:     
– individually assessed ............................................................ 6,572 6,537 6,457 6,494 3,284 
– collectively assessed ............................................................. 9,540 10,974 13,626 19,048 20,625 
At 31 December ........................................................................... 16,169 17,636 20,241 25,649 23,972 
For footnotes, see page 249.  175
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Movement in impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers and banks 
(Audited) 
Banks Customers 
individually
assessed
 Individually
 assessed 
 Collectively
 assessed  Total 
US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
2012
At 1 January .................................................................................. 125 6,537 10,974 17,636 
Amounts written off ..................................................................... (70) (2,361) (7,381) (9,812)
Recoveries of loans and advances previously written off ............ – 199 947 1,146 
Charge to income statement ......................................................... – 2,139 6,021 8,160 
Exchange and other movements
18
 ................................................ 2 58 (1,021) (961)
At 31 December ............................................................................ 57 6,572 9,540 16,169 
Impairment allowances on loans; and advances to customers .... 6,572 9,540 16,112
–  personal ................................................................................ 685 7,527 8,212
–  corporate and commercial .................................................... 5,407 1,939 7,346
–  financial ................................................................................ 480 74 554
% % % %
As a percentage of loans and advances
19,20
 ..............................  0.05  0.67  0.98  1.48 
    
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2011     
At 1 January .................................................................................. 158 6,457 13,626 20,241 
Amounts written off ..................................................................... (16) (1,633) (10,831) (12,480)
Recoveries of loans and advances previously written off ............ – 191 1,235 1,426 
Charge to income statement ......................................................... (16) 1,931 9,590 11,505 
Exchange and other movements
18
 ................................................ (1) (409) (2,646) (3,056)
At 31 December ............................................................................ 125 6,537 10,974 17,636 
Impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers ......  6,537 10,974 17,511 
–  personal ................................................................................  694 9,066 9,760
–  corporate and commercial ....................................................  5,231 1,820 7,051
–  financial ................................................................................  612 88 700
% % % % 
As a percentage of loans and advances
19,20
 ..............................  0.09  0.71  1.20  1.67 
For footnotes, see page 249. 
Individually and collectively assessed impairment charge to the income statement by industry sector 
(Unaudited) 
2012 2011
Individually
 assessed
 US$m 
 Collectively
 assessed
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
 Individually
 assessed 
 US$m 
 Collectively
 assessed 
 US$m 
 Total 
 US$m 
Banks .................................................................. – – – (16) –  (16)
Personal ............................................................... 96 5,266 5,362 141  9,177  9,318 
First lien residential mortgages ......................
..................................................................... 40 1,870 1,910 104   3,999   4,103 
Other personal
1
 ............................................... 56 3,396 3,452 37   5,178   5,215 
Corporate and commercial ................................. 2,029 773 2,802 1,703  411  2,114 
Manufacturing and international trade 
and services ................................................ 910 547 1,457 572   329   901 
Commercial real estate and other  
property-related .......................................... 604 86 690 768   (4)  764 
Other commercial
9
 .......................................... 515 140 655 363   86   449 
Financial ............................................................. 14 (18) (4) 87  2  89 
Total charge to income statement ....................... 2,139 6,021 8,160 1,915   9,590   11,505 
For footnotes, see page 249.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Impairment of loans and advances 
176
Net loan impairment charge to the income statement 
(Unaudited) 
 2012  2011  2010   2009   2008 
 US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
Individually assessed impairment allowances ............................ 2,139 1,915 2,625  4,458  2,064 
New allowances ....................................................................... 3,272 2,904 3,617 5,173 2,742
Release of allowances no longer required .............................. (934) (798) (847) (581) (565)
Recoveries of amounts previously written off ........................ (199) (191) (145)  (134)  (113)
Collectively assessed impairment allowances ............................ 6,021 9,590 10,923 20,484 22,067 
New allowances net of allowance releases ............................. 6,968 10,825 11,798  21,240  22,788
Recoveries of amounts previously written off ........................ (947) (1,235) (875)  (756)  (721)
Total charge for impairment losses ............................................. 8,160 11,505 13,548 24,942 24,131 
Banks ...................................................................................... – (16) 12 70 54
Customers ............................................................................... 8,160 11,521 13,536 24,872 24,077
At 31 December    
Impaired loans ............................................................................. 38,776 41,739 47,064 30,845 25,422 
Impairment allowances ................................................................ 16,169 17,636 20,241 25,649 23,972 
Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers by 
geographical region 
(Unaudited) 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific   MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin
 America  Total 
 %  %  %  %  %  %  % 
2012
New allowances net of allowance releases ..............  0.58  0.07  0.37  1.16  2.31  4.36  1.00 
Recoveries ................................................................  (0.10) (0.02) (0.11) (0.26) (0.08)  (0.62)  (0.12)
Total charge for impairment losses ..........................  0.48  0.05  0.26  0.90  2.23  3.74  0.88 
Amount written off net of recoveries .......................  0.50  0.11  0.30  0.81  2.57  3.21  0.93 
         
2011         
New allowances net of allowance releases ..............  0.59  0.11  0.38  1.46  4.01    3.54    1.34 
Recoveries ................................................................  (0.14) (0.03) (0.15) (0.38) (0.07)   (0.61)   (0.15)
Total charge for impairment losses ..........................  0.45  0.08  0.23  1.08  3.94    2.93    1.19 
Amount written off net of recoveries .......................  0.52  0.11  0.31  0.32  3.74    2.39    1.14  177
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers 
(Unaudited) 
 2012  2011  2010   2009   2008 
% % % % % 
New allowances net of allowance releases .................................  1.00  1.34  1.65   2.92    2.54 
Recoveries ...................................................................................  (0.12) (0.15) (0.12)   (0.10)   (0.09)
Total charge for impairment losses .............................................  0.88  1.19  1.53   2.82    2.45 
Amount written off net of recoveries ..........................................  0.93  1.14  2.08   2.71    1.75 
Loans and advances to customers are excluded 
from average balances when reclassified to ‘Assets 
held for sale’. Including these loans and advances to 
customers, the total new allowances net  
of allowance releases would be 1.00%, recoveries 
0.12%, and amounts written off net of recoveries 
0.93%.
Reconciliation of reported and constant currency changes by geographical region 
(Unaudited) 
 31 Dec 11 
 as reported 
 Currency 
 translation 
 adjustment
21
 31 Dec 11
 at 31 Dec 12
 exchange
 rates 
 Movement
 on a
 constant
 currency
 basis 
 31 Dec 12 
 as reported 
 Reported 
 change
22
 Constant 
 currency 
 change
22
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  %  % 
Impaired loans 
Europe ......................................... 11,819 451 12,270 (1,125) 11,145 (6) (9)
Hong Kong ................................. 608 1 609 (132) 477 (22) (22)
Rest of Asia-Pacific .................... 1,070 27 1,097 50 1,147 7 5
Middle East and North Africa .... 2,445 (6) 2,439 35 2,474 1 1
North America ............................ 22,758 17 22,775 (2,430) 20,345 (11) (11)
Latin America ............................. 3,039 (108) 2,931 257 3,188 5 9
 41,739 382 42,121 (3,345) 38,776 (7) (8)
Impairment allowances
Europe ......................................... 5,292 203 5,495 (134) 5,361 1 (2)
Hong Kong ................................. 581 2 583 (110) 473 (19) (19)
Rest of Asia-Pacific .................... 782 17 799 (53) 746 (5) (7)
Middle East and North Africa .... 1,731 (5) 1,726 85 1,811 5 5
North America ............................ 7,239 14 7,253 (1,637) 5,616 (22) (23)
Latin America ............................. 2,011 (114) 1,897 265 2,162 8 13
 17,636 117 17,753 (1,584) 16,169 (8) (9)
For footnotes, see page 249.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Concentration of exposure 
178
Reconciliation of reported and constant currency impairment charge to the income statement 
(Unaudited) 
 31 Dec 11 
 as reported 
 Currency 
 translation 
 adjustment
21
 31 Dec 11
 at 31 Dec 12
 exchange
 rates 
 Movement
 on a
 constant
 currency
 basis 
 31 Dec 12 
 as reported 
 Reported 
 change
22
 Constant 
 currency 
 change
22
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  %  % 
Europe   
Charge for impairment losses ..... 1,902 (47) 1,855 19 1,874 (1) 1
New allowances ...................... 3,033 (82) 2,951 92 3,043 0 3
Releases .................................. (560) 29 (531) (229) (760) 36 43
Recoveries .............................. (571) 6 (565) 156 (409) (28) (28) 
Hong Kong    
Charge for impairment losses ..... 117 – 117 (33) 84 (28) (28) 
New allowances ...................... 268 – 268 (44) 224 (16) (16) 
Releases .................................. (104) – (104) (5) (109) 5 5
Recoveries .............................. (47) – (47) 16 (31) (34) (34) 
Rest of Asia-Pacific    
Charge for impairment losses ..... 274 (1) 273 67 340 24 25
New allowances ...................... 681 (17) 664 13 677 (1) 2
Releases .................................. (222) 10 (212) 25 (187) (16) (12) 
Recoveries .............................. (185) 6 (179) 29 (150) (19) (16) 
MENA   
Charge for impairment losses ..... 292 – 292 (37) 255 (13) (13) 
New allowances ...................... 630 – 630 (50) 580 (8) (8) 
Releases .................................. (235) – (235) (15) (250) 6 6
Recoveries .............................. (103) – (103) 28 (75) (27) (27) 
North America    
Charge for impairment losses ..... 7,050 – 7,050 (3,588) 3,462 (51) (51) 
New allowances ...................... 7,566 – 7,566 (3,677) 3,889 (49) (49) 
Releases .................................. (385) – (385) 87 (298) (23) (23) 
Recoveries .............................. (131) – (131) 2 (129) (2) (2) 
Latin America    
Charge for impairment losses ..... 1,870 (217) 1,653 492 2,145 15 30
New allowances ...................... 2,421 (239) 2,182 399 2,581 7 18
Releases .................................. (162) (24) (186) 102 (84) (48) (55) 
Recoveries .............................. (389) 46 (343) (9) (352) (10) 3
Total   
Charge for impairment losses ..... 11,505 (265) 11,240 (3,080) 8,160 (29) (27) 
New allowances ...................... 14,599 (338) 14,261 (3,267) 10,994 (25) (23) 
Releases .................................. (1,668) 15 (1,653) (35) (1,688) 1 2
Recoveries .............................. (1,426) 58 (1,368) 222 (1,146) (20) (16) 
Concentration of exposure  
(Unaudited) 
Concentrations of credit risk are described 
in the Appendix to Risk on page 259. 
An analysis of credit quality is provided on 
page 154. 
The diversification of our lending portfolio across 
the regions, together with our broad range of global 
businesses and products, ensured that we were not 
overly dependent on a few countries or markets 
to generate income and growth in 2012. Our 
geographical diversification also supported our 
strategies for growth in faster-growing markets 
and those with international connectivity. 
Trading assets 
(Unaudited) 
 2012   2011 
 US$bn   US$bn 
   
Trading securities
23
 .......................... 213  186 
Loans and advances to banks ......... 78  76 
Loans and advances to customers .. 118  69 
409  331 
For footnote, see page 249. 
The largest concentration of securities held-for-
trading within trading assets was in government 
and government agency debt securities. We had 
significant exposures to US Treasury and 
government agency securities (US$28bn) and  179
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
UK (US$12bn) and Hong Kong (US$6bn) 
government securities. For an analysis of securities 
held for trading, see Note 14 on the Financial 
Statements. 
Financial investments 
Our holdings of available-for-sale government and 
government agency debt securities, corporate debt 
securities, ABSs and other securities were spread 
across a wide range of issuers and geographical 
regions, with 14% invested in securities issued by 
banks and other financial institutions. We also hold 
assets backing insurance and investment contracts. 
For an analysis of financial investments, see Note 20 
on the Financial Statements. 
Derivatives 
Derivative assets were US$357bn at 31 December 
2012 (2011: US$346bn), of which the largest  
concentrations were interest rate and, to a lesser 
extent, foreign exchange derivatives. Our exposure 
to derivatives increased, mainly due to a rise in the 
fair value of interest rate contracts following the 
downward movements in yield curves in major 
currencies, largely in Europe. However, this was 
partly offset by a rise in netting from an increase in 
trading through clearing houses coupled with the rise 
in fair values. For an analysis of derivatives, see 
Note 19 on the Financial Statements. 
Loans and advances 
Gross loans and advances to customers (excluding 
the financial sector) of US$932bn increased by 
US$61bn or 7% at 31 December 2012 compared 
with 2011, or 5% on a constant currency basis.  
The following tables analyse loans by industry 
sector and by the location of the principal operations 
of the lending subsidiary or, in the case of the 
operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East 
and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the lending 
branch.
 Gross loans and advances by industry sector 

2012
 Currency 
 effect 
 Move-
 ment 2011 2010 2009 2008 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Personal ................................................. 415,093 7,741 13,727 393,625 425,320  434,206  440,227 
First lien residential mortgages
24
 ..... 301,862 6,776 16,123 278,963 268,681   260,669  243,337 
Other personal
1
 ................................. 113,231 965 (2,396) 114,662 156,639   173,537  196,890 
Corporate and commercial ................... 513,493 8,376 32,301 472,816 445,512  383,090  407,474 
Manufacturing .................................. 112,149 1,392 14,703 96,054 91,121  80,487 81,103
International trade and services ........ 169,389 2,727 13,953 152,709 146,573  115,641 128,737
Commercial real estate ..................... 76,760 1,544 1,275 73,941 71,880   69,389  70,969
Other property-related ...................... 40,532 406 587 39,539 34,838   30,520  30,739 
Government ...................................... 10,785 184 (478) 11,079 8,594   6,689  6,544 
Other commercial
9
 ............................ 103,878 2,123 2,261 99,494 92,506   80,364  89,382 
Financial ............................................... 81,258 1,963 (6,924) 86,219 101,725  96,650  101,085 
Non-bank financial institutions ........ 79,817 1,966 (7,424) 85,275 100,163   95,237  99,536 
Settlement accounts .......................... 1,441 (3) 500 944 1,562   1,413  1,549 
Asset-backed securities reclassified ..... 3,891 208 (1,597) 5,280 5,892  7,827  7,991 
Total gross loans and advances to 
customers .......................................... 1,013,735 18,288 37,507 957,940 978,449  921,773  956,777 
Gross loans and advances to banks ...... 152,603 1,439 (29,948) 181,112 208,429  179,888  153,829 
Total gross loans and advances (A) ...... 1,166,338 19,727 7,559 1,139,052 1,186,878 1,101,661  1,110,606 
Impaired loans and advances ................ 38,671 379 (3,292) 41,584 46,871 30,606 25,352 
–  as a percentage of A .....................  3.3% 4.3%  4.8%  3.3%   2.6% 
Impairment allowances on loans and  
advances ........................................... 16,112 114 (1,513) 17,511 20,083 25,542 23,909 
–  as a percentage of A .....................  1.4% 1.8%  2.1%   2.8%   2.5%  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Concentration of exposure 
 180
 Year ended 31 December 
 2012 
 Currency 
 effect 
 Move-
 ment  2011  2010   2009   2008 
 US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
Charge for impairment losses ............... 8,160 1,558 (4,903) 11,505 13,548  24,942 24,131 
New allowances net of allowance 
releases ......................................... 9,306 1,500 (5,125) 12,931 14,568   25,832 24,965
Recoveries ........................................ (1,146) 58 222 (1,426) (1,020)  (890) (834)
For footnotes, see page 249. 
The following commentary is on a constant 
currency basis (see page 179): 
Personal lending was 41% of gross lending to 
customers at 31 December 2012. Personal lending 
balances of US$415bn were 3% higher than at 
31 December 2011 for reasons explained under 
‘Personal lending’ (see page 24-25). First lien 
residential mortgage lending continued to represent 
the Group’s largest concentration in a single 
exposure type, the most significant balances being 
in the UK (42%), Hong Kong (17%) and the 
US (16%).
Corporate and commercial lending was 51% 
of gross lending to customers at 31 December 
2012, representing our largest lending category. 
International trade and services was the biggest 
portion of the corporate and commercial lending 
category, which increased by 9% compared with 
31 December 2011, mainly in Hong Kong and Rest 
of Asia-Pacific as we focused on corporate and 
commercial customers that trade internationally as 
well as in the UK, despite muted demand for credit. 
The most significant concentrations of international 
trade and services lending were in the UK, Hong 
Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific. Our concentration 
in respect of the manufacturing sector increased, 
mainly driven by higher lending balances in Europe, 
due to growth in the UK of overdraft balances and 
corresponding customer accounts which did not meet 
netting criteria under accounting rules.  
Commercial real estate lending represented 8% 
of total gross lending to customers. Lending 
increased marginally, as the demand for funds 
in property investment and development remained 
strong in Hong Kong. The main concentrations of 
commercial real estate lending were in the UK and 
Hong Kong. 
Lending to non-bank financial institutions 
was US$81bn, a decrease of 8% compared with 
31 December 2011 due to a decline in reverse repo 
balances, mainly in Europe. Our exposure was 
spread across a range of institutions, with the most 
significant concentration in the UK, France and 
the US. 
Loans and advances to banks were widely 
distributed across many countries and decreased by 
16% in 2012 as reverse repo balances declined, 
reflecting redeployment of liquidity to central banks, 
mainly in Europe. 
The tables that follow provide information 
on loans and advances by geographical region and 
by country. The commentary on these loans and 
advances can be found in the ‘Personal lending’ and 
‘Wholesale lending’ sections on pages 147 to 152.
 181
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Gross loans and advances to customers by industry sector and by geographical region 
(Audited) 
Gross loans and advances to customers 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia- 
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin
 America  Total 
 As a %
 of total
 gross 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m US$m  loans 
At 31 December 2012 
Personal .............................................. 186,274 70,341 49,305 6,232 84,354 18,587 415,093  41.0 
First lien residential mortgages
24
 .. 135,172 52,296 36,906 2,144 70,133 5,211 301,862  29.8
Other personal
1
 .............................. 51,102 18,045 12,399 4,088 14,221 13,376 113,231  11.2
Corporate and commercial ................ 223,061 99,199 85,305 22,452 47,886 35,590 513,493  50.6 
Manufacturing ............................... 56,690 10,354 19,213 3,373 9,731 12,788 112,149  11.1
International trade and services ..... 70,954 33,832 32,317 9,115 13,419 9,752 169,389  16.6
Commercial real estate .................. 33,279 23,384 9,286 865 6,572 3,374 76,760  7.6
Other property-related ................... 7,402 16,399 6,641 2,103 7,607 380 40,532  4.0
Government ................................... 2,393 2,838 1,136 1,662 774 1,982 10,785  1.1
Other commercial
9
 ......................... 52,343 12,392 16,712 5,334 9,783 7,314 103,878  10.2
Financial ............................................ 55,732 4,546 4,255 1,196 13,935 1,594 81,258  8.0 
Non-bank financial institutions ..... 55,262 4,070 3,843 1,194 13,935 1,513 79,817  7.9
Settlement accounts ....................... 470 476 412 2 – 81 1,441  0.1
Asset-backed securities reclassified .. 3,694 – – – 197 – 3,891  0.4 
Total gross loans and advances to 
customers (A) ................................ 468,761 174,086 138,865 29,880 146,372 55,771 1,013,735  100.0 
Percentage of A by geographical 
region .............................................  46.3%  17.2%  13.7%  2.9%  14.4%  5.5%  100.0% 
Impaired loans ................................... 11,080 477 1,147 2,448 20,331 3,188 38,671 
–  as a percentage of A ...................  2.4%  0.3%  0.8%  8.2%  13.9%  5.7%  3.8% 
Total impairment allowances ............ 5,321 473 746 1,794 5,616 2,162 16,112 
–  as a percentage of A ...................  1.1%  0.3%  0.5%  6.0%  3.8%  3.9%  1.6% 
           
At 31 December 2011           
Personal .............................................. 166,147 63,181 43,580 5,269 95,336 20,112 393,625  41.1 
First lien residential mortgages
24
 .. 119,902 46,817 32,136 1,837 73,278 4,993 278,963  29.1
Other personal
1
 .............................. 46,245 16,364 11,444 3,432 22,058 15,119 114,662  12.0
Corporate and commercial ................ 204,984 91,592 77,887 21,152 41,271 35,930 472,816  49.3 
Manufacturing ............................... 45,632 9,004 16,909 3,517 7,888 13,104 96,054  10.0
International trade and services ..... 64,604 29,066 29,605 8,664 10,710 10,060 152,709  15.9
Commercial real estate .................. 32,099 20,828 9,537 1,002 7,069 3,406 73,941  7.7
Other property-related ................... 7,595 17,367 6,396 1,770 5,729 682 39,539  4.1
Government ................................... 3,143 2,918 962 1,563 656 1,837 11,079  1.2
Other commercial
9
 ......................... 51,911 12,409 14,478 4,636 9,219 6,841 99,494  10.4
Financial............................................ 63,671 3,473 3,183 1,168 12,817 1,907 86,219  9.0 
Non-bank financial institutions ..... 63,313 3,192 2,937 1,162 12,817 1,854 85,275  8.9
Settlement accounts ....................... 358 281 246 6 – 53 944  0.1
Asset-backed securities reclassified .. 4,776 – – – 504 – 5,280  0.6 
Total gross loans and advances to 
customers (B) ................................ 439,578 158,246 124,650 27,589 149,928 57,949 957,940  100.0 
Percentage of B by geographical  
region.............................................  45.9%   16.5%  13.0%  2.9%  15.7%  6.0%   100.0%   
Impaired loans ................................... 11,751 604 1,069 2,425 22,696 3,039 41,584  
–  as a percentage of B ...................  2.7%   0.4%  0.9%  8.8%  15.1%  5.2%   4.3%  
Total impairment allowances ............ 5,242 581 782 1,714 7,181 2,011 17,511  
–  as a percentage of B ...................  1.2%   0.4%  0.6%  6.2%  4.8%  3.5%   1.8%  
For footnotes, see page 249.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Concentration of exposure 
 182
Loans and advances to banks by geographical region 
(Unaudited) 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin
 America 
Loans and
 advances
 to banks 
 Impair- 
 ment 
 allowances
25
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2012 ...................... 45,320  23,500 44,592 9,198 13,465 16,528  152,603  (57) 
At 31 December 2011 ....................... 54,406  35,159 47,309 8,571 14,831 20,836  181,112   (125) 
At 31 December 2010 ....................... 78,239 33,585 40,437 9,335 19,479 27,354 208,429  (158) 
At 31 December 2009 ....................... 65,614 36,197 35,648 8,435 15,386 18,608 179,888  (107) 
At 31 December 2008 ....................... 62,012 29,646 28,665 7,476 11,458 14,572 153,829 (63) 
For footnote, see page 249. 
Gross loans and advances to customers by country 
(Unaudited)
 First lien
 residential
 mortgages
 US$m 
 Other
 personal
 US$m 
 Property-
 related
 US$m 
 Commercial, 
 international 
trade and other 
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Europe ............................................................ 135,172 51,102 40,681 241,806  468,761 
UK ................................................................... 127,024 23,446 30,342 179,799  360,611 
France ............................................................. 2,643 10,960 8,465 42,891  64,959 
Germany ......................................................... 9 284 126 5,212  5,631 
Malta ............................................................... 1,821 563 454 1,631  4,469 
Switzerland ..................................................... 298 9,403 66 191 9,958 
Turkey ............................................................. 1,062 4,084 317 3,356  8,819 
Other ............................................................... 2,315 2,362 911 8,726  14,314 
Hong Kong ..................................................... 52,296 18,045 39,783 63,962  174,086 
Rest of Asia-Pacific ....................................... 36,906 12,399 15,927 73,633  138,865 
Australia .......................................................... 10,037 1,490 2,311 7,208  21,046 
India ................................................................ 1,000 394 521 5,389  7,304 
Indonesia ......................................................... 83 508 95 5,349  6,035 
Mainland China .............................................. 3,539 302 5,078 19,083  28,002 
Malaysia .......................................................... 5,025 2,175 1,813 5,880  14,893 
Singapore ........................................................ 10,123 4,812 3,938 9,854  28,727 
Taiwan ............................................................ 3,323 597 120 5,180  9,220 
Vietnam ........................................................... 50 252 60 1,710  2,072 
Other ............................................................... 3,726 1,869 1,991 13,980  21,566 
Middle East and North Africa
(excluding Saudi Arabia) ........................... 2,144 4,088 2,968 20,680  29,880 
Egypt ............................................................... 2 479 124 2,600  3,205 
Qatar ............................................................... 11 385 484 1,082  1,962 
UAE ................................................................ 1,743 1,822 1,533 12,264  17,362 
Other ............................................................... 388 1,402 827 4,734  7,351 
North America .............................................. 70,133 14,221 14,179 47,839  146,372 
US ................................................................... 49,417 7,382 9,449 29,315  95,563 
Canada ............................................................ 19,040 6,444 4,136 17,369  46,989 
Bermuda .......................................................... 1,676 395 594 1,155  3,820 
Latin America ............................................... 5,211 13,376 3,754 33,430  55,771 
Argentina ........................................................ 28 1,532 85 2,465  4,110 
Brazil ............................................................... 1,745 8,042 1,287 18,022  29,096 
Mexico ............................................................ 1,989 2,756 1,280 9,447  15,472 
Panama ............................................................ 1,402 1,023 1,049 2,405  5,879 
Other ............................................................... 47 23 53 1,091  1,214 
301,862 113,231 117,292 481,350  1,013,735  183
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Gross loans and advances to customers by country (continued) 
  First lien
 residential
 mortgages
 US$m 
 Other
 personal
 US$m 
 Property-
 related
 US$m 
 Commercial, 
 international 
 trade and other 
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
At 31 December 2011       
Europe ............................................................. 119,902 46,245 39,694 233,737  439,578 
UK ................................................................... 111,224 22,218 29,191 160,236  322,869 
France ............................................................. 3,353 9,305 8,160 49,572  70,390 
Germany ......................................................... 10 343 112 4,518  4,983 
Malta ............................................................... 1,708 567 520 1,591  4,386 
Switzerland ..................................................... 1,803 10,684 156 1,918  14,561 
Turkey ............................................................. 767 2,797 255 3,652  7,471 
Other ............................................................... 1,037 331 1,300 12,250  14,918 
Hong Kong .....................................................  46,817 16,364 38,195 56,870  158,246 
Rest of Asia-Pacific ........................................ 32,136 11,444 15,933 65,137  124,650 
Australia .......................................................... 9,251 1,327 2,357 6,073  19,008 
India ................................................................ 830 461 809 3,914  6,014 
Indonesia......................................................... 81 463 97 4,577  5,218 
Mainland China .............................................. 2,769 317 5,078 15,665  23,829 
Malaysia .......................................................... 4,329 2,166 1,351 5,898  13,744 
Singapore........................................................ 7,919 4,108 3,690 9,433  25,150 
Taiwan ............................................................ 3,062 550 139 4,555  8,306 
Vietnam ........................................................... 42 184 42 1,397  1,665 
Other ............................................................... 3,853 1,868 2,370 13,625  21,716 
Middle East and North Africa  
(excluding Saudi Arabia) ........................... 1,837 3,432 2,772 19,548  27,589 
Egypt ............................................................... 2 441 100 2,775  3,318 
Qatar ............................................................... 9 445 354 1,098  1,906 
UAE ................................................................ 1,520 1,882 1,464 12,070  16,936 
Other ............................................................... 306 664 854 3,605  5,429 
North America ................................................ 73,278 22,058 12,798 41,794  149,928 
US ................................................................... 52,484 14,087 7,850 27,307  101,728 
Canada ............................................................ 19,045 7,518 4,391 13,600  44,554 
Bermuda .......................................................... 1,749 453 557 887  3,646 
Latin America ................................................. 4,993 15,119 4,088 33,749  57,949 
Argentina ........................................................ 32 1,379 114 2,331  3,856 
Brazil ............................................................... 1,657 9,802 1,660 18,638  31,757 
Mexico ............................................................ 1,847 2,261 1,284 8,210  13,602 
Panama ............................................................ 1,240 1,014 923 2,537  5,714 
Other ............................................................... 217 663 107 2,033  3,020 
 278,963 114,662 113,480 450,835  957,940  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > HSBC Holdings / Securitisation exposures and other structured products 
184
HSBC Holdings 
(Audited) 
Risk in HSBC Holdings is overseen by the HSBC 
Holdings Asset and Liability Management 
Committee (‘ALCO’). The major risks faced by 
HSBC Holdings are credit risk and market risk (in 
the form of interest rate risk and foreign exchange 
risk), of which the most significant is credit risk. 
Credit risk in HSBC Holdings primarily arises 
from transactions with Group subsidiaries and from 
guarantees issued in support of obligations assumed 
by certain Group operations in the normal conduct 
of their business. 
These risks are reviewed and managed within 
regulatory and internal limits for exposures by our 
Global Risk function, which provides high-level 
centralised oversight and management of our credit 
risks worldwide. 
HSBC Holdings’ maximum exposure to credit 
risk at 31 December 2012 is shown below. Its 
financial assets principally represent claims on 
Group subsidiaries in Europe and North America.  
All of the derivative transactions are with HSBC 
undertakings which are banking counterparties 
(2011: 100%) and for which HSBC Holdings has in 
place master netting arrangements. From 2012, the 
credit risk exposure has been managed on a net basis 
and the remaining net exposure specifically 
collateralised in the form of cash.  
HSBC Holdings – maximum exposure to credit risk 
(Audited) 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
Maximum
exposure Offset 
Exposure to
credit risk
(net) 
Maximum 
exposure Offset 
Exposure to
credit risk
(net) 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Cash at bank and in hand: 
– balances with HSBC undertakings .............. 353 – 353 316 – 316 
Derivatives .......................................................... 3,768 (3,768) – 3,568 – 3,568 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings ...... 41,675 – 41,675 28,048 – 28,048 
Financial investments ......................................... 1,208 – 1,208 1,078 – 1,078 
Financial guarantees and similar contracts ........ 49,402 – 49,402 49,402 – 49,402 
Loan and other credit-related commitments ...... 1,200 – 1,200 1,810 – 1,810 
97,606 (3,768) 93,838 84,222 – 84,222 
The credit quality of the loans and advances to 
HSBC undertakings is assessed as ‘strong’ or ‘good’, 
with 100% of the exposure being neither past due 
nor impaired (2011: 100%). The financial 
investments held by HSBC Holdings were rated by 
Standard and Poor’s (‘S&P’) at A– (2011: within the 
range of A to A–). 
Securitisation exposures and other 
structured products 
(Audited) 
This section contains information about our exposure 
to the following:
• asset-backed securities (‘ABS’s), including 
mortgage-backed securities (‘MBS’s) and 
related collateralised debt obligations (‘CDO’s); 
• direct lending at fair value through profit or 
loss;
• monoline insurance companies (‘monolines’); 
• leveraged finance transactions; and 
• representations and warranties related to 
mortgage sales and securitisation activities. 
Within the above is included information on 
the GB&M legacy credit activities in respect of 
Solitaire, the securities investment conduits (‘SIC’s), 
the ABSs trading portfolios and derivative 
transactions with monolines. Further information 
in respect of Solitaire and the SICs is provided in 
Note 42 on the Financial Statements.
Accounting policies 
Our accounting policies for the classification and measurement 
of financial instruments are in accordance with the 
requirements of IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’ 
and IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement’, as described in Note 2 on the Financial 
Statements, and the use of assumptions and estimates in 
respect of the valuation of financial instruments is described 
in Note 15 on the Financial Statements.  185
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Business model 
(Unaudited)
Balance Sheet Management (see page 222) holds 
ABSs primarily issued by government agency and 
sponsored enterprises as part of our investment 
portfolios.
Our investment portfolios include SICs and 
money market funds. We also originate leveraged 
finance loans for the purpose of syndicating or 
selling them down to generate trading profit or 
holding them to earn interest margin over their lives. 
Exposure in 2012 
(Audited)
2012 saw an improvement in the US housing 
market with home prices rising during the year. This  
improvement coincided with decreasing concerns 
around sovereign credit, particularly in the second 
half of the year, and gave rise to price appreciation 
across this range of ABS asset classes. Unrealised 
losses in our available-for-sale portfolios reduced in 
the year from US$5.1bn to US$2.2bn, mainly as a 
result of price appreciation. 
Within the following table are assets held in 
the GB&M legacy credit portfolio with a carrying 
value of US$31.6bn (2011: US$35.4bn). 
A summary of the nature of HSBC’s 
exposures is provided in the Appendix to Risk 
on page 260. 
Overall exposure of HSBC 
(Audited) 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
 Carrying 
  amount
26
  Including
 sub-prime
 and Alt-A 
 Carrying 
  amount
26
 Including 
 sub-prime 
 and Alt-A 
 US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn 
Asset-backed securities ............................................................................ 59.0  7.0  65.6  6.9 
– fair value through profit or loss ........................................................ 3.4 0.2 3.0  0.2
– available for sale
27
 .............................................................................  49.6 6.1  54.6  5.7
– held to maturity
27
 ...............................................................................  1.6 0.1  2.0  0.2
– loans and receivables .........................................................................  4.4 0.6  6.0  0.8
Direct lending at fair value through profit or loss ....................................  1.0  0.6  1.2  0.8 
Total asset-backed securities and direct lending at fair value through 
profit or loss .........................................................................................  60.0  7.6  66.8  7.7 
Less securities subject to risk mitigation from credit derivatives with 
monolines and other financial institutions ...........................................  (1.9)  (0.2)  (1.9)  (0.2)
 58.1  7.4  64.9  7.5 
Leveraged finance loans ...........................................................................  2.8  –  3.6  – 
– fair value through profit or loss ........................................................ – –  0.2  –
– loans and receivables .........................................................................  2.8 –  3.4  –
 60.9  7.4  68.5  7.5 
Exposure including securities subject to risk mitigation from credit 
derivatives with monolines and other financial institutions ................  62.8  7.6  70.4  7.7 
For footnotes, see page 249. 
ABSs classified as available for sale 
Our principal holdings of available-for-sale ABSs 
are in GB&M through special purpose entities 
(‘SPE’s), which were established from the outset  
with the benefit of external investor first loss 
protection support, together with positions held 
directly and by Solitaire, where we provide first 
loss protection of US$1.2bn through credit 
enhancement and a liquidity facility.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Securitisation exposures and other structured products  
186
Movement in the available-for-sale reserve 
(Audited) 
2012 2011
 Directly 
 held/ 
 Solitaire
28
 SPEs  Total 
 Directly 
 held/ 
 Solitaire
28
  SPEs   Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
Available-for-sale reserve at 1 January .............. (3,085) (2,061) (5,146) (4,102) (2,306) (6,408)
Increase/(decrease) in fair value of securities .... 1,195 914 2,109 622 (137) 485 
Effect of impairments
29
 ...................................... 339 394 733 383 339 722 
Repayment of capital .......................................... 164 174 338 162 183 345 
Other movements ................................................ (86) (141) (227) (150) (140) (290)
Available-for-sale reserve at 31 December ........ (1,473) (720) (2,193) (3,085) (2,061) (5,146)
For footnotes, see page 249. 
Securities investment conduits 
(Unaudited) 
The total carrying amount of ABSs held through 
SPEs in the above table represents holdings in 
which significant first loss protection is provided 
through capital notes issued by SICs, excluding 
Solitaire.
At each reporting date, we assess whether 
there is any objective evidence of impairment in 
the value of the ABSs held by SPEs. Impairment 
charges incurred on these assets are offset by a 
credit to the impairment line for the amount of the 
loss allocated to capital note holders, subject to 
the carrying amount of the capital notes being 
sufficient to offset the loss. During the year 
impairment charges in one SPE, Mazarin Funding 
Ltd (‘Mazarin’), exceeded the carrying value of the 
capital notes liability and a charge of US$119m 
(2011: US$26m) was borne by HSBC as shown in 
the table below. In respect of the SICs, the capital 
notes held by third parties are expected to absorb 
the cash losses in the vehicles. 
Available-for-sale reserve and economic first loss protection in SICs, excluding Solitaire 
(Unaudited) 
SICs excluding Solitaire at 
31 December 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
Available-for-sale reserve .............................................................................................................................. (787) (2,701)
– related to asset-backed securities ............................................................................................................ (720) (2,061)
Economic first loss protection ........................................................................................................................ 2,286 2,286 
Carrying amount of capital notes liability ...................................................................................................... 249 154
Impairment charge for the year: 
– borne by HSBC ....................................................................................................................................... 119 26
– allocated to capital note holders .............................................................................................................. – 313
Impairment methodologies 
(Audited) 
The accounting policy for impairment and 
indicators of impairment is set out in Note 2 on the 
Financial Statements. 
A summary of our impairment 
methodologies is provided in the Appendix 
to Risk on page 260. 
Analysis of exposures and significant 
movements
(Audited) 
Sub-prime residential mortgage-related assets 
The assets in the table below included US$2.2bn 
(2011: US$2.4bn) relating to US-originated assets 
and US$1.3bn (2011: US$1.0bn) relating to UK 
non-conforming residential mortgage-related 
assets.
At 31 December 2012, 13% (US$0.5bn) of our 
sub-prime residential mortgage-related assets were 
rated AA or AAA (2011: 25% (US$0.9bn)).  187
Shareholder Information  Financial Statements Corporate Governance  Operating & Financial Review Overview
Carrying amount of HSBC’s consolidated holdings of ABSs, and direct lending held at fair value through profit or loss
26
(Audited) 
 Trading 
 Available
 for sale 
 Held to
 maturity 
 Designated
 at fair value
 through
 profit or loss 
 Loans and 
 receivables  Total 
 Of which 
held through
 consolidated
 SPEs 
 Gross 
 principal 
 exposure
30
 Credit 
 default 
 swap 
 protection
31
 Net 
 principal 
 exposure
32
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Mortgage-related assets: 
Sub-prime residential ................................... 698 2,455 – – 435 3,588 2,723 5,483 130 5,353 
Direct lending ........................................... 566 – – – – 566 482 1,221 – 1,221
MBSs and MBS CDOs ............................ 132 2,455 – – 435 3,022 2,241 4,262 130 4,132
US Alt-A residential ..................................... 157 3,658 118 – 157 4,090 2,994 6,992 100 6,892 
Direct lending ........................................... 71 – – – – 71 – 77 – 77
MBSs ........................................................ 86 3,658 118 – 157 4,019 2,994 6,915 100 6,815
US Government agency and sponsored 
enterprises:  
MBSs ........................................................ 369 23,341 1,455 – – 25,165 – 23,438 – 23,438 
Other residential ........................................... 695 2,084 – – 499 3,278 1,459 3,888 87 3,801 
Direct lending ........................................... 322 – – – – 322 – 322 – 322
MBSs ........................................................ 373 2,084 – – 499 2,956 1,459 3,566 87 3,479
Commercial property  
MBSs and MBS CDOs ............................ 164 6,995 – 109 1,319 8,587 5,959 9,489 – 9,489 
2,083 38,533 1,573 109 2,410 44,708 13,135 49,290 317 48,973 
Leveraged finance-related assets: 
ABSs and ABS CDOs .................................. 450 5,330 – – 284 6,064 4,303 6,726 717 6,009 
Student loan-related assets: 
ABSs and ABS CDOs .................................. 179 4,219 – – 156 4,554 3,722 5,826 199 5,627 
Other assets:
ABSs and ABS CDOs .................................. 1,511 1,553 – 49 1,537 4,650 1,140 5,769 1,318 4,451 
4,223 49,635 1,573 158 4,387 59,976 22,300 67,611 2,551 65,060  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Securitisation exposures and other structured products 
188
  Trading 
 Available
 for sale 
 Held to
 maturity 
 Designated
 at fair value
 through
 profit or loss 
 Loans and 
 receivables   Total 
 Of which 
 held through
 consolidated 
 SPEs 
 Gross 
 principal 
 exposure
30
 Credit 
 default 
 swap 
 protection
31
 Net 
 principal 
 exposure
32
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2011            
Mortgage-related assets:            
Sub-prime residential ................................... 896 2,134 – – 598 3,628 2,367 6,222 275 5,947 
Direct lending ........................................... 733 – – – –  733 487 1,684 – 1,684
MBSs and MBS CDOs ............................ 163 2,134 – – 598  2,895 1,880 4,538 275 4,263
US Alt-A residential ..................................... 190 3,516 166 – 243 4,115 2,827 8,610 100 8,510 
Direct lending ........................................... 114 – – – –  114 – 119 – 119
MBSs ........................................................ 76 3,516 166 – 243  4,001 2,827 8,491 100 8,391
US Government agency and sponsored 
enterprises:         
MBSs ........................................................ 38 26,152 1,813 – – 28,003 – 26,498 – 26,498 
Other residential ........................................... 670 3,286 – – 978 4,934 2,098 5,702 – 5,702 
Direct lending ........................................... 314 – – – –  314 – 309 – 309
MBSs ........................................................ 356 3,286 – – 978  4,620 2,098 5,393 – 5,393
Commercial property            
MBSs and MBS CDOs ............................ 300 7,240 – 107 1,816 9,463 5,795 11,222 – 11,222 
 2,094 42,328 1,979 107 3,635 50,143 13,087 58,254 375 57,879 
Leveraged finance-related assets:           
ABSs and ABS CDOs .................................. 362 5,566 – – 347 6,275 4,324 7,112 782 6,330 
Student loan-related assets:           
ABSs and ABS CDOs .................................. 179 4,665 – – 153 4,997 4,114 6,681 199 6,482 
Other assets:            
ABSs and ABS CDOs .................................. 1,477 2,044 – 94 1,818 5,433 1,473 7,539 1,391 6,148 
 4,112 54,603 1,979 201 5,953 66,848 22,998 79,586 2,747 76,839 
For footnotes, see page 249. 
The above table excludes leveraged finance transactions, which are shown separately on page 190. 189
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Of the non-high grade assets held of US$3.1bn 
(2011: US$2.7bn), US$1.4bn (2011: US$1.2bn) 
related to US-originated assets. 
There was an increase in market prices for sub-
prime assets during the course of 2012. Write-backs 
of US$44m on assets were recognised in 2012 
(2011: impairments of US$42m). Of the above 
write-backs, there were US$67m of write-backs 
(2011: US$5m of write-backs) in the SICs, of which 
US$27m (2011: US$5m) were attributed to capital 
noteholders. 
US Alt-A residential mortgage-related assets 
In respect of US Alt-A securities, there were write-
backs of US$19m (2011: impairments of US$687m). 
Despite the overall write-backs, impairments of 
US$190m (2011: US$344m) occurred in the SICs, 
of which US$32m (2011: US$318m) was borne by 
the capital noteholders. 
At 31 December 2012, 5% (US$0.2bn) of these 
assets were rated AA or AAA (2011: 9% 
(US$0.4bn)).
Commercial property mortgage-related assets 
Of our total of US$8.6bn (2011: US$9.5bn) 
of commercial property mortgage-related assets, 
US$4.1bn related to US-originated assets (2011: 
US$4.9bn). Spreads tightened on both US and non-
US commercial property mortgage-related assets 
during 2012. Impairments of US$125m were 
recognised in 2012 (2011: US$36m). 
Transactions with monoline insurers 
(Audited) 
HSBC’s exposure to derivative transactions 
entered into directly with monolines 
Our principal exposure to monolines is through 
a number of OTC derivative transactions, mainly 
CDSs. We entered into these CDSs primarily to 
purchase credit protection against securities held 
at the time within the trading portfolio. 
During 2012, our overall credit exposure to 
monolines decreased, primarily as a result of the 
tightening of credit spreads which reduced the fair 
value of the derivatives. The table below sets out the 
fair value, essentially the replacement cost, of the 
remaining derivative transactions at 31 December 
2012, and hence the amount at risk if the CDS 
protection purchased were to be wholly ineffective 
because, for example, the monoline insurer was 
unable to meet its obligations. In order to further 
analyse that risk, the value of protection purchased 
is shown subdivided between those monolines 
that were rated by S&P at ‘BBB- or above’ at 
31 December 2012, and those that were ‘below 
BBB–’ (BBB– is the S&P cut-off for an investment 
grade classification). The ‘Credit valuation 
adjustment’ column indicates the valuation 
adjustment taken against the net exposures, and 
reflects our best estimate of the likely loss of 
value on purchased protection arising from the 
deterioration in creditworthiness of the monolines. 
These valuation adjustments, which reflect a 
measure of the irrecoverability of the protection 
purchased, have been charged to the income 
statement. 
HSBC’s exposure to derivative transactions entered into directly with monoline insurers 
(Audited) 
 Notional
  amount 
 Net exposure 
 before credit 
 valuation 
 adjustment
33
 Credit  
 valuation 
 adjustment
34
 Net exposure
 after credit
 valuation 
 adjustment 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties 
Monoline – investment grade (BBB– or above) .............. 4,191 606 (121) 485
Monoline – sub-investment grade (below BBB–) ........... 957 303 (158) 145
5,148 909 (279) 630
At 31 December 2011   
Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties   
Monoline – investment grade (BBB– or above) .............. 4,936 873 (87) 786 
Monoline – sub-investment grade (below BBB–) ........... 1,552 370 (217) 153 
 6,488 1,243 (304) 939 
For footnotes, see page 249.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Credit risk > Securitisation exposures / Leveraged finance transactions / Representations and warranties  
190
Market prices are generally not readily available 
for CDSs, so they are valued on the basis of market 
prices of the referenced securities. 
As described on page 56, during 2012 we 
amended our methodology for the calculation of 
credit valuation adjustments and debit valuation 
adjustments to reflect evolving market practice. 
As a result, our monoline credit and debit valuation 
adjustment calculations utilise a methodology based 
on CDS spreads with no adjustments being made 
based on the credit rating of the monoline. 
Credit valuation adjustments for monolines 
For monolines, the standard credit valuation adjustment 
methodology (as described on page 56) applies, with 
the exception that the future exposure profile is deemed to be 
constant (equal to the current market value) over the weighted 
average life of the referenced security. 
HSBC’s exposure to debt securities which benefit 
from guarantees provided by monolines 
Within both the trading and available-for-sale 
portfolios, we hold bonds that are ‘wrapped’ with 
a credit enhancement from a monoline. As the 
bonds are traded explicitly with the benefit of this 
enhancement, any deterioration in the credit profile 
of the monoline is reflected in market prices and, 
therefore, in the carrying amount of these securities 
at 31 December 2012. For wrapped bonds held in 
our trading portfolio, the mark-to-market movement 
is reflected through the income statement. For 
wrapped bonds held in the available-for-sale 
portfolio, the mark-to-market movement is reflected 
in equity unless there is objective evidence of 
impairment, in which case the impairment loss is 
reflected in the income statement. No wrapped bonds 
were included in the reclassification of financial 
assets described in Note 17 on the Financial 
Statements. 
Leveraged finance transactions 
(Audited) 
Leveraged finance transactions include sub-
investment grade acquisition or event-driven 
financing. The following table shows our exposure 
to leveraged finance transactions arising from 
primary transactions. Our additional exposure to 
leveraged finance loans through holdings of ABSs 
from our trading and investment activities is shown 
in the table on page 187. 
We held leveraged finance commitments of 
US$2.8bn at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$3.7bn), 
of which US$2.6bn (2011: US$3.3bn) was funded.
At 31 December 2012, our principal exposures 
were to companies in two sectors: US$0.7bn to 
data processing (2011: US$1.3bn) and US$1.8bn 
to communications and infrastructure (2011: 
US$1.9bn).
HSBC’s exposure to leveraged finance transactions 
(Audited) 
Exposures at 31 December 2012 Exposures at 31 December 2011 
 Funded
35
 Unfunded
36
 Total  Funded
35
   Unfunded
36
   Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
Europe .................................................. 2,108 162 2,270 2,795 253  3,048 
North America ..................................... 414 92 506 445 126  571 
2,522 254 2,776 3,240 379  3,619 
Held within:     
– loans and receivables .................... 2,522 252 2,774 3,120 328  3,448 
– fair value through profit or loss ... – 2 2 120 51  171 
For footnotes, see page 249. 191
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Representations and warranties related to 
mortgage sales and securitisation activities 
(Unaudited) 
We have been involved in various activities related 
to the sale and securitisation of residential mortgages 
which are not recognised on our balance sheet. 
These activities include: 
• the purchase of US$24bn of third-party 
originated mortgages by HSBC Bank USA and 
the securitisation of these by HSBC Securities 
(USA) Inc. (‘HSI’) between 2005 and 2007; 
• HSI acting as underwriter for third-party 
issuance of private label MBSs with an original 
issuance value of US$37bn, most of which were 
sub-prime; and 
• the origination and sale by HSBC Bank USA of 
mortgage loans, primarily to government 
sponsored entities. 
In sales and securitisations of mortgage loans, 
various representations and warranties regarding the 
loans may be made to purchasers of the mortgage 
loans and MBSs. In respect of the purchase and 
securitisation of third party originated mortgages and 
the underwriting of third party MBSs, the obligation 
to repurchase loans in the event of a breach of 
loan level representations and warranties resides 
predominantly with the organisation that originated 
the loan. 
Participants in the US mortgage securitisation 
market that purchased and repackaged whole loans 
have been the subject of lawsuits and governmental 
and regulatory investigations and inquiries which 
have been directed at groups within the US mortgage 
market such as servicers, originators, underwriters, 
trustees or sponsors of securitisations. Further 
information is provided in Note 43 on the Financial 
Statements.  
At 31 December 2012, a liability of US$219m 
was recognised in respect of various representations 
and warranties relating to the origination and sale by 
HSBC Bank USA of mortgage loans, primarily to 
government sponsored entities (2011: US$237m). 
These relate to, among other things, the ownership of 
the loans, the validity of the liens, the loan selection 
and origination process and compliance with the 
origination criteria established by the agencies. In 
the event of a breach of our representations and 
warranties, HSBC Bank USA may be obliged to 
repurchase the loans with identified defects or to 
indemnify the buyers. The liability is estimated 
based on the level of outstanding repurchase 
demands, the level of outstanding requests for loan 
files and estimated future demands in respect of 
mortgages sold to date which are either two or 
more payments delinquent or expected to become 
delinquent at an estimated conversion rate. 
Repurchase demands of US$89m were outstanding 
at 2012 (2011: US$113m).  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Eurozone exposures 
192
Eurozone exposures 
(Unaudited) 
 Page Tables Page 
Exposures to countries in the eurozone ........................... 192
Basis of preparation ............................................................. 192
Credit default swaps and off-balance sheet ......................... 193 Summary of exposures to eurozone countries ....................... 193
Exposures to peripheral eurozone countries ........................ 194 Exposures to Spain ................................................................ 194
Exposures to Ireland ............................................................. 195
Exposures to Italy .................................................................. 196
Exposures to Greece .............................................................. 197
Exposures to Portugal ........................................................... 198
Commentary on exposures .................................................. 199
Exposures to other eurozone countries ................................ 200 Summary of exposures to other eurozone countries ............. 200
Redenomination risk ......................................................... 201 In-country funding exposure ................................................. 202
Exposures to countries in the eurozone 
(Audited) 
The tables in this section summarise our exposures 
to selected eurozone countries, including: 
• governments and central banks along with quasi 
government agencies;  
• banks;
• other financial institutions and corporates; and 
• personal lending. 
Exposures to banks, other financial institutions, 
other corporates and personal lending are based upon 
the counterparty’s country of domicile. 
Basis of preparation 
The gross exposure represents the on-balance sheet 
carrying amounts recorded in accordance with IFRSs 
and off-balance sheet exposures. 
The net exposure is stated after taking into 
account mitigating offsets that are incorporated into 
the risk management view of the exposure but do 
not meet accounting offset requirements. These risk 
mitigating offsets include: 
• short positions managed together with trading 
assets;
• derivative liabilities for which a legally 
enforceable right of offset with derivative assets 
exists; and 
• collateral received on derivative assets. 
Short positions managed together with trading 
assets mitigate risk to which HSBC is exposed at the 
balance sheet date when, in the event of default, the 
trading asset and related short position crystallise  
gains and losses simultaneously. When such 
relationships exist, an element of the risk will remain 
where the short and long positions do not match 
exactly, for example, the maturity of the short 
position is less than the trading asset or the short 
position does not represent an identical security. The 
remaining risk is reflected in the gross balance sheet 
exposure shown before risk mitigation. However, as 
the net position best reflects the effects of a credit 
event should it occur at the balance sheet date, we 
consider that this measure is a key view of risk 
at that date. 
Credit risk mitigation includes derivative 
liabilities with the same counterparty when a master 
netting arrangement is in place and the credit risk 
exposure is managed on a net basis or the position 
is specifically collateralised, normally in the form 
of cash. These amounts do not qualify for net 
presentation for accounting purposes as settlement 
may not actually be made on a net basis, though we 
consider the net presentation more accurately reflects 
the risk exposure. 
The effect of the transfer of risk to policyholders 
under unit linked insurance contracts, as well as 
trading assets which represent collateral to support 
associated liabilities, are separately disclosed in the 
detailed peripheral country exposures, but are not 
deducted from the total net exposure. 
CDSs reported in the detailed peripheral 
eurozone country tables are not included in the 
derivative exposure line as they are typically 
transacted with counterparties incorporated or 
domiciled outside the country whose exposure they 
reference. 193
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Credit default swaps and off-balance sheet 
exposures 
The CDSs were transacted with banks with 
investment grade credit ratings, and would pay out 
in the event of the default of the referenced security 
and certain other credit events. CDS contracts 
disclosed in the tables below were principally 
entered into for customer facilitation with banks 
and financial institutions where their terms are 
typically drawn up in accordance with the guidance 
set out in the 2003 ISDA Credit Derivatives 
Definitions and the 2009 Supplement. The credit 
events that trigger the payout of CDSs may differ 
as they are based on the terms of each agreement 
between the counterparties. Such credit events 
normally include bankruptcy, payment default 
on a reference asset or assets, restructuring and 
repudiation or moratoria. 
Off-balance sheet exposures mainly relate to 
commitments to lend and the amounts shown in the 
tables represent the amounts that could be drawn 
down by the counterparties. In some instances, 
limitations are imposed on a counterparty’s ability 
to draw down on a facility. These limitations are 
governed by the documentation, which differs from 
counterparty to counterparty. In the majority of 
cases, we are bound to fulfil commitments made 
to third parties. 
Summary of exposures to eurozone countries 
(Unaudited) 
 On-balance
 sheet
 exposures 
 Off-balance
 sheet
 exposures 
 Total
 gross 
 exposures 
 Risk 
 mitigation 
 Total
 net
 exposure 
 US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn 
At 31 December 2012
Spain ............................................................... 15.3 3.2 18.5 (6.4) 12.1
Ireland ............................................................. 20.7 1.3 22.0 (12.1) 9.9
Italy ................................................................. 12.6 3.0 15.6 (6.0) 9.6 
Greece ............................................................. 5.9 0.7 6.6 (0.8) 5.8 
Portugal ........................................................... 1.1 0.3 1.4 (0.4) 1.0 
Cyprus ............................................................. 0.3 0.1 0.4 – 0.4 
France ............................................................. 158.3 28.0 186.3 (40.8) 145.5 
Germany ......................................................... 112.4 11.6 124.0 (56.6) 67.4 
The Netherlands .............................................. 39.7 4.1 43.8 (14.4) 29.4 
Others .............................................................. 38.0 4.9 42.9 (14.3) 28.6 
404.3 57.2 461.5 (151.8) 309.7 
       
At 31 December 2011       
Spain ............................................................... 15.7 2.0 17.7 (5.4)  12.3 
Ireland ............................................................. 14.1 0.3 14.4 (8.6)  5.8 
Italy ................................................................. 16.4 1.4 17.8 (9.4)  8.4 
Greece ............................................................. 6.6 1.6 8.2 (0.6)  7.6 
Portugal ........................................................... 1.7 – 1.7 (0.6)  1.1 
Cyprus.............................................................. 0.2 0.2 0.4 –  0.4 
France ............................................................. 154.8 26.5 181.3 (31.3)  150.0 
Germany ......................................................... 86.3 10.1 96.4 (38.0)  58.4 
The Netherlands .............................................. 70.1 1.8 71.9 (6.2)  65.7 
Others .............................................................. 36.1 4.0 40.1 (14.0)  26.1 
 402.0 47.9 449.9 (114.1)  335.8  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Eurozone exposures 
194
Exposures to peripheral eurozone countries 
Exposures to Spain 
(Audited) 
At 31 December 2012  At 31 December 2011 
 Sovereign
 and
 agencies  Banks 
 Other
 financial
 institutions
 and
 corporates  Personal  Total 
 Sovereign 
 and 
 agencies  Banks 
 Other 
 financial 
 institutions 
 and 
 corporates  Personal  Total 
 US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn 
Cash and balances at central banks ............................ – – – – – 0.1 – – – 0.1 
Loans and advances .................................................... – 0.1 5.0 – 5.1   – 0.2 5.6 – 5.8 
– gross ..................................................................... – 0.1 5.1 – 5.2   – 0.2 5.7 – 5.9 
– impairment allowances ........................................ – – (0.1) – (0.1)  – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Financial investments available for sale
37
 .................. 0.4 0.3 0.1 – 0.8   0.9 0.4 0.1 – 1.4 
– amortised cost ...................................................... 0.2 0.4 0.1 – 0.7   0.9 0.4 0.1 – 1.4 
Trading assets ............................................................. 1.4 1.9 0.1 – 3.4   1.8 2.4 0.2 – 4.4 
Derivative assets ......................................................... 0.1 4.8 1.1 – 6.0   0.2 3.6 0.2 – 4.0 
Gross balance sheet exposure before risk 
mitigation ............................................................... 1.9 7.1 6.3 – 15.3   3.0 6.6 6.1 – 15.7 
Risk mitigation ........................................................... (0.9) (4.6) (0.9) – (6.4)  (1.8) (3.5) (0.1) – (5.4)
– short trading positions ......................................... (0.9) (0.1) (0.1) – (1.1)  (1.7) (0.4) (0.1) – (2.2)
– collateral and derivative liabilities ...................... – (4.5) (0.8) – (5.3)  (0.1) (3.1) – – (3.2)
Net on-balance sheet exposure ................................ 1.0 2.5 5.4 – 8.9   1.2 3.1 6.0 – 10.3 
Off-balance sheet exposures ....................................... – 0.3 2.9 – 3.2   1.0 0.4 0.6 – 2.0 
– commitments ....................................................... – – 2.3 – 2.3   1.0 – 0.1 – 1.1 
– guarantees and other ............................................ – 0.3 0.6 – 0.9   – 0.4 0.5 – 0.9 
Total net exposure .................................................... 1.0 2.8 8.3 – 12.1   2.2 3.5 6.6 – 12.3 
Of which:       
– net trading assets representing cash  
collateral posted .............................................. – 1.5 – – 1.5   0.1 1.3 – – 1.4 
– on-balance sheet exposures held to meet  
DPF insurance liabilities ................................. 0.2 0.3 0.1 – 0.6   0.4 0.4 0.1 – 0.9 
Total credit default swaps      
– CDS bought positions .......................................... 0.4 – – – 0.4   0.4 0.1 0.1 – 0.6 
– CDS sold positions .............................................. (0.3) – – – (0.3)  (0.4) (0.1) (0.1) – (0.6)
– CDS bought notionals ......................................... 6.8 2.8 1.2 – 10.8   3.3 1.5 1.4 – 6.2 
– CDS sold notionals .............................................. 6.4 2.7 1.2 – 10.3   3.5 1.4 1.3 – 6.2 
For footnote, see page 249. 
For commentary, see page 199.  195
Shareholder Information  Financial Statements Corporate Governance  Operating & Financial Review Overview
Exposures to Ireland 
(Audited) 
At 31 December 2012  At 31 December 2011 
 Sovereign
 and
 agencies  Banks 
 Other
 financial
 institutions
 and
 corporates  Personal  Total 
 Sovereign 
 and 
 agencies  Banks 
 Other 
 financial 
 institutions 
 and 
 corporates  Personal  Total 
 US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn 
Loans and advances .................................................... – 0.1 2.5 0.1 2.7   – 0.1 2.1 0.1 2.3 
– gross ..................................................................... – 0.1 2.5 0.2 2.8   – 0.1 2.1 0.2 2.4 
– impairment allowances ........................................ – – – (0.1) (0.1)  – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Financial investments held to maturity ...................... – 0.2 – – 0.2   – 0.2 – – 0.2 
– fair value .............................................................. – 0.2 – – 0.2   – 0.2 – – 0.2 
Financial investments available for sale .................... 0.1 – 2.3 – 2.4   0.1 0.4 0.3 – 0.8 
– amortised cost ...................................................... 0.1 – 2.5 – 2.6   0.1 0.4 0.4 – 0.9 
– available-for-sale reserve .................................... – – (0.2) – (0.2)  – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Trading assets ............................................................. 0.3 1.5 0.8 – 2.6   0.3 0.9 0.3 – 1.5 
Derivative assets ......................................................... 0.7 11.1 1.0 – 12.8   0.3 8.3 0.7 – 9.3 
Gross balance sheet exposure before risk 
mitigation .............................................................. 1.1 12.9 6.6 0.1 20.7   0.7 9.9 3.4 0.1 14.1 
Risk mitigation ........................................................... (0.7) (11.1) (0.3) – (12.1)  (0.4) (8.0) (0.2) – (8.6)
– short trading positions ......................................... (0.1) – – – (0.1)  (0.1) – – – (0.1)
– collateral and derivative liabilities ....................... (0.6) (11.1) (0.3) – (12.0)  (0.3) (8.0) (0.2) – (8.5)
Net on-balance sheet exposure ................................... 0.4 1.8 6.3 0.1 8.6   0.3 1.9 3.2 0.1 5.5 
Off-balance sheet exposures ....................................... – – 1.3 – 1.3   – – 0.3 – 0.3 
– commitments ....................................................... – – 1.1 – 1.1   – – 0.1 – 0.1 
– guarantees and others .......................................... – – 0.2 – 0.2   – – 0.2 – 0.2 
Total net exposure .................................................... 0.4 1.8 7.6 0.1 9.9   0.3 1.9 3.5 0.1 5.8 
Of which:       
– net trading assets representing cash  
collateral posted .............................................. 0.1 1.5 – – 1.6   0.1 0.6 – – 0.7 
– on-balance sheet exposures held to meet  
DPF insurance liabilities ................................. 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3   0.1 0.2 – – 0.3 
Total credit default swaps      
– CDS bought positions .......................................... – – – – – 0.2 – – – 0.2 
– CDS sold positions .............................................. – – – – – (0.2) – – – (0.2)
– CDS bought notionals ......................................... 1.5 – 0.5 – 2.0   0.9 – 0.3 – 1.2 
– CDS sold notionals .............................................. 1.5 – 0.2 – 1.7   0.9 – 0.3 – 1.2 
For commentary, see page 199.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Eurozone exposures  
196
Exposures to Italy 
(Audited) 
At 31 December 2012  At 31 December 2011 
 Sovereign
 and
 agencies  Banks 
 Other
 financial
 institutions
 and
 corporates  Personal  Total 
 Sovereign 
 and 
 agencies  Banks 
 Other 
 financial 
 institutions 
 and 
 corporates  Personal  Total 
 US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn 
Loans and advances .................................................... – 0.1 1.2 0.1 1.4  – 0.5 1.4 0.1 2.0 
– gross ..................................................................... – 0.1 1.2 0.1 1.4  – 0.5 1.4 0.1 2.0 
Financial investments held to maturity ...................... 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3  0.1 0.2 – – 0.3 
– fair value .............................................................. 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3  0.1 0.2 – – 0.3 
Financial investments available for sale
37
 .................. 0.8 0.3 0.3 – 1.4  0.8 0.3 0.3 – 1.4 
– amortised cost ...................................................... 0.8 0.3 0.3 – 1.4  0.8 0.3 0.2 – 1.3 
Financial assets designated at fair value .................... – – 0.1 – 0.1   – – – – – 
Trading assets ............................................................. 5.2 0.7 0.1 – 6.0  8.3 0.6 0.2 – 9.1 
Derivative assets ......................................................... 0.5 1.7 1.2 – 3.4  0.7 1.9 1.0 – 3.6 
Gross balance sheet exposure before risk 
mitigation .............................................................. 6.6 3.0 2.9 0.1 12.6  9.9 3.5 2.9 0.1 16.4 
Risk mitigation ........................................................... (3.9) (1.6) (0.5) – (6.0) (7.6) (1.5) (0.3) – (9.4)
– short trading positions ......................................... (3.9) – – – (3.9) (6.9) – – – (6.9)
– collateral and derivative liabilities ....................... – (1.6) (0.5) – (2.1) (0.7) (1.5) (0.3) – (2.5)
Net on-balance sheet exposure ................................... 2.7 1.4 2.4 0.1 6.6  2.3 2.0 2.6 0.1 7.0 
Off-balance sheet exposures ....................................... – 0.2 2.8 – 3.0  – 0.1 1.3 – 1.4 
– commitments ....................................................... – – 1.8 – 1.8  – – 0.9 – 0.9 
– guarantees and others .......................................... – 0.2 1.0 – 1.2  – 0.1 0.4 – 0.5 
Total net exposure .................................................... 2.7 1.6 5.2 0.1 9.6  2.3 2.1 3.9 0.1 8.4 
Of which:       
– net trading assets representing cash  
collateral posted .............................................. – 0.6 – – 0.6  – 0.5 – – 0.5 
– on-balance sheet exposures held to meet  
DPF insurance liabilities ................................. 0.3 0.4 0.2 – 0.9  0.3 0.4 0.2 – 0.9 
Total credit default swaps     
– CDS bought positions .......................................... 0.6 0.1 0.1 – 0.8  0.6 0.5 0.3 – 1.4 
– CDS sold positions .............................................. (0.5) (0.1) – – (0.6) (0.6) (0.5) (0.2) – (1.3)
– CDS bought notionals ......................................... 9.9 6.1 3.6 – 19.6  3.9 3.5 3.7 – 11.1 
– CDS sold notionals .............................................. 10.3 6.1 3.6 – 20.0  3.8 3.5 3.5 – 10.8 
For footnote, see page 249. 
For commentary, see page 199.  197
Shareholder Information  Financial Statements Corporate Governance  Operating & Financial Review Overview
Exposures to Greece 
(Audited) 
At 31 December 2012  At 31 December 2011 
 Sovereign
 and
 agencies  Banks 
 Other
 financial
 institutions
 and
 corporates  Personal  Total 
 Sovereign 
 and 
 agencies  Banks 
 Other 
 financial 
 institutions 
 and 
 corporates  Personal  Total 
 US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn 
Loans and advances .................................................... 0.1 – 3.4 1.0 4.5  – 0.1 3.8 1.0 4.9 
– gross ..................................................................... 0.1 – 3.4 1.0 4.5  – 0.1 4.0 1.0 5.1 
– impairment allowances ........................................ – – – – – – – (0.2) – (0.2)
Financial investments available for sale .................... – – – – – 0.1 – – – 0.1 
– cumulative impairment ........................................ – – – – – 0.2 – – – 0.2 
Trading assets ............................................................. – 0.6 – – 0.6  0.4 0.4 – – 0.8 
Derivative assets ......................................................... – 0.8 – – 0.8  – 0.7 0.1 – 0.8 
Gross balance sheet exposure before risk 
mitigation .............................................................. 0.1 1.4 3.4 1.0 5.9  0.5 1.2 3.9 1.0 6.6 
Risk mitigation ........................................................... – (0.8) – – (0.8) (0.1) (0.5) – – (0.6)
– short trading positions ......................................... – – – – – (0.1) – – – (0.1)
– collateral and derivative liabilities ....................... – (0.8) – – (0.8) – (0.5) – – (0.5)
Net on-balance sheet exposure ................................... 0.1 0.6 3.4 1.0 5.1  0.4 0.7 3.9 1.0 6.0 
Off-balance sheet exposures ....................................... – – 0.7 – 0.7   0.2 1.4 – 1.6 
– commitments ....................................................... – – 0.2 – 0.2  – – 0.8 – 0.8 
– guarantees and others .......................................... – – 0.5 – 0.5  – 0.2 0.6 – 0.8 
Total net exposure .................................................... 0.1 0.6 4.1 1.0 5.8  0.4 0.9 5.3 1.0 7.6 
Total credit default swaps      
– CDS bought positions .......................................... – – – – – 1.2 – 0.1 – 1.3 
– CDS sold positions .............................................. – – – – – (0.7) – (0.1) – (0.8)
– CDS bought notionals ......................................... – – 0.4 – 0.4  1.8 – 0.2 – 2.0 
– CDS sold notionals .............................................. – – 0.4 – 0.4  1.0 – 0.3 – 1.3 
For commentary, see page 199.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Eurozone exposures  
198
Exposures to Portugal 
(Audited) 
At 31 December 2012  At 31 December 2011 
 Sovereign
 and
 agencies  Banks 
 Other
 financial
 institutions
 and
 corporates  Personal  Total 
 Sovereign 
 and 
 agencies  Banks 
 Other 
 financial 
 institutions 
 and 
 corporates  Personal  Total 
 US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn 
Loans and advances .................................................... – 0.3 0.2 – 0.5  – 0.3 – – 0.3 
– gross ..................................................................... – 0.3 0.2 – 0.5  – 0.3 – – 0.3 
Financial investments available for sale .................... 0.1 – – – 0.1  0.1 – 0.1 – 0.2 
– cumulative impairment ........................................ – – – – – – – – – – 
– amortised cost ...................................................... 0.1 – – – 0.1  0.1 – 0.1 – 0.2 
– available-for-sale reserve .................................... – – – – – – – – – – 
Trading assets ............................................................. 0.3 – – – 0.3  0.6 0.1 – – 0.7 
Derivative assets ......................................................... – 0.2 – – 0.2  0.3 0.2 – – 0.5 
Gross balance sheet exposure before risk 
mitigation .............................................................. 0.4 0.5 0.2 – 1.1  1.0 0.6 0.1 – 1.7 
Risk mitigation ........................................................... (0.2) (0.2) – – (0.4) (0.5) (0.1) – – (0.6)
– short trading positions ......................................... (0.2) – – – (0.2) (0.2) – – – (0.2)
– collateral and derivative liabilities ....................... – (0.2) – – (0.2) (0.3) (0.1) – – (0.4)
Net on-balance sheet exposure ................................... 0.2 0.3 0.2 – 0.7  0.5 0.5 0.1 – 1.1 
Off-balance sheet exposures ....................................... – 0.1 0.2 – 0.3   – – – – – 
– commitments ....................................................... – – 0.2 – 0.2   – – – – – 
– guarantees and others .......................................... – 0.1 – – 0.1   – – – – – 
Total net exposure .................................................... 0.2 0.4 0.4 – 1.0  0.5 0.5 0.1 – 1.1 
Of which:       
– net trading assets representing cash  
collateral posted .............................................. – – – – – – 0.1 – – 0.1 
– on-balance sheet exposures held to meet  
DPF insurance liabilities ................................. 0.1 – – – 0.1  0.1 – 0.1 – 0.2 
Total credit default swaps     
– CDS bought positions .......................................... 0.1 – – – 0.1  0.4 0.1 0.1 – 0.6 
– CDS sold positions .............................................. (0.1) – – – (0.1) (0.3) (0.1) (0.1) – (0.5)
– CDS bought notionals ......................................... 1.6 0.9 0.8 – 3.3  1.2 0.6 0.6 – 2.4 
– CDS sold notionals .............................................. 1.5 0.9 0.8 – 3.2  1.2 0.5 0.7 – 2.4 
For commentary, see page 199.  199
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Commentary on exposures 
Spain
At 31 December 2012, our total net exposure to 
Spain was US$12.1bn, US$0.2bn lower than at the 
end of 2011. 
Our total net exposure to Spanish sovereign and 
agencies was US$1.0bn, US$1.2bn lower than at the 
end of 2011. The reduction was primarily due to 
lower off-balance sheet positions. 
Our total net exposure to Spanish banks was 
US$2.8bn, US$0.7bn lower than at the end of 2011. 
The reduced exposure was due to increased risk 
mitigation. Our total net exposure to Spanish other 
financial institutions and corporates was US$8.3bn, 
an increase of US$1.7bn primarily due to higher 
off-balance sheet commitments. Our exposure to 
Spanish other financial institutions and corporates 
mainly comprised large multinational companies 
and other financial institutions with significant 
operations outside Spain, which mitigated the risk. 
Exposure to the commercial real estate sector in 
Spain remained insignificant. 
Ireland
At 31 December 2012, our total net exposure to 
Ireland was US$9.9bn, US$4.1bn higher than at the 
end of 2011. This increase was in respect of exposures 
to other financial institutions and corporates. 
Our total net exposure to Irish other financial 
institutions and corporates was US$7.6bn, US$4.1bn 
higher than at the end of 2011. The increase was 
primarily in financial investments available for sale 
for which the underlying risk is not predominantly 
Irish. A significant portion of our exposure related to 
foreign-owned entities incorporated in Ireland. 
Italy
At 31 December 2012, our total net exposure to Italy 
was US$9.6bn, US$1.2bn higher than at the end of 
2011.
Our total net exposure to Italian sovereign 
agencies was US$2.7bn, US$0.4bn higher than at the 
end of 2011. This was due to a decrease in risk 
mitigation. 
Our total net exposure to Italian banks was 
US$1.6bn, US$0.5bn lower than at the end of 2011. 
The reduced exposure was primarily due to lower 
amounts of loans and advances. 
Our total net exposure to other financial 
institutions and corporates at 31 December 2012 was 
US$5.2bn, an increase of US$1.3bn. Our exposure to 
Italian other financial institutions and corporates 
mainly comprised large multinational companies 
and other financial institutions with significant 
operations outside Italy, which mitigated the risk. 
Greece 
At 31 December 2012, our total net exposure to 
Greece was US$5.8bn, US$1.8bn lower than at the 
end of 2011. Although there was a reduction in 
exposure levels to all Greek counterparties in the 
first half of 2012, the majority of the reduction was 
in respect of exposures to other financial institutions 
and corporates. 
Our total net exposure to Greek sovereign and 
agencies was US$0.1bn, US$0.3bn lower than at the 
end of 2011. Our Greek sovereign exposure 
decreased as a result of the debt restructuring in 
March 2012 and the associated settlement of CDS 
contracts.
Our total net exposure to Greek banks was 
US$0.6bn, US$0.3bn lower than at the end of 2011. 
The decrease was primarily due to lower off-balance 
sheet positions.
Our total net exposure to Greek other financial 
institutions and corporates was US$4.1bn, US$1.2bn 
lower than at the end of 2011. The reduction was 
primarily due to lower level of off-balance sheet 
positions. At 31 December 2012, our exposure to 
Greek shipping companies amounted to US$2.2bn. 
We believe the industry is less sensitive to the Greek 
economy as it is mainly dependent on international 
trade.
Portugal
At 31 December 2012, our total net exposure to 
Portugal was US$1.0bn, similar to the end of 2011. 
Our total net exposure to Portuguese other 
financial institutions and corporates was US$0.4bn, 
US$0.3bn higher than at the end of 2011. The 
increase was primarily due to higher off-balance 
sheet commitments, which were in support of 
internationally active corporates with significant 
operations outside Portugal, which reduced the risk. 
Cyprus
Our gross on-balance sheet exposure to Cyprus of 
US$0.3bn (2011: US$0.2bn) consisted primarily of 
loans and advances to other financial institutions and 
corporates of US$0.3bn (2011: US$0.2bn). We have 
also provided off-balance sheet commitments and 
guarantees to other financial institutions and 
corporates of US$0.1bn (2011: US$0.1bn).   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Eurozone exposures > Redenomination risk 
200
Exposures to other eurozone countries 
Summary of exposures to other eurozone countries 
(Unaudited) 
 Sovereign
 and agencies  Banks 
 Other
 financial
 institutions
 and corporates  Personal  Total 
 US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn 
At 31 December 2012 
France
   On-balance sheet exposure .......................... 44.1 55.0 43.7 15.5  158.3 
   Off-balance sheet exposure ......................... 0.2 1.7 25.3 0.8  28.0 
   Total gross exposure..................................... 44.3 56.7 69.0 16.3  186.3 
   Risk mitigation ............................................ (11.3) (26.2) (3.3) – (40.8)
Total net exposure ....................................... 33.0 30.5 65.7 16.3  145.5 
Germany 
   On-balance sheet exposure .......................... 40.8 56.5 14.8 0.3  112.4 
   Off-balance sheet exposure ......................... – 0.2 11.1 0.3  11.6 
   Total gross exposure..................................... 40.8 56.7 25.9 0.6  124.0 
   Risk mitigation ............................................ (13.4) (42.4) (0.8) – (56.6)
Total net exposure ....................................... 27.4 14.3 25.1 0.6  67.4 
The Netherlands 
   On-balance sheet exposure .......................... 14.4 10.4 14.8 0.1  39.7 
   Off-balance sheet exposure ......................... – 0.1 4.0 – 4.1 
   Total gross exposure..................................... 14.4 10.5 18.8 0.1  43.8 
   Risk mitigation ............................................ (4.4) (5.2) (4.8) – (14.4)
Total net exposure ....................................... 10.0 5.3 14.0 0.1  29.4 
Others
   On-balance sheet exposure .......................... 13.0 14.0 8.4 2.6 38.0 
   Off-balance sheet exposure ......................... – 0.3 4.0 0.6 4.9 
   Total gross exposure..................................... 13.0 14.3 12.4 3.2 42.9 
   Risk mitigation ............................................ (3.2) (10.7) (0.4) – (14.3)
Total net exposure ....................................... 9.8 3.6 12.0 3.2 28.6 
At 31 December 2011       
France      
   On-balance sheet exposure .......................... 36.7 67.0 37.1 14.0  154.8 
   Off-balance sheet exposure ......................... 1.9 1.8 21.7 1.1  26.5 
   Total gross exposure..................................... 38.6 68.8 58.8 15.1  181.3 
   Risk mitigation ............................................ (9.5) (19.9) (1.7) (0.2) (31.3)
   Total net exposure....................................... 29.1 48.9 57.1 14.9  150.0 
Germany       
   On-balance sheet exposure .......................... 31.0 47.6 7.4 0.3  86.3 
   Off-balance sheet exposure ......................... – 1.5 8.2 0.4  10.1 
   Total gross exposure..................................... 31.0 49.1 15.6 0.7  96.4 
   Risk mitigation ............................................ (11.0) (26.4) (0.6) – (38.0)
   Total net exposure....................................... 20.0 22.7 15.0 0.7  58.4 
The Netherlands       
   On-balance sheet exposure .......................... 43.3 16.3 10.4 0.1  70.1 
   Off-balance sheet exposure ......................... – 0.2 1.6 –  1.8 
   Total gross exposure..................................... 43.3 16.5 12.0 0.1  71.9 
   Risk mitigation ............................................ (3.3) (1.3) (1.6) – (6.2)
   Total net exposure....................................... 40.0 15.2 10.4 0.1  65.7 
Others       
   On-balance sheet exposure .......................... 10.3 14.3 9.2 2.3  36.1 
   Off-balance sheet exposure ......................... – 0.3 2.9 0.8  4.0 
   Total gross exposure..................................... 10.3 14.6 12.1 3.1  40.1 
   Risk mitigation ............................................ (3.0) (10.7) (0.3) – (14.0)
   Total net exposure....................................... 7.3 3.9 11.8 3.1  26.1  201
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
At 31 December 2012, our net on-balance sheet 
exposure to France, Germany and the Netherlands was 
US$199bn, US$37bn lower than at the end of 2011.  
Our net on-balance sheet exposure to the sovereign 
and agency debt of France, Germany and the 
Netherlands was US$70bn, US$17bn lower than at the 
end of 2011. Our exposure to France and Germany was 
commensurate with the size of our operations in these 
countries. In 2012, cash balances held with the Dutch 
Central Bank were reduced and redirected to the French 
Central Bank to align more closely with our underlying 
operations. The cash placements continued to be put into 
the euro clearing system managed by the ECB.  
At 31 December 2012, our net on-balance sheet 
exposure to the bank debt of France, Germany, and the 
Netherlands was US$48bn, US$35bn lower than at the 
end of 2011. The decrease reflected our ongoing efforts 
to reduce exposure to counterparties domiciled in these 
countries with exposures to sovereigns and/or banks in 
peripheral eurozone countries of sufficient size to 
threaten the counterparties’ on-going viability in the 
event of an unfavourable conclusion to the current 
crisis. 
At 31 December 2012, our net on-balance sheet 
exposure to the corporate and other financial institution 
debt of France, Germany and the Netherlands was 
US$64bn, US$13bn higher than at the end of 2011. 
Off-balance sheet exposures increased by US$5.3bn in 
France. Our exposure in Germany and France was 
commensurate with the size of our operations and was 
well diversified across portfolios, sectors and products. 
Our relationships in these countries are mostly with 
large global entities that have significant operations 
outside their respective domestic markets. This 
mitigates our risk as these corporates have diversified 
the sources of their revenue and, more importantly, 
their ability to raise finance internationally should their 
domestic markets become strained. 
In France, our net exposure to personal lending at 
31 December 2012 was US$16bn, US$1bn higher than 
at the end of 2011. The exposure was mainly in 
residential mortgages, loans secured by a national 
guarantee scheme and unsecured personal loans, and 
both delinquency and impairment charges remained 
low.
Exposure to other eurozone countries 
In addition to the countries disclosed above, 
HSBC had net on-balance sheet exposures of 
US$24bn , US$1.6bn higher than in 2011 to 
eurozone countries that were not significant to 
the Group. Of these, the largest exposure was 
represented by our retail and corporate banking 
operations in Malta, which had a net on-balance 
sheet exposure of US$5.8bn, US$0.2bn lower than in 
2011. Our second largest exposure was in Finland 
with US$4.3bn of net on-balance sheet exposure to 
sovereign, agencies and banks (of which US$2.6bn 
was cash collateral held in respect of derivative 
liabilities). We also had US$3.3bn of net on-balance 
sheet exposure to sovereign and agencies in Belgium 
(of which US$1.4bn was fully collateralised) and 
US$1.2bn to other financial institutions and 
corporates. Our remaining net on-balance sheet 
exposure to the eurozone was less than 5% of the 
Group’s total equity. 
Redenomination risk 
(Unaudited) 
As the peripheral eurozone countries continue to 
exhibit distress, there is continuing possibility of a 
member state exiting from the eurozone. There 
remains no established legal framework within the 
European treaties to facilitate such an event; 
consequently, it is not possible to accurately predict 
the course of events and legal consequences that 
would ensue. 
Our current view is that there would be a greater 
impact on HSBC from a euro exit of Greece, Italy or 
Spain than from Ireland, Portugal or Cyprus. 
Key risks associated with an exit by a eurozone 
member include: 
Foreign exchange losses: an exit would 
probably be accompanied by the passing of laws 
in the country concerned establishing a new local 
currency and providing for a redenomination of 
euro-denominated assets into the new local currency. 
The value of assets and liabilities in the country 
would immediately fall assuming the value of the 
redenominated currency is less than the original 
euros when translated into the carrying amounts. It 
is not possible to predict what the total consequential 
loss might be as it is uncertain which assets and 
liabilities would be legally re-denominated or what 
the extent of the devaluation would be. However, 
in order to provide an indication of one part of the 
possible exposure, the table below identifies assets 
and liabilities booked in our banking operations in 
Greece, Italy and Spain (described as ‘in-country’). 
These assets and liabilities predominantly comprise 
loans and deposits arising from our commercial 
banking operations in these countries. The net assets 
represent our net funding exposure to those countries 
which we consider most likely to be affected by a 
redenomination event. The table also identifies in-
country off-balance sheet exposures as these are at 
risk of redenomination should they be called, giving  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Eurozone exposures > Redenomination risk // Liquidity and funding  
202
rise to a balance sheet exposure. It is to be noted that 
this analysis can only be an indication as it does not 
include euro-denominated exposures booked by 
HSBC outside the countries at risk which are 
connected with those countries (see ‘external 
contracts’ below). 
External contracts redenomination risk:
contracts entered into between HSBC businesses 
based outside a country exiting the euro with in-
country counterparties or those otherwise closely 
connected with the relevant country, may be affected 
by redenomination. The effect remains subject to a 
high level of uncertainty. Factors such as the country 
law under which the contract is documented, the 
HSBC entity involved and the payment mechanism 
may all be relevant to this assessment, as will the 
precise exit scenario as the consequences for 
external contracts of a disorderly exit or one  
sanctioned under EU law may be different. In 
addition, capital controls could be introduced which 
may affect the ability to repatriate funds including 
currencies not affected by the redenomination event. 
We continue to identify and monitor potential 
redenomination risks and, where possible, take steps 
to mitigate them and/or reduce our overall exposure 
to losses that might arise in the event of a 
redenomination. We continue to emphasise, 
however, that a euro exit could take different forms 
in a number of different scenarios. These give rise to 
distinct legal consequences which could significantly 
alter the potential effectiveness of any steps taken, 
and it is accordingly not possible to predict how 
effective particular measures may be until they are 
tested against the precise circumstances of a 
redenomination event. 
In-country funding exposure 
(Unaudited) 
Denominated in: 
 euros  US dollars 
 other 
 currencies  Total 
 US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn 
At 31 December 2012 
Greece In-country assets ...................................................... 2.1  0.1  –  2.2 
In-country liabilities ................................................. (1.5) (0.8) (0.1)  (2.4)
Net in-country funding exposure ............................. 0.6  (0.7) (0.1)  (0.2)
Off-balance sheet exposure ..................................... (0.3) 0.2  0.2  0.1 
Italy In-country assets ...................................................... 1.0  –  –  1.0 
In-country liabilities
38
 .............................................. (2.0) –  –  (2.0)
Net in-country funding exposure ............................. (1.0) –  –  (1.0)
Off-balance sheet exposure ..................................... 0.8  –  –  0.8 
Spain In-country assets ...................................................... 2.4  0.8  –  3.2 
In-country liabilities ................................................. (1.7) (0.1) –  (1.8)
Net in-country funding exposure ............................. 0.7  0.7  –  1.4 
Off-balance sheet exposure ..................................... 0.7  0.2  –  0.9 
      
At 31 December 2011      
Greece In-country assets ...................................................... 2.9  2.2  0.1   5.2 
In-country liabilities ................................................. (2.1) (1.6) (0.1)   (3.8)
Net in-country funding exposure ............................. 0.8  0.6  –   1.4 
Off-balance sheet exposure ..................................... 0.2  –  –   0.2 
Italy In-country assets ...................................................... 2.1  –  –   2.1 
In-country liabilities
38
 .............................................. (2.6) –  –   (2.6)
Net in-country funding exposure ............................. (0.5) –  –   (0.5)
Off-balance sheet exposure ..................................... 0.8  –  –   0.8 
Spain In-country assets ...................................................... 4.4  0.6  0.1   5.1 
In-country liabilities ................................................. (1.7) (0.1) –   (1.8)
Net in-country funding exposure ............................. 2.7  0.5  0.1   3.3 
Off-balance sheet exposure ..................................... 2.4  0.5  –   2.9 
For footnote, see page 249.  203
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Liquidity and funding  
 Page App
1
Tables Page 
Liquidity and funding ......................................... 261
Primary sources of funding ................................... 261
Liquidity and funding in 2012 ............................ 204
Customer deposit markets ..................................... 204
Wholesale funding market ..................................... 205
Management of liquidity and funding risk ....... 205 261
Inherent liquidity risk categorisation ..................... 261
Core deposits ......................................................... 262
Advances to core funding ratio .............................. 205 262 Advances to core funding ratios ............................................ 205
Stressed coverage ratios ......................................... 205 262 Stressed one-month and three-month coverage ratios .......... 206
Stressed scenario analysis ...................................... 262
Liquid assets of HSBC’s principal 
operating entities ............................................... 206 263 Liquid assets of HSBC’ s principal entities ............................ 207
Net contractual cash flows ..................................... 207 Net cash flows for intrabank loans and intragroup deposits 
and reverse  repo, repo and short positions ...................... 208
Wholesale debt monitoring .................................... 264
Liquidity behaviouralisation .................................. 264
Contingent liquidity risk arising from 
committed lending facilities ............................ 208 265
Group’ s contractual undrawn exposures monitored under 
 the contingent liquidity risk limit structure ..................... 209
Sources of funding ............................................... 209 261 Funding sources and uses ..................................................... 210
Wholesale funding cash flows payable by HSBC under 
financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities . 210
Funding of HSBC Finance .................................... 211
Encumbered and unencumbered assets ............ 211 Summary of assets available to support potential future 
funding and collateral needs (on and off-balance sheet) .. 211
The effect of active collateral management .......... 212
Off-balance sheet collateral received and pledged 
for reverse repo and stock borrowing 
transactions ........................................................ 212
Off-balance sheet non-cash collateral received  
and pledged for derivative transactions ............ 212
Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and 
unencumbered assets ......................................... 212
Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and  
unencumbered assets ......................................................... 213
Additional contractual obligations ........................ 213
Additional information .......................................... 214
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities ..... 214 Cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by 
remaining contractual maturities ..................................... 215
Management of cross-currency liquidity 
and funding risk ................................................. 265
HSBC Holdings .................................................... 215 265 Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial 
liabilities by remaining contractual maturities ................ 216
Liquidity regulation ............................................. 216
1 Appendix to Risk – risk policies and practices HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Liquidity and funding > In 2012 / Management of liquidity and funding risk  
204
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does 
not have sufficient financial resources to 
meet its obligations as they fall due, or will 
have to do so at an excessive cost. The risk 
arises from mismatches in the timing of cash 
flows.
There were no material changes to our policies and 
practices for the management of liquidity and 
funding risks in 2012. 
A summary of our current policies and practices 
regarding liquidity and funding is provided in the 
Appendix to Risk on page 261. 
Our liquidity and funding risk management framework  
The objective of our liquidity framework is to allow us to 
withstand very severe liquidity stresses. It is designed to be 
adaptable to changing business models, markets and 
regulations.  
Our liquidity and funding risk management framework 
requires: 
• liquidity to be managed by operating entities on a stand-
alone basis with no implicit reliance on the Group or central 
banks;
• all operating entities to comply with their limits for the 
advances to core funding ratio; and 
• all operating entities to maintain a positive stressed cash 
flow position out to three months under prescribed 
Group stress scenarios. 
Further details of the metrics are provided in the Appendix 
to Risk on page 261. 
Liquidity and funding in 2012 
(Unaudited)
The liquidity position of the Group strengthened 
in 2012, and we continued to enjoy strong inflows 
of customer deposits and maintained good access 
to wholesale markets. During 2012, customer 
accounts grew by 7% (US$86bn) while loans 
and advances to customers increased by 6% 
(US$57bn), leading to a small decrease in our 
advances to deposits ratio to 74% (2011: 75%). 
HSBC UK (see footnote 40 on page 249) 
recorded an increase in its advances to core funding 
ratio to 106% at 31 December 2012 (2011: 100%). 
During 2012, HSBC UK continued to fund the 
majority of its growth in advances with growth in 
core deposits and remained within its advances to 
core funding limit. 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation (see footnote 41 on page 249)  
recorded a decrease in its advances to core funding 
ratio to 73% at 31 December 2012 (2011: 75%), 
mainly as a result of its core deposits increasing 
more than advances. 
The completion of the sale of the US cards 
business and branch network during 2012 improved 
the liquidity and funding position of both HSBC 
Finance and HSBC USA (see footnote 42 on page 
249), the latter recording a decrease in its advances 
to core funding ratio to 78% as at 31 December 2012 
(2011: 86%). 
Customer deposit markets 
Customer accounts increased by 7% year on year. 
After excluding repo balances, the year-on-year 
increase was 7%. 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
We continued to grow our RBWM customer 
accounts, which increased by 6%, by providing 
differentiated products and services to different 
segments. The growth in retail deposits benefited 
from the wider macroeconomic trend of expanded 
money supply, customer deleveraging and weak loan 
growth, which partially offset the competitive 
pressure in some of our key markets for retail 
deposits and savers’ reluctance to place funds into 
low-rate deposits. 
Global Private Banking 
As economic conditions remained subdued
and interest rates continued to fall, part of the GPB 
customer base realigned its risk appetite and made 
use of the wide range of products available, with 
some asset reallocation to higher yielding off-
balance sheet products including equities, funds and 
bonds. As a result, customer accounts decreased by 
5% year on year. 
Commercial Banking 
Customer accounts increased by 11% year on year, 
with the majority of this increase resulting from 
increases in Payments and Cash Management 
accounts. The growth in these customer accounts and 
the strong growth in payment volumes demonstrated 
a funding source that is correlated to the operational 
services that HSBC provides to the CMB customer 
base. 205
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Global Banking and Markets 
Customer accounts increased by 8% year on year. 
After excluding repo balances with customers, 
GB&M deposits increased by 10% year on year, 
with the majority of this rise resulting from increases 
in Payments and Cash Management accounts. The 
growth in these customer accounts and the strong 
growth in payment volumes demonstrated a funding 
source that is strongly linked to the operational  
services that HSBC provides to the GB&M customer 
base.
Wholesale funding markets 
Wholesale funding markets gradually improved 
during 2012, although the volume of term debt 
issued by banks was low by recent standards, 
influenced to a significant extent by reduced bank 
funding requirements. Globally, market conditions 
across public wholesale funding markets were 
predominantly driven by sovereign-related and more 
general events in the eurozone. 
HSBC continued to have good access to debt 
capital markets throughout 2012 with Group entities 
issuing US$10.5bn of public transactions of which 
US$9.8bn was senior unsecured debt. 
In January 2013 the Group repaid €5bn 
(US$6.6bn) of funding raised through the ECB’s 
Long Term Repo Operations (‘LTRO’), leaving only 
€473m (US$624m) outstanding. 
Management of liquidity and funding risk 
(Audited)
Our liquidity and funding risk management 
framework (‘LFRF’) employs two key measures to 
define, monitor and control the liquidity and funding 
risk of each of our operating entities. The advances 
to core funding ratio is used to monitor the structural 
long-term funding position, and the stressed 
coverage ratio, incorporating Group-defined stress 
scenarios, is used to monitor the resilience to severe 
liquidity stresses. 
The three principal entities listed in the tables 
below represented 62% (2011: 61%) of the Group’s 
customer accounts (excluding repos). Including other 
principal entities, the percentage was 94% (2011: 
96%).
Advances to core funding ratio 
The table below shows the extent to which loans 
and advances to customers in our principal banking 
entities were financed by reliable and stable sources 
of funding. 
Advances to core funding limits set for 
operating entities at 31 December 2012 ranged 
between 70% and 115%, except for one operating 
entity reported within the total of HSBC’s other 
principal entities which operated with a limit of 
125% during 2012. This limit has been reduced to 
115% for 2013. 
Advances to core funding ratios
39
(Audited)
At 31 December 
 2012   2011 
 %   % 
HSBC UK
40
   
Year-end ..................................  106   100 
Maximum ................................  106   103 
Minimum .................................  100   98 
Average ....................................  103   101 
The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation
41
Year-end ..................................  73   75 
Maximum ................................  75   79 
Minimum .................................  71   70 
Average ....................................  73   76 
HSBC USA
42
Year-end ..................................  78   86 
Maximum ................................  86   90 
Minimum .................................  68   80 
Average ....................................  78   85 
Total of HSBC’s other  
principal entities
43
Year-end ..................................  91   86 
Maximum ................................  92   90 
Minimum .................................  85   86 
Average ....................................  88   89 
For footnotes, see page 249. 
Stressed coverage ratios
The stressed coverage ratios tabulated below express 
stressed cash inflows as a percentage of stressed cash 
outflows over both one-month and three-month time 
horizons. Operating entities are required to maintain 
a ratio of 100% or greater out to three months. 
Inflows included in the numerator of the 
stressed coverage ratio are those that are assumed to 
be generated from liquid assets net of assumed 
haircuts, and cash inflows related to assets 
contractually maturing within the time period.  
In general, customer advances are assumed to be 
renewed and as a result do not generate a cash 
inflow. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Liquidity and funding > Management of liquidity and funding risk  
206
Stressed one-month and three-month coverage ratios
39
(Audited)
Stressed one-month coverage 
ratios at 31 December 
Stressed three-month coverage 
Ratios at 31 December 
 2012  2011  2012   2011 
HSBC UK
40
 % % % %
Year-end ...................................................................................  114  116  103   102 
Maximum .................................................................................  117  118  103   102 
Minimum ..................................................................................  108  109  101   99 
Average ....................................................................................  112  113  102   100 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
41
Year-end ...................................................................................  129  123  126   118 
Maximum .................................................................................  134  145  126   126 
Minimum ..................................................................................  123  116  118   110 
Average ....................................................................................  129   124  123   116 
HSBC USA
42
Year-end ...................................................................................  126  118  119   113 
Maximum .................................................................................  137  128  130   122 
Minimum ..................................................................................  115  109  113   105 
Average ....................................................................................  127  119  123   116 
Total of HSBC’s other principal entities
43
Year-end ...................................................................................  127  118  117   108 
Maximum .................................................................................  127  120  117   113 
Minimum ..................................................................................  117  116  108   107 
Average ....................................................................................  121  118  111   109 
For footnotes, see page 249. 
The stressed coverage ratios for HSBC UK 
remained broadly unchanged. 
The stressed coverage ratios for The Hongkong 
and Shanghai Banking Corporation improved as the 
increase in core deposits exceeded the increase in 
loans and advances to customers. The resulting 
surplus was deployed in liquid assets, thereby 
improving the stressed coverage ratios. 
The stressed coverage ratios for HSBC USA 
improved as a result of the net effect of selling the 
US Card and Retail Services business and non-
strategic branches during 2012, which resulted in a 
reduction in core deposits that was lower than the 
reduction in loans and advances to customers. The 
resulting surplus was deployed in liquid assets, 
thereby improving the stressed coverage ratios. 
The three-month stressed coverage ratio for 
the total of HSBC’s other principal entities remained 
broadly unchanged. The one-month stressed 
coverage ratio improved as a result of an increase 
in contractual maturities between one month and 
three months. 
Liquid assets of HSBC’s principal operating 
entities
The table below shows the estimated liquidity value 
(before assumed haircuts) of assets categorised as 
liquid used for the purposes of calculating the three-
month stressed coverage ratios, as defined under the 
LFRF. 
Any unencumbered asset held as a consequence 
of a reverse repo transaction with a residual 
contractual maturity within the stressed coverage 
ratio time period and unsecured interbank loans 
maturing within three months are not included in 
liquid assets, as these assets are reflected as 
contractual cash inflows. 
Liquid assets are held and managed on a 
standalone operating entity basis. Most of the liquid 
assets shown are held directly by each operating 
entity’s Balance Sheet Management function, 
primarily for the purpose of managing liquidity risk, 
in line with the LFRF. 
Liquid assets also include any unencumbered 
liquid assets held outside Balance Sheet 
Management for any other purpose. The LFRF gives 
ultimate control of all unencumbered assets and 
sources of liquidity to Balance Sheet Management.  207
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Liquid assets of HSBC’s principal entities 
Estimated liquidity value
44
 31 Dec 2012  30 Jun 2012   31 Dec 2011 
 Audited  Unaudited   Audited 
 US$m  US$m   US$m 
HSBC UK
40
   
Level 1 .................................................................................................................... 138,812 120,690 114,596 
Level 2 .................................................................................................................... 374 475 344 
Level 3 .................................................................................................................... 27,656 9,320 – 
Non-government assets .......................................................................................... – – 23,007 
166,842 130,485 137,947 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
41
Level 1 .................................................................................................................... 112,167 104,943 107,056 
Level 2 .................................................................................................................... 5,740 5,929  
Level 3 .................................................................................................................... 3,968 4,889 – 
Non-government assets .......................................................................................... – – 2,151 
121,875 115,761 109,207 
HSBC USA
42
Level 1 .................................................................................................................... 60,981 62,966 86,060 
Level 2 .................................................................................................................... 15,609 16,511 1,369 
Level 3 .................................................................................................................... 5,350 8,405 – 
Other ....................................................................................................................... 6,521 6,238 – 
Non-government assets .......................................................................................... – – 19,093 
88,461 94,120 106,522 
Total of HSBC’s other principal entities
43
Level 1 .................................................................................................................... 154,445 118,616 138,085 
Level 2 .................................................................................................................... 18,048 36,713 2,827 
Level 3 .................................................................................................................... 6,468 11,205 – 
Other ....................................................................................................................... 2,447 – – 
Non-government assets .......................................................................................... – – 23,584 
181,408 166,534 164,496 
For footnotes, see page 249. 
Our liquid asset policy was refined at 1 January 
2012 to apply a more granular classification of liquid 
assets, as described in the Appendix to Risk on page 
261. Under the previous framework, liquid assets 
were classified into two categories: central 
government, central bank and US agency MBS 
exposures; and all other non-government exposures. 
Central government, central bank and US agency 
MBS exposures qualify as Level 1 or Level 2 under 
the new policy and are shown as such in the 
comparatives.  
All assets held within the liquid asset portfolio 
are unencumbered. 
Liquid assets held by HSBC UK increased as a 
result of a rise in customer accounts, which led to an 
increase in the level of non-core deposits and, 
consequently, liquid assets.  
Liquid assets held by The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation also rose as a result 
of an increase in customer accounts. As the growth 
in core deposits exceeded the increases in loans and 
advances to customers, the difference was deployed 
into liquid assets and the level of liquid assets held 
grew accordingly. 
Liquid assets held by HSBC USA decreased 
as a result of the sale of the US Card and Retail 
Services business and non-strategic branches during 
2012.
Net contractual cash flows 
The following table quantifies the contractual cash 
flows from interbank and intergroup loans and 
deposits, and reverse repo, repo (including 
intergroup transactions) and short positions for the 
principal entities shown. These contractual cash 
inflows and outflows are reflected gross in the 
numerator and denominator, respectively, of the one 
and three-month stressed coverage ratios and should 
be considered alongside the level of liquid assets. 
Outflows included in the denominator of the 
stressed coverage ratios include the principal 
outflows associated with the contractual maturity 
of wholesale debt securities reported in the table 
headed ‘Wholesale funding cash flows payable 
by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining 
contractual maturities’ on page 210.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Liquidity and funding > Management of liquidity and funding risk / Contingent liquidity risk 
208
Net cash inflows/(outflows) for interbank and intragroup loans and deposits and reverse repo, repo and short positions 
(Audited) 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
Cash flows 
within
one month 
Cash flows 
from one to
three months 
Cash flows 
within
one month 
Cash flows 
from one to  
three months 
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Interbank and intragroup loans and deposits 
HSBC UK
40
 ................................................................................... (16,464) (1,429) (12,832) 446 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
41
 ................. 4,402 9,685 8,715 9,246 
HSBC USA
42
 ................................................................................ (30,269) (473) (32,154) 213 
Total of HSBC’s other principal entities
43
 ................................... 5,419 10,511 14,053 2,589 
Reverse repo, repo, stock borrowing, stock lending and 
outright short positions (including intragroup) 
HSBC UK
40
 ................................................................................... (4,184) (13,776) (558) (171)
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
41
 ................. 13,672 2,501 7,393 (487)
HSBC USA
42
 ................................................................................ (4,003) 62 (3,872) (377)
Total of HSBC’s other principal entities
43
 ................................... (31,951) (231) (6,597) 10,162 
For footnotes, see page 249. 
Net cash flow arising from interbank and 
intragroup loans and deposits 
Under the LFRF, a net cash inflow within three 
months arising from interbank and intragroup loans 
and deposits will give rise to a lower liquid asset 
requirement. Conversely, a net cash outflow within 
three months arising from interbank and intragroup 
loans and deposits will give rise to a higher liquid 
assets requirement. 
Net cash flow arising from reverse repo, repo, 
stock borrowing, stock lending and outright short 
positions (including intragroup) 
A net cash inflow represents additional liquid 
resources, in addition to liquid assets, because any 
unencumbered asset held as a consequence of a 
reverse repo transaction with a residual contractual 
maturity within the stressed coverage ratio time 
period is not reflected as a liquid asset. 
The impact of net cash outflow depends on 
whether the underlying collateral encumbered as a 
result will qualify as a liquid asset when released at 
the maturity of the repo. The majority of the Group’s 
repo transactions are collateralised by liquid assets 
and, as such, any net cash outflow shown is offset by 
the return of liquid assets, which are excluded from 
the liquid asset table above. 
Contingent liquidity risk arising from  
committed lending facilities 
(Audited)
The Group’s operating entities provide commitments 
to various counterparts. In terms of liquidity risk, the 
most significant risk relates to committed lending 
facilities which, whilst undrawn, give rise to 
contingent liquidity risk, as these could be drawn 
during a period of liquidity stress. Commitments are 
given to customers and committed lending facilities 
are provided to consolidated multi-seller conduits, 
established to enable clients to access a flexible 
market-based source of finance (see page 209), 
consolidated securities investment conduits and 
third-party sponsored conduits. 
The consolidated securities investment conduits 
primarily represent Solitaire and Mazarin (see 
pages 186). These conduits issue asset-backed 
commercial paper secured against the portfolio of 
securities held by these conduits. At 31 December 
2012, HSBC UK had undrawn committed lending 
facilities to these conduits of US$18bn (2011: 
US$22bn, of which Solitaire represented US$13bn 
(2011: US$16bn) and the remaining US$5.1bn 
(2011: US$6.2bn) pertained to Mazarin. At 
31 December 2012, the commercial paper issued by 
Solitaire and Mazarin was entirely held by HSBC   209
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
UK. Since HSBC controls the size of the portfolio 
of securities held by these conduits, no contingent 
liquidity risk exposure arises as a result of these 
undrawn committed lending facilities. 
The table below shows the level of undrawn 
commitments to customers outstanding for the five 
largest single facilities and the largest market sector, 
and the extent to which they are undrawn. 
The Group’s contractual undrawn exposures at 31 December monitored under the contingent liquidity risk 
limit structure 
(Audited) 
HSBC UK HSBC USA HSBC Canada 
 The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking 
Corporation 
 2012   2011  2012  2011  2012  2011   2012   2011 
 US$bn   US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn   US$bn 
Commitments to conduits 
Consolidated multi-seller  
conduits
–  total lines ...........................  7.8   11.4  2.3  0.9  1.0  0.7   –   – 
–  largest individual lines ......  0.7   0.7  0.5  0.3  0.8  0.5   –   – 
Consolidated securities 
investment conduits  
– total lines ............................  18.1   22.1  –  –  –  –   –   – 
Third party conduits  
– total lines ............................  –   –  0.8  1.4  –  –   –   – 
Commitments to customers 
–  five largest
45
 .......................  6.0   3.4  6.0  5.7  1.7  1.8   2.1   1.9 
–  largest market sector
46
 .......  11.0   7.5  7.5  6.5  4.5  3.8   2.4   2.5 
For footnotes, see page 249. 
Sources of funding 
(Audited)
Our primary sources of funding are customer current 
accounts and customer savings deposits payable on 
demand or at short notice. We issue wholesale 
securities (secured and unsecured) to supplement 
our customer deposits and change the currency 
mix, maturity profile or location of our liabilities.  
The funding sources and uses table, which 
provides a consolidated view of how our balance 
sheet is funded, should be read in the light of the 
LFRF, which requires operating entities to manage 
liquidity and funding risk on a stand-alone basis. 
The table analyses our consolidated balance 
sheet according to the assets that primarily arise 
from operating activities and the sources of funding 
primarily supporting these activities. The assets and 
liabilities that do not arise from operating activities 
are presented as a net balancing source or 
deployment of funds. 
The level of customer accounts continued to 
exceed the level of loans and advances to customers. 
Excluding the effect of repos from customer 
accounts and reverse repos from loans and advances 
to customers, the adjusted advances to deposits ratio 
at 31 December 2012 was 73.4% (2011: 73.5%). The 
positive funding gap was predominantly deployed 
into liquid assets; cash and balances with central 
banks and financial investments, as required by the 
LFRF. 
Loans and other receivables due from banks 
continued to exceed deposits taken from banks. 
The Group remained a net unsecured lender to the 
banking sector.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Liquidity and funding > Contingent liquidity risk / Encumbered and unencumbered assets 
210 
Funding sources and uses 
(Audited)
 2012   2011    2012   2011 
 US$m   US$m    US$m   US$m 
Sources Uses
Customer accounts ....................... 1,340,014 1,253,925  Loans and advances to customers  997,623 940,429 
– repos .......................................... 28,618 30,785  – reverse repos .............................. 34,651 41,419
– cash deposits ............................. 1,311,396 1,223,140  – loans or other receivables .......... 962,972 899,010
Deposits by banks ........................ 107,429 112,822  Loans and advances to banks ....... 152,546 180,987 
– repos .......................................... 11,949 17,617  – reverse repos .............................. 35,461 41,909
– cash deposits ............................. 95,480 95,205  – loans or other receivables .......... 117,085 139,078
Debt securities issued .................. 119,461 131,013  Assets held for sale ....................... 19,269 39,558 
Liabilities of disposal groups   Trading assets ............................... 408,811 330,451 
held for sale ............................... 5,018 22,200  – reverse repos .............................. 118,681 79,848
  – stock borrowing ......................... 16,071 9,459
Subordinated liabilities ................ 29,479 30,606  – other trading assets .................... 274,059 241,144
Financial liabilities designated at 
fair value ................................... 87,720 85,724  Financial investments ................... 421,101 400,044 
Liabilities under insurance   Cash and balances with  
contracts .................................... 68,195 61,259  central banks .............................. 141,532 129,902 
Trading liabilities ......................... 304,563 265,192  Net deployment in other  
– repos .......................................... 130,223 86,838  balance sheet assets and 
– stock lending ............................. 6,818 4,595  liabilities .................................... 104,126 107,463 
– other trading liabilities .............. 167,522 173,759   
Total equity .................................. 183,129 166,093   
2,245,008 2,128,834   2,245,008 2,128,834 
Wholesale funding cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities 
(Unaudited)
On
demand 
Due
within
3 months 
Due
within
3 to 12 
months 
Total due
within
1 year 
Due
between 
1 and 5 
years
Due
after
5 years Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Debt securities issued ................. 2,419 41,139 50,697 94,255 97,198 31,217 222,670 
Unsecured CDs and CP .............. – 22,158 10,125 32,283 5,344 – 37,627 
Unsecured senior MTNs ............. 1 6,306 33,363 39,670 68,949 23,478 132,097 
Unsecured senior structured  
notes ........................................ 2,234 1,329 3,978 7,541 6,942 5,325 19,808 
Secured covered bonds ............... – 51 2,467 2,518 8,840 542 11,900 
Secured ABCP ............................ – 10,358 – 10,358 – – 10,358 
Secured ABS ............................... 16 782 646 1,444 4,557 707 6,708 
Others .......................................... 168 155 118 441 2,566 1,165 4,172 
Subordinated liabilities ............... 7 838 1,864 2,709 14,641 77,930 95,280 
Subordinated debt securities ....... 7 573 1,509 2,089 12,625 57,503 72,217 
Preferred securities ..................... – 265 355 620 2,016 20,427 23,063 
2,426 41,977 52,561 96,964 111,839 109,147 317,950  211 
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
On
demand  
Due
within
3 months 
Due
within
3 to 12 
months 
Total due 
within
1 year 
Due
between
1 and 5 
years
Due
after 
5 years  Total 
 US$m  US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2011           
Debt securities issued ................. 1,907  49,923 39,011 90,841 104,689  37,028  232,558 
Unsecured CDs and CP .............. 280  28,918 8,143 37,341 9,713  26  47,080 
Unsecured senior MTNs ............. 122  3,704 26,541 30,367 80,884  29,081  140,332 
Unsecured senior structured  
notes ........................................ 
1,505  575 1,858 3,938 1,878  1,156  6,972 
Secured covered bonds ............... –  607 1,549 2,156 7,649  3,694  13,499 
Secured ABCP ............................ –  10,446 – 10,446 –  –  10,446 
Secured ABS ............................... –  326 546 872 3,071  1,779  5,722 
Others .......................................... –  5,347 374 5,721 1,494  1,292  8,507 
Subordinated liabilities ............... 6  913 6,004 6,923 15,134  78,569  100,626 
Subordinated debt securities ....... 6  694 5,552 6,252 12,908  58,051  77,211 
Preferred securities ..................... –  219 452 671 2,226  20,518  23,415 
 1,913  50,836 45,015 97,764 119,823  115,597  333,184 
The balances in the table above will not agree 
directly with those in our consolidated balance sheet 
as the table incorporates, on an undiscounted basis, 
all cash flows relating to principal and future coupon 
payments. 
Funding of HSBC Finance 
We do not expect the professional markets to be 
a source of funding for HSBC Finance in the future 
in view of the sale of the Card and Retail Services 
business and the run-off of its remaining portfolio. 
HSBC Finance expects to meet future funding 
needs by asset sales and affiliate funding. As a 
consequence, no new external third-party funding, 
including commercial paper, is being originated by 
HSBC Finance. 
Encumbered and unencumbered assets 
(Unaudited)
The objective of this disclosure is to facilitate an 
understanding of available and unrestricted assets 
that could be used to support potential future funding 
and collateral needs.  
An asset is defined as encumbered if it has been 
pledged as collateral against an existing liability, 
and as a result is no longer available to the bank to 
secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold 
to reduce the funding requirement. An asset is 
therefore categorised as unencumbered if it has 
not been pledged against an existing liability. 
Unencumbered assets are then further analysed into 
four separate sub-categories; ‘readily realisable 
assets’, ‘other realisable assets’, ‘reverse repo/stock 
borrowing receivables and derivative assets’ and 
‘cannot be pledged as collateral’. 
The disclosure is not designed to identify assets 
which would be available to meet the claims of 
creditors or to predict assets that would be available 
to creditors in the event of a resolution or 
bankruptcy. 
The table below summarises the total on 
and off-balance sheet assets that are capable of 
supporting future funding and collateral needs and 
shows the extent to which these assets are currently 
pledged for this purpose.
Summary of assets available to support potential 
future funding and collateral needs (on and off-
balance sheet) 
(Unaudited) 
2012
US$bn
Total on-balance sheet assets ........................ 2,693 
Less:
Reverse repo/stock borrowing receivables 
and derivative assets ............................. 562
Other assets that cannot be pledged as 
collateral ............................................... 247
Total on-balance sheet assets that can support 
funding and collateral needs ..................... 1,884 
Add off-balance sheet assets: 
Fair value of collateral received from 
reverse repo/stock borrowing that is 
available to sell or repledge .................. 296
Fair value of collateral received from 
derivatives that is available to sell or 
repledge ................................................. 6
Total assets that can support funding and 
collateral needs (on and off-balance sheet)  2,186 
Less:
On-balance sheet assets pledged ............... 233
Off-balance sheet collateral received from 
reverse repo/stock borrowing which has 
been repledged or sold .......................... 203
Off-balance sheet collateral received from 
derivative transactions which has been 
repledged or sold .................................. 1
Assets available to support funding and 
collateral needs .......................................... 1,749  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Liquidity and funding > Encumbered and unencumbered assets 
212 
At 31 December 2012, the Group held 
US$1,749bn of unencumbered assets that could 
be used to support potential future funding and 
collateral needs, representing 80% of the total assets 
that can support funding and collateral needs (on 
and off-balance sheet). Of this amount, US$764bn 
(US$666bn on-balance sheet) were assessed to be 
readily realisable. 
The effect of active collateral management 
Collateral is managed on an operating entity basis, 
consistent with the operating entity management of 
liquidity and funding. The available collateral held 
by each operating entity is managed as a single 
collateral pool. In managing this collateral and 
deciding which collateral to pledge, each operating 
entity will seek to optimise the use of the available 
collateral pool, within the confines of the LFRF, 
irrespective of whether the collateral pledged is 
recognised on-balance sheet or was received in 
respect of reverse repo, stock borrowing or 
derivative transactions. 
As a result of managing collateral in this 
manner, in terms of asset encumbrance presentation, 
we may encumber on-balance sheet holdings while 
maintaining available unencumbered off-balance 
sheet holdings, even though we are not seeking to 
directly finance the on-balance sheet holdings 
pledged.
In quantifying the level of encumbrance of 
negotiable securities, the encumbrance has been 
analysed on an individual security basis. In doing so 
where a particular security has been encumbered and 
HSBC has holdings of the security both on-balance 
sheet and off-balance sheet with the right to 
repledge, it is assumed for the purpose of this 
disclosure that the off-balance sheet holding is 
encumbered ahead of the on-balance sheet holding. 
An on balance-sheet encumbered and off-
balance sheet unencumbered asset will occur, for 
example, if we receive a specific security as a result 
of a reverse repo/stock borrow transaction, but 
finance the cash lent by pledging a generic collateral 
basket, even if the security received is eligible for 
the collateral basket pledged. This will also occur if 
we receive a generic collateral basket as a result of a 
reverse repo transaction but finance the cash lent by 
pledging specific securities, even if the securities 
pledged are eligible for the collateral basket. 
Off-balance sheet collateral received and 
pledged for reverse repo and stock 
borrowing transactions 
The fair value of assets accepted as collateral that 
HSBC is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence 
of default was US$296bn at 31 December 2012 
(2011: US$302bn). The fair value of any such 
collateral that has been sold or repledged was 
US$203bn (2011: US$189bn). HSBC is obliged 
to return equivalent securities. These transactions 
are conducted under terms that are usual and 
customary to standard reverse repo and stock 
borrowing transactions. 
The fair value of collateral received and 
repledged in relation to reverse repo and stock 
borrowing are reported on a gross basis. The related 
balance sheet receivables and payables are reported 
on a net basis where required under IFRS netting 
criteria.
As a result of reverse repo and stock borrowing 
transactions where the collateral received can be sold 
or re-pledged, but has not been sold or re-pledged, 
we held US$93bn of unencumbered collateral 
available to support potential future funding and 
collateral needs at 31 December 2012. 
Off-balance sheet non-cash collateral 
received and pledged for derivative 
transactions
The fair value of assets accepted as collateral related 
to derivative transactions that we are permitted to 
sell or repledge in the absence of default was 
US$6.0bn. The fair value of any such collateral 
that has been sold or repledged was US$0.8bn. We 
are obliged to return equivalent securities. These 
transactions are conducted under terms that are 
usual and customary to derivative transactions. 
Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered 
and unencumbered assets 
The table on page 213 presents an analysis of 
on-balance sheet holdings only, and shows the 
amounts of balance sheet assets that are encumbered. 
The table therefore excludes any available off-
balance sheet holdings received in respect of 
reverse repo, stock borrowing or derivatives.  213 
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets 
(Unaudited) 
Encumbered Unencumbered 
Unencumbered – cannot be 
pledged as collateral 
 Assets 
 pledged as 
 collateral 
 Readily 
 realisable 
 assets 
 Other 
 realisable 
 assets 
 Reverse 
 repo/stock 
 borrowing 
 receivables
 & derivative 
 assets 
 Cannot 
 be pledged 
 as collateral  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Cash and balances at central banks ............ – 139,963 220 – 1,349  141,532 
Items in the course of collection from  
other banks ............................................. – – – – 7,303  7,303 
Hong Kong Government certificates of 
indebtedness ........................................... – – – – 22,743  22,743 
Trading assets ............................................. 143,019 116,395 10,330 134,752  4,315  408,811 
–  Treasury and other eligible bills ........ 2,309 23,973 – – – 26,282 
–  debt securities ..................................... 97,157 47,311 205 – 4 144,677 
–  equity securities .................................. 5,592 35,420 622 – – 41,634 
–  loans and advances to banks .............. 20,588 1,909 2,582 50,376  2,816  78,271 
–  loans and advances to customers ....... 17,373 7,782 6,921 84,376  1,495  117,947 
Financial assets designated at fair value .... – 447 610 – 32,525  33,582 
–  Treasury and other eligible bills ........ – 14 – – 40 54
–  debt securities ..................................... – 431 128 – 11,992  12,551 
–  equity securities .................................. – 2 482 – 20,384  20,868 
–  loans and advances to banks .............. – – – – 55 55
–  loans and advances to customers ....... – – – – 54 54
Derivatives .................................................. – – – 357,450  – 357,450 
Loans and advances to banks ..................... 1,191 4,722 81,802 35,461  29,370  152,546 
Loans and advances to customers .............. 40,792 85,626 827,903 34,664  8,638  997,623 
Financial investments ................................. 46,678 300,255 7,990 – 66,178  421,101 
–  Treasury and other eligible bills ........ 2,024 84,991 156 – 379 87,550 
–  debt securities ..................................... 44,654 214,545 4,112 – 64,451  327,762 
–  equity securities .................................. – 719 3,722 – 1,348  5,789 
Assets held for sale ..................................... – – 19,269 – – 19,269 
Other assets ................................................. 1,600 18,601 11,621 – 22,894  54,716 
Current tax assets ........................................ – – – – 515 515
Prepayments and accrued income .............. – – – – 9,502  9,502 
Interest in associates and joint ventures ..... – – 17,480 – 354 17,834 
Goodwill and intangible assets ................... – – – – 29,853  29,853 
Property, plant and equipment .................... – – 6,772 – 3,816  10,588 
Deferred tax ................................................ – – – – 7,570  7,570 
233,280 666,009 983,997 562,327  246,925  2,692,538 
Cash collateral posted to satisfy margin 
requirements on derivatives, is reported as 
encumbered under trading assets within loans 
or advances to banks and loans and advances to 
customers. 
The US$41bn of loans and advances to 
customers reported in the table above as encumbered 
have been pledged predominantly to support the 
issuance of secured debt instruments, such as 
covered bonds and ABSs including asset-backed 
commercial paper issued by consolidated multi-
seller conduits. It also includes those pledged in 
relation to any other form of secured borrowing. 
In total, the Group has pledged US$152bn of 
negotiable securities, predominantly as a result of 
market-making in securities financing to our clients.
Additional contractual obligations 
Under the terms of our current collateral obligations 
under derivative contracts, we estimate based on the 
positions as at 31 December 2012 that HSBC could 
be required to post additional collateral of up to 
US$1.5bn (2011: US$3bn) in the event of a one 
notch downgrade in credit ratings, which would 
increase to US$2.5bn (2011: US$3.8bn) in the event 
of a two notch downgrade.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Liquidity and funding > Encumbered and unencumbered assets / Contractual maturity of financial liabilities 
214 
Definitions of the categories included in the table ‘Analysis 
of encumbered and unencumbered assets’: 
• Encumbered assets are assets on our balance sheet which 
have been pledged as collateral against an existing liability, 
and as a result are assets which are unavailable to the bank 
to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold to 
reduce potential future funding requirements. 
• Unencumbered – readily realisable assets are assets 
regarded by the bank to be readily realisable in the normal 
course of business, to secure funding, meet collateral needs, 
or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, 
and are not subject to any restrictions on their use for these 
purposes. 
• Unencumbered – other realisable assets are assets where 
there are no restrictions on their use to secure funding, meet 
collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future 
funding requirements, but are not readily realisable in the 
normal course of business in their current form. 
• Unencumbered – reverse repo/stock borrow receivables and 
derivative assets are assets related specifically to reverse 
repo, stock borrowing and derivative transactions. These are 
shown separately as these on-balance sheet assets cannot be 
pledged, but often give rise to the receipt of non-cash assets 
which are not recognised on the balance sheet, and can 
additionally be used to raise secured funding, meet 
additional collateral requirements or be sold.
• Unencumbered – cannot be pledged as collateral are assets 
that have not been pledged but which we have assessed 
could not be pledged and therefore could not be used to 
secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce 
potential future funding requirements, for example assets 
held by the Group’s insurance subsidiaries that back 
liabilities to policyholders and support the solvency of these 
entities.
Historically, the Group has not recognised any contingent 
liquidity value for assets other than those assets defined under 
the LFRF as being liquid assets, and any other negotiable 
instruments that under stress are assumed to be realisable after 
three months, even though they may currently be realisable. 
This approach has generally been driven by our risk appetite 
not to place any reliance on central banks. In a few cases, we 
have recognised the contingent value of discrete pools of 
assets, but the amounts involved are insignificant. As a result, 
we have reported the majority of our loans and advances to 
customers and banks in the category ‘Other realisable assets’ 
as management would need to perform additional actions in 
order to make the assets transferable and readily realisable. 
Additional information 
The amount of such assets reported in Note 36 on the 
Financial Statements may be greater than the book 
value of assets reported as being encumbered in the 
table on page 213. Examples of where such 
differences will occur are: 
• ABSs and covered bonds where the amount of 
liabilities issued plus the required mandatory 
over-collateralisation is lower than the book 
value of assets pledged to the pool. Any 
difference is categorised in the table above 
as ‘Unencumbered – readily realisable assets;’ 
• negotiable securities held by custodians or 
settlement agents, where a floating charge has 
been given over the entire holding to secure 
intra-day settlement liabilities, are only reported 
as encumbered to the extent that we have a 
liability to the custodian or settlement agent at 
the reporting date, with the balance reported as 
‘Unencumbered – readily realisable assets;’ and 
• assets pre-positioned with central banks or 
government agencies are only reported as 
encumbered to the extent that we have secured 
funding with the collateral. The unutilised 
pre-positioned collateral is reported as 
‘Unencumbered – readily realisable assets.’ 
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities 
(Audited)
The balances in the table below will not agree 
directly with those in our consolidated balance sheet 
as the table incorporates, on an undiscounted basis, 
all cash flows relating to principal and future 
coupon payments (except for trading liabilities 
and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives). 
Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to 
hedging derivative liabilities are classified according 
to their contractual maturities. Trading liabilities and 
derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives are 
included in the ‘On demand’ time bucket and not 
by contractual maturity. A maturity analysis of repos 
and debt securities in issue included in trading 
liabilities is presented on page 487. 
In addition, loan and other credit-related
commitments and financial guarantees and similar 
contracts are generally not recognised on our balance 
sheet. The undiscounted cash flows potentially 
payable under financial guarantees and similar 
contracts are classified on the basis of the earliest 
date they can be called.  215 
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities 
(Audited)
 On 
 demand
 US$m 
 Due within
 3 months
 US$m 
 Due between
 3 and 12 
 months
 US$m 
 Due between 
 1 and 5 years  
 US$m 
 Due after
 5 years
 US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Deposits by banks ......................................................... 45,290 51,321 4,495 11,718 789
Customer accounts ........................................................ 1,035,636 229,642 62,650 17,508 720
Trading liabilities .......................................................... 304,564 – – – –
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ................. 7,778 1,211 7,825 42,683 62,279 
Derivatives .................................................................... 351,367 355 995 4,785 1,855 
Debt securities in issue ................................................. 64 37,938 37,167 45,433 6,034 
Subordinated liabilities ................................................. 7 386 1,149 9,058 46,322 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
47
 ................ 1,416 993 707 201 24
Other financial liabilities .............................................. 26,963 31,557 5,381 3,467 829
1,773,085 353,403 120,369 134,853 118,852 
Loan and other credit-related commitments ................ 375,818 76,394 51,330 57,506 18,421 
Financial guarantees and similar contracts .................. 14,321 5,506 12,104 9,266 3,796 
2,163,224 435,303 183,803 201,625 141,069 
At 31 December 2011      
Deposits by banks ......................................................... 47,659 59,096 3,578 11,048 997 
Customer accounts ........................................................ 914,762 252,226 72,993 20,508 1,094 
Trading liabilities .......................................................... 265,192 – – – – 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ................. 7,066 930 9,789 39,915 57,295 
Derivatives .................................................................... 340,394 394 497 2,858 1,007 
Debt securities in issue ................................................. 117 48,465 27,520 57,507 7,019 
Subordinated liabilities ................................................. 6 528 1,834 9,616 47,715 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
47
 ................ 3,108 1,721 1,045 211 150 
Other financial liabilities .............................................. 25,452 28,137 5,845 2,023 1,377 
 1,603,756 391,497 123,101 143,686 116,654 
Loan and other credit-related commitments ................ 355,366 65,245 94,120 111,061 29,113 
Financial guarantees and similar contracts .................. 12,460 7,585 12,107 5,899 1,273 
 1,971,582 464,327 229,328 260,646 147,040 
For footnote, see page 249. 
HSBC Holdings
(Audited)
During 2012, HSBC Holdings issued US$2.0bn 
of senior debt (2011: US$5.3bn). The eligibility 
requirements for non-equity instruments under 
Basel III rules have not been clearly defined in the 
UK, so HSBC Holdings issued no debt instruments 
which qualified as capital in 2012 (2011: nil). 
The balances in the table below will not 
agree directly with those on the balance sheet 
of HSBC Holdings as the table incorporates, on 
an undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to 
principal and future coupon payments (except for 
derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives). 
Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to 
hedging derivative liabilities are classified according 
to their contractual maturities. Derivatives not 
treated as hedging derivatives are included in the 
‘On demand’ time bucket. 
In addition, loan commitments and financial 
guarantees and similar contracts are generally not 
recognised on our balance sheet. The undiscounted 
cash flows potentially payable under financial 
guarantees and similar contracts are classified on 
the basis of the earliest date they can be called.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Liquidity and funding > Liquidity regulation // Market risk 
216 
Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities 
(Audited) 
 On 
 demand 
 Due within
 3 months 
 Due between 
 3 and 12 
 months 
 Due between 
 1 and 5 years  
 Due after
 5 years 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings ................... 3,032 604 1,096 1,918 7,570 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ............ – 269 807 5,345 31,970 
Derivatives ............................................................... 760 – – – –
Debt securities in issue ............................................ – 36 107 1,946 1,487 
Subordinated liabilities ............................................ – 205 614 3,273 25,049 
Other financial liabilities ......................................... – 394 211 – –
3,792 1,508 2,835 12,482 66,076 
Loan commitments .................................................. 1,200 – – – –
Financial guarantees and similar contracts ............. 49,402 – – – –
54,394 1,508 2,835 12,482 66,076 
At 31 December 2011      
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings ................... – 1,110 81 1,428 – 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ............ – 281 3,530 4,987 28,988 
Derivatives ............................................................... 1,067 – – – – 
Debt securities in issue ............................................ – 35 104 1,975 1,490 
Subordinated liabilities ............................................ – 216 649 3,461 27,558 
Other financial liabilities ......................................... – 1,252 208 – – 
 1,067 2,894 4,572 11,851 58,036 
Loan commitments .................................................. 1,810 – – – – 
Financial guarantees and similar contracts ............. 49,402 – – – – 
 52,279 2,894 4,572 11,851 58,036 
Liquidity regulation 
(Unaudited)
In December 2010, the Basel Committee published 
the ‘International framework for liquidity risk 
measurement, standards and monitoring’. The 
framework comprises two liquidity metrics: the 
liquidity coverage ratio (‘LCR’) and the net stable 
funding ratio (‘NSFR’). The ratios are subject to 
an observation period that began in 2011, and are 
expected to become established standards by 2015 and 
2018, respectively. During the observation period, the 
standards are under review by the Basel Committee. 
In January 2013, the Basel Committee announced 
several changes to the calibration of the LCR which  
included reducing the outflow applied to non-
operational non-financial corporate deposits from 
75% to 40% and reducing the outflow applied to 
committed liquidity facilities from 100% to 30%. 
A significant level of interpretation is required 
applying the definitions as currently drafted, in 
particular, the definition of operational deposits. 
Uncertainty around LCR also arises from the fact that 
the implementation of the Basel LCR framework still 
requires EU endorsement. In addition, the final 
calibration of the NSFR is highly uncertain and is 
expected to remain so, with no announcement on this 
expected from the Basel Committee until 2014.  217 
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Market risk 
 Page App
1
Tables Page 
Market risk in 2012 ............................................. 218
Overview of market risk in global businesses ....... 265
Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures .... 265
Sensitivity analysis ............................................... 266
Value at risk and stressed value at risk .................. 266
Stress testing .......................................................... 267
Trading and non-trading portfolios ................... 218 Types of risk by global business ............................................ 218
Overview of risk reporting .................................................... 218
Market risk linkages to the accounting balance sheet .......... 219
Market risk reporting measures ............................. 218
Value at risk of the trading and non-trading 
portfolios ............................................................ 219 Trading and non-trading value at risk .................................. 219
Daily trading and non-trading VAR ...................................... 219
Trading portfolios ................................................ 220 268
Value at risk of the trading portfolios .................... 220 Trading value at risk ............................................................. 220
Daily VAR (trading portfolios) .............................................. 220
Daily revenue ......................................................................... 220
Daily distribution of Global Markets’ trading and other 
trading revenues ................................................................ 220
VAR by risk type for trading activities .................................. 220
Stressed value at risk (1-day equivalent) .............................. 221
Stressed value at risk of the trading portfolio ....... 221
Gap risk .................................................................. 268
Available-for-sale exposures ................................. 
ABS/MBS exposures ............................................. 268
Non-trading portfolios ......................................... 221 268
Value at risk of the non-trading portfolios ............ 221 Non-trading value at risk ...................................................... 221
Daily VAR (non-trading portfolios) ...................................... 221
Credit spread risk for available-for-sale debt 
securities ............................................................ 221 268
Equity securities classified as available for sale ... 222 Fair value of equity securities ............................................... 222
Structural foreign exchange exposures .............. 222 268
Non-trading interest rate risk ............................. 222
Balance Sheet Management ................................ 222
Analysis of third party assets in Balance Sheet  
Management ...................................................................... 223
Sensitivity of net interest income ........................ 223 269 Sensitivity of projected net interest income ........................... 223
Sensitivity of reported reserves to interest rate movements . 224
Defined benefit pension schemes ........................ 224 269 HSBC’ s defined benefit pension schemes .............................. 224
Additional market risk measures  
applicable only to the parent company ......... 224 270
Foreign exchange risk ............................................ 225 HSBC Holdings - foreign exchange VAR .............................. 225
Sensitivity of net interest income .......................... 225 Sensitivity of HSBC Holdings net interest income to 
interest rate movements .................................................... 225
Interest rate repricing gap table ............................. 226 Repricing gap analysis of HSBC Holdings ........................... 226
1 Appendix to Risk – risk policies and practices. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Market risk > In 2012 / Trading and non-trading portfolios 
218 
Market risk is the risk that movements in 
market factors, including foreign exchange 
rates and commodity prices, interest rates, 
credit spreads and equity prices, will reduce 
our income or the value of our portfolios. 
There were no material changes to our policies and 
practices for the management of market risk in 2012. 
A summary of our current policies and practices 
regarding market risk is provided in the Appendix 
to Risk on page 265. 
Exposure to market risk 
Exposure to market risk is separated into two portfolios: 
• Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from market-
making and warehousing of customer-derived positions.  
• Non-trading portfolios comprise positions that primarily 
arise from the interest rate management of our retail and 
commercial banking assets and liabilities, financial 
investments designated as available for sale and held to 
maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance 
operations (see page 232). 
Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures 
Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures 
while maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk 
appetite.
We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk 
exposures, including:  
• sensitivity measures include sensitivity of net interest 
income and sensitivity for structural foreign exchange, 
which are used to monitor the market risk positions within 
each risk type; 
• value at risk (‘VAR’) is a technique that estimates the 
potential losses that could occur on risk positions as a 
result of movements in market rates and prices over a 
specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence; 
and
• in recognition of V AR’s limitations we augment V AR with 
stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio 
values of more extreme, though plausible, events or 
movements in a set of financial variables. Examples of 
scenarios reflecting current market concerns are the 
slowdown of mainland China and the potential effects of a 
sovereign debt default, including its wider contagion 
effects. 
Market risk in 2012
(Audited) 
Some credit spread and interest rate exposures to 
sovereign borrowers were managed down during 
2012 against the backdrop of continued concerns 
around eurozone sovereigns and financial 
institutions, the global economic slowdown and 
uncertainty about fiscal policy in the US. The 
second half of the year was characterised by  
improved market sentiment, primarily because the 
ECB pledged to support the euro. This led to a 
more benign market environment and generally 
subdued volatilities of credit spreads and other 
market risk factors. 
T rading and non-trading portfolios 
(Audited) 
The following tables provide an overview of the 
types of risks within the different global businesses. 
Types of risk by global business 
Risk types Global businesses 
Trading risk GB&M including Balance 
–  Foreign exchange   Sheet Management (‘BSM’)
       and commodities 
–  Interest rate 
–  Equities 
–  Credit spread 
Non-trading risk GB&M including BSM, 
–  Foreign exchange (structural) RBWM, CMB and GPB 
–  Interest rate 
–  Credit spread 
The market risk for insurance operations is 
reported separately on page 239. 
Market risk reporting measures 
The following table provides an overview of the 
reporting of risks within this section: 
Overview of risk reporting 
Portfolio 
 Trading  Non-trading 
Risk type 
Foreign exchange and 
commodity ..........................  VAR  VAR 
Interest rate ..............................  VAR  VAR/
 Sensitivity 
Equity ......................................  VAR  Sensitivity 
Credit spread ...........................  VAR  VAR 
Structural foreign exchange ....  n/a  Sensitivity 
Structural foreign exchange risk is monitored 
using sensitivity analysis (see page 268). The 
reporting of commodity risk is consolidated with 
foreign exchange risk. There is no commodity risk 
in the non-trading portfolios. The interest rate risk 
on the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC 
Holdings is not included in the Group VAR. 
The management of this risk is described on 
page 270.  219 
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Market risk linkages to the accounting balance sheet 
Trading assets and liabilities 
The Group’s trading assets and liabilities are in substantially all 
cases originated by GB&M. As described on page 393, the assets 
and liabilities are classified as held for trading if they have been 
acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling 
or repurchasing in the near term, or form part of a portfolio of 
identified financial instruments that are managed together and for 
which there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit-
taking. These assets and liabilities are treated as traded risk for the 
purposes of market risk management, other than a limited number 
of exceptions, primarily in Global Banking where the short-term 
acquisition and disposal of the assets are linked to other non-
trading related activities such as loan origination. 
Financial assets designated at fair value 
Financial assets designated at fair value within HSBC are 
predominantly held within the Insurance entities. The majority of 
these assets are linked to policyholder liabilities for either unit-
linked or insurance and investment contracts with DPF. Further 
information in respect of these assets is given on page 393. The 
risks of these assets largely offset the market risk on the liabilities 
under the policyholder contracts, and are risk managed on a non-
trading basis. Market risk for insurance operations is covered on 
page 239. 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value within HSBC are 
primarily fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC entities for 
funding purposes. As described on page 393, an accounting 
mismatch would arise if the debt securities were accounted for 
at amortised cost because the derivatives which economically 
hedge market risks on the securities would be accounted for at 
fair value with changes recognised in the income statement. The 
market risks of these liabilities are treated as non-traded risk, the 
principal risks being interest rate and/or foreign exchange risks. 
We also incur liabilities to customers under investment contracts, 
where the liabilities on unit-linked contracts are based on the fair 
value of assets within the unit-linked funds. The exposures on 
these funds are treated as non-traded risk and the principal risks 
are those of the underlying assets in the funds. 
Derivative assets and liabilities 
As described in Note 19 on the Financial Statements HSBC 
undertakes derivative activity for three primary purposes; to 
create risk management solutions for clients, to manage the 
portfolio risks arising from client business and to manage and 
hedge HSBC’s own risks.  Most of HSBC’s derivative exposures 
arise from sales and trading activities within GB&M and are 
treated as traded risk for market risk management purposes. 
Within derivative assets and liabilities there are portfolios of 
derivatives which are not risk managed on a trading intent basis 
and are treated as non-traded risk for V AR measurement purposes. 
These arise when the derivative was entered into in order to 
manage risk arising from non-traded exposures. These include 
non-qualifying hedging derivatives, and derivatives qualifying for 
fair value and cash flow hedge accounting. The use of non-
qualifying hedges whose primary risks relate to interest rate and 
foreign exchange exposure is described on page 397. Details of 
derivatives in fair value and cash flow hedge accounting 
relationships are given in Note 19 on the Financial Statements. 
HSBC’s primary risks in respect of these instruments relate to 
interest rate and foreign exchange risks.  
Loans and advances to customers 
The primary risk on assets within loans and advances to 
customers is the credit risk of the borrower. The risk of these 
assets is treated as non-trading risk for market risk management 
purposes. 
Financial investments 
Financial investments include assets held on an available-for-sale 
and held-to-maturity basis. An analysis of the Group’s holdings 
of these securities by accounting classification and issuer type is 
shown on page 457 and by business activity on page 20. The 
majority of these securities are mainly held within Balance Sheet 
Management in GB&M. The positions which are originated in 
order to manage structural interest rate and liquidity risk are 
treated as non-trading risk for the purposes of market risk 
management. Available-for-sale security holdings within 
insurance entities are treated as non-trading risk and are largely 
held to back non-linked insurance policyholder liabilities. Market 
risk for insurance operations is covered on page 239. 
The other main holdings of available-for-sale assets are the 
ABSs within GB&M’s legacy credit business, which are treated 
as non-trading risk for market risk management purposes, the 
principal risk being the credit risk of the obligor. 
The Group’s held-to-maturity securities are principally held 
within the Insurance business. Risks of held-to-maturity assets 
are treated as non-trading for risk management purposes. 
Value at risk of the trading and non-trading 
portfolios 
Our Group VAR, both trading and non-trading, was 
as tabulated below. For a description of HSBC’s 
fair value and price verification controls, see 
page 438. 
Trading and non-trading value at risk 
(Audited) 
 2012   2011 
 US$m   US$m 
At 31 December .......................  181.3   367.0 
Average ....................................  244.4   301.6 
Minimum .................................  163.8   231.5 
Maximum .................................  383.9   404.3 
Daily trading and non-trading VAR (US$m) 
(Unaudited) 
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 Dec-12
The decrease of Group trading and non-trading 
V AR during 2012 was driven primarily by the 
reduced effect of credit spreads, as a result of 
subdued volatilities and lower credit spread 
baselines utilised in the V AR calculations.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Market risk > Trading portfolios / Non-trading portfolios  
220
For a description of the parameters used in 
calculating VAR, see the ‘Appendix to Risk’ on 
page 266. 
T rading portfolios 
(Audited) 
Value at risk of the trading portfolios 
Our Group trading V AR was as shown below: 
Trading value at risk
 2012   2011 
 US$m   US$m 
At 31 December .......................  78.8   118.3 
Average ....................................  74.2   101.8 
Minimum .................................  47.3   62.2 
Maximum .................................  130.9   143.9 
Almost all trading V AR resides within Global 
Markets. The V AR for trading activity at 
31 December 2012 was lower than at 31 December 
2011 due primarily to the reduced contribution of 
credit spread exposures to sovereigns. This reduction 
was driven by positions being managed down, 
together with the lower credit spread volatilities 
and baselines in the V AR calculations. 
We routinely validate the accuracy of our V AR 
models by back-testing the actual daily profit and 
loss results, adjusted to remove non-modelled 
items such as fees and commissions, against the 
corresponding V AR numbers. We expect on average 
to see losses in excess of V AR 1% of the time over 
a one-year period. The actual number of losses in 
excess of V AR over this period can therefore be used 
to gauge how well the models are performing. In 
2012, there were no exceptions at the Group level. 
Daily VAR (trading portfolios) (US$m) Daily revenue 
(Unaudited) (Unaudited) 
30
60
90
120
150
Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 Dec-12
2012 2011 
US$m US$m 
Average daily revenue ................... 31.8  27.3 
Standard deviation
48
 ....................... 22.8  32.3 
Ranges of most frequent  
–  daily revenues ........................ 20 to 30  20 to 30 
 days  days 
–  daily occurrences ................... 60  41 
Days of negative revenue .............. 8  40 
Daily distribution of Global Markets’ trading and other trading revenues
49
(Unaudited) 
2012 2011
Number of days Number of days
2
0 1 0
2
0
3
4 4
21
43 43
60
45
24
5
0 0
2
0
1
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
65
-60 -50 -40 -30 -20 -10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 140 150
1 1
4
10
14
27
37
36
41
31
18
11
6
9
3 3
0
5
2
0
1
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
65
-100 -90 -80 -70 -60 -50 -40 -30 -20 -10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 130 140
Revenues (US$m) Revenues (US$m)
 Profit and loss frequency Profit and loss frequency 
For footnotes, see page 249. 
VAR by risk type for trading activities
50
(Audited)
 Foreign 
 exchange and 
 commodity 
 Interest
 rate  Equity 
 Credit
 spread 
 Portfolio 
 diversification
51
 Total
52
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2012 ...... 20.5  37.5  17.7  16.1  (12.9)  78.8 
Average .............................  23.5  42.7  9.3  26.8  (28.1)  74.2 
Minimum ..........................  6.9  29.5  2.7  12.2  –  47.3 
Maximum ..........................  46.0  60.0  24.9  77.9  –  130.9  221
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
 Foreign 
 exchange and 
 commodity 
 Interest
 rate  Equity 
 Credit 
 spread 
 Portfolio 
 diversification
51
  Total
52
  US$m   US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011 .......  18.6  49.4  7.4  75.2  (32.3)   118.3 
Average .............................  16.8   54.2  8.0  57.3  (34.4)   101.8 
Minimum ..........................  7.6   30.1  2.5  34.7  –   62.2 
Maximum ..........................  31.9   80.2  17.2  103.2  –   143.9 
For footnotes, see page 249.
Stressed value at risk of the trading 
portfolios 
(Unaudited) 
Stressed V AR is primarily used for regulatory capital 
purposes but is integrated into the risk management 
process to facilitate efficient capital management and 
to highlight potentially risky positions based on 
previous market volatility. 
Our Group stressed V AR for trading portfolios 
was as follows: 
Stressed value at risk (1-day equivalent) 
(Unaudited) 
 2012   2011 
 US$m   US$m 
At 31 December .......................  172.4   293.6 
Stressed V AR for trading portfolios reduced 
primarily as a result of the de-risking of exposures to 
eurozone sovereigns and managing down of interest 
rate risks, together with the impact of lower credit 
spread levels on the V AR calculation.
Non-trading portfolios
(Audited)
Value at risk of the non-trading portfolios 
Non-trading value at risk
2012 2011 
US$m US$m 
At 31 December .......................  119.2   310.9 
Average ....................................  197.9   244.2 
Minimum .................................  118.1   182.2 
Maximum .................................  322.5   354.8 
The daily levels of non-trading V AR over the course 
of 2012 are set out in the graph below.
Daily VAR (non-trading portfolios) (US$m) 
(Unaudited) 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Jan-12 Mar-12 May-12 Aug-12 Oct-12 Dec-12
Most of the Group non-trading V AR relates to 
Balance Sheet Management (‘BSM’) or local 
treasury management functions. Contributions to 
Group non-trading V AR are driven by interest rates 
and credit spread risks arising from all global 
businesses as illustrated on page 265). The decrease 
of non-trading V AR during 2012 was due primarily 
to the reduced contribution of credit spread risks as a 
result of lower volatilities and credit spread baselines 
utilised in the VAR calculations. This movement 
includes the reduction in credit spread risks relating 
to the Group’s holdings of available for sale debt 
securities (excluding those held in insurance 
operations), which is discussed further in the 
following section.  
Non-trading V AR also includes the interest 
rate risk of non-trading financial instruments held 
by the global businesses and transferred into 
portfolios managed by Global Markets or local 
treasury functions. In measuring, monitoring and 
managing risk in our non-trading portfolios, V AR is 
just one of the tools used. The management of 
interest rate risk in the banking book is described 
further in ‘Non-trading interest rate risk’ below, 
including the role of Balance Sheet Management. 
Non-trading V AR excludes equity risk on 
available for sale securities, structural foreign 
exchange risk, and interest rate risk on fixed 
rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings, the 
management of which is described in the relevant 
sections below. These sections together describe the 
scope of HSBC’s management of market risks in 
non-trading books. 
Credit spread risk for available-for-sale debt 
securities
Credit spread V AR for available-for-sale debt 
securities, excluding those held in insurance 
operations, is included in the Group non-trading V AR. 
At 31 December 2012, the sensitivity of equity 
capital to the effect of movements in credit spreads 
on our available-for-sale debt securities, including 
the gross exposure for the SICs consolidated within 
our balance sheet, based on credit spread V AR, was 
US$150m (2011: US$389m). This sensitivity was  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Market risk > Structural FX exposures / Non-trading interest rate risk / BSM / Sensitivity of NII 
222
calculated before taking into account losses which 
would have been absorbed by the capital note 
holders. Excluding the gross exposure for SICs 
consolidated in our balance sheet, this exposure 
reduced to US$119m (2011: US$325m).  
The decrease in this sensitivity at 31 December 
2012 compared with 31 December 2011 was due 
mainly to the effect of the lower volatility in credit 
spreads observed during 2012. 
At 31 December 2012, the capital note holders 
would absorb the first US$2.3bn (2011: US$2.3bn) 
of any losses incurred by the SICs before we incur 
any equity losses. 
Equity securities classified as available 
for sale 
Fair value of equity securities 
(Audited) 
2012 2011 
US$bn US$bn
Private equity holdings
53
 ............  2.9   3.0 
Funds invested for short-term  
cash management ...................  0.2   0.2 
Investment to facilitate  
ongoing business
54
 ..................  1.1   1.1 
Other strategic investments ........  1.6   2.9 
 5.8   7.2 
For footnotes, see page 249.
The fair value of the constituents of equity securities 
classified as available for sale can fluctuate 
considerably. The table above sets out maximum 
possible loss on shareholder’s equity from available-
for-sale equity securities. 
For details of the impairment incurred on 
available-for-sale equity securities, see 
‘Securitisation exposures and other structured 
products’ on page 184. 
Structural foreign exchange exposures  
(Unaudited) 
Our policies and procedures for managing structural 
foreign exchange exposures are described on 
page 268. For details of structural foreign exchange 
exposures see Note 35 on the Financial Statements. 
Non-trading interest rate risk 
(Unaudited) 
Asset, Liability and Capital Management (‘ALCM’) 
is responsible for measuring and controlling non-
trading interest rate risk under the supervision of the 
Risk Management Meeting (‘RMM’). Its primary 
responsibilities are: 
• to define the rules governing the transfer of 
interest rate risk from the global businesses to 
BSM;
• to ensure that all market interest rate risk 
that can be hedged is transferred from the global 
businesses to BSM; and 
• to define the rules and metrics for monitoring 
the residual interest rate risk in the global 
businesses. 
The different types of non-trading interest 
rate risk and the controls which we use to quantify 
and limit exposure to these risks can be categorised 
as follows: 
• risk which is transferred to BSM and managed 
by BSM within a defined risk mandate (see 
below);
• risk which remains outside BSM because it 
cannot be hedged or which arises due to our 
behaviouralised transfer pricing assumptions. 
This risk is captured by our net interest income 
or Economic Value of Equity (‘EVE’) sensitivity 
and corresponding limits are part of our global 
and regional risk appetite statements for non-
trading interest rate risk. A typical example 
would be margin compression created by 
unusually low rates in key currencies; 
• basis risk which is transferred to BSM when 
it can be hedged. Any residual basis risk 
remaining in the global businesses is reported to 
ALCO. A typical example would be a managed 
rate savings product transfer-priced using a 
Libor-based interest rate curve; and 
• model risks which cannot be captured by net 
interest income or EVE sensitivity, but are 
controlled by our stress testing framework. A 
typical example would be prepayment risk on 
residential mortgages or pipeline risk. 
Balance Sheet Management 
(Unaudited) 
Effective governance across BSM is supported by 
the dual reporting lines it has to the CEO of GB&M 
and to the Group Treasurer. In each operating entity, 
BSM is responsible for managing liquidity and 
funding under the supervision of the local ALCO. It 
also manages the non-trading interest rate positions 
transferred to it within a Global Markets limit 
structure.
BSM reinvests excess liquidity into highly 
rated liquid assets. The majority of the liquidity is 
invested in central bank deposits and government, 
supranational and agency securities with most of   223
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
the remainder held in short-term interbank and 
central bank loans.
Analysis of third party assets in Balance Sheet 
Management 
(Unaudited) 
At
31 December
2012
US$m 
Cash and balances at central banks ............. 93,946 
Trading assets .............................................. 8,724 
Financial assets designated at fair value ..... 74
Loans and advances:  
– to banks ..................................................... 72,771 
– to customers .............................................. 22,052 
Financial investments .................................. 293,421 
Other ............................................................ 2,948 
493,936 
Central bank deposits are accounted for as cash 
balances. Interbank loans and loans to central banks 
are accounted for as loans and advances to banks. 
BSM’s holdings of securities are accounted for as 
available-for-sale or to a lesser extent, held to 
maturity assets.  
BSM is permitted to use derivatives as part of 
its mandate to manage interest rate risk. Derivative 
activity is predominantly through the use of vanilla 
interest rate swaps which are part of cash flow 
hedging and fair value hedging relationships.  
Credit risk in BSM is predominantly limited 
to short-term bank exposure created by interbank 
lending and exposure to central banks as well as high 
quality sovereigns, supranationals or agencies which 
constitute the majority of BSM’s liquidity portfolio. 
BSM does not manage the structural credit risk of 
any Group entity balance sheets.  
BSM is permitted to enter into single name and 
index credit derivatives activity, but it does so to 
manage credit risk on the exposure specific to its 
securities portfolio in limited circumstances only. 
The risk limits are extremely limited and closely 
monitored. At 31 December 2012 and 31 December 
2011 BSM had no open credit derivative index risk. 
VAR is calculated on both trading and non-
trading positions held in BSM. It is calculated by 
applying the same methodology used for the Global 
Markets business and utilised as a tool for market 
risk control purposes. 
BSM holds trading portfolio instruments in 
only very limited circumstances. Positions and the 
associated VAR were not significant during 2012 
and 2011. 
Sensitivity of net interest income 
(Unaudited) 
The table below sets out the effect on our future net 
interest income of an incremental 25 basis points 
parallel rise or fall in all yield curves worldwide at 
the beginning of each quarter during the 12 months 
from 1 January 2013. Assuming no management 
actions, a sequence of such rises would increase 
planned net interest income for 2013 by US$1,391m 
(2012: US$1,571m), while a sequence of such falls 
would decrease planned net interest income by 
US$1,471m (2012: US$1,909m). These figures 
incorporate the effect of any option features in the 
underlying exposures. 
Sensitivity of projected net interest income
55
(Unaudited) 
 US dollar 
 bloc 
 US$m 
 Rest of
 Americas 
 bloc
 US$m 
 Hong Kong
 dollar
 bloc
 US$m 
 Rest of
 Asia
 bloc
 US$m 
 Sterling 
 bloc 
 US$m 
 Euro 
 bloc 
 US$m 
 Total
 US$m 
Change in 2013 projected net 
interest income arising from  
a shift in yield curves of: 
+25 basis points at the  
beginning of each quarter ..... 133 64 246 237 679 44 1,403 
–25 basis points at the  
beginning of each quarter ..... (366) (52) (305) (168) (602) (57) (1,550)
Change in 2012 projected net 
interest income arising from  
a shift in yield curves of:        
+25 basis points at the  
beginning of each quarter ..... 209 62 263 232 729 76 1,571 
–25 basis points at the  
beginning of each quarter ..... (465) (59) (443) (166) (708) (68) (1,909)
For footnote, see page 249. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Market risk > Sensitivity of NII / DBS Scheme / Parent company  
224
The interest rate sensitivities set out above 
are illustrative only and are based on simplified 
scenarios. The limitations of this analysis are 
discussed in the Appendix to Risk on page 269. 
The year-on-year change in the sensitivity of 
the Group’s net interest income to the change in rates 
shown in the table above is largely driven by lower 
implied yield curves, reducing the capacity to shock 
interest rates down. Net interest income and its 
associated sensitivity as reflected in the table above 
include the expense of internally funding trading 
assets, while related revenue is reported in ‘Net 
trading income’. 
We monitor the sensitivity of reported reserves 
to interest rate movements on a monthly basis by 
assessing the expected reduction in valuation of 
available-for-sale portfolios and cash flow hedges 
due to parallel movements of plus or minus 100bps 
in all yield curves. The table below describes the 
sensitivity of our reported reserves to these 
movements and the maximum and minimum 
month-end figures during the year: 
Sensitivity of reported reserves to interest rate movements 
(Unaudited) 
US$m 
Maximum 
impact  
US$m 
Minimum
impact
US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
+ 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves .................................................... (5,602) (5,748) (5,166)
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity ............................................................ (3.2%) (3.3%) (2.9)%)
– 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves .................................................... 4,996 5,418 4,734
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity ............................................................ 2.9% 3.1% 2.7%
    
At 31 December 2011     
+ 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves .................................................... (5,594) (6,178)  (5,594)
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity ............................................................ (3.5%) (3.9%)  (3.5%)
– 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves .................................................... 5,397 6,411  5,397 
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity ............................................................ 3.4% 4.0%  3.4% 
The sensitivities above are illustrative only and 
are based on simplified scenarios. The table shows 
the potential sensitivity of reported reserves to 
valuation changes in available-for-sale portfolios and 
from cash flow hedges following the specified shifts 
in yield curves. These particular exposures form only 
a part of our overall interest rate exposures. The 
accounting treatment of our remaining interest rate 
exposures, while economically largely offsetting the 
exposures shown in the above table, does not require 
revaluation movements to go to reserves. 
Defined benefit pension schemes 
(Audited) 
Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension 
schemes to the extent that the obligations of the 
schemes are not fully matched by assets with 
determinable cash flows. 
HSBC’s defined benefit pension schemes 
(Audited)
 2012  2011 
 US$bn  US$bn 
Liabilities (present value) ........  38.1  35.0 
 %  % 
Assets:
Equities ....................................  18  15 
Debt securities .........................  71  73 
Other (including property) .......  11  12 
 100  100 
For details of our defined benefit schemes, see 
Note 7 on the Financial Statements, and for pension 
risk management, see page 269. 
Additional market risk measures applicable 
only to the parent company 
(Audited)
The principal tools used in the management of 
market risk are V AR for foreign exchange rate risk, 
and the projected sensitivity of HSBC Holdings’ net 
interest income to future changes in yield curves and 
interest rate gap re-pricing tables for interest rate risk.  225
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Foreign exchange risk 
Total foreign exchange V AR arising within HSBC 
Holdings in 2012 was as follows: 
HSBC Holdings – foreign exchange VAR 
(Audited)
 2012 
 US$m 
 2011 
 US$m
At 31 December ..............................  69.9   47.7 
Average ...........................................  51.4   43.3 
Minimum ........................................  39.2   38.2 
Maximum ........................................  69.9   48.3 
The foreign exchange risk largely arises from 
loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature that are not 
denominated in the functional currency of either the 
provider or the recipient and which are accounted 
for as financial assets. Changes in the carrying 
amount of these loans due to foreign exchange rate 
differences are taken directly to HSBC Holdings’ 
income statement. These loans, and most of the 
associated foreign exchange exposures, are 
eliminated on a Group consolidated basis. 
Sensitivity of net interest income  
(Audited) 
HSBC Holdings monitors net interest income 
sensitivity over a 5-year time horizon reflecting 
the longer-term perspective on interest rate risk 
management appropriate to a financial services 
holding company. The table below sets out the effect 
on HSBC Holdings’ future net interest income over 
a 5-year time horizon of incremental 25 basis point 
parallel falls or rises in all yield curves worldwide at 
the beginning of each quarter during the 12 months 
from 1 January 2013. 
Assuming no management actions, a sequence 
of such rises would increase planned net interest 
income for the next five years by US$532m (2011: 
decrease of US$269m), while a sequence of such 
falls would decrease planned net interest income 
by US$329m (2011: increase of US$248m). These 
figures incorporate the effect of any option features 
in the underlying exposures. 
Sensitivity of HSBC Holdings’ net interest income to interest rate movements
55
(Audited)
 US dollar
 bloc
 Sterling
 bloc
 Euro 
 bloc Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Change in projected net interest income as at 31 December  
arising from a shift in yield curves  
2012
of + 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter  
0-1 year ................................................................................. 83 (23) 4 64
2-3 years ............................................................................... 303 (108) 37 232
4-5 years ............................................................................... 319 (120) 37 236
of – 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter  
0-1 year ................................................................................. (34) 21 (2) (15)
2-3 years ............................................................................... (139) 65 (17) (91)
4-5 years ............................................................................... (306) 118 (35) (223)
    
Change in projected net interest income as at 31 December  
arising from a shift in yield curves  
    
2011     
of + 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter      
0-1 year ................................................................................. (13) 11 4 2 
2-3 years ............................................................................... (161) 33 33 (95)
4-5 years ............................................................................... (244) 21 47 (176)
of – 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter      
0-1 year ................................................................................. 14 (11) (4) (1)
2-3 years ............................................................................... 127 (27) (27) 73 
4-5 years ............................................................................... 244 (21) (47) 176 
For footnote, see page 249.
The interest rate sensitivities tabulated above 
are illustrative only and are based on simplified 
scenarios. The figures represent hypothetical 
movements in net interest income based on our 
projected yield curve scenarios, HSBC Holdings’ 
current interest rate risk profile and assumed changes 
to that profile during the next five years. The main 
driver of the change in the US dollar projected net 
interest income sensitivity was a change in the 
assumptions for projected capital funding. The change 
to the GBP projected net interest income sensitivity 
was caused by changes in the composition of HSBC 
Holdings’ investments. Changes to assumptions 
concerning the risk profile over the next five years  
can have a significant impact on the net interest income 
sensitivity for that period. However, the figures do not  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Market risk > Parent company // Operational risk > ORMF  
226
take into account the effect of actions that could be 
taken to mitigate this interest rate risk. 
Interest rate repricing gap table 
The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities 
issued by HSBC Holdings is not included within the 
Group VAR but is managed on a repricing gap basis. 
The interest rate repricing gap table below analyses 
the full-term structure of interest rate mismatches 
within HSBC Holdings’ balance sheet. 
Repricing gap analysis of HSBC Holdings 
(Audited)
 Total 
 Up to
 1 year 
 Between 
 1 and 5
 years 
 Between 
 5 and 10 
 years 
 More than 
 10 years 
 Non-interest
  bearing 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Cash at bank and in hand: 
– balances with HSBC undertakings .............. 353 312 – – – 41
Derivatives .......................................................... 3,768 – – – – 3,768 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings ...... 41,675 38,473 – 1,477 630 1,095 
Financial investments ......................................... 1,208 – 300 731 – 177
Investments in subsidiaries ................................. 92,234 – – – – 92,234 
Other assets ......................................................... 246 – – – – 246
Total assets .......................................................... 139,484 38,785 300 2,208 630 97,561 
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings .............. (12,856) (12,259) – – – (597)
Financial liabilities designated at fair values ..... (23,195) (1,654) (6,334) (7,708) (4,301) (3,198)
Derivatives .......................................................... (760) – – – – (760)
Debt securities in issue ....................................... (2,691) – (1,648) – (1,051) 8
Other liabilities ................................................... (1,048) – – – – (1,048)
Subordinated liabilities ....................................... (11,907) – (808) (2,110) (8,828) (161)
Total equity ......................................................... (87,027) – – – – (87,027)
Total liabilities and equity .................................. (139,484) (13,913) (8,790) (9,818) (14,180) (92,783)
Off-balance sheet items attracting interest rate 
sensitivity ........................................................ – (18,583) 6,348 7,341 4,325 569
Net interest rate risk gap ..................................... – 6,289 (2,142) (269) (9,225) 5,347 
Cumulative interest rate gap ............................... – 6,289 4,147 3,878 (5,347) –
       
At 31 December 2011       
Cash at bank and in hand:       
– balances with HSBC undertakings.............. 316 280 – – – 36 
Derivatives .......................................................... 3,568 – – – – 3,568 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings ...... 28,048 25,373 1,175 279 603 618 
Financial investments ......................................... 1,078 – 300 731 – 47 
Investments in subsidiaries ................................. 90,621 – – – – 90,621 
Other assets ......................................................... 231 – – – – 231 
Total assets .......................................................... 123,862 25,653 1,475 1,010 603 95,121 
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings .............. (2,479) (2,260) – – – (219)
Financial liabilities designated at fair values ..... (21,151) (2,694) (6,423) (6,157) (5,156) (721)
Derivatives .......................................................... (1,067) – – – – (1,067)
Debt securities in issue ....................................... (2,613) – (1,617) – (1,006) 10 
Other liabilities ................................................... (1,919) – – – – (1,919)
Subordinated liabilities ....................................... (12,450) (776) (774) (2,070) (8,671) (159)
Total equity ......................................................... (82,183) – – – – (82,183)
Total liabilities and equity .................................. (123,862) (5,730) (8,814) (8,227) (14,833) (86,258)
Off-balance sheet items attracting interest rate 
sensitivity ........................................................ – (17,945) 6,405 5,749 5,048 743 
Net interest rate risk gap ..................................... – 1,978 (934) (1,468) (9,182) (9,606)
Cumulative interest rate gap ............................... – 1,978 1,044 (424) (9,606) –  227
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Operational risk 
(Unaudited) 
 Page App
1
 Tables Page 
Operational risk .................................................... 270 
Operational risk management framework ......... 227 Three lines of defence ............................................................ 227
Operational risk management framework ............................ 228
Operational risk in 2012 ....................................... 228 
Frequency and amount of operational risk losses ... 229 Frequency of operational risk incidents by risk category .... 229
Distribution of operational risk losses in US dollars by risk 
category ................................................................................. 230
Compliance risk ..................................................... 230 271 
Legal risk ................................................................ 271 
Global security and fraud risk ............................. 271 
Systems risk ........................................................... 272 
Vendor risk management ..................................... 272 
Fiduciary risk ........................................................ 231 273 
1  Appendix to Risk - risk policies and practices.
Operational risk is relevant to every aspect 
of our business, and covers a wide spectrum 
of issues, in particular legal, compliance, 
security and fraud. Losses arising from 
breaches of regulation and law, unauthorised 
activities, error, omission, inefficiency, fraud, 
systems failure or external events all fall 
within the definition of operational risk. 
We continued to enhance our operational risk 
management framework (‘ORMF’) policies and 
procedures in 2012, including the implementation 
of a top risk analysis process to improve the 
quantification and management of material risks 
through scenario analysis. This provides a top down, 
forward-looking view of risks to help determine 
whether they are being effectively managed within 
our risk appetite or whether further management 
action is required. 
Responsibility for minimising operational 
risk management lies with HSBC’s management and 
staff. Each regional, global business, country, 
business unit and functional head is required to 
maintain oversight over operational risk and internal 
control covering all business and operational 
activities for which they are responsible. 
A summary of our current policies and practices 
regarding operational risk is provided in the 
Appendix to Risk on page 270. 
Operational risk management framework 
The Group Operational Risk function and the ORMF 
assist business management in discharging their 
responsibilities.  
The ORMF defines minimum standards and 
processes, and the governance structure for 
operational risk and internal control across the 
Group. Inherent to the ORMF is a ‘three lines of 
defence’ model for the management of risk, as 
described below: 
Three lines of defence 
Every employee at HSBC is responsible for the 
risks that are a part of their day to day jobs. 
The first line of defence ensures all key risks 
within their operations are identified, mitigated 
and monitored by appropriate internal controls 
within an overall control environment.
Consists of the Global Functions such as Global 
Risk, Finance and HR who are responsible for 
providing assurance, challenge and oversight 
of the activities conducted by the first line. 
Internal Audit provides independent assurance
over the first and second lines of defence.
First
line of
defence
Second
line of
defence
Third
line of
defence
A diagrammatic representation of the ORMF is 
presented below:  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Market risk > Operational > In 2012  
228
Operational risk management framework 
Operational risks
• Operations
• Accounting
• Compliance
• Fiduciary
• Internal fraud
• External fraud
• Physical
• Business continuity
• Information
• Legal
• Tax
• Technology
• People
• Project
• Political
Governance Identify
Set risk
appetite
Assess Control Report
Action
Risk and Control Assessment (‘RCA’)
Key indicators (‘KI’s)
Internal incidents
External events
Capital Modelling
Top Risk
Analysis
(‘TRA’)
1
2
3
4
• RCAs are used to inform the evaluation of the effectiveness of controls over top risks. 
• KIs are linked to TRAs to help monitor the risks and controls in the operational risk system. 
• Internal incidents are used to forecast typical losses. 
• External sources (e.g. Fitch and ORX databases) are used to inform the assessment of extreme TRAs. 
Operational risk in 2012 
During 2012, our top and emerging risk profile was 
dominated by compliance and legal risks as referred 
to in the ‘Top and emerging risks’ section and Note 
43 on the Financial Statements. A number of other 
material losses were realised in 2012, which related 
largely to events that occurred in previous years. 
These events included the possible historical mis-
selling of PPI and interest rate protection products in 
the UK (see Note 32 on the Financial Statements). A 
number of mitigating actions continue to be taken to 
prevent future mis-selling incidents including 
enhanced new product approval processes. 
The incidence of regulatory proceedings and 
other adversarial proceedings against financial 
service firms is increasing. Proposed changes 
relating to capital and liquidity requirements, 
remuneration and/or taxes could increase our cost of 
doing business, reducing future profitability. Various 
regulators and competition authorities around the 
world are also investigating and reviewing certain 
past submissions made by panel banks and the 
process for making submissions in connection with 
the setting of Libor, Euribor and other benchmark 
interest and foreign exchange rates. In response, we 
have undertaken a number of initiatives which seek 
to address the issues identified, including creating a 
new global management structure, enhancing our 
governance and oversight, increasing our compliance 
function resource, emphasising HSBC Values and 
designing and implementing new global standards as  
described on page 6. For further information, 
see Note 43 on the Financial Statements. 
Other significant operational risks included: 
• challenges to achieving our strategy in a 
downturn: businesses and geographical regions 
have prioritised strategy and annual operating 
plans to reflect current economic conditions. 
Performance against plan is monitored through a 
number of means including the use of balanced 
scorecards and performance reporting at all 
relevant management committees; 
• internet crime and fraud: the threat of external 
fraud, especially in retail and commercial 
banking, may increase during adverse economic 
conditions. We have increased our defences 
through enhanced monitoring and have 
implemented additional controls, such as two-
factor authentication, to mitigate the possibility 
of losses from fraud risks. We continually assess 
these threats as they evolve and adapt our 
controls to mitigate these risks;  
• level of change creating operational complexity:
the Risk function is engaged with business 
management in business transformation 
initiatives to ensure robust internal controls are 
maintained, including through participation in 
all relevant management committees. For 
example, we undertake rigorous testing and 
review of all planned updates to our systems 
environment. All changes are risk assessed and  229
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
appropriate mitigating controls are required for 
any planned high risk changes;  
• information security: the security of our 
information and technology infrastructure is 
crucial for maintaining our banking applications 
and processes while protecting our customers 
and the HSBC brand. In common with other 
banks and multinational organisations, we face a 
growing threat of cyber attacks. A failure of our 
defences against such attacks could result in 
financial loss, loss of customer data and other 
sensitive information which could undermine 
both our reputation and our ability to retain 
the trust of our customers. We experienced a 
number of cyber attacks in 2012, none of which 
resulted in financial loss or the loss of customer 
data. Significant investment has already been 
made in enhancing controls, including increased 
training to raise staff awareness of the 
requirements, improved controls around 
data access and heightened monitoring of 
information flows. The threat from cyber attacks 
is a concern for our organisation and failure to 
protect our operations from internet crime or 
cyber attacks may result in financial loss, loss 
of customer data or other sensitive information 
which could undermine our reputation and our 
ability to attract and keep customers. This area 
will continue to be a focus of ongoing initiatives 
to strengthen the control environment;  
• vendor risk management: this continues to 
evolve, with a project underway to accelerate 
the review of existing contracts, including those 
that support key economic functions, and a 
global project to manage the performance of 
critical outsourced vendors; and
• compliance with regulatory agreements and 
orders: in relation to the Deferred Prosecution 
Agreements (‘DPA’s), the Group has committed 
to take or continue to adhere to a number of 
remedial measures. Breach of the DPAs at any 
time during its term may allow the DoJ or the 
New York County District Attorney’s Office to 
prosecute HSBC in relation to the matters which 
are the subject of the DPAs. For further detail 
please see ‘Top and emerging risks’.
Other operational risks are also monitored and 
managed through the use of the ORMF, including 
investments made to further improve the resilience 
of our payments infrastructure. 
Further information on the nature of these 
risks is provided in ‘Top and emerging risks’ on 
page 130.
Frequency and amount of operational risk 
losses
The profile of operational risk incidents and 
associated losses is summarised below, showing the 
distribution of operational risk incidents in terms of 
their frequency of occurrence and total loss amount 
in US dollars. 
The operational risk incident profile in 2012 
comprised both high frequency, low impact events 
and high impact events that occurred much less 
frequently. For example, losses due to external fraud 
incidents such a credit card fraud occurred more 
often than other types of event, but the amounts 
involved were often small in value. Fraud incidents 
continued to account for over 50% of the total 
number of incidents but only 4% of operational 
risk losses. 
By contrast, operational risk incidents in the 
compliance category remained relatively low 
frequency events, but the total cost was significant. 
Compliance-related losses increased in 2012 to 79% 
of total operational risk losses due to significant 
historical events including the possible mis-selling 
of PPI and interest rate protection products in the 
UK and the incidence of regulatory matters 
described in Note 43 on the Financial Statements. 
Frequency of operational risk incidents by 
risk category 
4%
54%
8%
28%
3%
3%
5%
55%
8%
25%
6%
1%
Compliance
Fraud
Legal
Operations 
and Systems
People
Other
2011
2012 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Operational risk > Compliance risk / Fiduciary risk  
230
Distribution of operational risk losses in US dollars 
by risk category 
61%
10%
13%
12%
1%
3%
79%
4%
5%
9%
0%
3%
Compliance
Fraud
Legal
Operations 
and Systems
People
Other
2011
2012
Compliance risk 
(Unaudited) 
Compliance risk is the risk that we fail to 
observe the letter and spirit of all relevant 
laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards 
of good market practice, and incur fines and 
penalties and suffer damage to our business 
as a consequence. 
All Group companies are required to observe the 
letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, 
regulations and standards of good market practice. 
In 2012, we experienced increasing levels of 
compliance risk as regulators and other agencies 
pursued investigations into historical activities and 
as we continued to work with them in relation to 
already identified issues. These included: 
• an appearance before the US Senate Permanent 
Subcommittee on Investigations and the DPAs 
reached with US authorities in relation to 
investigations regarding inadequate compliance 
with anti-money laundering, the US Bank 
Secrecy Act and sanctions laws, plus a related 
undertaking with the FSA; 
• investigations into the possible mis-selling of 
interest rate derivative products to SMEs in the 
UK; and 
• investigations and reviews related to certain past 
submissions made by panel banks and the 
process for making submissions in connection 
with the setting of Libor, Euribor and other 
benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates. 
As some HSBC entities are members of such 
panels, HSBC Holdings and certain of its 
subsidiaries have been the subject of regulatory 
demands for information. 
With a new senior leadership team and strategy 
in place since 2011, we have already taken steps to 
address these issues including making significant 
changes to strengthen compliance, risk management 
and culture. These steps, which will also enhance our 
compliance risk management capabilities, including 
the following: 
• the creation of a new global structure, which 
will make HSBC easier to manage and control; 
• simplifying our business through the ongoing 
implementation of our organisational 
effectiveness programme and our five 
economic filters strategy;  
• introducing a sixth global risk filter which will 
standardise the way we do business in high risk 
countries;
• substantially increasing resources, doubling 
global expenditure and significantly 
strengthening Compliance as a control (rather 
than as an advisory) function; 
• continuing to roll out an HSBC Values 
programme that defines the way everyone 
in the Group should act; and 
• adopting and enforcing the most effective 
standards globally, including a globally 
consistent approach to knowing and retaining 
our customers. 
Additionally, we have substantially revised 
our governance framework in this area, appointing a 
new Chief Legal Officer with particular expertise 
and experience in US law and regulation, and 
creating and appointing experienced individuals to 
the new roles of Head of Group Financial Crime 
Compliance and Global Head of Regulatory 
Compliance. 
It is clear from both our own and wider industry 
experience that there is a significantly increased 
level of activity from regulators and law 
enforcement agencies in pursuing investigations in 
relation to possible breaches of regulation and that 
the direct and indirect costs of such breaches can 
be significant. Coupled with a substantial increase 
in the volume of new regulation, much of which 
has some level of extra-territorial effect, and the 
geographical spread of our businesses, we believe 
that the level of inherent compliance risk that we 
face will continue to remain high for the foreseeable 
future. 231
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Fiduciary risk 
(Unaudited) 
Fiduciary risk is the risk to the Group of 
breaching our fiduciary duties when we 
act in a fiduciary capacity as trustee or 
investment manager or as mandated by 
law or regulation. 
A fiduciary duty is one where HSBC holds, 
manages, oversees or has responsibility for assets for 
a third party that involves a legal and/or regulatory 
duty to act with the highest standard of care and with 
utmost good faith. A fiduciary must make decisions 
and act in the best interests of the third party and 
must place the wants and needs of the client first, 
above the needs of the Group. 
We may be held liable for damages or other 
penalties caused by failure to act in accordance with 
those duties. Fiduciary duties may also arise in other 
circumstances, such as when we act as an agent for a 
principal, unless the fiduciary duties are specifically 
excluded (e.g. under the agency appointment 
contract).
During 2012, our principal fiduciary businesses 
(the ‘designated businesses’) developed fiduciary 
risk appetite statements for their various fiduciary 
roles and a joint review was commissioned by 
Global Operational Risk and RBWM to identify 
businesses other than designated businesses 
conducting fiduciary activities to ensure that they 
were subject to adequate review and oversight.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued)
Risk > Risk management of insurance operations > Bancassurance / In 2012 
232
Risk management of insurance operations 
(Audited) 
 PageApp
1
Tables Page
HSBC’s bancassurance model ............................ 233
Overview of insurance products ............................ 273
Nature and extent of risks ...................................... 273
Insurance risk ......................................................... 274
Risk management of insurance operations  
in 2012 ............................................................... 233
Insurance risk ......................................................... 233 Analysis of life insurance risk – liabilities to policyholders  234
Analysis of non-life insurance risk – net written insurance 
premiums .......................................................................... 234
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing 
subsidiaries ....................................................... 235 Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries: 
–  by type of contract ............................................................ 236
–  by geographical region .................................................... 237
Financial risks ...................................................... 238 275 Financial assets held by insurance manufacturing 
subsidiaries ...................................................................... 238
Market risk ............................................................. 239 275 Liabilities to policyholders .................................................. 239
Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance manufacturing  
subsidiaries to market risk factors .................................. 240
Credit risk .............................................................. 240 277 Treasury bills, other eligible bills and debt securities in 
HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries .............. 240
Reinsurers’ share of liabilities under insurance contracts . 242
Liquidity risk ......................................................... 242 277 Expected maturity of insurance contract liabilities ............ 242
Remaining contractual maturity of investment contract 
liabilities .......................................................................... 243
Present value of in-force long-term insurance 
business ............................................................. 243 Movements in PVIF and total equity of insurance operations 244
Key assumptions used in the computation of PVIF for main 
life insurance operations ................................................. 244
Economic assumptions ........................................ 244 Sensitivity of PVIF to changes in economic assumptions ... 244
Non-economic assumptions ................................. 245 Sensitivity analysis ............................................................... 245
1 Appendix to Risk - policies and practices.  233
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
The majority of the risk in our Insurance 
business derives from manufacturing 
activities and can be categorised as 
insurance risk and financial risk. Insurance 
risk is the risk, other than financial risk, 
of loss transferred from the holder of the 
insurance contract to the issuer (HSBC). 
Financial risks include market risk, credit 
risk and liquidity risk. 
There were no material changes to our policies and 
practices for the management of risks arising in the 
insurance operations, including the risks relating to 
different life and non-life products, during 2012. 
A summary of our policies and practices 
regarding the risk management of insurance 
operations, and the main contracts we 
manufacture, are provided in the Appendix to 
Risk on page 270. 
HSBC’s bancassurance model 
We operate an integrated bancassurance model 
which provides wealth and protection insurance 
products principally for customers with whom we 
have a banking relationship. Insurance products are 
sold through all global businesses, predominantly by 
RBWM and CMB, through our branches and direct 
channels worldwide. 
The insurance contracts we sell largely relate to 
the underlying needs of our banking customers, 
which we can identify from our point-of-sale 
contacts and customer knowledge. The majority 
of sales are of savings and investment products and 
term and credit life contracts. By focusing largely 
on personal and SME lines of business we are able to 
optimise volumes and diversify individual insurance 
risks. 
Where we have operational scale and risk 
appetite, mostly in life insurance, these insurance 
products are manufactured by HSBC subsidiaries. 
Manufacturing insurance allows us to retain the risks 
and rewards associated with writing insurance 
contracts as part of the underwriting profit, 
investment income and distribution commission 
are kept within the Group. 
Where we do not have the risk appetite or 
operational scale to be an effective insurance 
manufacturer, we engage through a handful of 
leading external insurance companies in order to 
provide insurance products to our customers through 
our banking network and direct channels. These 
arrangements are generally structured with our 
exclusive strategic partners and earn the Group a 
combination of commissions, fees and profit-share. 
We distribute insurance products in all of our 
geographical regions. We have core life insurance 
manufacturing entities, the majority of which are 
direct subsidiaries of legal banking entities, in seven 
countries (Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, France, UK, 
Hong Kong and Singapore). Our life insurance 
manufacturing entities in the US are held-for-sale 
at 31 December 2012. 
Risk management of insurance operations in 
2012 
This section provides disclosures on the risks arising 
from insurance manufacturing operations, including 
insurance risk and financial risks such as market 
risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.   
Risks in these operations are managed within 
the insurance entities using methodologies and 
processes appropriate to the insurance activities, 
but remain subject to oversight at Group level.  
The consolidated Group liquidity and market 
risk management disclosures exclude insurance 
operations. The assets of the insurance 
manufacturing subsidiaries are included within 
the consolidated Group credit risk disclosures. 
Operational and sustainability risks are covered 
by the Group’s overall respective risk management 
processes and are not included in this section.  
Insurance risk 
Insurance risk is principally measured in two ways: 
• liabilities to policyholders on life insurance 
contracts; and 
• net written insurance premiums for non-life 
contracts.
The insurance risk profile of our life insurance 
manufacturing businesses did not change materially 
during 2012 despite the increase in liabilities to 
policyholders on these contracts to US$68bn 
(2011: US$60bn). This growth in liabilities largely 
resulted from market value gains on underlying 
financial assets in addition to new business 
generated during 2012. 
The insurance risk profile of our non-life 
insurance manufacturing businesses changed during 
the year as net written insurance premiums declined 
to US$656m (2011: US$993m). This was in line 
with our strategy to focus on the manufacturing of 
life insurance products, with non-life manufacturing 
entities or portfolios in Argentina, Hong Kong, 
Ireland and Singapore sold during 2012. 
A principal risk we continue to face is that, over 
time, the cost of acquiring and administering  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued)
Risk > Risk management of insurance operations > In 2012 / Balance sheet of manufacturing subsidiaries  
234
a contract, claims and benefits may exceed the 
aggregate amount of premiums received and 
investment income. The cost of claims and benefits 
can be influenced by many factors, including 
mortality and morbidity experience, lapse and 
surrender rates and, if the policy has a savings 
element, the performance of the assets held to 
support the liabilities.  
In respect of financial risks, subsidiaries 
manufacturing products with guarantees are usually 
exposed to falls in market interest rates and equity 
prices to the extent that the market exposure 
cannot be managed by utilising any discretionary 
participation (or bonus) features (‘DPF’) within 
the policy contracts they issue.  
The following tables analyse our insurance risk 
exposures by geographical region and by type of 
business. The insurance risk profile and related 
exposures remained largely consistent with those 
observed at 31 December 2011. 
Analysis of life insurance risk – liabilities to policyholders
56
(Audited) 
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-
 Pacific 
 North 
 America
57
 Latin 
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Life (non-linked) ................................................. 1,319 25,615 1,587 – 2,163 30,684 
Insurance contracts with DPF
58
 ...................... 353 23,685 439 – – 24,477
Credit life ........................................................ 160 – 61 – – 221
Annuities ........................................................ 586 – 122 – 1,579 2,287
Term assurance and other long-term  
contracts ..................................................... 220 1,930 965 – 584 3,699
Life (linked) ........................................................ 3,249 3,786 594 – 5,427 13,056 
Investment contracts with DPF
58,59
 ..................... 24,370 – 4 – – 24,374 
Insurance liabilities to policyholders .................. 28,938 29,401 2,185 – 7,590 68,114 
         
At 31 December 2011       
Life (non-linked) ................................................. 1,163 21,460 1,227 982 2,094 26,926 
Insurance contracts with DPF
58
 ...................... 335 20,109 338 – – 20,782
Credit life ........................................................ 219 – 58 34 – 311
Annuities........................................................ 517 – 78 741 1,546 2,882
Term assurance and other long-term  
contracts..................................................... 92 1,351 753 207 548 2,951
Life (linked) ........................................................ 2,508 3,393 476 – 4,833 11,210 
Investment contracts with DPF
58,59
 ..................... 21,477 – 11 – – 21,488 
Insurance liabilities to policyholders .................. 25,148 24,853 1,714 982 6,927 59,624 
For footnotes, see page 249.
Our most significant life insurance products are 
investment contracts with DPF issued in France, 
insurance contracts with DPF issued in Hong Kong 
and unit-linked contracts issued in Latin America, 
Hong Kong and the UK.  The decline in life 
insurance liabilities in North America reflects the 
classification of this business as held for sale at 
31 December 2012. 
Analysis of non-life insurance risk – net written insurance premiums
60
(Audited) 
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-
 Pacific 
 North 
 America 
 Latin 
 America  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
2012
Accident and health ............................................ 7 181 7 – 34 229
Motor .................................................................. – 14 20 – 161 195
Fire and other damage ........................................ – 20 15 24 20 79
Liability ............................................................... – 15 4 – 1 20
Credit (non-life) .................................................. – – – 36 1 37
Marine, aviation and transport ............................ – 7 4 – 13 24
Other non-life insurance contracts ..................... 5 33 1 3 30 72
Total net written insurance premiums ................ 12 270 51 63 260 656
Net insurance claims incurred and movement  
in liabilities to policyholders .......................... (5) (117) (22) (24) (116) (284) 235
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-
 Pacific 
 North 
 America 
 Latin 
 America   Total 
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m   US$m 
2011       
Accident and health ............................................ 23 186 8 – 39 256 
Motor .................................................................. – 17 25 – 328 370 
Fire and other damage ........................................ 5 29 13 30 29 106 
Liability ............................................................... 1 16 5 – 1 23 
Credit (non-life) .................................................. 6 – – 48 1 55 
Marine, aviation and transport ............................ – 10 3 – 25 38 
Other non-life insurance contracts ..................... 7 39 1 7 91 145 
Total net written insurance premiums ................ 42 297 55 85 514 993 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement  
in liabilities to policyholders .......................... 56 (127) (26) (22) (231) (350)
         
2010      
Accident and health ............................................ 78 174 8 3  37  300 
Motor .................................................................. – 15 28 – 267  310 
Fire and other damage ........................................ 38 29 11 16  22  116 
Liability ............................................................... – 20 4 – 2  26 
Credit (non-life) .................................................. 25 – – 53  2  80 
Marine, aviation and transport ............................ 3 10 4 – 18  35 
Other non-life insurance contracts ..................... 20 39 1 9  84  153 
Total net written insurance premiums ................ 164 287 56 81  432  1,020 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement  
in liabilities to policyholders .......................... (169) (117) (25) (13) (201) (525)
For footnotes, see page 249.
Our motor business was written predominantly 
in Argentina; this business was sold in May 2012. 
Our accident and health and fire and other 
damage to property contracts was written in all 
regions but mainly in Hong Kong; this business was 
sold in November 2012. 
Credit non-life insurance, which was historically 
originated in conjunction with the provision of loans 
but now in run-off, was concentrated in the US. 
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing 
subsidiaries  
(Audited) 
A principal tool used to manage exposures to both 
financial and insurance risk, in particular for life 
insurance contracts, is asset and liability matching. 
In many markets in which we operate it is neither 
possible nor appropriate to follow a perfect asset 
and liability matching strategy. For long-dated 
non-linked contracts in particular, this results in a 
duration mismatch between assets and liabilities. 
We therefore structure portfolios to support 
projected liabilities from non-linked contracts. 
In the absence of insurable events occurring, 
unit-linked contracts match assets more directly with 
liabilities. This results in the policyholder bearing 
the majority of the financial risk exposure. 
The tables below show the composition of assets 
and liabilities by contract and by geographical region 
and demonstrate that there were sufficient assets to 
cover the liabilities to policyholders in each case at 
the end of 2012.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued)
Risk > Risk management of insurance operations > Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 
236
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by type of contract 
(Audited) 
Insurance contracts Investment contracts 
 With 
 DPF 
 Unit- 
 linked 
 Annu-
 ities 
 Term 
 assur- 
 ance
61
 Non-life 
 With 
 DPF
59
 Unit-
 linked  Other 
 Other 
 assets
62
 Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m US$m US$m  US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Financial assets .................. 24,288 12,619 1,785 4,350 356 23,620 8,780 4,315 4,692 84,805 
– trading assets ................ – – 4 – – – – – – 4
– financial assets 
designated at fair value . 2,333 12,440 571 756 196 6,043 8,206 1,486 987 33,018
– derivatives .................... 40 4 – 6 – 117 13 86 69 335
– financial investments ... 18,283 – 932 3,315 73 16,022 – 1,853 2,928 43,406
– other financial assets .... 3,632 175 278 273 87 1,438 561 890 708 8,042
Reinsurance assets ............. 124 593 494 320 14 – – – 22 1,567 
PVIF
63
 ................................ – – – – – – – – 4,847 4,847 
Other assets and  
investment properties ...... 448 7 34 110 11 754 24 28 2,420 3,836 
Total assets ......................... 24,860 13,219 2,313 4,780 381 24,374 8,804 4,343 11,981 95,055 
Liabilities under investment 
contracts:
– designated at fair value  – – – – – – 8,691 3,765 – 12,456 
– carried at amortised cost  – – – – – – – 455 – 455
Liabilities under  
insurance contracts .......... 24,477 13,056 2,287 3,920 81 24,374 – – – 68,195 
Deferred tax ....................... 13 – 13 12 1 – – – 1,161 1,200 
Other liabilities .................. – – – – – – – – 2,760 2,760 
Total liabilities ................... 24,490 13,056 2,300 3,932 82 24,374 8,691 4,220 3,921 85,066 
Total equity ........................ – – – – – – – – 9,989 9,989 
Total equity and  
liabilities
64
 ...................... 24,490 13,056 2,300 3,932 82 24,374 8,691 4,220 13,910 95,055 
           
At 31 December 2011           
Financial assets .................. 20,520 10,355 2,531 3,398 1,656 20,745 7,843 4,103 7,219 78,370 
– trading assets ................ –  – 3 – 24 – – –  – 27
– financial assets 
designated at fair value . 1,730  10,101 426 594 206 5,491 7,191 1,515  1,616 28,870
– derivatives .................... 23  1 – – – 231 7 89  7 358
– financial investments ... 15,523  1 1,778 2,540 791 13,732 – 1,913  4,008 40,286
– other financial assets .... 3,244  252 324 264 635 1,291 645 586  1,588 8,829
Reinsurance assets ............. 12 903 441 196 250 – – – 42 1,844 
PVIF
63
 ................................ – – – – – – – – 4,092 4,092 
Other assets and  
investment properties ...... 384 6 14 188 169 744 28 34 753 2,320 
Total assets ......................... 20,916 11,264 2,986 3,782 2,075 21,489 7,871 4,137 12,106 86,626 
           
Liabilities under investment 
contracts:           
– designated at fair value  – – – – – – 7,813 3,586 – 11,399 
– carried at amortised cost  – – – – – – – 435 – 435 
Liabilities under  
insurance contracts .......... 20,782 11,210 2,882 3,262 1,635 21,488 – – – 61,259 
Deferred tax ....................... 15 – 21 6 1 – – – 931 974 
Other liabilities .................. – – – – – – – – 1,930 1,930 
Total liabilities ................... 20,797 11,210 2,903 3,268 1,636 21,488 7,813 4,021 2,861 75,997 
Total equity ........................ – – – – – – – – 10,629 10,629 
Total equity and  
liabilities
64
 ...................... 20,797 11,210 2,903 3,268 1,636 21,488 7,813 4,021 13,490 86,626 
For footnotes, see page 249. 237
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by geographical region
56
(Audited) 
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-
 Pacific 
 North 
 America
57
 Latin 
 America  Total 
US$m US$m US$m  US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Financial assets ................................................... 37,325 35,632 2,594 – 9,254 84,805 
– trading assets ............................................... – – – – 4 4
– financial assets designated at fair value ...... 17,590 7,356 1,370 – 6,702 33,018
– derivatives ................................................... 203 126 6 – – 335
– financial investments ................................... 17,139 23,275 994 – 1,998 43,406
– other financial assets ................................... 2,393 4,875 224 – 550 8,042
Reinsurance assets .............................................. 809 715 8 – 35 1,567 
PVIF
63
 ................................................................. 1,140 2,846 304 – 557 4,847 
Other assets and investment properties .............. 849 983 230 1,573 201 3,836 
Total assets ......................................................... 40,123 40,176 3,136 1,573 10,047 95,055 
Liabilities under investment contracts: 
– designated at fair value ................................ 7,783 4,673 – – – 12,456 
– carried at amortised cost .............................. – – – – 455 455
Liabilities under insurance contracts .................. 28,954 29,402 2,200 – 7,639 68,195 
Deferred tax ........................................................ 403 532 88 – 177 1,200 
Other liabilities ................................................... 782 347 267 1,037 327 2,760 
Total liabilities .................................................... 37,922 34,954 2,555 1,037 8,598 85,066 
Total equity ......................................................... 2,201 5,222 581 536 1,449 9,989 
Total equity and liabilities
64
 ............................... 40,123 40,176 3,136 1,573 10,047 95,055 
       
At 31 December 2011       
Financial assets ................................................... 34,163 30,126 2,093 2,414 9,574 78,370 
– trading assets ............................................... – – – – 27 27
– financial assets designated at fair value ...... 15,583 5,875 1,155 – 6,257 28,870
– derivatives ................................................... 244 114 – – – 358
– financial investments ................................... 15,531 19,858 617 1,846 2,434 40,286
– other financial assets ................................... 2,805 4,279 321 568 856 8,829
Reinsurance assets .............................................. 746 912 39 19 128 1,844 
PVIF
63
 ................................................................. 1,097 2,322 282 65 326 4,092 
Other assets and investment properties .............. 909 946 31 24 410 2,320 
Total assets ......................................................... 36,915 34,306 2,445 2,522 10,438 86,626 
Liabilities under investment contracts:       
– designated at fair value ................................ 6,961 4,405 33 – – 11,399 
– carried at amortised cost .............................. – – – – 435 435 
Liabilities under insurance contracts .................. 25,795 25,160 1,802 1,079 7,423 61,259 
Deferred tax ........................................................ 352 408 60 28 126 974 
Other liabilities ................................................... 1,200 269 69 13 379 1,930 
Total liabilities .................................................... 34,308 30,242 1,964 1,120 8,363 75,997 
Total equity ......................................................... 2,607 4,064 481 1,402 2,075 10,629 
Total equity and liabilities
64
 ............................... 36,915 34,306 2,445 2,522 10,438 86,626 
For footnotes, see page 249.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued)
Risk > Risk management of insurance operations > Financial risks 
238
Financial risks 
(Audited) 
Financial risk exposures can be categorised into: 
• Market risk – risks arising from changes in the 
fair values of financial assets or their future cash 
flows from fluctuations in variables such as 
interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity 
prices;
• Credit risk – the risk of financial loss following 
the default of third parties to meet their 
obligations; and 
• Liquidity risk – the risk of not being able to 
make payments to policyholders as they fall due 
as there are insufficient assets that can be 
realised as cash. 
Further details on the nature of these financial 
risks and how they are managed are provided in the 
Appendix to Risk on page 252. 
The following table analyses the assets held in 
our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries at 
31 December 2012 by type of contract, and provides 
a view of the exposure to financial risk. For linked 
contracts, which pay benefits to policyholders which 
are determined by reference to the value of the 
investments supporting the policies, we typically 
designate assets at fair value; for non-linked 
contracts, the classification of the assets is driven 
by the nature of the underlying contract. 
Financial assets held by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 
(Audited)
 Life linked  Life non-linked  Non-life  Other 
 contracts
65
 contracts
66
 insurance
67
 assets
62
Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Trading assets 
Debt securities ............................................ – 4 – – 4
Financial assets designated at fair value ........ 20,646 11,189 196 987 33,018 
Treasury bills .............................................. – 39 – – 39
Debt securities ............................................ 8,028 3,607 196 408 12,239
Equity securities ......................................... 12,618 7,543 – 579 20,740
Financial investments 
Held-to-maturity: debt securities .................... – 20,245 – 1,548 21,793 
Available-for-sale: .......................................... – 20,160 73 1,380 21,613 
– debt securities .......................................... – 20,160 66 1,354 21,580
– equity securities ....................................... – – 7 26 33
Derivatives ...................................................... 17 249 – 69 335
Other financial assets
68
 ................................... 736 6,511 87 708 8,042 
Total financial assets
64
 .................................... 21,399 58,358 356 4,692 84,805 
      
At 31 December 2011      
Trading assets      
Debt securities ............................................ – 3 – – 3 
Equity securities ......................................... – – 24 – 24 
Financial assets designated at fair value ........ 17,292 9,756 206 1,616 28,870 
Treasury bills .............................................. 4 107 – – 111
Debt securities ............................................ 6,823 3,198 206 795 11,022
Equity securities ......................................... 10,465 6,451 – 821 17,737
Financial investments      
Held-to-maturity: debt securities .................... – 17,506 175 1,300 18,981 
Available-for-sale: .......................................... 1 17,980 616 2,708 21,305 
– other eligible bills .................................... – – – 50 50
– debt securities .......................................... – 17,963 599 2,520 21,082
– equity securities ....................................... 1 17 17 138 173
Derivatives ...................................................... 8 343 – 7 358 
Other financial assets
68
 ................................... 897 5,709 635 1,588 8,829 
Total financial assets
64
 .................................... 18,198 51,297 1,656 7,219 78,370 
For footnotes, see page 249.  239
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Approximately 65.6% of financial assets were 
invested in debt securities at 31 December 2012 
(2011: 65.2%) with 24.5% (2011: 22.9%) invested 
in equity securities. 
In life linked insurance, premium income less 
charges levied is invested in a portfolio of assets. We 
manage the financial risks of this product on behalf 
of the policyholders by holding appropriate assets in 
segregated funds or portfolios to which the liabilities 
are linked. These assets represented 25.2% (2011: 
23.2%) of the total financial assets of our insurance 
manufacturing subsidiaries at the end of 2012. 
The remaining financial risks are managed 
either solely on behalf of the shareholder, or jointly 
on behalf of the shareholder and policyholders where 
DPF exist. 
Market risk 
(Audited)
Market risk arises when mismatches occur between 
product liabilities and the investment assets which 
back them. For example, mismatches between asset 
and liability yields and maturities give rise to interest 
rate risk. 
Long-term insurance or investment products 
may incorporate benefits that are guaranteed. Where 
mismatches exist as a result of current yields falling 
below guaranteed levels for a prolonged period, the 
risk that shareholder capital is required to meet 
liabilities to policyholders increases. The table below 
shows, in respect of each category of guarantee, the 
total liabilities to policyholders established for 
guaranteed products manufactured by our insurance 
subsidiaries. The table also shows the range of 
investment returns on the assets supporting these 
products and the implied investment returns that 
would enable the business to meet the guarantees. 
Immediate annuities, where current investment 
returns are below guarantees, relate to a closed 
portfolio in the US which is held for sale at 
31 December 2012. Annual return guarantees 
between 4.5-6%, where current investment returns 
are below guarantees, is a closed portfolio in Hong 
Kong.   The only other portfolio of contracts 
identified where current investment returns are 
below guarantees relate to a closed portfolio in 
France. This portfolio has reserves of US$495m for 
which current portfolio yields are 3.25% but 
investment returns implied by the guarantees are 
4.5%.
Liabilities to policyholders
69
(Audited)
2012 2011
 Amount of 
 reserve 
 Investm ent 
 returns 
  implied by 
  guarantee
64
 Current
  yields 
 Amount of 
 reserve  
 Investment 
 returns 
  implied by 
  guarantee
64
 Current 
 yields 
 US$m  %  %  US$m  %   % 
Annuities in payment ..........................................  1,379  0.0 – 11.7  4.6 – 20.8  1,414   0.0 – 9.6   4.2 – 25.2 
Deferred annuities ..............................................  179  0.0 – 6.0  3.3 – 20.4  175   0.0 – 6.0   3.2 – 22.7 
Immediate annuities
70
 .........................................  485  6.0 – 12.0  5.4 – 5.5  538   6.0 – 12.0   5.3 – 5.4 
Annual return ......................................................  23,878  0.0 – 2.5  1.4 – 4.7  20,465   0.0 – 2.5   0.0 – 6.9 
Annual return ......................................................  4,315  2.5 – 4.5  3.3 – 6.7  3,849   2.5 – 4.5   3.3 – 10.0 
Annual return ......................................................  155  4.5 – 6.0  4.1 – 4.2  163   4.5 – 6.0   6.4 – 6.5 
Capital .................................................................  18,779  –  0.0 – 7.2  17,400    –   2.3 – 7.8 
For footnotes, see page 249. 
The following table illustrates the effects of 
selected interest rate, equity price, foreign exchange 
rate and credit spread scenarios on our profit for the 
year and total equity of our insurance manufacturing 
subsidiaries.  
Where appropriate, we include the impact of the 
stress on the PVIF in the results of the sensitivity 
tests. The relationship between the profit and total 
equity and the risk factors is non-linear and, 
therefore, the results disclosed should not be 
extrapolated to measure sensitivities to different 
levels of stress. The sensitivities are stated before 
allowance for management actions which may 
mitigate the effect of changes in market rates, and 
for any factors such as policyholder behaviour that 
may change in response to changes in market risk.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued)
Risk > Risk management of insurance operations > Financial risks 
240
Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors 
(Audited)
2012 2011
 Effect on 
 profit for 
 the year 
 Effect on
 total
 equity 
 Effect on  
 profit for  
 the year  
Effect on 
 total 
 equity
 US$m US$m US$m US$m 
+ 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves ........................... 125 (263) 108 (178)
– 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves ........................... (208) 205 (115) 191 
10% increase in equity prices ....................................................... 91 91 106 106 
10% decrease in equity prices ...................................................... (92) (92) (164) (164)
10% increase in US dollar exchange rate  
compared to all currencies ....................................................... 40 40 31 31 
10% decrease in US dollar exchange rate  
compared to all currencies ....................................................... (40) (40) (31) (31)
Sensitivity to credit spread increases ........................................... (18) (50) (30) (75)
Credit risk 
(Audited) 
Credit risk can give rise to losses through default 
and can lead to volatility in our income statement 
and balance sheet figures through movements in 
credit spreads, principally on the US$48bn 
(2011: US$44bn) non-linked bond portfolio. 
As tabulated above, the sensitivity of the net 
profit after tax of our insurance subsidiaries to the 
effects of increases in credit spreads has decreased 
since 2011 due to narrowing of credit spreads 
experienced in 2012.  The balance and related 
movement are small because about 90% of the debt 
securities held by our insurance subsidiaries are 
classified as either held to maturity or available for 
sale, and consequently any changes in the fair value 
of these financial investments, absent impairment, 
would have no effect on the profit after tax. We 
calculate the sensitivity using simplified assumptions 
based on a one-day movement in credit spreads over 
a two-year period. A confidence level of 99%, 
consistent with our Group VAR, is applied.  
Credit quality 
(Audited)
The following table presents an analysis of treasury 
bills, other eligible bills and debt securities within 
our Insurance business by measures of credit quality. 
The five credit quality classifications are defined in 
the Appendix to Risk on page 253. Only assets 
supporting liabilities under non-linked insurance 
and investment contracts and shareholders’ funds 
are included in the table as financial risk on assets 
supporting linked liabilities is predominantly borne 
by the policyholder. 83.5% (2011: 86.6%) of the 
assets included in the table are invested in 
investments rated as strong. 
Treasury bills, other eligible bills and debt securities in HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 
(Audited) 
Neither past due nor impaired 
 Strong
62
Good Satisfactory Sub-standard Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Supporting liabilities under non-linked  
insurance and investment contracts 
Trading assets – debt securities ...................................... 1 – 3 – 4
Financial assets designated at fair value ........................ 2,807 638 219 178 3,842 
– treasury and other eligible bills ............................... 39 – – – 39
– debt securities .......................................................... 2,768 638 219 178 3,803
Financial investments ..................................................... 34,392 4,265 1,627 187 40,471 
– debt securities .......................................................... 34,392 4,265 1,627 187 40,471
37,200 4,903 1,849 365 44,317  241
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Neither past due nor impaired 
 Strong
62
Good Satisfactory Sub-standard Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Supporting shareholders’ funds
71
Financial assets designated at fair value ........................ 229 146 13 20 408
– debt securities .......................................................... 229 146 13 20 408
Financial investments ..................................................... 2,356 353 131 62 2,902 
– debt securities .......................................................... 2,356 353 131 62 2,902
2,585 499 144 82 3,310 
Total
64
Trading assets – debt securities ...................................... 1 – 3 – 4
Financial assets designated at fair value ........................ 3,036 784 232 198 4,250 
– treasury and other eligible bills ............................... 39 – – – 39
– debt securities .......................................................... 2,997 784 232 198 4,211
Financial investments ..................................................... 36,748 4,618 1,758 249 43,373 
– debt securities .......................................................... 36,748 4,618 1,758 249 43,373
39,785 5,402 1,993 447 47,627 
      
At 31 December 2011      
Supporting liabilities under non-linked  
insurance and investment contracts 
     
Trading assets – debt securities .................................... 1 – 2 – 3 
Financial assets designated at fair value ...................... 2,851 168 349 143 3,511 
– treasury and other eligible bills ............................. 107 – – – 107
– debt securities ........................................................ 2,744 168 349 143 3,404
Financial investments ................................................... 32,062 2,716 1,269 196 36,243 
– debt securities ........................................................ 32,062 2,716 1,269 196 36,243
 34,914 2,884 1,620 339 39,757 
Supporting shareholders’ funds
71
      
Financial assets designated at fair value ...................... 341 348 61 45 795 
– debt securities ........................................................ 341 348 61 45 795
Financial investments ................................................... 3,198 560 83 29 3,870 
– other eligible bills .................................................. 50 – – – 50
– debt securities ........................................................ 3,148 560 83 29 3,820
 3,539 908 144 74 4,665 
Total
64
      
Trading assets – debt securities .................................... 1 – 2 – 3 
Financial assets designated at fair value ...................... 3,192 516 410 188 4,306 
– treasury and other eligible bills ............................. 107 – – – 107
– debt securities ........................................................ 3,085 516 410 188 4,199
Financial investments ................................................... 35,260 3,276 1,352 225 40,113 
– other eligible bills .................................................. 50 – – – 50
– debt securities ........................................................ 35,210 3,276 1,352 225 40,063
 38,453 3,792 1,764 413 44,422 
For footnotes, see page 249. 
Credit risk also arises when assumed insurance 
risk is ceded to reinsurers. The split of liabilities 
ceded to reinsurers and outstanding reinsurance 
recoveries, analysed by credit quality, is shown 
below. Our exposure to third parties under the 
reinsurance agreements described in the Appendix to 
Risk on page 274 is included in this table.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued)
Risk > Risk management of insurance operations > Financial risks / PVIF 
242
Reinsurers’ share of liabilities under insurance contracts 
(Audited)
Neither past due nor impaired  Past due 
 Strong  Good  Satisfactory
 Sub-
 standard 
 but not 
 impaired  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Linked insurance contracts ................................. 55 400 – – – 455
Non-linked insurance contracts .......................... 936 4 6 – 6 952
Total
64
 ................................................................. 991 404 6 – 6 1,407 
Reinsurance debtors ............................................ 19 133 – – 8 160
At 31 December 2011       
Linked insurance contracts ................................. 45 858 – – – 903 
Non-linked insurance contracts .......................... 782 10 104 3 – 899 
Total
64
 ................................................................. 827 868 104 3 – 1,802 
Reinsurance debtors ............................................ 18 2 9 1 12 42 
For footnote, see page 249. 
Liquidity risk 
(Audited)
The following tables show the expected 
undiscounted cash flows for insurance contract 
liabilities and the remaining contractual maturity of 
investment contract liabilities at 31 December 2012. 
A significant proportion of our non-life insurance 
business is viewed as short-term, with the settlement 
of liabilities expected to occur within one year of the 
period of risk. There is a greater spread of expected 
maturities for the life business where, in a large 
proportion of cases, the liquidity risk is borne in 
conjunction with policyholders (wholly borne by the 
policyholder in the case of unit-linked business). 
The profile of the expected maturity of the 
insurance contracts at 31 December 2012 remained 
comparable with 2011. 
Expected maturity of insurance contract liabilities 
(Audited)
Expected cash flows (undiscounted) 
 Within 1 year  1-5 years  5-15 years  Over 15 years Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Non-life insurance .......................................... 78 3 – – 81
Life insurance (non-linked) ............................ 4,176 12,199 23,420 27,836 67,631 
Life insurance (linked) ................................... 1,243 3,761 10,446 13,497 28,947 
Total
64
 ............................................................. 5,497 15,963 33,866 41,333 96,659 
      
At 31 December 2011      
Non-life insurance .......................................... 742 704 176 13 1,635 
Life insurance (non-linked) ............................ 2,006 12,243 21,332 25,990 61,571 
Life insurance (linked) ................................... 920 3,262 9,070 15,546 28,798 
Total
64
 ............................................................. 3,668 16,209 30,578 41,549 92,004 
For footnote, see page 249.  243
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Remaining contractual maturity of investment contract liabilities 
(Audited)
Liabilities under investment contracts by 
insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 
 Linked
 investment
 contracts 
 Other
 investment
 contracts 
 Investment 
 contracts 
  with DPF  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Remaining contractual maturity:
64
– due within 1 year ................................................................... 195 458 4 657
– due between 1 and 5 years .................................................... 675 – – 675
– due between 5 and 10 years .................................................. 731 – – 731
– due after 10 years .................................................................. 2,061 – – 2,061 
– undated
72
 ................................................................................ 5,029 3,762 24,370 33,161 
8,691 4,220 24,374 37,285 
At 31 December 2011     
Remaining contractual maturity:
64
     
– due within 1 year ................................................................... 191 438 8 637 
– due between 1 and 5 years .................................................... 595 – 3 598 
– due between 5 and 10 years .................................................. 548 – – 548 
– due after 10 years .................................................................. 2,063 – – 2,063 
– undated
72
 ................................................................................ 4,416 3,583 21,477 29,476 
 7,813 4,021 21,488 33,322 
For footnotes, see page 249.
Present value of in-force long-term 
insurance business 
(Audited)
Our life insurance business is accounted for using 
the embedded value approach which, inter alia,
provides a risk and valuation framework. The PVIF 
asset at 31 December 2012 was US$4.8bn (2011: 
US$4.1bn), representing the present value of the 
shareholders’ interest in the profits expected to 
emerge from the book of in-force policies at that 
date.
The PVIF calculation projects expected cash 
flows, adjusted for a variety of assumptions made 
by each insurance operation to reflect local market 
conditions and management’s judgement of future 
trends. The main assumptions relate to economic 
and non-economic assumptions and policyholder 
behaviour. Assumptions are subject to uncertainty 
and can contribute to volatility in the results of the 
Insurance business. 
The key drivers of the movement in the value 
of the PVIF asset are the expected cash flows from: 
• new business adjusted for anticipated maturities 
and assumptions relating to policyholder 
behaviour (‘Value of new business written 
during the year’);  
• unwind of the discount rate less the reversal 
of expected cash flows for the period (‘Expected 
return’);
• changes in non-economic operating assumptions 
such as mortality or lapse rates (‘Change in 
operating assumptions’); 
• impacts arising from changes in projected future 
cash flows associated with operating assumption 
experience variances compared to those 
assumed at the start of the period (‘Experience 
variances’);  
• changes related to future investment returns 
(‘Changes in investment assumptions’); and  
• the impact of actual investment experience on 
future cash flows compared to those assumed at 
the start of the period (‘Investment return 
variances’).  
The valuation of the PVIF asset includes explicit 
risk margins for non-economic risks in the projection 
assumptions and explicit allowances for financial 
options and guarantees using stochastic methods. 
Risk discount rates are set on an active basis with 
reference to market risk free yields. 
The following table shows the movements 
recorded during the year in respect of total equity 
and PVIF of insurance operations.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued)
Risk > Risk management of insurance operations > Economic assumptions / Non-economic assumptions 
244
Movements in PVIF and total equity of insurance operations 
(Audited) 
2012 2011 
 PVIF 
 Total 
 equity  PVIF  
  Total 
 equity 
 US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
At 1 January .................................................................................. 4,092 10,629 3,440 9,778 
Change in PVIF of long-term insurance business ........................ 737 737 726 726 
Value of new business written during the year
73
 .......................... 1,027 943
Movements arising from in-force business:  
– expected return ...................................................................... (420) (428)  
– experience variances
74
 ........................................................... 12 1
– changes in operating assumptions ......................................... (3) (222)  
Investment return variances .......................................................... (18) (103)  
Changes in investment assumptions ............................................. 78 294
Other adjustments ......................................................................... 61 241
Return on net assets ...................................................................... – 1,232 – 1,057 
Capital transactions ...................................................................... – (1,525) – (500)
Disposals of subsidiaries/portfolios ............................................. – (382) – (96)
Exchange differences and other ................................................... 18 (702) (74) (336)
At 31 December ............................................................................ 4,847 9,989 4,092 10,629 
For footnotes, see page 249.
Other adjustments for 2012 included a one-off 
gain of US$119m for a PVIF asset recognised on 
linked insurance business in Brazil. For 2011, other 
adjustments related to the US$243m gain recognised 
upon refinement of the PVIF calculation. 
Key assumptions used in the computation of PVIF for main life insurance operations 
(Audited) 
2012 2011 
 UK  Hong Kong  France  UK   Hong Kong  France 
 %  %  %  %  %   % 
Risk free rate ..........................................................  1.53  0.60  2.12  2.24  1.47   2.77 
Risk discount rate ..................................................  2.03  7.46  4.05  2.74  8.00   5.95 
Expense inflation ...................................................  2.84  3.00  2.00  3.45  3.00   2.00 
Economic assumptions 
(Audited)
The following table shows the effect on the PVIF of 
reasonably possible changes in the main economic 
assumption, risk-free rates, across all insurance 
manufacturing subsidiaries. 
Due to certain characteristics of the contracts, 
the relationships are non-linear and the results of 
the sensitivity testing should not be extrapolated to 
higher levels of stress. The sensitivities shown are 
before actions that could be taken by management 
to mitigate effects and before resultant changes in 
policyholder behaviour. 
Sensitivity of PVIF to changes in economic 
assumptions 
(Audited)
 PVIF at 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
+ 100 basis point shift in  
risk-free rate ................ 137 128
– 100 basis point shift in  
risk-free rate ................ (191) (91) 245
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Non-economic assumptions 
(Audited) 
We determine the policyholder liabilities for non-life 
manufacturers by reference to non-economic 
assumptions including claims costs and expense 
rates. 
Policyholder liabilities and PVIF for life 
manufacturers are determined by reference to non-
economic assumptions including mortality and/or 
morbidity, lapse rates and expense rates. The table 
below shows the sensitivity of profit for 2012 and 
total equity at 31 December 2012 to reasonably 
possible changes in these non-economic assumptions 
at that date across all our insurance manufacturing 
subsidiaries, with comparatives for 2011. 
The cost of claims is a risk associated with non-
life insurance business. An increase in claims costs 
would have a negative effect on profit. Sensitivities 
have significantly decreased since 2011 due to the 
disposal of the non-life entities or portfolios in 
Argentina, Hong Kong, Ireland and Singapore 
during 2012. 
Mortality and morbidity risk is typically 
associated with life insurance contracts. The effect 
on profit of an increase in mortality or morbidity 
depends on the type of business being written. Our 
largest exposures to mortality and morbidity risk 
exist in Brazil, France, Hong Kong and the US. 
Sensitivity to lapse rates depends on the type 
of contracts being written. For insurance contracts, 
claims are funded by premiums received and income 
earned on the investment portfolio supporting the 
liabilities. For a portfolio of term assurance, an 
increase in lapse rates typically has a negative effect 
on profit due to the loss of future premium income 
on the lapsed policies. However, some contract 
lapses have a positive effect on profit due to the 
existence of policy surrender charges. Brazil, France, 
Hong Kong and the UK are where we are most 
sensitive to a change in lapse rates. 
Expense rate risk is the exposure to a change in 
expense rates. To the extent that increased expenses 
cannot be passed on to policyholders, an increase in 
expense rates will have a negative impact on our 
profits.
Sensitivity analysis 
(Audited) 
Effect on profit and total  
equity at  31 December 
 Life  Non-life  Total 
 US$m  US$m  US$m 
2012
20% increase in claims costs ................................................................. –  (12)  (12)
20% decrease in claims costs ................................................................ –  12  12 
10% increase in mortality and/or morbidity rates ................................. (88) –  (88)
10% decrease in mortality and/or morbidity rates ................................ 92  –  92 
50% increase in lapse rates .................................................................... (491) –  (491)
50% decrease in lapse rates ................................................................... 842  –  842 
10% increase in expense rates ............................................................... (105) (1)  (106)
10% decrease in expense rates .............................................................. 106  1  107 
   
2011    
20% increase in claims costs ................................................................. –  (135)  (135)
20% decrease in claims costs ................................................................ –  135  135 
10% increase in mortality and/or morbidity rates ................................. (100) –  (100)
10% decrease in mortality and/or morbidity rates ................................ 110  –  110 
50% increase in lapse rates .................................................................... (349) –  (349)
50% decrease in lapse rates ................................................................... 609  –  609 
10% increase in expense rates ............................................................... (89) (12)  (101)
10% decrease in expense rates .............................................................. 89  12  101  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued)
Risk > Other material risks / Reputational risk / Pension risk 
246
Other material risks 
 Page App
1
Tables Page 
Reputational risk ................................................. 246 278
Pension risk .......................................................... 246 278
Pension plans in the UK ........................................ 279
The principal plan .................................................. 246 The principal plan – target asset allocation ......................... 247
Benefit payments (US$m) ...................................................... 247
Future developments .............................................. 248
Pension plans in Hong Kong ................................. 279
The HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff 
Retirement Benefit Scheme ............................... 248
Pension plans in North America ............................ 280
The HSBC North America (US) Retirement  
Income Plan ....................................................... 249
Sustainability risk ................................................ 249 280
1 Appendix to Risk – risk policies and practices.
Reputational risk 
(Unaudited) 
The safeguarding of our reputation is 
paramount. It is the responsibility of all 
members of staff, supported by a global risk 
management structure underpinned by 
relevant policies and practices, readily 
available guidance, and regular training. 
We have acknowledged, in the context of last 
year’s US Senate Permanent Subcommittee on 
Investigations, the Deferred Prosecution Agreements 
with US authorities and the undertakings with the 
UK FSA, that it was not enough to fix the 
specific issues that they focused on. Additionally, 
therefore, we have outlined our implementation of 
a global strategy to tackle the root causes of these 
identified deficiencies.  
With a new senior leadership team and a new 
strategy in place since 2011, HSBC has already 
taken steps to augment the framework to address 
these issues including making significant changes 
to strengthen compliance, risk management and 
culture. These steps, which should also serve, over 
time, to enhance our reputational risk management, 
are discussed further on page 278. 
Success in detecting and preventing illicit 
actors’ access to the global financial system calls for 
constant vigilance and HSBC will continue to work 
in close cooperation with all governments to achieve 
this. This is integral to the execution of HSBC’s 
strategy, to our core values and to preserving and 
enhancing our reputation. 
Pension risk 
(Audited)
We operate a number of pension plans 
throughout the world. Some are defined 
benefit plans, of which the largest is the 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (‘the 
principal plan’). 
There were no material changes to our policies and 
procedures for the management of pension risk in 
2012.
During 2012, the Group’s defined benefit 
pension plans reduced from a net liability of 
US$0.2bn to a net asset of US$0.03bn. This was 
mainly due to growth in the value of the principal 
plan’s assets outstripping the comparable growth in 
liabilities.
The principal plan 
(Audited) 
In 2006 the principal plan assets consisted of a 
strategic portfolio. At the time, HSBC and the trustee 
of the principal plan agreed to change the investment 
strategy in order to reduce the investment risk. The 
target asset allocations for this strategy at that time, 
as revised in 2011 and at this year end are shown 
below, demonstrating the ongoing evolution of the 
strategy. The strategy is to hold the majority of 
assets in bonds, with the remainder in a more diverse 
range of investments, and includes a commitment 
to undertake a programme of swap arrangements 
(see Note 44 on the Financial Statements) by which 
the principal plan makes Libor-related interest 
payments in exchange for the receipt of cash 
flows which are based on projected future benefit 
payments to be made from the principal plan.  247
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
The principal plan – target asset allocation 
2012  2011   2006 
 %   %   % 
Equities ...........................  15.5   15.5   15.0 
Bonds ..............................  60.5   60.5   50.0 
Alternative assets
75
 .........  9.5   9.5   10.0 
Property ...........................  9.0   9.0   10.0 
Cash ................................  5.5   5.5   15.0 
 100.0   100.0   100.0 
For footnote, see page 249. 
As a result of a special contribution to the 
principal plan in June 2010 of £1,760m 
(US$2,638m), a cash generating portfolio was 
established. The portfolio comprised supra-national, 
agency and government-guaranteed securities, 
ABSs, corporate subordinated debt and auction 
rate securities. A further special contribution in 
December 2011 of £184m (US$286m) added to this 
portfolio. The contribution was used to 
purchase ABSs from HSBC at an arm’s length value 
determined by the Scheme’s independent third-party 
advisers. However, these assets may be 
supplemented with other assets from time to time. 
The latest actuarial valuation of the principal 
plan was made as at 31 December 2011 by 
C G Singer, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, of 
Towers Watson Limited. At that date, the market 
value of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme’s 
assets was £18.3bn (US$28.3bn) (including assets 
relating to the defined benefit plan, the defined 
contribution plan and additional voluntary 
contributions). The market value of the plan assets 
represented 100% of the amount expected to be 
required, on the basis of the assumptions adopted, 
to provide the benefits accrued to members after 
allowing for expected future increases in earnings. 
There was therefore no resulting surplus/deficit. 
The method adopted for this valuation was the 
projected unit method.  
The expected cash flows from the principal plan 
were projected by reference to the Retail Price Index 
(‘RPI’) swap break-even curve at 31 December 
2011. Salary increases were assumed to be 0.5% 
per annum above RPI and inflationary pension 
increases, subject to a minimum of 0% and a 
maximum of 5% (maximum of 3% per annum in 
respect of service accrued since 1 July 2009), were 
assumed to be in line with RPI. The projected cash 
flows were discounted at the Libor swap curve at 
31 December 2011 plus a margin for the expected 
return on the investment strategy of 160bps per 
annum. The mortality experience of the principal 
plan’s pensioners over the six-year period (2006-
2011) was analysed and, on the basis of this analysis, 
the mortality assumptions were set, based on the 
SAPS S1 series of tables adjusted to reflect the 
pensioner experience. Allowance was made for 
future improvements to mortality rates in line 
with the Continuous Mortality Investigation core 
projections with a long run improvement rate set at 
2% for males and 1.5% for females. The benefits 
payable from the defined benefit plan from 2013 are 
expected to be as shown in the chart below. 
Benefit payments (US$m) 
0
250
500
750
1,000
1,250
1,500
1,750
2,000
2013
2019
2025
2031
2037
2043
2049
2055
2061
2067
2073
2079
2085
2091
2097
As part of the 31 December 2011 valuation, 
calculations were also carried out as to the amount 
of assets that might be needed to meet the liabilities 
if the Scheme was discontinued and the members’ 
benefits bought out with an insurance company 
(although in practice this may not be possible for 
a plan of this size) or the Trustee continued to run 
the plan without the support of HSBC. The amount 
required under this approach was estimated to be 
£26.2bn (US$40.6bn) as at 31 December 2011. 
In arriving at this estimation, a more prudent 
assumption about future mortality was made than 
for the assessment of the ongoing position and it was 
assumed that the Trustee would alter the investment 
strategy to be an appropriately matched portfolio of 
UK government bonds. An explicit allowance for 
expenses was also included.  
Based on the latest valuation as at 31 December 
2011 and there being no deficit, no Technical 
Provisions Recovery Plan is required and the 
schedule of future funding payments agreed after 
the 2008 actuarial valuation was dissolved. 
HSBC and the Trustee have developed a general 
framework, which, over time, will see the Scheme’s 
asset strategy evolve to be less risky and further 
aligned to future cash-flows, referred to as the Target 
Matching Portfolio (‘TMP’). Evolution to the TMP 
can be achieved by asset returns in excess of that 
assumed and/or additional funding. In February 
2013, HSBC agreed to make three general 
framework contributions of £64m (US$103m) in 
each of the calendar years 2013, 2014 and 2015.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued)
Risk > Other material risks / Pension risk / Sustainability risk / Footnotes 
248
After the 2008 valuation, HSBC considered that 
the agreed recovery plan payments, together with 
investment returns (at an expected level of 240 basis 
points above the Libor swap curve), would be 
sufficient to meet the deficit as at 31 December 2008 
over the agreed period. HSBC also agreed with the 
Trustee, that at each subsequent actuarial valuation 
any shortfall in investment returns relative to this 
expected level, subject to a maximum of 50 basis 
points per annum, would be eliminated by payment 
of equal cash instalments over the remaining years to 
the end of the recovery plan period. 
Although the 2011 triennial valuation disclosed 
no deficit and therefore no technical provisions 
recovery plan is required, HSBC and the Trustee 
have agreed to maintain this investment performance 
underwriting agreement. The investment 
performance will be assessed every three years, 
with an end date of 31 December 2017. Any 
payments due would only be payable if a Technical 
Provisions deficit is present at the reference date. 
HSBC Bank is also making ongoing 
contributions to the principal plan in respect of 
the accrual of benefits of defined benefit section 
members. Since April 2010, after completion of the 
2008 valuation, HSBC has paid contributions at the 
rate of 34% of pensionable salaries (less member 
contributions).  
Following completion of the 2011 triennial 
valuation, HSBC will pay contributions at the rate 
of 43% of pensionable salaries (less member 
contributions) from 1 April 2013. An additional 
employer contribution will be paid on or before 
30 April 2013 equal to 9% of pensionable salaries, 
in respect of the period 1 January 2012 to 31 March 
2013.
Future developments 
(Unaudited) 
In January 2013, as part of a wider review of 
employee benefits, HSBC announced proposals to 
cease future accrual of service for active members of 
the Defined Benefit Section with effect from 30 June 
2014. Under the proposals, all active members of the 
Defined Benefit Section will become deferred 
members from 30 June 2014 (and will become 
members of the Defined Contribution Section from 
1 July 2014).  
The valuation of the Scheme’s defined benefit 
obligation is sensitive to changes in actuarial 
assumptions. The proposed removal of future salary 
escalation from the pay assumptions is estimated to 
reduce the defined benefit obligation by 
approximately US$0.3bn and the proposed change in 
the underlying inflation assumption for indexation 
from RPI, for active members, to CPI, for deferred 
members, by a further US$0.5bn. The proposed 
cessation of the Scheme to provide ill-health benefits 
to members, to be covered by insurance policies 
provided by HSBC under these proposals, is 
estimated to reduce the defined benefit obligation by 
approximately US$0.5bn. 
The consultation period for these proposals will end, 
and a final decision is expected to be made, in the 
second quarter of 2013 at which time a past service 
credit will be recognised in the income statement. 
The future effect of these proposed changes on the 
income statement is dependent primarily on the level 
of pension contributions made by HSBC and 
employees to the Defined Contribution Section, the 
final outcome of which remains uncertain. In all 
reasonably likely scenarios, the net effect on 
earnings over time is not expected to be material.
The HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff 
Retirement Benefit Scheme 
(Audited) 
The scheme mainly invests in bonds with a smaller 
portion in equities and each investment manager 
has been assigned an investment mandate with the 
targeted asset allocation. The ranges of target asset 
allocations for the portfolio are as follows: Bonds 
and cash 55-100%, Equity 0-25% and Alternative 
Investments 0-20%. Alternative Investments refer to 
high-return and high-risk alternatives, including but 
not limited to private equity funds, hedge funds, 
energy, gold, agriculture, commodities and 
distressed assets. 
The latest actuarial valuation of the defined 
benefit scheme was made at 31 December 2010 by 
Wing Lui, Fellow of the Society of Actuaries, of 
Towers Watson Hong Kong Limited. At that 
valuation date, the market value of the defined 
benefit scheme’s assets was US$1,109m. On an 
ongoing basis, the defined benefit scheme's assets
represented 104% of the actuarial present value of 
the benefits accrued to members, after allowing for 
expected future increases in salaries, and the 
resulting surplus amounted to US$41m. On a wind-
up basis, the scheme’s assets represented 110% of 
the members’ vested benefits, based on current 
salaries, and the resulting surplus amounted to 
US$105m. The attained age method has been 
adopted for the valuation and the major assumptions 
used in this valuation were a discount rate of 6% per 
annum and long-term salary increases of 5% per 
annum. The recommended employer contribution 
rate as a percentage of scheme salaries is 14.3% over  249
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
the period 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013. No 
additional special contributions have been agreed.  
The HSBC North America (US) Retirement 
Income Plan 
(Audited) 
In 2010, the Investment Committee (the ‘Committee’) 
unanimously agreed to transition the Plan’s target 
asset allocation mix to 40% equity securities, 
59% fixed income securities and 1% cash over a 
24-month period. In 2011, the Committee decided 
to accelerate this shift to the 2011 year-end and the 
target asset allocation mix was maintained during 
2012. Should interest rates rise faster than currently 
projected by the Committee, a further shift to a 
higher percentage of fixed income securities may 
be made. 
In the third quarter of 2012, it was agreed to 
cease all future contributions under the cash balance 
formula and freeze the plan with effect from 
1 January 2013. While participants with existing 
balances continue to receive interest credits until the 
account is distributed, they no longer accrue benefits 
beginning in 2013.  
The most recent actuarial valuation of the plan 
to determine compliance with US statutory funding 
requirements was made at 1 January 2012 by 
Jennifer Jakubowski, Fellow of the Society of 
Actuaries, Enrolled Actuary, member of the 
American Academy of Actuaries, formerly of 
Mercer. At that date, the market value of the plan’s 
assets was US$3,194m. The assets represented 118% 
of the benefits accrued to members as valued under 
the provisions of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 
that was effective for the plan year beginning 1 
January 2008. The resulting surplus amounted to 
US$479m. The method employed for this valuation 
was the traditional unit credit method and the 
discount rate was determined using a segment rate 
method as selected by HSBC under the relevant 
regulations, which resulted in an effective interest 
rate of 7.13% per annum. 
Sustainability risk 
(Unaudited) 
Assessing the environmental and social 
impacts of providing finance to our 
customers is integral to our overall risk 
management processes. 
In 2012, we implemented several changes to 
our policies and procedures to streamline our 
management of sustainability risks. This ranged 
from producing guidelines on how we extend the 
Equator Principles beyond project finance into 
corporate loans, to technical fixes in our systems 
to improve the accuracy of our management 
information. 
A summary of our current policies and 
practices regarding reputational risk, pension 
risk and sustainability risk is provided in the 
Appendix to Risk on page 278. 
Footnotes to Risk 
Credit risk 
  1 ‘Other personal loans and advances’ include second lien mortgages and other property-related lending. 
  2 ‘Financial’ includes loans and advances to banks. 
  3 The amount of the loan commitments reflects, where relevant, the expected level of take-up of pre-approved loan offers made by 
mailshots to personal customers. In addition to those amounts, there is a further maximum possible exposure to credit risk of US$28bn 
(2011: US$171bn), reflecting the full take-up of such irrevocable loan commitments. The take-up of such offers is generally at modest
levels.
  4 Includes residential mortgages of HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Finance. 
  5 Comprising Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and North Africa, and Latin America. 
  6 HSBC Finance lending is shown on a management basis and includes loans transferred to HSBC USA Inc. which are managed by 
HSBC Finance. 
  7 Property acquired through foreclosure is initially recognised at the lower of the carrying amount of the loan or its fair value less 
estimated costs to sell (‘Initial Foreclosed Property Carrying Amount’). The average loss on sale of foreclosed properties is calculated
as cash proceeds less the Initial Foreclosed Properties Carrying Amount divided by the unpaid loan principal balance prior to write-
down (excluding any accrued finance income) plus certain other ancillary disbursements that, by law, are reimbursable from the cash
proceeds (e.g. real estate tax advances) and were incurred prior to our taking title to the property. This ratio represents the portion of 
our total loss on foreclosed properties that occurred after we took title to the property.
  8 The average total loss on foreclosed properties includes both the loss on sale of the foreclosed property as discussed in footnote 7 and 
the cumulative write-downs recognised on the loans up to the time we took title to the property.  
  9 ‘Other commercial loans and advances’ include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
10 Impairment allowances are not reported for financial instruments whereby the carrying amount is reduced directly for impairment and 
not through the use of an allowance account. 
11 Impairment is not measured for assets held in trading portfolios or designated at fair value as assets in such portfolios are managed 
according to movements in fair value, and the fair value movement is taken directly to the income statement. Consequently, we report
all such balances under ‘Neither past due nor impaired’. 
12 ‘Loans and advances to customers’ includes asset-backed securities that have been externally rated as strong (2012: US$2.3bn; 2011: 
US$3.5bn), good (2012: US$457m; 2011: US$476m), satisfactory (2012: US$390m; 2011: US$428m), sub-standard (2012: US$422m; 
2011: US$556m) and impaired (2012: US$259m; 2011: US$229m).  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued)
Risk > Footnotes 
250
13 Included in this category are loans of US$2.3bn (2011: US$2.9bn) that have been re-aged once and were less than 60 days past due at 
the point of re-age. These loans are not classified as impaired following re-age due to the overall expectation that these customers will 
perform on the original contractual terms of their borrowing in the future. 
14 ‘Impaired loans and advances’ are those classified as CRR 9, CRR 10, EL 9 or EL 10, retail loans 90 days or more past due, unless
individually they have been assessed as not impaired (see page 156, ‘Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments’) and
renegotiated loans and advances meeting the criteria to be disclosed as impaired (see page 162). 
15 ‘Collectively assessed loans and advances’ comprise homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, and 
loans subject to individual assessment where no impairment has been identified on an individual basis, but on which a collective
impairment allowance has been calculated to reflect losses which have been incurred but not yet identified. 
16 ‘Collectively assessed loans and advances not impaired’ are those classified as CRR1 to CRR8 and EL1 to EL8 but excluding retail
loans 90 days past due and renegotiated loans and advances meeting the criteria to be disclosed as impaired. 
17 ‘Collectively assessed impairment allowances’ are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the 
allowances or provisions. Consequently, the collectively assessed impairment allowances booked in Hong Kong may cover assets 
booked in branches located outside Hong Kong, principally in Rest of Asia-Pacific, as well as those booked in Hong Kong. 
18 Included within ‘Exchange and other movements’ is US$0.8bn of impairment allowances reclassified to held for sale (2011: US$1.6bn). 
19 Net of repo transactions, settlement accounts and stock borrowings. 
20 As a percentage of loans and advances to banks and loans and advances to customers, as applicable. 
21 ‘Currency translation’ is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates of 
exchange applicable in the current year. 
22 Negative numbers are favourable: positive numbers are unfavourable. 
23 Equity securities not included. 
24 ‘First lien residential mortgages’ include Hong Kong Government Home Ownership Scheme loans of US$3.2bn at 31 December 2012 
(2011: US$3.3bn). Where disclosed, earlier comparatives were 2010: US$3.5bn; 2009: US$3.5bn; 2008: US$3.9bn. 
25 The impairment allowances on loans and advances to banks in 2012 relate to the geographical regions, Europe, North America, and
Middle East and North Africa. (2011: Europe and North America).
26 Carrying amount of the net principal exposure.
27 Total includes holdings of ABSs issued by The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (‘Freddie Mac’) and The Federal National 
Mortgage Association (‘Fannie Mae’). 
28 ‘Directly held’ includes assets held by Solitaire where we provide first loss protection and assets held directly by the Group.
29 ‘Effect of impairments’ represents the reduction or increase in the reserve on initial impairment and subsequent reversal of impairment
of the assets. 
30 The gross principal is the redemption amount on maturity or, in the case of an amortising instrument, the sum of the future redemption
amounts through the residual life of the security. 
31 Credit default swap (‘CDS’) gross protection is the gross principal of the underlying instrument that is protected by CDSs. 
32 Net principal exposure is the gross principal amount of assets that are not protected by CDSs. It includes assets that benefit from 
monoline protection, except where this protection is purchased with a CDS. 
33 Net exposure after legal netting and any other relevant credit mitigation prior to deduction of the credit valuation adjustment.
34 Cumulative fair value adjustment recorded against exposures to OTC derivative counterparties to reflect their creditworthiness.
35 Funded exposures represent the loan amount advanced to the customer, less any fair value write-downs, net of fees held on deposit. 
36 Unfunded exposures represent the contractually committed loan facility amount not yet drawn down by the customer, less any fair value 
write-downs, net of fees held on deposit. 
Eurozone exposures 
37 Our available-for-sale holdings in sovereign and agency debt of Italy and Spain include debt held to support insurance contracts which 
provide discretionary profit participation to policyholders. For such contracts, unrealised movements in liabilities are recognised in 
other comprehensive income, following the treatment of the unrealised movements on related available-for-sale assets. To the extent 
that the movements are matched, no movement in the available-for-sale reserve is recognised. For those available-for-sale debt 
instruments described above that are not held to support insurance contracts which provide discretionary profit participation to
policyholders, the available-for-sale reserves at 31 December 2012 were insignificant. 
38 ‘In-country liabilities’ in Italy include liabilities issued under local law but booked outside the country. 
Liquidity and funding 
39 The most favourable metrics are a smaller advances to core funding and larger stressed one-month and three-month coverage ratios.
40 The HSBC UK entity shown comprises three legal entities; HSBC Bank plc (including SPEs consolidated by HSBC Bank plc for 
Financial Statement purposes, HFC Bank Ltd, and all overseas branches), Marks and Spencer Financial Services Limited and HSBC 
Trust Company (UK) Limited, managed as a single operating entity, in line with the application of UK liquidity regulation as agreed 
with the UK FSA. 
41 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation represents the bank in Hong Kong including all overseas branches. Each branch is
monitored and controlled for liquidity and funding risk purposes as a stand-alone operating entity. 
42 The HSBC USA principal entity shown represents the HSBC USA Inc consolidated group; predominantly HSBC USA Inc and HSBC 
Bank USA, NA. The HSBC USA Inc consolidated group is managed as a single operating entity. 
43 The total shown for other principal HSBC operating entities represents the combined position of all the other operating entities
overseen directly by the Risk Management Meeting of the GMB. 
44 Estimated liquidity value represents the expected realisable value of assets prior to management assumed haircuts. 
45 The undrawn balance for the five largest committed liquidity facilities provided to customers other than facilities to conduits.
46 The undrawn balance for the total of all committed liquidity facilities provided to the largest market sector, other than facilities to 
conduits. 
47 As a result of the significant level of disposal groups held for sale at 31 December 2012, the financial liabilities of the disposal groups 
held for sale has been separately shown in the table. For further details of the disposal groups held for sale, refer to Note 30 on the 
Financial Statements.  251
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Market risk 
48 The standard deviation measures the variation of daily revenues about the mean value of those revenues.
49 Revenues within the daily distribution graph include all revenues booked in Global Markets (gross of brokerage fees). The effect of any 
month-end adjustments, not attributable to a specific daily market move, is spread evenly over the days in the month in question. The 
2012 daily distribution of trading revenues excludes the effect of the one-off credit valuation adjustment on derivative assets of 
US$903m. 
50 Trading intent portfolios include positions arising from market-making and position taking.  
51 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types. It represents the 
reduction in unsystematic market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types, for example, interest rate, equity
and foreign exchange, together in one portfolio. It is measured as the difference between the sum of the VAR by individual risk type and 
the combined total VAR. A negative number represents the benefit of portfolio diversification. As the maximum and minimum occur on 
different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit for these measures.
52 The total VAR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.
53 Investments in private equity are primarily made through managed funds that are subject to limits on the amount of investment. Potential 
new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels for 
the portfolio as a whole. Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments within the portfolio. 
54 Investments held to facilitate ongoing business include holdings in government-sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges.
55 Instead of assuming that all interest rates move together, we group our interest rate exposures into currency blocs whose rates are 
considered likely to move together. See ‘Cautionary Statement regarding Forward-Looking Statements’ on page 525.
Risk management of insurance operations 
56 HSBC has no insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in the Middle East and North Africa. 
57 The decline in life insurance liabilities in North America reflects the classification of the majority of this business as held for sale at 
31 December 2012. At 31 December 2012, the held-for-sale North American life insurance liabilities by contract type comprised credit
life contracts (US$15m), annuities (US$723m) and term assurance and other long-term contracts (US$205m).
58 Insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participation features (‘DPF’) can give policyholders the contractual 
right to receive, as a supplement to their guaranteed benefits, additional benefits that may be a significant portion of the total
contractual benefits, but whose amount and timing are determined by HSBC. These additional benefits are contractually based on the 
performance of a specified pool of contracts or assets, or the profit of the company issuing the contracts.  
59 Although investment contracts with DPF are financial investments, HSBC continues to account for them as insurance contracts as
permitted by IFRS 4. 
60 Net written insurance premiums represent gross written premiums less gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers. 
61 Term assurance includes credit life insurance. 
62 The Other assets column shows shareholder assets as well as assets and liabilities classified as held for sale. The majority of the assets 
for insurance businesses classified as held for sale are reported as ‘Other assets and investment properties’ and totalled US$2.0bn at 
31 December 2012 (2011: US$0.1bn). Assets classified as held for sale consist primarily of debt securities, the majority of which have a 
‘strong’ credit rating at 31 December 2012. All liabilities for insurance businesses classified as held for sale are reported in ‘Other 
liabilities’ and totalled US$1.2bn at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$0.1bn). The majority of these liabilities were life and non-life
policyholder liabilities expected to mature after 5 years.
63 Present value of in-force long-term insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF. 
64 Does not include associated insurance companies, SABB Takaful Company and Bao Viet Holdings, or joint venture insurance 
companies, Hana Life and Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited. 
65 Comprise life linked insurance contracts and linked long-term investment contracts. 
66 Comprise life non-linked insurance contracts and non-linked long-term investment contracts. 
67 Comprise non-life insurance contracts. 
68 Comprise mainly loans and advances to banks, cash and intercompany balances with other non-insurance legal entities. 
69 The table excludes contracts where the risk is 100% reinsured. 
70 The majority of reserves for immediate annuities with guarantees are within insurance businesses that are held for sale at 31 December 
2012. 
71 Shareholders’ funds comprise solvency and unencumbered assets. 
72 In most cases, policyholders have the option to terminate their contracts at any time and receive the surrender values of their policies. 
These may be significantly lower than the amounts shown. 
73 Value of net new business during the year is the present value of the projected stream of profits from the business. 
74 Experience variances include the effect of the difference between demographic, expense and persistency assumptions used in the
previous PVIF calculation and actual experience observed during the year to the extent this impacts profits on future business.
Pension risk  
75 In 2011 and 2012, alternative assets included ABSs, MBSs and infrastructure assets. In 2006, alternative assets included loans and
infrastructure assets.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Risk governance / Credit risk 
252
Appendix to Risk 
Risk policies and practices
This appendix describes the significant policies and practices employed by HSBC in managing our credit risk, liquidity 
and funding, market risk, operational risk (including compliance risk, legal risk and fiduciary risk), insurance risk, 
reputational risk, pension risk and sustainability risk. 
Risk governance 
(Unaudited) 
Our strong risk governance reflects the importance placed by the Board on shaping the Group’s risk strategy and 
managing risks effectively. It is supported by a clear policy framework of risk ownership, by the cascading from 
the Group Management Board (‘GMB’) of performance scorecards that align business and risk objectives, and 
by the accountability of all staff for identifying, assessing and managing risks within the scope of their assigned 
responsibilities. This personal accountability, reinforced by the governance structure, experience and mandatory 
learning, helps to foster a disciplined and constructive culture of risk management and control throughout HSBC. 
Credit risk 
Credit risk management 
(Audited) 
The role of an independent credit control unit is fulfilled by the Global Risk function. Credit approval authorities 
are delegated by the Board to certain executive officers of HSBC Holdings plc. Similar credit approval authorities 
are delegated by the boards of subsidiary companies to executive officers of the relevant subsidiaries. In each 
major subsidiary, a Chief Risk Officer reports to the local Chief Executive Officer on credit-related issues, while 
maintaining a direct functional reporting line to the Group Chief Risk Officer in Global Risk. Details of the roles 
and responsibilities of the credit risk management function and the policies and procedures for managing credit risk 
are set out below. Apart from the creation of a new Group Models Oversight Committee and supportive framework 
there were no significant changes in 2012. 
The high-level oversight and management of credit risk provided globally by the Credit Risk function in Global Risk 
• to formulate Group credit policy. Compliance, subject to approved dispensations, is mandatory for all operating companies which must 
develop local credit policies consistent with Group policies;  
• to guide operating companies on our appetite for credit risk exposure to specified market sectors, activities and banking products and 
controlling exposures to certain higher-risk sectors; 
• to undertake an independent review and objective assessment of risk. Global Risk assesses all commercial non-bank credit facilities and 
exposures over designated limits, prior to the facilities being committed to customers or transactions being undertaken; 
• to monitor the performance and management of portfolios across the Group; 
• to control exposure to sovereign entities, banks and other financial institutions, as well as debt securities which are not held solely for the 
purpose of trading; 
• to set Group policy on large credit exposures, ensuring that concentrations of exposure by counterparty, sector or geography do not 
become excessive in relation to our capital base, and remain within internal and regulatory limits; 
• to control our cross-border exposures (see page 259); 
• to maintain and develop our risk rating framework and systems, the governance of which is under the general oversight of the Group
Model Oversight Committee (‘MOC’). The Group MOC meets bi-monthly and reports to the Risk Management Meeting. It is chaired by 
the risk function and its membership is drawn from Global Risk and global businesses; 
• to report to the Risk Management Meeting, the Group Risk Committee and the Board on high risk portfolios, risk concentrations, 
country limits and cross-border exposures, large impaired accounts, impairment allowances, stress testing results and recommendations
and retail portfolio performance; and 
• to act on behalf of HSBC Holdings as the primary interface, for credit-related issues, with the Bank of England, the FSA, local
regulators, rating agencies, analysts and counterparts in major banks and non-bank financial institutions.  253
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Principal objectives of our credit risk management 
• to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible lending and a robust risk policy and control framework;  
• to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining, implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk 
appetite under actual and scenario conditions; and  
• to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, their costs and their mitigation. 
Credit quality of financial instruments 
(Audited) 
Our credit risk rating systems and processes differentiate exposures in order to highlight those with greater risk 
factors and higher potential severity of loss. In the case of individually significant accounts that are predominantly 
within our wholesale businesses, risk ratings are reviewed regularly and any amendments are implemented promptly. 
Within our retail businesses, risk is assessed and managed using a wide range of risk and pricing models to generate 
portfolio data. 
Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based (‘IRB’) approach under Basel II adopted by the Group to 
support calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement. For further details see definitions of our 
credit quality classifications below. 
Special attention is paid to problem exposures in order to accelerate remedial action. When appropriate, our operating 
companies use specialist units to provide customers with support to help them avoid default wherever possible. 
Group and regional Credit Review and Risk Identification teams regularly review exposures and processes in order 
to provide an independent, rigorous assessment of credit risk across the Group, reinforce secondary risk management 
controls and share best practice. Internal audit, as a tertiary control function, focuses on risks with a global 
perspective and on the design and effectiveness of primary and secondary controls, carrying out oversight audits via 
the sampling of global/regional control frameworks, themed audits of key or emerging risks and project audits to 
assess major change initiatives. 
The five credit quality classifications defined below each encompass a range of more granular, internal credit rating 
grades assigned to wholesale and retail lending businesses, as well as the external ratings attributed by external 
agencies to debt securities. 
There is no direct correlation between the internal and external ratings at granular level, except to the extent each 
falls within a single quality classification. 
Credit quality classification 
(Unaudited) 
Debt securities 
and other bills 
Wholesale lending 
and derivatives Retail lending 
 External 
 credit rating 
 Internal 
 credit rating 
 12 month 
 probability of 
 default % 
 Internal 
 credit rating
1
 Expected 
 loss % 
Quality classification 
Strong ........................... A– and above CRR1 to CRR2 0 – 0.169 EL1 to EL2 0 – 0.999 
Good ............................ BBB+ to BBB– CRR3 0.170 – 0.740 EL3 1.000 – 4.999 
Satisfactory .................. BB+ to B+ and 
unrated CRR4 to CRR5 0.741 – 4.914 EL4 to EL5 5.000 – 19.999 
Sub-standard ................ B to C CRR6 to CRR8 4.915 – 99.999 EL6 to EL8 20.000 – 99.999 
Impaired ....................... Default CRR9 to CRR10 100 EL9 to EL10 100+ or defaulted
2
1 We observe the disclosure convention that, in addition to those classified as EL9 to EL10, retail accounts classified EL1 to EL8 that are 
delinquent by 90 days or more are considered impaired, unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired (see page 156, 
‘Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments’). 
2 The EL percentage is derived through a combination of PD and LGD, and may exceed 100% in circumstances where the LGD is above 
100% reflecting the cost of recoveries.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Credit risk 
254
Quality classification definitions 
• ‘Strong’ exposures demonstrate a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, with negligible or low probability of default and/or 
low levels of expected loss. Retail accounts operate within product parameters and only exceptionally show any period of delinquency. 
• ‘Good’ exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate a good capacity to meet financial commitments, with low default risk. 
Retail accounts typically show only short periods of delinquency, with any losses expected to be minimal following the adoption of 
recovery processes. 
• ‘Satisfactory’ exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate an average to fair capacity to meet financial commitments, with 
moderate default risk. Retail accounts typically show only short periods of delinquency, with any losses expected to be minor following
the adoption of recovery processes. 
• ‘Sub-standard’ exposures require varying degrees of special attention and default risk is of greater concern. Retail portfolio segments 
show longer delinquency periods of generally up to 90 days past due and/or expected losses are higher due to a reduced ability to
mitigate these through security realisation or other recovery processes.
• ‘Impaired’ exposures have been assessed as impaired. Wholesale exposures where the bank considers that either the customer is unlikely 
to pay its credit obligations in full, without recourse by the bank to the actions such as realising security if held, or the customer is past 
due more than 90 days on any material credit obligation. Retail loans and advances greater than 90 days past due unless individually they 
have been assessed as not impaired. Renegotiated loans that have met the requirements to be disclosed as impaired and have not yet met 
the criteria to be returned to the unimpaired portfolio (see page 255). 
The customer risk rating (‘CRR’) 10-grade scale summarises a more granular underlying 23-grade scale of obligor 
probability of default (‘PD’). All HSBC customers are rated using the 10 or 23-grade scale, depending on the degree 
of sophistication of the Basel II approach adopted for the exposure. 
The expected loss (‘EL’) 10-grade scale for retail business summarises a more granular underlying EL scale for these 
customer segments; this combines obligor and facility/product risk factors in a composite measure.  
For debt securities and certain other financial instruments, external ratings have been aligned to the five quality 
classifications. The ratings of Standard and Poor’s are cited, with those of other agencies being treated equivalently. 
Debt securities with short-term issue ratings are reported against the long-term rating of the issuer of those securities. 
If major rating agencies have different ratings for the same debt securities, a prudent rating selection is made in line 
with regulatory requirements.  
Renegotiated loans and forbearance 
(Audited) 
A range of forbearance strategies is employed in order to improve the management of customer relationships, 
maximise collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid default, foreclosure or repossession. They include extended 
payment terms, a reduction in interest or principal repayments, approved external debt management plans, debt 
consolidations, the deferral of foreclosures, and other forms of loan modifications and re-ageing. 
Our policies and practices are based on criteria which enable local management to judge whether repayment is likely 
to continue. These typically provide a customer with terms and conditions that are more favourable than those 
provided initially. Loan forbearance is only granted in situations where the customer has showed a willingness to 
repay the borrowing and is expected to be able to meet the revised obligations.  
For retail lending our credit risk management policy sets out restrictions on the number and frequency of 
renegotiations, the minimum period an account must have been opened before any renegotiation can be considered 
and the number of qualifying payments that must be received. The application of this policy varies according to the 
nature of the market, the product and the management of customer relationships through the occurrence of 
exceptional events. 
Identifying renegotiated loans  
The contractual terms of a loan may be modified for a number of reasons including changing market conditions, 
customer retention and other factors not related to the current or potential credit deterioration of a customer. When 
the contractual payment terms of a loan have been modified because we have significant concerns about the 
borrower’s ability to meet contractual payments when due, these loans are classified as ‘renegotiated loans’. For the 
purposes of this disclosure the term ‘forbearance’ is synonymous with the renegotiation of loans. 
For retail lending, when considering whether there is ‘significant concern’ regarding a customer’s ability to meet 
contractual loan repayments when due, we assess the customer’s delinquency status, account behaviour, repayment 
history, current financial situation and continued ability to repay. Where the customer is not meeting contractual 
repayments or it is evident that they will be unable to do so without the renegotiation, there will be a significant  255
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
concern regarding their ability to meet contractual payments, and the loan will be disclosed as impaired, unless the 
concession granted is insignificant as discussed below.  
For loan restructurings in wholesale lending, indicators of significant concerns regarding a borrower’s ability to pay 
include:
• the debtor is currently in default on any of its debt; 
• the debtor has declared or is in the process of declaring bankruptcy or entering into a similar process; 
• there is significant doubt as to whether the debtor will continue to be a going concern; 
• currently, the debtor has securities that have been delisted, are in the process of being delisted, or are under 
threat of being delisted from an exchange as a result of trading or financial difficulties; 
• based on estimates and projections that only encompass the current business capabilities, the bank forecasts 
that the debtor’s entity-specific cash flows will be insufficient to service the debt (both interest and principal) in 
accordance with the contractual terms of the existing agreement through maturity. Thus actual payment default 
may not yet have occurred; and 
• absent the modification, the debtor cannot obtain funds from sources other than the existing creditors at an 
effective interest rate equal to the current market interest rate for similar debt for a non-distressed debtor. 
Where the modification of contractual payment terms of a loan represents a concession for economic or legal reasons 
relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, and is a concession that we would not otherwise consider, then the 
renegotiated loan is disclosed as impaired in accordance with our impaired loan disclosure convention described 
in more detail on page 162, unless the concession is insignificant and there are no other indicators of impairment. 
Insignificant concessions are primarily restricted to our CML portfolio in HSBC Finance, where loans which are in 
the early stages of delinquency (less than 60 days delinquent), and typically have the equivalent of two payments 
deferred for the first time, are excluded from our impaired loan classification as the contractual payment deferrals are 
deemed to be insignificant compared with payments due on the loan as a whole. For details of HSBC Finance’s loan 
renegotiated programmes and portfolios, see pages 158 to 162. 
Credit quality classification of renegotiated loans 
(Audited) 
Under IFRSs, an entity is required to assess whether there is objective evidence that financial assets are impaired 
at the end of each reporting period. A loan is impaired, and an impairment allowance is recognised, when there is 
objective evidence of a loss event that has an effect on the cash flows of the loan which can be reliably estimated. 
When we grant a concession to a customer that we would not otherwise consider, as a result of their financial 
difficulty, this is objective evidence of impairment and impairment losses are measured accordingly. 
A renegotiated loan is presented as impaired when:  
• there has been a change in contractual cash flows as a result of a concession which the lender would otherwise 
not consider, and
• it is probable that without the concession, the borrower would be unable to meet contractual payment obligations 
in full. 
This presentation applies unless the concession is insignificant and there are no other indicators of impairment. 
The renegotiated loan will continue to be disclosed as impaired until there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a 
significant reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows, and there are no other indicators of impairment. 
For loans that are assessed for impairment on a collective basis, the evidence typically comprises a history of 
payment performance against the original or revised terms, as appropriate to the circumstances. For loans that are 
assessed for impairment on an individual basis, all available evidence is assessed on a case by case basis.  
For retail lending the minimum period of payment performance required depends on the nature of loans in the 
portfolio, but is typically not less than six months. Where portfolios have more significant levels of forbearance 
activity, such as that undertaken by HSBC Finance, the minimum repayment performance period required may be 
substantially more (for further details on HSBC Finance see page 150). Payment performance periods are monitored 
to ensure they remain appropriate to the levels of recidivism observed within the portfolio. These performance 
periods are in addition to the receipt of a minimum of two payments within a 60 day period which must be received 
for the customer to initially qualify for the renegotiation (in the case of HSBC Finance, in certain circumstances, for 
example where debt has been restructured in bankruptcy proceedings, fewer or no qualifying payments may be 
required). The qualifying payments are required in order to demonstrate that the renegotiated terms are sustainable  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Credit risk 
256
for the borrower. For corporate and commercial loans, which are individually assessed for impairment and where 
non-monthly payments are more commonly agreed, the history of payment performance will depend on the 
underlying structure of payments agreed as part of the restructure. 
Renegotiated loans are classified as unimpaired where the renegotiation has resulted from significant concern about 
a borrower’s ability to meet their contractual payment terms but the renegotiated terms are based on current market 
rates and contractual cash flows are expected to be collected in full following the renegotiation. Unimpaired 
renegotiated loans also include previously impaired renegotiated loans that have demonstrated satisfactory 
performance over a period of time or have been assessed based on all available evidence as having no remaining 
indicators of impairment.  
Loans that have been identified as renegotiated retain this designation until maturity or derecognition. When a loan is 
restructured as part of a forbearance strategy and the restructuring results in derecognition of the existing loan, such 
as in some debt consolidations, the new loan is disclosed as renegotiated. 
When determining whether a loan that is restructured should be derecognised and a new loan recognised, we consider 
the extent to which the changes to the original contractual terms result in the renegotiated loan, considered as a 
whole, being a substantially different financial instrument. The following are examples of circumstances that are 
likely to result in this test being met and derecognition accounting being applied:  
• an uncollateralised loan becomes fully collateralised; 
• the addition or removal of cross collateralisation provisions; 
• multiple facilities are consolidated into a single new facility; 
• removal or addition of conversion features attached to the loan agreement; 
• a change in the currency in which the principal or interest is denominated;  
• a change in the liquidation preference or ranking of the instrument; or 
• the contract is altered in any other manner so that the terms under the new or modified contract are substantially 
different from those under the original contract. 
The following are examples of factors that we consider may indicate that the revised loan is a substantially different 
financial instrument, but are unlikely to be conclusive in themselves: 
• change in guarantees or loan covenants provided; 
• less significant changes to collateral arrangements; or 
• the addition of repayment provisions or prepayment premium clauses. 
Renegotiated loans and recognition of impairment allowances 
(Audited) 
For retail lending, renegotiated loans are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for collective impairment 
assessment to reflect the higher rates of losses often encountered in these segments. When empirical evidence 
indicates an increased propensity to default and higher losses on such accounts, such as for re-aged loans in the US, 
the use of roll-rate methodology ensures these factors are taken into account when calculating impairment allowances 
by applying roll rates specifically calculated on the pool of loans subject to forbearance. When the portfolio size is 
small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate methodology, a basic formulaic 
approach based on historical loss rate experience is used. As a result of our roll-rate methodology, we recognise 
collective impairment allowances on homogeneous groups of loans, including renegotiated loans, where there is 
historical evidence that there is a likelihood that loans in these groups will progress through the various stages of 
delinquency, and ultimately prove irrecoverable as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date. This 
treatment applies irrespective of whether or not those loans are presented as impaired in accordance with our 
impaired loans disclosure convention. When we consider that there are additional risk factors inherent in the 
portfolios that may not be fully reflected in the statistical roll rates or historical experience, these risk factors are 
taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely from statistical or historical experience. 
For further details of the risk factor adjustments see ‘Critical accounting policies’ on page 54. 
In the corporate and commercial sectors, renegotiated loans are typically assessed individually. Credit risk ratings are 
intrinsic to the impairment assessment. A distressed restructuring is classified as an impaired loan. The individual 
impairment assessment takes into account the higher risk of the non-payment of future cash flows inherent in 
renegotiated loans.  257
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Corporate and commercial forbearance 
(Unaudited) 
In the corporate and commercial sectors, forbearance activity is undertaken selectively where it has been identified 
that repayment difficulties against the original terms already have, or are very likely to, materialise. These cases are 
treated as impaired loans where:  
• the customer is experiencing, or is very likely to experience, difficulty in meeting a payment obligation to the 
bank (i.e. due to current credit distress); and 
• the bank is offering to the customer revised payment arrangements which constitute a concession (i.e. it is 
offering terms it would not normally be prepared to offer). 
These cases are described as distressed restructurings. The agreement of a restructuring which meets the criteria 
above requires all loans, advances and counterparty exposures to the customer to be treated as impaired. Against the 
background of this requirement, as a customer approaches the point that it becomes clear that there is an increasing 
risk that a restructuring of this kind might be necessary, the exposures will typically be regarded as sub-standard to 
reflect the deteriorating credit risk profile, and will be graded as impaired when the restructure is proposed for 
approval, or sooner if there is sufficient concern regarding the customer’s likeliness to pay. 
For the purposes of determining whether changes to a customer’s agreement should be treated as a distressed 
restructuring the following types of modification are regarded as concessionary:  
• transfers from the customer of receivables from third parties, real estate, or other assets to satisfy fully or 
partially a debt; 
• issuance or other granting of an equity interest to satisfy fully or partially a debt unless the equity interest is 
granted pursuant to existing terms for converting the debt into an equity interest; and 
• modification of the terms of a debt, such as one or more of the following: 
– reduction (absolute or contingent) of the stated interest rate for the remaining original life of the debt; 
– extension of the maturity date or dates at a stated interest rate lower than the current market rate for new 
debt with similar risk; 
– reduction (absolute or contingent) of the face amount or maturity amount of the debt; and 
– reduction (absolute or contingent) of accrued interest.  
Modifications that are unrelated to payment arrangements, such as the restructuring of collateral or security 
arrangements or the waiver of rights under covenants within documentation, are not regarded by themselves to be 
evidence of credit distress affecting payment capacity. Typically, covenants are in place to give the bank rights of 
repricing or acceleration, but they are frequently set at levels where payment capacity has yet to be affected. They 
provide rights of action at earlier stages of credit deterioration. However, when these modifications are made in 
conjunction with modifications affecting payment arrangements as a result of significant concerns regarding the 
payment of contractual cash flows, they are treated as a distressed restructuring. 
In assessing whether payment-related forbearance is a satisfactory and sustainable strategy, the customer’s entire 
exposure and facilities will be reviewed and the customer’s ability to meet the terms of both the revised obligation 
and other credit facilities not amended in the renegotiation is assessed. Should this assessment identify that a 
renegotiation will not deal with a customer’s payment capacity issues satisfactorily, other special management 
options may be applied.  This process may identify the need to provide assistance to a customer specifically to 
restructure their business operations and activities so as to restore satisfactory payment capacity.  
Modifications may be made on a temporary basis when time is needed for the customer to make arrangements for 
payment, when deterioration in payment capacity is expected to be acute but short lived, or when more time is 
needed to accommodate discussions regarding a more permanent accommodation with other bankers, for example 
in syndicated facilities where multilateral negotiation commonly features.  
If a restructuring proceeds and the customer demonstrates satisfactory performance over a period of time, the case 
may be returned to a non-impaired grade (CRR1-8) provided no other indicators of impairment remain. Such a case 
cannot be returned to a non-impaired grade when a specific impairment reserve remains against any of the customer’s 
credit facilities. The period of performance will vary depending on the frequency of payments to be made by the 
customer under the amended agreement and the extent to which the customer’s financial position is considered to 
have improved. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Credit risk 
258
Impairment assessment 
(Audited) 
It is our policy that each operating company in HSBC creates impairment allowances for impaired loans promptly 
and appropriately. 
For details of our impairment policies on loans and advances and financial investments, see Notes 2g and 2j on the 
Financial Statements.
Impairment and credit risk mitigation 
The existence of collateral has an impact when calculating impairment on individually assessed impaired loans. 
When we no longer expect to recover the principal and interest due on a loan in full or in accordance with the 
original terms and conditions, it is assessed for impairment. If exposures are secured, the current net realisable value 
of the collateral will be taken into account when assessing the need for an impairment allowance. No impairment 
allowance is recognised in cases where all amounts due are expected to be settled in full on realisation of the security. 
Personal lending portfolios are generally assessed for impairment on a collective basis as the portfolios typically 
consist of large groups of homogeneous loans. Two methods are used to calculate allowances on a collective basis: 
a roll rate methodology or a more basic formulaic approach based on historical losses. 
The historical loss methodology is typically used to calculate collective impairment allowances for secured, or low 
default portfolios such as mortgages, until the point at which they are individually identified and assessed as 
impaired. For loans which are collectively assessed using historical loss methodology, the historical loss rate is 
derived from the average contractual write-off net of recoveries over a defined period. The net contractual write-off 
rate is the actual amount of loss experienced after the realisation of collateral and receipt of recoveries. 
A roll rate methodology is more commonly adopted for unsecured portfolios when there are sufficient volumes of 
empirical data to develop robust statistical models. In certain circumstances mortgage portfolios have a statistically 
significant number of defaults and losses available, enabling reliable roll rates to be generated. In these cases a roll 
rate methodology is applied until the point at which the loans are individually identified and assessed as impaired, 
and the average loss rate for each delinquency bucket is adjusted to reflect the average loss expected following 
realisation of security and receipt of recoveries. The average loss expected is derived from average historical 
collateral realisation values.
The nature of the collective allowance assessment prevents individual collateral values or loan-to-value (‘LTV’) 
ratios from being included within the calculation. However, the loss rates used in the collective assessment are 
adjusted for the collateral realisation experiences which will vary depending on the LTV composition of the 
portfolio.  For example mortgage portfolios under a historical loss rate methodology with lower LTV ratios will 
typically experience lower loss history and consequently a lower net contractual write-off rate. 
For wholesale collectively assessed loans historical loss methodologies are applied to measure loss event 
impairments which have been incurred but not reported.  Loss rates are derived from the observed contractual write-
off net of recoveries over a defined period, typically 60 months. The net contractual write-off rate is the actual 
amount of loss experienced after realisation of collateral and receipt of recoveries. These historical loss rates are 
adjusted by an economic factor which adjusts the historical averages to better represent current economic conditions 
affecting the portfolio. In order to reflect the likelihood of a loss event not being identified and assessed an 
emergence period assumption is applied. This reflects the period between a loss occurring and its identification. The 
emergence period is estimated by local management for each identified portfolio. The factors that may influence this 
estimation include economic and market conditions, customer behaviour, portfolio management information, credit 
management techniques and collection and recovery experiences in the market. A fixed range for the period between 
a loss occurring and its identification is not defined across the Group and as it is assessed empirically on a periodic 
basis, it may vary over time as these factors change. Given that credit management policies require all customers to 
be reviewed at least annually, we expect this estimated period would be at most 12 months.  259
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Write-off of loans and advances 
For details of our policy on the write-off of loans and advances, see Note 2g on the Financial Statements.
In HSBC Finance, the carrying amounts of residential mortgage and second lien loans in excess of net realisable 
value are written off at or before the time foreclosure is completed or settlement is reached with the borrower. If there 
is no reasonable expectation of recovery, and foreclosure is pursued, the loan is normally written off no later than the 
end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days contractually past due. 
Unsecured personal facilities, including credit cards, are generally written off at between 150 and 210 days past due, 
the standard period being the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days contractually delinquent. 
Write-off periods may be extended, generally to no more than 360 days past due but, in very exceptional 
circumstances, exceeding that figure in a few countries where local regulation or legislation constrain earlier 
write-off, or where the realisation of collateral for secured real estate lending extends to this time.  
In the event of bankruptcy or analogous proceedings, write-off may occur earlier than at the periods stated above. 
Collections procedures may continue after write-off. 
Concentration of exposure
(Audited) 
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of counterparties or exposures have comparable economic 
characteristics, or such counterparties are engaged in similar activities or operate in the same geographical areas or 
industry sectors, so that their collective ability to meet contractual obligations is uniformly affected by changes in 
economic, political or other conditions. We use a number of controls and measures to minimise undue concentration 
of exposure in our portfolios across industry, country and global businesses. These include portfolio and counterparty 
limits, approval and review controls, and stress testing. 
Wrong-way risk is an aggravated form of concentration risk and arises when there is a strong correlation between the 
counterparty’s probability of default and the mark-to-market value of the underlying transaction. We use a range of 
procedures to monitor and control wrong-way risk, including requiring entities to obtain prior approval before 
undertaking wrong-way risk transactions outside pre-agreed guidelines. 
Cross-border exposures 
We assess the vulnerability of countries to foreign currency payment restrictions, including economic and political 
factors, when considering impairment allowances on cross-border exposures. Impairment allowances are assessed in 
respect of all qualifying exposures within vulnerable countries unless these exposures and the inherent risks are: 
• performing, trade-related and of less than one year’s maturity;  
• mitigated by acceptable security cover which is, other than in exceptional cases, held outside the country 
concerned;
• in the form of securities held for trading purposes for which a liquid and active market exists, and which are 
measured at fair value daily; and 
• performing facilities with a principal (excluding security) of US$1m or below and/or with maturity dates shorter 
than three months. 
Nature of HSBC’s securitisation and other structured exposures 
(Audited) 
Mortgage-backed securities (‘MBS’s) are securities that represent interests in groups of mortgages and provide 
investors with the right to receive cash from future mortgage payments (interest and/or principal). An MBS which 
references mortgages with different risk profiles is classified according to the highest risk class. 
Collateralised debt obligations (‘CDO’s) are securities backed by a pool of bonds, loans or other assets such as asset-
backed securities (‘ABS’s). CDOs may include exposure to sub-prime or Alt-A mortgage assets where these are part 
of the underlying assets or reference assets. As there is often uncertainty surrounding the precise nature of the 
underlying collateral supporting CDOs, all CDOs supported by residential mortgage-related assets are classified as 
sub-prime. Our holdings of ABSs and CDOs and direct lending positions, and the categories of mortgage collateral 
and lending activity, are described overleaf.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Credit risk / Liquidity and funding 
260
Our exposure to non-residential mortgage-related ABSs and direct lending includes securities with collateral relating 
to:
• commercial property mortgages; 
• leveraged finance loans; 
• student loans; and 
• other assets, such as securities with other receivable-related collateral.
Categories of  
ABSs and CDOs Definition Classification 
Sub-prime Loans to customers who have limited credit histories, 
modest incomes or high debt-to-income ratios or have 
experienced credit problems caused by occasional 
delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other 
credit-related actions. 
For US mortgages, a FICO score of 620 or less has 
primarily been used to determine whether a loan is sub-
prime. For non-US mortgages, management judgement 
is used. 
US Home Equity Lines 
of Credit (‘HELoC’s) 
A form of revolving credit facility provided to 
customers, which is supported in the majority of 
circumstances by a second lien or lower ranking charge 
over residential property. 
Holdings of HELoCs are classified as sub-prime. 
US Alt-A Lower risk loans than sub-prime, but they share higher 
risk characteristics than lending under fully conforming 
standard criteria. 
US credit scores and the completeness of 
documentation held (such as proof of income), are 
considered when determining whether an Alt-A 
classification is appropriate. Non sub-prime mortgages 
in the US are classified as Alt-A if they are not eligible 
for sale to the major US Government mortgage 
agencies or sponsored entities. 
US Government agency 
and sponsored 
enterprises mortgage-
related assets 
Securities that are guaranteed by US Government 
agencies such as the Government National Mortgage 
Association (‘Ginnie Mae’), or by US Government 
sponsored entities including the Federal National 
Mortgage Association (‘Fannie Mae’) and the Federal 
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (‘Freddie Mac’). 
Holdings of US Government agency and US 
Government sponsored enterprises’ mortgage-related 
assets are classified as prime exposures. 
UK non-conforming 
mortgages 
UK mortgages that do not meet normal lending criteria. 
Examples include mortgages where the expected level 
of documentation is not provided (such as income with 
self-certification), or where poor credit history 
increases risk and results in pricing at a higher than 
normal lending rate. 
UK non-conforming mortgages are treated as sub-
prime exposures. 
Other mortgages Residential mortgages, including prime mortgages, that 
do not meet any of the classifications described above.
Prime residential mortgage-related assets are included 
in this category. 
Impairment methodologies 
(Audited) 
To identify objective evidence of impairment for available-for-sale ABSs, an industry standard valuation model is 
normally applied which uses data with reference to the underlying asset pools and models their projected future cash 
flows. The estimated future cash flows of the securities are assessed at the specific financial asset level to determine 
whether any of them are unlikely to be recovered as a result of loss events occurring on or before the reporting date.  
The principal assumptions and inputs to the models are typically the delinquency status of the underlying loans, the 
probability of delinquent loans progressing to default, the prepayment profiles of the underlying assets and the loss 
severity in the event of default. However, the models utilise other variables relevant to specific classes of collateral to 
forecast future defaults and recovery rates. Management uses externally available data and applies judgement when 
determining the appropriate assumptions in respect of these factors. We use a modelling approach which incorporates 
historically observed progression rates to default to determine if the decline in aggregate projected cash flows from 
the underlying collateral will lead to a shortfall in contractual cash flows. In such cases, the security is considered to 
be impaired. 
In respect of CDOs, expected future cash flows for the underlying collateral are assessed to determine whether there 
is likely to be a shortfall in the contractual cash flows of the CDO.   261
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
When a security benefits from a contract provided by a monoline insurer that insures payments of principal and 
interest, the expected recovery on the contract is assessed in determining the total expected credit support available 
to the ABS. 
Liquidity and funding 
(Audited) 
The management of liquidity and funding is primarily undertaken locally (by country) in our operating entities in 
compliance with the Group’s liquidity and funding risk management framework (the ‘LFRF’), and with practices 
and limits set by the GMB through the Risk Management Meeting and approved by the Board. These limits vary 
according to the depth and the liquidity of the markets in which the entities operate. Our general policy is that each 
defined operating entity should be self-sufficient in funding its own activities. Where transactions exist between 
operating entities, they are reflected symmetrically in both entities.  
As part of our Asset, Liability and Capital Management (‘ALCM’) structure, we have established ALCOs at Group 
level, in the regions and in operating entities. The terms of reference of all ALCOs include the monitoring and 
control of liquidity and funding. 
The primary responsibility for managing liquidity and funding within the Group’s framework and risk appetite 
resides with the local operating entity ALCO. Our most significant operating entities are overseen by regional 
ALCOs, Group ALCO and the Risk Management Meeting. The remaining smaller operating entities are overseen 
by regional ALCOs, with appropriate escalation of significant issues to Group ALCO and the Risk Management 
Meeting. 
Operating entities are predominately defined on a country basis to reflect our local management of liquidity and 
funding. Typically, an operating entity will be defined as a single legal entity. However, to take account of the 
situation where operations in a country are booked across multiple subsidiaries or branches: 
• an operating entity may be defined as a wider sub-consolidated group of legal entities if they are incorporated 
in the same country, liquidity and funding are freely fungible between the entities and permitted by local 
regulation, and the definition reflects how liquidity and funding are managed locally; or  
• an operating entity may be defined more narrowly as a principal office (branch) of a wider legal entity operating 
in multiple countries, reflecting the local country management of liquidity and funding. 
The list of entities it directly oversees and the composition of these entities is reviewed and agreed annually by the 
Risk Management Meeting. 
Primary sources of funding
(Audited)
Customer deposits in the form of current accounts and savings deposits payable on demand or at short notice form 
a significant part of our funding, and we place considerable importance on maintaining their stability. For deposits, 
stability depends upon maintaining depositor confidence in our capital strength and liquidity, and on competitive and 
transparent pricing. 
We also access wholesale funding markets by issuing senior secured and unsecured debt securities (publically and 
privately) and borrowing from the secured repo markets against high quality collateral, in order to obtain funding for 
non-banking subsidiaries that do not accept deposits, to align asset and liability maturities and currencies and to 
maintain a presence in local wholesale markets.  
The management of funding and liquidity risk 
Inherent liquidity risk categorisation 
We place our operating entities into one of three categories (low, medium and high) to reflect our assessment of their 
inherent liquidity risk, considering political, economic and regulatory factors within the host country and factors 
specific to the operating entities themselves, such as the local market, market share and balance sheet strength. The 
categorisation involves management judgement and is based on the perceived liquidity risk of an operating entity 
relative to other entities in the Group. The categorisation is intended to reflect the possible impact of a liquidity 
event, not the probability of an event. The categorisation is part of our risk appetite and is used to determine the 
prescribed stress scenario that we require our operating entities to be able to withstand, and to manage to.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Credit risk / Liquidity and funding 
262
Core deposits 
A key assumption of our internal framework is the categorisation of customer deposits into core and non-core based 
on our expectation of the behaviour of these deposits during liquidity stress. This characterisation takes into account 
the inherent liquidity risk categorisation of the operating entity originating the deposit, the nature of the customer and 
the size and pricing of the deposit. No deposit is considered to be core in its entirety unless it is contractually 
collateralising a loan. The core deposit base in each operating entity is considered to be a long-term source of funding 
and therefore is assumed not to be withdrawn in the liquidity stress scenario that we use to calculate our principal 
liquidity risk metrics. 
The three filters considered in assessing whether a deposit in any operating entity is core are: 
• price: any deposit priced significantly above market or benchmark rates is generally treated as entirely non-core; 
• size: depositors with total funds above certain monetary thresholds are excluded. Thresholds are established by 
considering the business line and inherent liquidity risk categorisation; and 
• line of business: the element of any deposit remaining after the application of the price and size filters is 
assessed on the basis of the line of business to which the deposit is associated. The proportion of any customer 
deposit that can be considered core under this filter is between 35% and 90%. 
Repo transactions and bank deposits cannot be categorised as core deposits.
Advances to core funding ratio
Core customer deposits are an important source of funding to finance lending to customers, and mitigate against 
reliance on short-term wholesale funding. Limits are placed on operating entities to restrict their ability to increase 
loans and advances to customers without corresponding growth in core customer deposits or long-term debt funding 
with a residual maturity beyond one year; this measure is referred to as the ‘advances to core funding’ ratio. 
Advances to core funding ratio limits are set by the Risk Management Meeting for the most significant operating 
entities, and by regional ALCOs for smaller operating entities, and are monitored by ALCM teams. The ratio 
describes current loans and advances to customers as a percentage of the total of core customer deposits and term 
funding with a remaining term to maturity in excess of one year. In general, customer loans are assumed to be 
renewed and are included in the numerator of the advances to core funding ratio, irrespective of the contractual 
maturity date. Reverse repo arrangements are excluded from the advances to core funding ratio. 
Stressed coverage ratios
Stressed coverage ratios are derived from stressed cash flow scenario analyses and express the stressed cash inflows 
as a percentage of stressed cash outflows over one-month and three-month time horizons.  
The stressed cash inflows include: 
• inflows (net of assumed haircuts) expected to be generated from the realisation of liquid assets; and 
• contractual cash inflows from maturing assets that are not already reflected as a utilisation of liquid assets. 
In line with the approach adopted for the advances to core funding ratio, customer loans are, in general, assumed not 
to generate any cash inflows under stress scenarios and are therefore excluded from the numerator of the stressed 
coverage ratios, irrespective of the contractual maturity date. 
A stressed coverage ratio of 100% or higher reflects a positive cumulative cash flow under the stress scenario being 
monitored. Group operating entities are required to maintain a ratio of 100% or greater out to three months under the 
combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenario defined by the inherent liquidity risk categorisation of the 
operating entity concerned. 
Compliance with operating entity limits is monitored by ALCM teams and reported monthly to the Risk Management 
Meeting for the main operating entities and to regional ALCOs for the smaller operating entities. 
Stressed scenario analysis 
We use a number of standard Group stress scenarios designed to model: 
• combined market-wide and HSBC-specific liquidity crisis scenarios; and 
• market-wide liquidity crisis scenarios.  263
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
These scenarios are modelled by all operating entities. The appropriateness of the assumptions for each scenario is 
reviewed by ALCM regularly and formally approved by the Risk Management Meeting and the Board annually as 
part of the liquidity and funding risk appetite approval process. 
Stressed cash outflows are determined by applying a standard set of prescribed stress assumptions to the Group’s 
cash flow model. Our framework prescribes the use of two market-wide scenarios and three further combined 
market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenarios of increasing severity. In addition to our standard stress scenarios, 
individual operating entities are required to design their own scenarios to reflect specific local market conditions, 
products and funding bases. 
The three combined market-wide and HSBC-specific scenarios model a more severe scenario than the two market-
wide scenarios. The relevant combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenario that an operating entity 
manages to is based upon its inherent liquidity risk categorisation. The key assumptions factored into the three 
combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenarios are summarised as follows: 
• all non-core deposits are deemed to be withdrawn within three months (80% within one month), with the level 
of non-core deposits dependent on the operating entity’s inherent liquidity risk categorisation; 
• the ability to access interbank funding and unsecured term debt markets ceases for the duration of the scenario; 
• the ability to generate funds from illiquid asset portfolios (securitisation and secured borrowing) is restricted to 
25-75% of the lower of issues in the last six months or the expected issues in the next six months. The restriction 
is based on current market conditions and is dependent on the operating entity’s inherent liquidity risk 
categorisation;
• the ability to access repo funding ceases for any asset not classified as liquid under our liquid asset policy for 
the duration of the scenario; 
• drawdowns on committed lending facilities must be consistent with the severity of the market stress being 
modelled and dependent on the inherent liquidity risk categorisation of the operating entity; 
• outflows are triggered by a defined downgrade in long-term ratings. We maintain an on-going assessment of 
the appropriate number of notches to reflect; 
• customer loans are assumed to be renewed at contractual maturity; 
• interbank loans and reverse repos are assumed to run off contractually; and 
• assets defined as liquid assets are assumed to be realised in cash ahead of their contractual maturity, after 
applying a defined stressed haircut of up to 20%. 
Liquid assets of HSBC’s principal operating entities
Stressed scenario analysis and the numerator of the coverage ratio include the assumed cash inflows that would be 
generated from the realisation of liquid assets, after applying the appropriate stressed haircut. These assumptions are 
made based on management’s expectation of when an asset is deemed to be realisable. 
Liquid assets are unencumbered assets that meet the Group’s definition of liquid assets and are either held outright 
or as a consequence of a reverse repo transaction with a residual contractual maturity beyond the time horizon of the 
stressed coverage ratio being monitored. Any unencumbered asset held as a result of reverse repo transactions with a 
contractual maturity within the time horizon of the stressed coverage ratio being monitored is excluded from the 
stock of liquid assets and instead reflected as a contractual cash inflow. 
Our framework defines the asset classes that can be assessed locally as high quality and realisable within one month 
and between one month and three months. Each local ALCO has to be satisfied that any asset which may be treated 
as liquid in accordance with the Group’s liquid asset policy will remain liquid under the stress scenario being 
managed to. 
Inflows from the utilisation of liquid assets within one month can generally only be based on confirmed 
withdrawable central bank deposits, gold or the sale or repo of government and quasi-government exposures 
generally restricted to those denominated in the sovereign’s domestic currency. High quality ABSs (predominantly 
US MBSs) and covered bonds are also included but inflows assumed for these assets are capped. 
Inflows after one month are also reflected for high quality non-financial and non-structured corporate bonds and 
equities within the most liquid indices.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Liquidity and funding / Market risk 
264
Internal categorisation Cash inflow recognised Asset classes 
Level 1 Within one month Central government 
Central bank (including confirmed withdrawable reserves) 
Supranationals 
Multilateral development banks 
Level 2 Within one month but capped Local and regional government 
Public sector entities 
Secured covered bonds and pass-through ABSs 
Gold
Level 3 From one to three months Unsecured non-financial entity securities 
Equities listed on recognised exchanges and within liquid indices 
Any entity owned and controlled by central or local/regional government but not explicitly guaranteed is treated as a 
public sector entity. 
Any exposure explicitly guaranteed is reflected as an exposure to the ultimate guarantor. 
In terms of the criteria used to ensure liquid assets are of a high quality, the Group’s liquid asset policy sets out the 
following additional criteria: 
1. Central bank and central government exposures denominated in the domestic currency of the related sovereign 
and held onshore in the domestic banking system qualify as level 1 liquid assets. 
2. Central bank and central government exposures denominated in the domestic currency of the related sovereign 
and held offshore must be risk weighted 20% or lower under the Basel standardised risk weighting methodology, 
to qualify as level 1 liquid assets. 
3. Central bank and central government exposures denominated in a currency other than the currency of the related 
sovereign (i.e. foreign currency) must be risk weighted 20% or lower under the Basel standardised risk 
weighting methodology and issued in a limited number of major currencies, to qualify as level 1 liquid assets. 
The treatment of eurozone countries using the euro as their domestic currency depends on whether the exposures 
are held onshore in the domestic banking system or offshore. Central bank and central government exposures held 
onshore in the domestic banking system qualify as level 1 liquid assets under criteria 1, but central bank and central 
government exposures held offshore are considered to be denominated in a foreign currency and considered under 
criteria 3. 
4. Local/regional government exposures held onshore and considered by the local regulator to be the same risk as 
central government exposures can be considered central government exposures. 
5. Supranationals and multilateral development banks must be 0% risk weighted under the Basel standardised risk 
weighting methodology, to qualify as level 1 liquid assets. 
6. To qualify as a level 2 liquid asset the exposure must be risk weighted 20% or lower under the Basel 
standardised risk weighting methodology. 
7. To qualify as a level 3 liquid asset an unsecured non-financial corporate debt exposure must satisfy a minimum 
internal rating requirement. 
Wholesale debt monitoring
Where wholesale debt term markets are accessed to raise funding, ALCO is required to establish cumulative rolling 
three-month and 12-month debt maturity limits to ensure no concentration of maturities within these timeframes.  
Liquidity behaviouralisation 
Liquidity behaviouralisation is applied to reflect our assessment of the expected period for which we are confident 
that we will have access to our liabilities, even under a severe liquidity stress scenario, and the expected period for 
which we must assume that we will need to fund our assets. Behaviouralisation is applied when the contractual terms 
do not reflect the expected behaviour. Liquidity behaviouralisation is reviewed and approved by local ALCO in 
compliance with policies set by the Risk Management Meeting. Our approach to liquidity risk management will often  265
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
mean a different approach is applied to assets and liabilities. For example, management may assume a shorter life for 
liabilities and a longer-term funding requirement for assets. 
Contingent liquidity risk
Operating entities provide customers with committed facilities and committed backstop lines to the conduit vehicles 
we sponsor. These facilities increase our funding requirements when customers draw down. The liquidity risk 
associated with the potential drawdown on non-cancellable committed facilities is factored into our stressed scenarios 
and limits are set for these facilities. 
Management of cross-currency liquidity and funding risk 
Our liquidity and funding risk framework also considers the ability of each entity to continue to access foreign 
exchange markets under stress when a surplus in one currency is used to meet a deficit in another currency, for 
example, by the use of the foreign currency swap markets. Where appropriate, operating entities are required to 
monitor stressed coverage ratios and advances to core funding ratios for non-local currencies. 
HSBC Holdings 
(Audited) 
HSBC Holdings’ primary sources of cash are dividends received from subsidiaries, interest on and repayment of 
intra-group loans and interest earned on its own liquid funds. HSBC Holdings also raises ancillary funds in the debt 
capital markets through subordinated and senior debt issuance. Cash is primarily used for the provision of capital to 
subsidiaries, interest payments to debt holders and dividend payments to shareholders.  
HSBC Holdings is also subject to contingent liquidity risk by virtue of loan and other credit-related commitments and 
guarantees and similar contracts issued. Such commitments and guarantees are only issued after due consideration of 
HSBC Holdings’ ability to finance the commitments and guarantees and the likelihood of the need arising.  
HSBC Holdings actively manages the cash flows from its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at the 
holding company level. The ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends 
on, among other things, their respective regulatory capital requirements, statutory reserves, and financial and 
operating performance. The wide range of our activities means that HSBC Holdings is not dependent on a single 
source of profits to fund its dividend payments to shareholders.  
Market risk 
Overview of market risk in global businesses 
The diagram below illustrates the main business areas where trading and non-trading market risks reside. 
Trading risk
Risk
types
Non-trading risk
– Interest rates
– Foreign exchange and commodities
– Credit spreads
– Equities
Global
businesses
– Interest rates
– Credit spreads
– Foreign exchange (structural)
–GB&M
(including Balance Sheet Management
(‘BSM’))
GB&M
(including
BSM)
GPB CMB RBWM
Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures 
(Audited) 
We employ a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures. These include sensitivity analysis, value at risk 
(‘VAR’), stressed VAR and stress testing. While VAR provides the GMB with a measure of the market risk in the Group, 
sensitivity analysis and VAR are more commonly utilised for the management of the business units. Stress testing and 
stressed VAR complement these measures with potential losses arising from market turmoil.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Market risk 
266
Market risk is managed and controlled through limits approved by the GMB for HSBC Holdings and our 
various global businesses. These limits are allocated across business lines and to the Group’s legal entities.  
The management of market risk is principally undertaken in Global Markets, where 85% of the total value at risk of 
HSBC Holdings (excluding Insurance) and almost all trading VAR resides, using risk limits approved by the GMB. 
Limits are set for portfolios, products and risk types, with market liquidity being a primary factor in determining the 
level of limits set. Group Risk, an independent unit within Group Head Office, is responsible for our market risk 
management policies and measurement techniques. Each major operating entity has an independent market risk 
management and control function which is responsible for measuring market risk exposures in accordance with the 
policies defined by Group Risk, and monitoring and reporting these exposures against the prescribed limits on a 
daily basis. The risk appetite is governed according to the framework illustrated below. 
Chairman / CEO
Group Management Board
Risk Management Meeting
HSBC Holdings Board
Entity Risk
Management Committee
Principal Office Manager
Business / Desk / Trader
Group Traded Risk
General measures
Specific measures
Each operating entity is required to assess the market 
risks arising on each product in its business and to 
transfer them to either its local Global Markets unit 
for management, or to separate books managed under 
the supervision of the local ALCO. Our aim is to 
ensure that all market risks are consolidated within 
operations that have the necessary skills, tools, 
management and governance to manage them 
professionally. In certain cases where the market risks 
cannot be fully transferred, we identify the impact of 
varying scenarios on valuations or on net interest 
income resulting from any residual risk positions. 
Further details on the control and management 
process for residual risks are provided on pages 268 
to 269. 
Sensitivity analysis 
(Unaudited) 
We use sensitivity measures to monitor the market 
risk positions within each risk type, for example, the 
present value of a basis point movement in interest 
rates for interest rate risk. Sensitivity limits are set for 
portfolios, products and risk types, with the depth of 
the market being one of the principal factors in 
determining the level of limits set. 
Value at risk and stressed value at risk 
(Audited) 
VAR is a technique that estimates the potential losses on risk positions as a result of movements in market rates and 
prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence. Stressed VAR is primarily used for 
Regulatory Capital purposes but is integrated into the risk management process to facilitate efficient capital 
management and to highlight possible high-risk positions based on previous market volatility. 
Both the VAR and Stressed VAR models we use are based predominantly on historical simulation. These models 
derive plausible future scenarios from past series of recorded market rates and prices, taking into account inter-
relationships between different markets and rates such as interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The models also 
incorporate the effect of option features on the underlying exposures. 
The historical simulation models used incorporate the following features: 
• historical market rates and prices are calculated with reference to foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, 
interest rates, equity prices and the associated volatilities;  
• potential market movements utilised for VAR are calculated with reference to data from the past two years,  
• (unaudited) potential market movements employed for stressed VAR calculations are based on a continuous one-
year period of stress for the trading portfolio; the choice of period (March 2008 to February 2009) is based on 
the assessment at the Group level of the most volatile period in recent history; and   267
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
• VAR measures are calculated to a 99% confidence level and use a one-day holding period scaled to 10 days, 
whereas stressed VAR uses a 10-day holding period. 
The nature of the VAR models means that an increase in observed market volatility will lead to an increase in VAR 
without any changes in the underlying positions. 
We routinely validate the accuracy of our VAR models by back-testing the actual daily profit and loss results, 
adjusted to remove non-modelled items such as fees and commissions, against the corresponding VAR numbers. 
We expect on average to see losses in excess of VAR 1% of the time over a one-year period.  
Although a valuable guide to risk, VAR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations. For example: 
• the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events may not encompass all potential events, 
particularly those which are extreme in nature; 
• the use of a one-day holding period assumes that all positions can be liquidated or the risks offset in one day. 
This may not fully reflect the market risk arising at times of severe illiquidity, when a one-day holding period 
may be insufficient to liquidate or hedge all positions fully; 
• the use of a 99% confidence level does not take into account losses that might occur beyond this level of 
confidence;
• VAR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the close of business and therefore does not 
necessarily reflect intra-day exposures; and 
• VAR is unlikely to reflect loss potential on exposures that only arise under significant market moves. 
Our VAR model is designed to capture significant basis risks such as CDS vs bond, asset swap spreads and cross-
currency basis. Other basis risks which are not completely covered in VAR, such as the Libor tenor basis, are 
complemented by our risk-not-in-VAR calculations and are integrated into our capital framework. Stress testing is 
also used as one of the market risk tools for managing basis risks. 
Stress testing 
(Audited) 
In recognition of the limitations of VAR, we augment it with stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on 
portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible, events or movements in a set of financial variables. 
Stress testing is implemented at the legal entity, regional and the overall Group levels. A standard set of scenarios is 
utilised consistently across all regions within the Group. Scenarios are tailored in order to capture the relevant events 
or market movements at each level. The risk appetite around potential stress losses for the Group is set and monitored 
against referral limits.  
The process is governed by the Stress Testing Review Group forum which, in conjunction with regional risk 
management, determines the scenarios to be applied at portfolio and consolidated levels, as follows: 
• single risk factor stress scenarios that are unlikely to be captured within the VAR models, such as the break of a 
currency peg; 
• technical scenarios consider the largest move in each risk factor without consideration of any underlying market 
correlation;
• hypothetical scenarios consider potential macroeconomic events, for example, the slowdown in mainland China 
and the potential effects of a sovereign debt default, including its wider contagion effects.; and 
• historical scenarios incorporate historical observations of market movements during previous periods of stress 
which would not be captured within VAR. 
Stress testing results are submitted to the GMB and Risk Management Committee (‘RMC’) meetings in order to 
provide senior management with an assessment of the financial effect such events would have. 
In addition, the reverse stress test is based upon the premise that there is a fixed loss. The stress test process identifies 
which scenarios lead to this loss. The rationale behind the reverse stress test is to understand scenarios which are 
beyond normal business settings that could have contagion and systemic implications. 
Stressed VAR and stress testing, together with reverse stress testing and the management of gap risk (see page 268), 
provide management with insights regarding the ‘tail risk’ beyond VAR. HSBC appetite for tail risk is limited.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Market risk 
268
Trading portfolios 
(Audited) 
Our control of market risk in the trading portfolios is based on a policy of restricting individual operations to trading 
within a list of permissible instruments authorised for each site by Group Risk, of enforcing new product approval 
procedures, and of restricting trading in the more complex derivative products only to offices with appropriate levels 
of product expertise and robust control systems.  
Gap risk 
Certain transactions are structured to render the risk to HSBC negligible under a wide range of market conditions or 
events, however, there exists a remote possibility that a gap event could lead to loss. A gap event could arise from a 
significant change in market price with no accompanying trading opportunity, with the result that the threshold is 
breached beyond which the risk profile changes from no risk to full exposure to the underlying structure. Such 
movements may occur, for example, when, in reaction to an adverse event or unexpected news announcement, the 
market for a specific investment becomes illiquid, making hedging impossible. 
Given their characteristics, these transactions make little or no contribution to VAR or to traditional market risk 
sensitivity measures. We capture their risks within our stress testing scenarios and monitor gap risk on an ongoing 
basis. We regularly consider the probability of gap loss, and fair value adjustments are booked against this risk where 
significant.
Gap risk derived from certain transactions in legacy portfolios continued to be managed down during 2012. The 
residual exposure is immaterial. We did not incur any material gap loss in 2012. 
ABS/MBS exposures 
The ABS/MBS exposures within the trading portfolios are managed within sensitivity and VAR limits as described 
on page 220, and are included within the stress testing scenarios described above. 
Non-trading portfolios 
(Audited) 
The principal objective of market risk management of non-trading portfolios is to optimise net interest income. 
Interest rate risk in non-trading portfolios arises principally from mismatches between the future yield on assets 
and their funding cost, as a result of interest rate changes. Analysis of this risk is complicated by having to make 
assumptions on embedded optionality within certain product areas such as the incidence of mortgage prepayments, 
and from behavioural assumptions regarding the economic duration of liabilities which are contractually repayable 
on demand such as current accounts. 
Our control of market risk in the non-trading portfolios is based on transferring the risks to the books managed by 
Global Markets or the local ALCO. The net exposure is typically managed through the use of interest rate swaps 
within agreed limits. The VAR for these portfolios is included within the Group VAR. 
Credit spread risk for available-for-sale debt instruments 
The risk associated with movements in credit spreads is primarily managed through sensitivity limits, stress testing 
and VAR. The VAR shows the effect on income from a one-day movement in credit spreads over a two-year period, 
calculated to a 99% confidence interval. 
Available for sale equity securities 
Potential new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations 
remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio. Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the 
investments within the portfolio and investments held to facilitate ongoing business, such as holdings in government-
sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges. 
Structural foreign exchange exposures 
(Unaudited) 
Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, the  269
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
functional currencies of which are currencies other than the US dollar. An entity’s functional currency is that of 
the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. 
Exchange differences on structural exposures are recognised in other comprehensive income. We use the US dollar 
as our presentation currency in our consolidated financial statements because the US dollar and currencies linked 
to it form the major currency bloc in which we transact and fund our business. Our consolidated balance sheet is, 
therefore, affected by exchange differences between the US dollar and all the non-US dollar functional currencies 
of underlying subsidiaries. 
We hedge structural foreign exchange exposures only in limited circumstances. Our structural foreign exchange 
exposures are managed with the primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our consolidated capital ratios 
and the capital ratios of individual banking subsidiaries are largely protected from the effect of changes in exchange 
rates. This is usually achieved by ensuring that, for each subsidiary bank, the ratio of structural exposures in a given 
currency to risk-weighted assets denominated in that currency is broadly equal to the capital ratio of the subsidiary in 
question. 
We may also transact hedges where a currency in which we have structural exposures is considered likely to revalue 
adversely, and it is possible in practice to transact a hedge. Any hedging is undertaken using forward foreign 
exchange contracts which are accounted for under IFRSs as hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, or by 
financing with borrowings in the same currencies as the functional currencies involved. 
Sensitivity of net interest income 
(Unaudited) 
A principal part of our management of market risk in non-trading portfolios is to monitor the sensitivity of projected 
net interest income under varying interest rate scenarios (simulation modelling). We aim, through our management 
of market risk in non-trading portfolios, to mitigate the effect of prospective interest rate movements which could 
reduce future net interest income, while balancing the cost of such hedging activities on the current net revenue 
stream. 
Entities apply a combination of scenarios and assumptions relevant to their local businesses, and standard scenarios 
which are required throughout HSBC. The latter are consolidated to illustrate the combined pro forma effect on our 
consolidated net interest income. 
Projected net interest income sensitivity figures represent the effect of the pro forma movements in net interest 
income based on the projected yield curve scenarios and the Group’s current interest rate risk profile. This effect, 
however, does not incorporate actions which would probably be taken by Balance Sheet Management or in the 
business units to mitigate the effect of interest rate risk. In reality, Balance Sheet Management seeks proactively to 
change the interest rate risk profile to minimise losses and optimise net revenues. The net interest income sensitivity 
calculations assume that interest rates of all maturities move by the same amount in the up shock scenario. Rates are 
not assumed to become negative in the down shock scenario which may, in certain currencies, effectively result in 
non-parallel shock. In addition, the net interest income sensitivity calculations take account of the effect on net 
interest income of anticipated differences in changes between interbank interest rates and interest rates over which 
the entity has discretion in terms of the timing and extent of rate changes. 
Defined benefit pension schemes 
(Audited) 
Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension schemes to the extent that the obligations of the schemes are 
not fully matched by assets with determinable cash flows. Pension scheme obligations fluctuate with changes in 
long-term interest rates, inflation, salary levels and the longevity of scheme members. Pension scheme assets include 
equities and debt securities, the cash flows of which change as equity prices and interest rates (and credit risk) vary. 
There is a risk that market movements in equity prices and interest rates could result in asset values which, taken 
together with regular ongoing contributions, are insufficient over time to cover the level of projected obligations 
and these, in turn, could increase with a rise in inflation and members living longer. Management, together with 
the trustees who act on behalf of the pension scheme beneficiaries, assess these risks using reports prepared by 
independent external actuaries, take action and, where appropriate, adjust investment strategies and contribution 
levels accordingly.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Market risk / Operational risk  
270
HSBC Holdings 
(Audited) 
As a financial services holding company, HSBC Holdings has limited market risk activity. Its activities 
predominantly involve maintaining sufficient capital resources to support the Group’s diverse activities; allocating 
these capital resources across our businesses; earning dividend and interest income on its investments in our 
businesses; providing dividend payments to HSBC Holdings’ equity shareholders and interest payments to providers 
of debt capital; and maintaining a supply of short-term cash resources. It does not take proprietary trading positions. 
The main market risks to which HSBC Holdings is exposed are interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. Exposure 
to these risks arises from short-term cash balances, funding positions held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in long-
term financial assets and financial liabilities including debt capital issued. The objective of HSBC Holdings’ market 
risk management strategy is to reduce exposure to these risks and minimise volatility in economic income, cash flows 
and distributable reserves. Market risk for HSBC Holdings is monitored by HSBC Holdings ALCO, which reviews 
foreign exchange VAR, repricing gap and net interest income and EVE sensitivities on a monthly basis. 
HSBC Holdings has entered into a number of cross-currency swaps to manage the market risk arising on certain 
long-term debt capital issues for which hedge accounting has not been applied. Changes in the market values of these 
swaps are recognised directly in the income statement. HSBC Holdings expects that these swaps will be held to final 
maturity with the accumulated changes in market value consequently trending to zero. 
Certain loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature that are not denominated in the functional currency of either the 
provider or the recipient are accounted for as financial assets. Changes in the carrying amount of these assets due to 
exchange differences are taken directly to the income statement. These loans, and the associated foreign exchange 
exposures, are eliminated on a Group consolidated basis. 
Operational risk 
(Unaudited) 
The objective of our operational risk management is to manage and control operational risk in a cost effective 
manner within targeted levels of operational risk consistent with our risk appetite, as defined by the GMB. 
Operational risk is organised as a specific risk discipline within Group Risk, and a formal governance structure 
provides oversight over its management. The Group Operational Risk function reports to the Group Chief Risk 
Officer and supports the Global Operational Risk and Control Committee. It is responsible for establishing and 
maintaining the operational risk management framework (‘ORMF’), monitoring the level of operational losses and 
the effectiveness of the control environment. It is also responsible for operational risk reporting at Group level, 
including the preparation of reports for consideration by the Risk Management Meeting and Group Risk Committee. 
The Global Operational Risk and Control Committee meets at least quarterly to discuss key risk issues and review 
the effective implementation of the ORMF. 
The ORMF defines minimum standards and processes and the governance structure for the management of 
operational risk and internal control in our geographical regions, global businesses and global functions. The ORMF 
has been codified in a high level standards manual supplemented with detailed policies, which describe our approach 
to identifying, assessing, monitoring and controlling operational risk and give guidance on mitigating action to be 
taken when weaknesses are identified. 
Business managers throughout the Group are responsible for maintaining an acceptable level of internal control, 
commensurate with the scale and nature of operations, and for identifying and assessing risks, designing controls and 
monitoring the effectiveness of these controls. The ORMF helps managers to fulfil these responsibilities by defining 
a standard risk assessment methodology and providing a tool for the systematic reporting of operational loss data. 
A centralised database is used to record the results of the operational risk management process. Operational risk and 
control self-assessments are input and maintained by business units. Business and functional management and 
Business Risk and Control Managers monitor the progress of documented action plans to address shortcomings. To 
ensure that operational risk losses are consistently reported and monitored at Group level, all Group companies are 
required to report individual losses when the net loss is expected to exceed US$10,000, and to aggregate all other 
operational risk losses under US$10,000. Losses are entered into the operational risk system and are reported to the 
Group Operational Risk function quarterly. 
For further details, see the Pillar 3 Disclosures report as at 31 December 2012, page 61.  271
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Compliance risk 
(Unaudited) 
Compliance risk falls within the definition of operational risk. All Group companies are required to observe the 
letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards of good market practice. These rules, 
regulations, other standards and Group policies include those relating to anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and 
corruption, conduct of business, counter-terrorist financing and sanctions compliance. 
The Global Compliance Function is a control function, working as part of our Global Risk Function. It is responsible 
for resourcing decisions, performance reviews, objectives, strategy, budget and accountability within the Compliance 
Function and is empowered to set standards and has the authority to ensure those standards are met. The Group’s 
Compliance Function is currently being reorganised under a Head of Group Financial Crime Compliance and a 
Global Head of Regulatory Compliance, each of whom reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer. There are 
compliance teams in all of the countries where we operate and in all global businesses lines. These compliance teams 
are principally overseen by Regional Compliance Officers located in Europe, the US, Canada, Latin America, the 
Middle East and North Africa and Asia-Pacific and each business line is supported by a Global Business Compliance 
Officer. There is an Assurance team within Compliance that reviews the effectiveness of the Regional and Global 
Business Compliance Officers. 
Global Compliance policies and procedures require the prompt identification and escalation to Group Compliance 
of all actual or suspected breaches of any law, rule, regulation, policy or other relevant requirement. These escalation 
procedures are supplemented by a requirement for the submission of compliance certificates at the half-year and 
year-end by all Group companies detailing any known breaches as above. The contents of these escalation and 
certification processes are used for reporting to the Risk Management Meeting, the Group Risk Committee and the 
Board and disclosure in the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report, if appropriate. 
Legal risk 
(Unaudited) 
Each operating company is required to have processes and procedures in place to manage legal risk that conform to 
Group standards. 
Legal risk falls within the definition of operational risk and includes: 
• contractual risk, which is the risk that the rights and/or obligations of an HSBC company within a contractual 
relationship are defective; 
• dispute risk, which is made up of the risks that an HSBC company is subject to when it is involved in or 
managing a potential or actual dispute; 
• legislative risk, which is the risk that an HSBC company fails to adhere to the laws of the jurisdictions in which 
it operates; and  
• non-contractual rights risk, which is the risk that an HSBC company’s assets are not properly owned or are 
infringed by others, or an HSBC company infringes another party’s rights.  
We have a global legal function to assist management in controlling legal risk. There are legal departments in 58 of 
the countries in which we operate. There are also regional legal functions in each of Europe, North America, Latin 
America, the Middle East and North Africa and Asia-Pacific headed by Regional General Counsels as well as 
General Counsel responsible for each of the global businesses. 
Global security and fraud risk 
(Unaudited) 
Security and fraud risk issues are managed at Group level by Global Security and Fraud Risk. This unit, which 
has responsibility for physical risk, fraud, information and contingency risk, and geopolitical risk and business 
intelligence is fully integrated within the central Group Risk function. This enables management to identify and 
mitigate the permutations of these and other non-financial risks to its business lines across the jurisdictions in which 
we operate. 
The Fraud Risk function is responsible for ensuring that effective protection measures are in place against all 
forms of fraudulent activity, whether initiated internally or externally, and is available to support any part of the 
business. To achieve that and to attain the level of integration needed to face the threat, the management of all types  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Operational risk / Risk management of insurance operations 
272
of fraud (e.g. card fraud, non-card fraud and internal fraud, including investigations), is established within one 
management structure and is part of the Global Risk function. 
We use technology extensively to prevent and detect fraud. For example, customers’ credit and debit card spending is 
monitored continuously and suspicious transactions are highlighted for verification, internet banking sessions are 
reviewed and transactions monitored in a similar way and all new account applications are screened for fraud. We 
have a fraud systems strategy which is designed to provide minimum standards and allow easier sharing of best 
practices to detect fraud and minimise false alerts. 
We have developed a holistic and effective anti-fraud strategy comprising fraud prevention policies and practices, the 
implementation of strong internal controls, an investigations response team and liaison with law enforcement where 
appropriate.
The Contingency Risk function is responsible for ensuring that in any circumstances where our employees, 
customers or buildings are exposed to a disaster or other catastrophic event, normal business operations can be 
restored promptly. 
Within this wider risk, Business Continuity Management covers the pre-planning for the recovery, seeking to 
minimise the adverse effects of major business disruption, either globally, regionally or within country, against a 
range of actual or emerging risks. The pre-planning concentrates on the protection of customer services, our staff, 
revenue generation and the integrity of data and documents. 
Each business has its own recovery plan, which is developed following the completion of a Business Impact 
Analysis. This determines how much time the business could sustain an outage before the level of losses becomes 
unacceptable, i.e. its criticality. These plans are reviewed and tested every year. The planning is undertaken against 
Group policy and standards and each business confirms in an annual compliance certificate that all have been met. 
Should there be exceptions, these are raised and their short-term resolution is overseen by Group and regional 
business continuity teams. 
It is important that plans are dynamic and meet all risks, particularly those of an emerging nature such as possible 
pandemics and the eurozone crisis. The operational risk framework is used to measure our resilience to these risks, 
and is confirmed to Group and regional risk committees. 
Resilience is managed through various risk mitigation measures. These include agreeing with IT acceptable recovery 
times of systems, ensuring our critical buildings have the correct infrastructure to enable ongoing operations, 
requiring critical vendors to have their own recovery plans and arranging with Group insurance appropriate cover 
for business interruption costs. 
Systems risk 
(Unaudited) 
Systems risk is the risk of failure or other deficiency in the automated platforms that support the Group’s daily 
execution (application systems) and the systems infrastructure on which they reside (data centres, networks and 
distributed computers). 
The management of systems risk is overseen globally by the HSBC Technology and Services (‘HTS’) organisation. 
Oversight is provided through monthly risk management committee meetings that provide a comprehensive overview 
of existing and emerging top risks.  
HTS line management manages the control environment over systems risks using Risk and Control Assessments and 
Top Risk Analysis. Key risk indicators are used to assure a consistent basis of risk evaluation across geographic and 
line of business boundaries. 
Business critical services have been identified through a central, global oversight body. Quantitative scorecards, 
called Risk Appetite Statements, have been established for each of these services. 
Vendor risk management 
(Unaudited) 
Our vendor risk management (‘VRM’) is a global framework for managing risk with third party vendors, especially 
where we are reliant on outsourced agreements to provide critical services to our customers. VRM contains a 
rigorous process to identify material contracts and their key risks and ensure controls are in place to manage and 
mitigate these risks.  273
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Fiduciary risk 
(Unaudited) 
Business activities in which fiduciary risk is inherent should only be undertaken within designated lines of business. 
Fiduciary risk is managed within the designated businesses via a comprehensive policy framework and monitoring of 
key indicators. The Group’s principal fiduciary businesses (‘designated businesses’) are: 
• HSBC Securities Services, where it is exposed to fiduciary risk via its Securities Services and Corporate Trust 
activities;
• HSBC Asset Management, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via its investment activities on behalf of clients; 
• HSBC Private Banking, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via its Private Wealth Services division and 
discretionary investment management; and 
• HSBC Insurance, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via the investment management activities it undertakes 
when providing insurance products and services. 
The Group’s requirements for the management of fiduciary risk are laid down in the Fiduciary Functional Instruction 
Manual (‘Fiduciary FIM’), which is owned by Group Operational Risk. No business other than the designated 
businesses may undertake fiduciary activities without notifying Global Operational Risk and receiving specific 
dispensations from the relevant Fiduciary FIM requirements. 
Other policies around the provision of advice, including investment advice and corporate advisory, and the
management of potential conflicts of interest, also mitigate our fiduciary risks. 
Risk management of insurance operations 
Overview of insurance products 
(Audited) 
The main contracts we manufacture are listed below: 
Life insurance business 
• life insurance contracts with discretionary participation features (‘DPF’);  
• credit life insurance business; 
• annuities;
• term assurance and critical illness policies;
• linked life insurance; 
• investment contracts with DPF; 
• unit-linked investment contracts; and 
• other investment contracts (including pension contracts written in Hong Kong). 
Non-life insurance business 
Non-life insurance contracts include motor, fire and other damage to property, accident and health, repayment 
protection and commercial insurance. 
Nature and extent of risks 
(Audited) 
The majority of the risks in our Insurance business derive from manufacturing activities and can be categorised 
between insurance risk and financial risks; financial risks include market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. 
Operational and sustainability risks are also present and are covered by the Group’s overall respective risk 
management processes. 
The following sections describe how insurance risk and financial risks are managed. The assets of insurance 
manufacturing subsidiaries are included within the consolidated risk disclosures on pages 123 to 251, although 
separate disclosures in respect of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are provided in the ‘Risk management of 
insurance operations’ section. The consolidated liquidity risk and market risk disclosures focus on banking entities 
and exclude insurance operations. Disclosures specific to the insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are provided in 
the ‘Risk management of insurance operations’ section on pages 232 to 245. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Risk management of insurance operations 
274
Insurance manufacturers set their own control procedures in addition to complying with guidelines issued by 
the Group Insurance Head Office. The control framework for monitoring risk includes the Group Insurance Risk 
Management Committee, which oversees the status of the significant risk categories in the insurance operations. Five 
sub-committees of this Committee focus on products and pricing, market and liquidity risk, credit risk, operational 
risk and insurance risk, respectively. The Group Insurance Risk Management Committee monitors the risk profile 
of the insurance operations against a risk appetite for insurance business agreed by the GMB. Any issues requiring 
escalation from the Group Insurance Risk Management Committee would be reported to the RBWM Risk 
Management Committee. 
In addition, local ALCOs and Risk Management Committees monitor certain risk exposures, mainly for life business 
where the duration and cash flow matching of insurance assets and liabilities are reviewed. 
All insurance products, whether manufactured internally or by a third party, are subjected to a product approval 
process prior to introduction. Approval by Group Insurance Head Office may be required depending on the type of 
product and its risk profile. The approval process is formalised through the Product and Pricing Committee, which 
comprises the heads of the relevant risk functions within insurance.  
Insurance risk 
(Audited) 
Insurance risk is the risk, other than financial risk, of loss transferred from the holder of the insurance contract to 
the issuer (HSBC). The principal risk we face in manufacturing insurance contracts is that, over time, the cost of 
acquiring and administering a contract, claims and benefits may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums received 
and investment income. 
The cost of claims and benefits can be influenced by many factors, including mortality and morbidity experience, 
lapse and surrender rates and, if the policy has a savings element, the performance of the assets held to support the 
liabilities.
Life and non-life business insurance risks are controlled by high-level policies and procedures set both centrally and 
locally, taking into account where appropriate local market conditions and regulatory requirements. Formal 
underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures designed to ensure compliance with regulations are 
applied, supplemented with stress testing. 
As well as exercising underwriting controls, we use reinsurance as a means of mitigating exposure to insurance risk. 
Where we manage our exposure to insurance risk through the use of third-party reinsurers, the associated revenue 
and manufacturing profit is ceded to the reinsurers. Although reinsurance provides a means of managing insurance 
risk, such contracts expose us to credit risk, the risk of default by the reinsurer. 
The principal drivers of our insurance risk are described below. The liabilities for long-term contracts are set by 
reference to a range of assumptions around these drivers. These typically reflect the issuers’ own experiences. The 
type and quantum of insurance risk arising from life insurance depends on the type of business, and varies 
considerably. 
• mortality and morbidity: the main contracts which generate exposure to these risks are term assurance, whole life 
products, critical illness and income protection contracts and annuities. The risks are monitored on a regular 
basis, and are primarily mitigated by underwriting controls and reinsurance and by retaining the ability in certain 
cases to amend premiums in the light of experience; 
• lapses and surrenders: the risks associated with this are generally mitigated by product design, the application 
of surrender charges and management actions, for example, managing the level of bonus payments to 
policyholders. A detailed persistency analysis at a product level is carried out at least on an annual basis; and  
• expense risk is mitigated by pricing, for example, retaining the ability in certain cases to amend premiums 
and/or policyholder charges based on experience, and cost management discipline. 
Liabilities are affected by changes in assumptions (see ‘Sensitivity analysis’ on page 245).
The main risks associated with non-life business are: 
• underwriting: the risk that premiums are not appropriate for the cover provided; and 
• claims experience: the risk that claims exceed expectations. 275
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
We manage these risks through pricing (for example, imposing restrictions and deductibles in the policy terms and 
conditions), product design, risk selection, claims handling and reinsurance policy. The majority of our non-life 
insurance contracts are renewable annually, providing added flexibility to the underwriting terms and conditions. 
Financial risks 
(Audited) 
Our Insurance businesses are exposed to a range of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk and liquidity 
risk. Market risk includes interest rate, equity and foreign exchange risks. The nature and management of these risks 
is described below.  
Manufacturing subsidiaries are exposed to financial risks when, for example, the proceeds from financial assets 
are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from insurance and investment contracts. In many jurisdictions, local 
regulatory requirements prescribe the type, quality and concentration of assets that these subsidiaries must maintain 
to meet insurance liabilities. These requirements complement Group-wide policies. 
Market risk 
(Audited) 
Description of market risk 
The main features of products manufactured by our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries which generate market risk, 
and the market risk to which these features expose the subsidiaries, are discussed below. 
Interest rate risk arises to the extent that yields on the assets are lower than the investment returns implied by the 
guarantees payable to policyholders by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries. When the asset yields are below 
guaranteed yields, products may be discontinued, repriced or restructured. A list of the different types of guarantees 
within our insurance contracts is outlined below. 
Categories of guaranteed benefits 
• annuities in payment;  
• deferred/immediate annuities: these consist of two phases – the savings and investing phase and the retirement income phase; 
• annual return: the annual return is guaranteed to be no lower than a specified rate. This may be the return credited to the policyholder 
every year, or the average annual return credited to the policyholder over the life of the policy, which may occur on the maturity date or 
the surrender date of the contract; and 
• capital: policyholders are guaranteed to receive no less than the premiums paid plus declared bonuses less expenses. 
The proceeds from insurance and investment products with DPF are primarily invested in bonds with a proportion 
allocated to other asset classes in order to provide customers with the potential for enhanced returns. Subsidiaries 
with portfolios of such products are exposed to the risk of falls in market prices which cannot be fully reflected in 
the discretionary bonuses. An increase in market volatility could also result in an increase in the value of the 
guarantee to the policyholder. 
Long-term insurance and investment products typically permit the policyholder to surrender the policy or let it lapse 
at any time. When the surrender value is not linked to the value realised from the sale of the associated supporting 
assets, the subsidiary is exposed to market risk. In particular, when customers seek to surrender their policies when 
asset values are falling, assets may have to be sold at a loss to fund redemptions. 
A subsidiary holding a portfolio of long-term insurance and investment products, especially with DPF, may attempt 
to reduce exposure to its local market by investing in assets in countries other than that in which it is based. These 
assets may be denominated in currencies other than the subsidiary’s local currency. Where the foreign exchange 
exposure associated with these assets is not hedged, for example because it is not cost effective to do so, this exposes 
the subsidiary to the risk of its local currency strengthening against the currency of the related assets.  
For unit-linked contracts, market risk is substantially borne by the policyholder, but market risk exposure typically 
remains as fees earned for management are related to the market value of the linked assets. 
Asset and liability matching 
It is not always possible to match asset and liability durations, partly because there is uncertainty over policyholder 
behaviour, which introduces uncertainty over the receipt of all future premiums and the timing of claims, and partly  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Risk management of insurance operations  
276
because the forecast payment dates of liabilities may exceed the duration of the longest dated investments available. 
We use models to assess the effect of a range of future scenarios on the values of financial assets and associated 
liabilities, and ALCOs employ the outcomes in determining how to best structure asset holdings to support liabilities. 
The scenarios include stresses applied to factors which affect insurance risk such as mortality and lapse rates. Of 
particular importance is assessing the expected pattern of cash inflows against the benefits payable on the underlying 
contracts, which can extend for many years. 
Our current portfolio of assets includes debt securities issued at a time when yields were higher than those observed 
in the current market. As a result, yields on extant holdings of debt securities exceed those available on current 
issues. We reduced short-term bonus rates paid to policyholders on certain participating contracts to manage the 
immediate strain on the business. Should interest rates and yield curves remain low further reductions may be 
necessary. 
How market risk is managed 
All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk mandates which specify the investment instruments in 
which they are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of market risk which they may retain. They manage 
market risk by using some or all of the techniques listed below, depending on the nature of the contracts they write. 
Techniques for managing market risk 
• for products with DPF, adjusting bonus rates to manage the liabilities to policyholders. The effect is that a significant portion of the 
market risk is borne by the policyholder; 
• structuring asset portfolios to support projected liability cash flows; 
• using derivatives, to a limited extent, to protect against adverse market movements or better match liability cash flows; 
• for new products with investment guarantees, considering the cost when determining the level of premiums or the price structure;
• periodically reviewing products identified as higher risk, which contain investment guarantees and embedded optionality features linked 
to savings and investment products; 
• including features designed to mitigate market risk in new products, such as charging surrender penalties to recoup losses incurred when 
policyholders surrender their policies;  
• exiting, to the extent possible, investment portfolios whose risk is considered unacceptable; and 
• repricing of premiums charged to policyholders. 
In the product approval process, the risks embedded in new products are identified and assessed. When, for example, 
options and guarantees are embedded in new products, the due diligence process ensures that complete and 
appropriate risk management procedures are in place. For all but the simplest of guaranteed benefits the assessment is 
undertaken by Group Insurance Head Office. Management reviews certain exposures more frequently when markets 
are more volatile to ensure that any matters arising are dealt with in a timely fashion. 
How the exposure to market risk is measured 
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries monitor exposures against mandated limits regularly and report them to 
Group Insurance Head Office. Exposures are aggregated and reported on a quarterly basis to senior risk management 
forums in the Group, including the Group Insurance Market and Liquidity Risk Committee, Group Insurance Risk 
Management Committee and the Group Stress Test Review Group. 
In addition, large insurance manufacturing subsidiaries perform a high-level monthly assessment of market risk 
exposure against risk appetite. This is submitted to Group Insurance Head Office and a global assessment presented 
to the RBWM RMC. 
Standard measures for quantifying market risks 
• for interest rate risk, the sensitivities of the net present values of asset and expected liability cash flows, in total and by currency, to a one 
basis point parallel shift in the discount curves used to calculate the net present values; 
• for equity price risk, the total market value of equity holdings and the market value of equity holdings by region and country; and 
• for foreign exchange risk, the total net short foreign exchange position and the net foreign exchange positions by currency. 
The standard measures are relatively straightforward to calculate and aggregate, but they have limitations. The most 
significant one is that a parallel shift in yield curves of one basis point does not capture the non-linear relationships 
between the values of certain assets and liabilities and interest rates. Non-linearity arises, for example, from  277
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
investment guarantees and product features which enable policyholders to surrender their policies. We bear the 
shortfall if the yields on investments held to support contracts with guaranteed benefits are less than the investment 
returns implied by the guaranteed benefits.  
We recognise these limitations and augment our standard measures with stress tests which examine the effect of 
a range of market rate scenarios on the aggregate annual profits and total equity of our insurance manufacturing 
subsidiaries, after taking into consideration tax and accounting treatments where material and relevant. The results 
of these tests are reported to Group Insurance Head Office and risk committees every quarter. 
See also ‘Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance subsidiaries to risk factors’ on page 240) which indicates the sensitivity of 
insurance manufacturers profit and total equity to market risk factors. 
Credit risk 
(Audited) 
Description of credit risk 
Credit risk arises in two main areas for our insurance manufacturers: 
i) risk of default by debt security counterparties after investing premiums to generate a return for policyholders 
and shareholders; and 
ii) risk of default by reinsurance counterparties and non-reimbursement for claims made after ceding insurance 
risk. 
How credit risk is managed 
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are responsible for the credit risk, quality and performance of their 
investment portfolios. Our assessment of the creditworthiness of issuers and counterparties is based primarily upon 
internationally recognised credit ratings and other publicly available information.  
Investment credit exposures are monitored against limits by our local insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, and are 
aggregated and reported to Group Credit Risk, the Group Insurance Credit Risk Committee and the Group Insurance 
Risk Management Committee. Stress testing is performed by Group Insurance Head Office on the investment credit 
exposures using credit spread sensitivities and default probabilities. The stresses are reported to the Group Insurance 
Credit Risk Meeting. 
We use a number of tools to manage and monitor credit risk. These include a Credit Watch Report which contains a 
watch-list of investments with current credit concerns and is circulated fortnightly to senior management in Group 
Insurance Head Office and the individual Country Chief Risk Officers to identify investments which may be at risk 
of future impairment. 
Liquidity risk 
(Audited) 
Description of liquidity risk 
It is an inherent characteristic of almost all insurance contracts that there is uncertainty over the amount of claims 
liabilities that may arise and the timing of their settlement, and this creates liquidity risk. 
There are three aspects to liquidity risk. The first arises in normal market conditions and is referred to as funding 
liquidity risk; specifically, the capacity to raise sufficient cash when needed to meet payment obligations. Secondly, 
market liquidity risk arises when the size of a particular holding may be so large that a sale cannot be completed 
around the market price. Finally, standby liquidity risk refers to the capacity to meet payment terms in abnormal 
conditions. 
How liquidity risk is managed 
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries primarily fund cash outflows arising from claim liabilities from the 
following sources of cash inflows: 
• premiums from new business, policy renewals and recurring premium products; 
• interest and dividends on investments and principal repayments of maturing debt investments; 
• cash resources; and HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Reputational risk / Pension risk 
278
• the sale of investments. 
They manage liquidity risk by utilising some or all of the following techniques: 
• matching cash inflows with expected cash outflows using specific cash flow projections or more general asset 
and liability matching techniques such as duration matching; 
• maintaining sufficient cash resources; 
• investing in good credit-quality investments with deep and liquid markets to the degree to which they exist; 
• monitoring investment concentrations and restricting them where appropriate, for example, by debt issues or 
issuers; and 
• establishing committed contingency borrowing facilities. 
Each of these techniques contributes to mitigating the three types of liquidity risk described above. 
Every quarter, our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are required to complete and submit liquidity risk reports 
to Group Insurance Head Office for collation and review by the Group Insurance Market and Liquidity Risk 
Committee. Liquidity risk is assessed in these reports by measuring changes in expected cumulative net cash flows 
under a series of stress scenarios designed to determine the effect of reducing expected available liquidity and 
accelerating cash outflows. This is achieved, for example, by assuming new business or renewals are lower, and 
surrenders or lapses are greater, than expected. 
Reputational risk 
(Unaudited) 
We regularly review our policies and procedures for safeguarding against reputational risk. This is an evolutionary 
process which takes account of relevant developments, industry guidance, best practice and societal expectations.  
We have always aspired to the highest standards of conduct and, as a matter of routine, take account of reputational 
risks to our business. Reputational risks can arise from a wide variety of causes. As a banking group, our good 
reputation depends not only upon the way in which we conduct our business, but also by the way in which clients, 
to whom we provide financial services, conduct themselves.  
Group functions with responsibility for activities that attract reputational risk are represented at the Group 
Reputational Risk Policy Committee (‘GRRPC’), which is chaired by the Group Chairman. The primary role of the 
GRRPC is to consider areas and activities presenting significant reputational risk and, where appropriate, to make 
recommendations to the Global Standards Steering Committee for policy or procedural changes to mitigate such risk. 
Reputational Risk Policy Committees, which have been established in each of the Group’s geographical regions, are 
required to ensure that reputational risks are also considered at a regional level. Minutes from the regional 
committees are tabled at GRRPC. 
Standards on all major aspects of business are set for HSBC and for individual subsidiaries, businesses and functions. 
Reputational risks, including environmental, social and governance matters, are considered and assessed by the 
Board, the GMB, the Risk Management Meeting, the Global Standards Steering Committee, subsidiary company 
boards, Board committees and senior management during the formulation of policy and the establishment of our 
standards. These policies, which form an integral part of the internal control system (see page 332), are 
communicated through manuals and statements of policy and are promulgated through internal communications and 
training. The policies set out our risk appetite and operational procedures in all areas of reputational risk, including 
money laundering deterrence, counter-terrorist financing, environmental impact, anti-bribery and corruption 
measures and employee relations. The policy manuals address risk issues in detail and co-operation between Group 
departments and businesses is required to ensure a strong adherence to our risk management system and our 
sustainability practices. 
Pension risk 
(Audited) 
We operate a number of pension plans throughout the world, as described in Note 7 on the Financial Statements, the 
Pension risk section on page 224 and below. Some of them are defined benefit plans, of which the largest is the 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (‘the principal plan’).  
In order to fund the benefits associated with these plans, sponsoring Group companies (and, in some instances, 
employees) make regular contributions in accordance with advice from actuaries and in consultation with the  279
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
scheme’s trustees (where relevant). The defined benefit plans invest these contributions in a range of investments 
designed to meet their long-term liabilities. 
The level of these contributions has a direct impact on HSBC’s cash flow and would normally be set to ensure that 
there are sufficient funds to meet the cost of the accruing benefits for the future service of active members. However, 
higher contributions will be required when plan assets are considered insufficient to cover the existing pension 
liabilities. Contribution rates are typically revised annually or triennially, depending on the plan. The agreed 
contributions to the principal plan are revised triennially. 
A deficit in a defined benefit plan may arise from a number of factors, including
• investments delivering a return below that required to provide the projected plan benefits. This could arise, for example, when there is a 
fall in the market value of equities, or when increases in long-term interest rates cause a fall in the value of fixed income securities held; 
• the prevailing economic environment leading to corporate failures, thus triggering write-downs in asset values (both equity and debt); 
• a change in either interest rates or inflation which causes an increase in the value of the scheme liabilities; and 
• scheme members living longer than expected (known as longevity risk). 
A plan’s investment strategy is determined after taking into consideration the market risk inherent in the investments 
and its consequential impact on potential future contributions. The long-term investment objectives of both HSBC 
and, where relevant and appropriate, the trustees are:  
• to limit the risk of the assets failing to meet the liabilities of the plans over the long-term; and 
• to maximise returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk so as to control the long-term costs of the defined 
benefit plans. 
In pursuit of these long-term objectives, a benchmark is established for the allocation of the defined benefit plan 
assets between asset classes. In addition, each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such as stock market or 
property valuation indices and, where relevant, desired levels of out-performance. The benchmarks are reviewed 
at least triennially within 18 months of the date at which an actuarial valuation is made, or more frequently if 
required by local legislation or circumstances. The process generally involves an extensive asset and liability review. 
Ultimate responsibility for investment strategy rests with either the trustees or, in certain circumstances, a 
Management Committee. The degree of independence of the trustees from HSBC varies in different jurisdictions.  
Pension plans in the UK 
The largest plan globally exists in the UK, where the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (‘the Scheme’) covers 
employees of HSBC Bank plc and certain other employees of HSBC. This comprises a funded final salary defined 
benefit plan (‘the principal plan’), which is closed to new entrants, and a defined contribution plan which was 
established in July 1996 for new employees.  
The principal plan, which accounts for approximately 70% of the obligations of our defined benefit pension plans, 
is overseen by a corporate trustee who has a fiduciary responsibility for the operation of the pension scheme. The 
Trustee is responsible for monitoring and managing the investment strategy and administration of scheme benefits.  
The principal plan holds a diversified portfolio of investments to meet future cash flow liabilities arising from 
accrued benefits as they fall due to be paid. The trustee of the principal plan is required to produce a written 
Statement of Investment Principles which governs decision-making about how investments are made and the need 
for adequate diversification is taken into account in the choice of asset allocation and manager structure in the 
Defined Benefit Section. 
Longevity risk in the principal plan is assessed as part of the measurement of the pension liability and managed 
through the funding process of the scheme. 
Pension plans in Hong Kong 
In Hong Kong, the HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme covers employees of The 
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and certain other employees of HSBC. The scheme comprises a 
funded defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme. The defined benefit section of the scheme is a 
final salary lump sum scheme and therefore its exposure to longevity risk is limited; it was closed to new members 
from 1999.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Risk > Appendix – Risk policies and practices > Pension risk / Sustainability risk // Capital risk 
280
The trustee assumes the overall responsibility for the scheme but a management committee and a number of sub-
committees have also been established. These committees have been established to broaden the governance and 
manage the concomitant issues. The finance and investment sub-committee manages the various issues in relation to 
both assets and liabilities of the scheme. 
Pension plans in North America  
The HSBC North America (US) Retirement Income Plan covers all employees of HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance 
and other HSBC entities in the US who have reached the age of 21 and met the one year of service participation 
requirement. The Retirement Income Plan is a funded defined benefit plan which provides final average pay benefits 
to legacy participants and cash balance benefits to all other participants. Prior to 1 January 2013 all new employees 
participate in the cash balance section of the plan. In November 2009, the Board of Directors of HSBC North 
America Holdings, Inc. (‘HNAH’) approved actions to cease all future benefit accruals for legacy participants under 
the final average pay formula components of the HSBC North America Retirement Income Plan with effect from 1 
January 2011. 
The Plan is governed by the Employee Retirement Security Act of 1974 (‘ERISA’), ERISA regulations serve as 
guidance for the management of plan assets. In this regard, an Investment Committee (the ‘Committee’) for the Plan 
has been established and its members have been appointed by the Chief Executive Officer as authorized by the Board 
of Directors of HSBC North America. The Committee is responsible for establishing the funding policy and 
investment objectives supporting the Plan including allocating the assets of the Plan, monitoring the diversification of 
the Plan’s investments and investment performance, assuring the Plan does not violate any provisions of ERISA and 
the appointment, removal and monitoring of investment advisers and the trustee.  
A key factor shaping the Committee’s attitude towards risk is the generally long-term nature of the underlying benefit 
obligations. The asset allocation decision reflects this long-term horizon as well as the ability and willingness to 
accept some short-term variability in the performance of the portfolio in exchange for the expectation of competitive 
long-term investment results for its participants. 
Sustainability risk 
(Unaudited) 
Sustainability risks arise from the provision of financial services to companies or projects which run counter to the 
needs of sustainable development; in effect this risk arises when the environmental and social effects outweigh 
economic benefits. Within Group Head Office, a separate function, Group Corporate Sustainability, is mandated to 
manage these risks globally working through local offices as appropriate. Sustainability Risk Managers have regional 
or national responsibilities for advising on and managing environmental and social risks. 
Group Corporate Sustainability’s risk management responsibilities include: 
• formulating sustainability risk policies. This includes oversight of our sustainability risk standards, management 
of the Equator Principles for project finance lending, and sector-based sustainability policies covering those 
sectors with high environmental or social impacts (forestry, freshwater infrastructure, chemicals, energy, mining 
and metals, and defence-related lending); undertaking an independent review of transactions where sustainability 
risks are assessed to be high, and supporting our operating companies to assess similar risks of a lower 
magnitude; 
• building and implementing systems-based processes to ensure consistent application of policies, reduce the costs 
of sustainability risk reviews and capture management information to measure and report on the effect of our 
lending and investment activities on sustainable development; and 
• providing training and capacity building within our operating companies to ensure sustainability risks are 
identified and mitigated consistently to either our own standards, international standards or local regulations, 
whichever is higher. 281
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Capital
 PageApp
1
Tables Page
Capital overview .................................................. 282 Capital ratios ....................................................................... 282
Capital management ............................................ 293
Approach and policy .............................................. 293
Stress testing .......................................................... 293
Risks to capital ....................................................... 293
Risk-weighted asset targets ................................... 294
Capital generation .................................................. 294
Capital measurement and allocation ................. 294
Regulatory capital .................................................. 294
Pillar 1 capital requirements .................................. 295
Pillar 2 capital requirements .................................. 296
Pillar 3 disclosure requirements ............................ 296
Risk-weighted assets ............................................ 282 RWAs by risk type ................................................................ 282
Market risk RWAs ................................................................ 282
RWAs by global businesses .................................................. 282
RWAs by geographical regions ........................................... 283
Credit risk RWAs .................................................. 283 RWA movement by key driver – credit risk – IRB only ....... 283
Counterparty credit risk and market risk RWAs ... 284 RWA movement by key driver - counterparty  
credit risk – IRB only ....................................................... 283
RWA movement by key driver – market risk – internal  
model based ..................................................................... 283
Operational risk RWAs ......................................... 285
RWA movement by key driver – basis of 
preparation and supporting notes ................. 296
Credit risk drivers – definitions and 
quantification ..................................................... 296
Market risk drivers – definitions and  
quantification ..................................................... 296
Movement in total regulatory capital in 2012.... 285 Source and application of total regulatory capital ............. 285
Capital structure .................................................. 286 Composition of regulatory capital ....................................... 286
Regulatory impact of management actions ......................... 287
Reconciliation of accounting and regulatory  
balance sheets .................................................................. 287
Regulatory and accounting consolidations ............ 288
Basel III and its implementation in Europe ........... 288
Basis of preparation of the estimated effect  
of the CRD IV end point applied to the 
31 December 2012 position ............................. 298
Estimated effect of CRD IV end point rules applied to the 
31 December 2012 position ............................................. 289
Regulatory adjustments applied to core tier 1  
in respect of amounts subject to CRD IV  
treatment ............................................................ 298
Changes to capital requirements introduced by 
CRD IV .............................................................. 300
Future developments ........................................... 291
Systemically important banks ................................ 291
UK regulatory reform ............................................ 291
Structural banking reform ...................................... 292
1 Appendix to Capital HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Capital > Capital overview / RWAs 
282
Our objective in the management of Group 
capital is to maintain appropriate levels of 
capital to support our business strategy and 
meet our regulatory requirements. 
Capital highlights 
• Core tier 1 capital ratio 12.3%, up 
from 10.1% in 2011, as a result of capital 
generation and management actions. 
• CRD IV, which implements Basel III in 
Europe, remains unfinalised and the 
timetable for implementation is 
uncertain.
Capital overview 
Capital ratios 
(Unaudited) 
 At 31 December 
2012 2011
% %
Core tier 1 ratio .......................... 12.3  10.1 
Tier 1 ratio ................................. 13.4  11.5 
Total capital ratio ....................... 16.1  14.1 
Our approach to managing Group capital has been to 
ensure that we exceed current, and are well placed to 
meet expected future, regulatory requirements. 
Within the remit of Pillar 2, the FSA has defined a 
common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital resources 
floor for the Group. This is expressed as a minimum 
target CETI ratio calculated on a Basel III end point 
basis, to be achieved by December 2013. In effect 
this accelerates our full implementation date for 
Basel III even though there remains uncertainty 
around the precise requirements in Europe.  
We currently manage our capital position to 
meet an internal target CET1 ratio in the range 
9.5%-10.5% for 31 December 2013 and will review 
this on an ongoing basis. 
The eligibility requirements in the UK for 
non-equity capital securities, under Basel III rules, 
remained under review so we did not issue any 
such capital securities during 2012. 
A summary of our policies and practices 
regarding capital management, measurement 
and allocation is provided in the Appendix to 
Capital on page 294. 
Risk-weighted assets 
RWAs by risk type 
(Unaudited) 
 At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m  US$m 
Credit risk ................................. 898,416  958,189
Standardised approach .............. 374,469  372,039
IRB foundation approach .......... 10,265  8,549
IRB advanced approach ............ 513,682  577,601
Counterparty credit risk ............ 48,319  53,792
Standardised approach
1
 ............. 2,645  3,163
IRB approach ............................ 45,674  50,629
Market risk ................................ 54,944  73,177
Operational risk ........................ 122,264  124,356
Total .......................................... 1,123,943  1,209,514
Of which: 
Run-off portfolios ................. 145,689  181,657
Legacy credit in GB&M ....... 38,587  50,023
US CML and Other .............. 107,102  131,634
Card and Retail Services
2
..... 6,858  52,080
For footnotes, see page 292. 
Market risk RWAs 
(Unaudited) 
 At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m  US$m 
VAR .......................................... 7,616  11,345
Stressed VAR ............................ 11,048  19,117
Incremental risk charge ............ 11,062  5,249
Comprehensive risk measure .... 3,387  6,013
Other VAR and stressed VAR .... 11,355  12,957
Internal model based.................... 44,468  54,681
FSA standard rules .................... 10,476  18,496
54,944  73,177
RWAs by global businesses 
(Unaudited) 
 At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$bn US$bn
Retail Banking and Wealth 
Management ......................... 276.6  351.2
Commercial Banking ................ 397.0  382.9
Global Banking and Markets .... 403.1  423.0
Global Private Banking ............ 21.7  22.5
Other ......................................... 25.5  29.9
Total .......................................... 1,123.9  1,209.5 283
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
RWAs by geographical regions
3
(Unaudited) 
 At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$bn US$bn
Total ........................................... 1,123.9  1,209.5
Europe ........................................ 314.7  340.2
Hong Kong ................................ 111.9  105.7
Rest of Asia-Pacific ................... 302.2  279.3
MENA ........................................ 62.2  58.9
North America ........................... 253.0  337.3
Latin America ............................ 97.9  102.3
For footnote, see page 292. 
RWAs reduced by US$86bn to US$1,124bn in 
2012, due to a combination of management actions 
and business growth. 
Credit risk RWAs 
(Unaudited) 
Credit risk RWAs are calculated using three 
approaches as permitted by the UK regulator. For 
consolidated Group reporting we have adopted the 
advanced IRB approach for the majority of our 
business, with a small proportion on the foundation 
IRB approach and the remaining portfolios being on 
the standardised approach.  
For portfolios treated under the standardised 
approach, credit risk RWA movements were 
primarily due to the increase of US$30bn in 
our associates in mainland China, mainly from loan 
growth in BoCom and Industrial Bank. This was 
partially offset by the first tranche sale of Ping An, 
which resulted in its banking subsidiary no longer 
being included in the regulatory consolidation for 
RWAs. The remaining holding, at year end, was 
treated as a deduction from capital, giving a year-on-
year reduction in RWAs of US$21bn. For further 
details see page 39. 
In Europe, a reduction in standardised RWAs 
for CMB and GB&M of US$6.5bn reflected reduced 
corporate lending in selected eurozone countries and 
a movement to the IRB supervisory slotting 
approach for the shipping portfolio in Greece. In 
Latin America, corporate lending growth in the 
region was more than offset by the reduction in 
corporate exposure from the sale of operations in 
Costa Rica, El Salvador and Honduras, and the 
managing down of vehicle finance and payroll loan 
portfolios in Brazil. 
Credit risk RWA movements by key driver 
for portfolios treated under the IRB approach are set 
out in the table below. For the basis of preparation, 
see the Appendix to Capital on page 298. Foreign 
exchange movements had an impact of US$6.2bn; 
the discussion of the remaining drivers excludes the 
effect of foreign exchange. 
RWA movement by key driver – credit risk – IRB only 
(Unaudited) 
Europe
Hong 
Kong 
Rest of 
Asia-
Pacific MENA
North
America 
Latin
America Total
US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn
RWAs at 1 January 2012 ............ 156.5 68.0 82.3 12.9 254.5 12.0 586.2 
Foreign exchange movement ...... 4.7 0.1 0.8 (0.2) 0.7 0.1 6.2 
Acquisitions and disposals ......... – – (0.1) (0.7) (40.3) (0.9) (42.0)
Book size .................................... (1.8) 3.6 5.4 1.0 (7.6) (0.6) –
Book quality ............................... (6.6) 1.5 (1.1) (0.3) (17.9) 0.1 (24.3)
Model updates ............................. 0.4 – – 0.1 – – 0.5 
Portfolios moving onto  
IRB approach ..................... 1.4 – – 0.1 – – 1.5 
New/updated models .............. (1.0) – – – – – (1.0)
Methodology and policy ............. (2.5) (3.0) 4.8 (0.2) (2.3) 0.5 (2.7)
Internal updates ...................... (1.3) (3.0) 4.8 (0.2) (2.3) 0.5 (1.5)
External updates ..................... (1.2) – – – – – (1.2)
Total RWA movement ............... (5.8) 2.2 9.8 (0.3) (67.4) (0.8) (62.3)
RWAs at 31 December 2012 ...... 150.7 70.2 92.1 12.6 187.1 11.2 523.9 
Management actions in the North America 
RBWM business, most notably the disposal of the 
Card and Retail Services business and the non-
strategic branches in upstate New York, reduced 
RWAs by US$40bn.   
Movements in book quality in the RBWM 
North America retail business accounted for 
US$14bn of the US$18bn reduction in RWAs. These 
retail reductions were mainly due to a refinement in 
risk metrics for mortgage exposures with a 
US$6.1bn RWA impact attained through  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Capital > RWAs / Movement in total regulatory capital in 2012 
284
recalibration with more recent data observations. 
Further reductions of US$7.4bn were due to positive 
credit quality migration and the progression of assets 
into default as a result of the challenging conditions 
in the US mortgage market. As assets approach and 
go into default, capital requirements are increasingly 
reflected in an expected loss deduction from capital, 
rather than having a direct effect on RWAs (see 
‘Deductions’ within ‘Composition of regulatory 
capital’ on page 286). Additionally, RBWM 
continued to manage down the residual balances in 
our North America retail portfolios through a 
combination of run-off and write-off which resulted 
in a reduction in RWAs of US$12bn. In our North 
America wholesale portfolios, there was an increase 
in book size with RWA growth of US$4.9bn, mainly 
in our CMB and GB&M businesses. This was 
partially offset by favourable movements in book 
quality for those portfolios which reduced RWAs 
by US$4.5bn. 
Corporate and commercial lending and trade 
finance activity in our CMB and GB&M businesses 
were the primary drivers of the book size RWA 
growth of US$9.0bn in Rest of Asia-Pacific and 
Hong Kong, while the book quality was relatively 
stable overall. Data enhancements in Rest of Asia-
Pacific and Hong Kong allowed us to improve the 
quantification of exposure and risk metrics, and are 
reflected in internal methodology and policy 
updates.  
In Europe, rating agency actions on ABSs held 
in GB&M business were one of the main drivers for 
the movement in book quality of a reduction of 
US$6.6bn in RWAs. Lower grade investments are 
deducted from capital rather than risk-weighted, 
such that the effect is reflected in reduced RWAs 
and increased capital deductions (see ‘Deductions’ 
within ‘Composition of regulatory capital’ on 
page 286). Other drivers of the movement in book 
quality included an improvement in the credit quality 
of the corporate portfolio in CMB and retail 
portfolios in RBWM. Reductions in the Europe IRB 
book size were from lower corporate and 
institutional exposures in GB&M, partly offset by 
corporate exposure growth in the top CMB markets. 
A change in methodology for the regulatory 
treatment of European Economic Area (‘EEA’) 
central bank exposures, to include them in the 
standardised approach, resulted in a reduction of 
US$1.2bn.
In the Middle East and Latin America, book size 
and book quality levels were stable, with the main 
credit risk RWA movements reflecting mergers and 
acquisitions, including purchases in Oman and the 
UAE and disposals in Costa Rica, Honduras and El 
Salvador.
Counterparty credit risk and market risk 
RWAs
(Unaudited) 
Trading portfolio movements for the modelled 
approaches to market risk and counterparty credit 
risk (‘CCR’) RWAs are outlined in the tables below. 
For the basis of preparation, see the Appendix to 
Capital on page 298.  
RWA movement by key driver – counterparty credit 
risk – IRB only 
(Unaudited) 
CCR RWAs decreased by US$4.9bn during 
the year, primarily due to methodology and policy 
changes in GB&M. The main drivers of the change 
arose through the increased application of 
counterparty netting within the calculation and from 
counterparty data refinement which allowed us to 
apply lower potential future exposure add-on factors. 
There were reductions in book size in North 
America, due to a decrease in the GB&M legacy 
credit portfolio and from maturing trades, and in 
Latin America due to reduced repo activity with 
central banks and lower exposure in respect of 
derivative transactions. 
RWA movement by key driver – market risk – 
internal model based 
(Unaudited) 
US$bn
RWAs at 1 January 2012 ............................. 54.7 
Foreign exchange movement and other ....... (0.4)
Movement in risk levels .............................. (7.4)
Model updates .............................................. –
Methodology and policy............................... (2.4)
Internal updates ....................................... (2.4)
External updates ...................................... –
Total RWA movement ................................. (10.2)
RWAs at 31 December 2012 ....................... 44.5 
US$bn
RWAs at 1 January 2012 ............................. 50.6 
Book size ...................................................... (0.8)
Book quality ................................................. 0.1 
Model updates .............................................. (0.2)
Methodology and policy............................... (4.0)
Internal updates ....................................... (4.0)
External updates ...................................... –
Total RWA movement ................................. (4.9)
RWAs at 31 December 2012 ....................... 45.7  285
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Market risk RWAs decreased by US$10bn 
in 2012 with the main driver being a reduction in 
risk levels of US$11bn in GB&M, primarily as 
a result of decreasing VAR due to reductions in 
exposure and improvements in market conditions. 
The factors affecting the reductions in VAR also 
drove the reductions in the levels of stressed VAR. 
The effect was partly offset by a US$4.0bn risk level 
increase in the incremental risk charge as a result of 
a recalibration of the sovereign correlation matrix. 
RWA changes due to methodology and policy of 
US$2.4bn were due to a reduction in the VAR 
multiplier in France. 
Market risk RWA movements for portfolios 
not within scope of modelled approaches showed a 
reduction of US$8.0bn. This was mainly driven by 
management actions by GB&M to reduce legacy 
positions in North America. 
Operational risk RWAs 
(Unaudited) 
Operational risk RWAs remained stable in 2012, 
being calculated on a three-year average of revenues. 
Movement in total regulatory capital in 2012 
(Audited) 
Source and application of total regulatory capital 
At 31 December 
 2012 
 US$m 
  2011 
 US$m 
Movement in total regulatory capital 
(Audited)
Opening core tier 1 capital ....................................................................................................................... 122,496 116,116 
Contribution to core tier 1 capital from profit for the year .................................................................. 17,827  14,011 
Consolidated profits attributable to shareholders of the parent company ....................................... 14,027  16,797
Removal of own credit spread net of tax ......................................................................................... 3,800  (2,786)
Net dividends ........................................................................................................................................ (5,613)  (5,271)
Dividends ......................................................................................................................................... (8,042)  (7,501)
Add back: shares issued in lieu of dividends ................................................................................... 2,429  2,230
Decrease in goodwill and intangible assets deducted .......................................................................... 1,686  582 
Ordinary shares issued ......................................................................................................................... 594 96 
Foreign currency translation differences ............................................................................................. 989 (2,705)
Other, including regulatory adjustments .............................................................................................. 810 (333)
Closing core tier 1 capital ...................................................................................................................... 138,789 122,496 
Opening other tier 1 capital ...................................................................................................................... 17,094  17,063 
Hybrid capital securities redeemed ...................................................................................................... (776)  – 
Unconsolidated investments ................................................................................................................. (4,120)  71 
Other, including regulatory adjustments .............................................................................................. 61 (40)
Closing tier 1 capital ............................................................................................................................... 151,048 139,590 
Opening tier 2 capital ............................................................................................................................... 30,744  34,376 
Redeemed capital ................................................................................................................................. (1,483)  (3,360)
Other, including regulatory adjustments .............................................................................................. 497 (272)
Closing total regulatory capital ............................................................................................................. 180,806 170,334 
We complied with the FSA’s capital adequacy 
requirements throughout 2011 and 2012. Internal 
capital generation contributed US$12bn to core tier 1 
capital, being profits attributable to  
shareholders of the parent company after regulatory 
adjustment for own credit spread and net of 
dividends. The table below sets out the composition 
of our capital under the current regulatory 
requirements.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Capital > Capital structure 
286
Capital structure 
Composition of regulatory capital 
(Audited) 
At 31 December 
 2012   2011 
Ref US$m US$m 
Tier 1 capital 
Shareholders’ equity ...................................................................................................................... 167,360 154,148 
Shareholders’ equity per balance sheet
4
 .................................................................................... a 175,242 158,725
Preference share premium ......................................................................................................... b (1,405) (1,405)
Other equity instruments ........................................................................................................... c (5,851) (5,851)
Deconsolidation of special purpose entities
5
 ............................................................................ a (626) 2,679
Non-controlling interests ............................................................................................................... 4,348 3,963 
Non-controlling interests per balance sheet .............................................................................. d 7,887 7,368
Preference share non-controlling interests ................................................................................ e (2,428) (2,412)
Non-controlling interests transferred to tier 2 capital ............................................................... f (501) (496)
Non-controlling interests in deconsolidated subsidiaries ......................................................... d (610) (497)
Regulatory adjustments to the accounting basis ........................................................................... (2,437) (4,331)
Unrealised losses on available-for-sale debt securities
6
 ........................................................... 1,223 2,228
Own credit spread ...................................................................................................................... 112 (3,608)
Defined benefit pension fund adjustment
7
 ................................................................................ g (469) (368)
Reserves arising from revaluation of property and unrealised gains on  
available-for-sale equities ......................................................................................................... (3,290) (2,678)
Cash flow hedging reserve ........................................................................................................ (13) 95
Deductions ..................................................................................................................................... (30,482) (31,284)
Goodwill and intangible assets ................................................................................................. h (25,733) (27,419)
50% of securitisation positions ................................................................................................. (1,776) (1,207)
50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses ..................................................................... 111 188
50% of excess of expected losses over impairment allowances ............................................... i (3,084) (2,846)
Core tier 1 capital ........................................................................................................................ 138,789 122,496 
Other tier 1 capital before deductions ........................................................................................... 17,301 17,939 
Preference share premium ......................................................................................................... b 1,405 1,405
Preference share non-controlling interests ................................................................................ e 2,428 2,412
Hybrid capital securities ............................................................................................................ j 13,468 14,122
Deductions ..................................................................................................................................... (5,042) (845)
Unconsolidated investments
8
 .................................................................................................... (5,153) (1,033)
50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses ..................................................................... 111 188
Tier 1 capital ................................................................................................................................ 151,048 139,590 
Tier 2 capital 
Total qualifying tier 2 capital before deductions .......................................................................... 48,231 48,676 
Reserves arising from revaluation of property and unrealised gains on  
available-for-sale equities ......................................................................................................... 3,290 2,678
Collective impairment allowances ............................................................................................ k 2,717 2,660
Perpetual subordinated debt ...................................................................................................... l 2,778 2,780
Term subordinated debt ............................................................................................................. m 39,146 40,258
Non-controlling interests in tier 2 capital ................................................................................. f 300 300
Total deductions other than from tier 1 capital  (18,473) (17,932)
Unconsolidated investments
8
 .................................................................................................... (13,604) (13,868)
50% of securitisation positions ................................................................................................. (1,776) (1,207)
50% of excess of expected losses over impairment allowances ............................................... i (3,084) (2,846)
Other deductions ....................................................................................................................... (9) (11)
Total regulatory capital .............................................................................................................. 180,806 170,334 
For footnotes, see page 292. 
The references (a) – (m) identify balance sheet components on page 287 which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital. 287
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Regulatory impact of management actions 
(Unaudited) 
At 31 December 2012 
 Risk-
 weighted 
 assets 
 Core tier 1 
 capital 
 Tier 1  
 capital 
 Total 
 regulatory 
 capital 
Reported capital ratios before management actions ................................  12.3%  13.4%  16.1% 
Reported totals (US$m) ............................................................................ 1,123,943 138,789 151,048 180,806 
Management actions completed in 2013 (US$m) .................................... 
Dilution of our shareholding in Industrial Bank and the subsequent 
change in accounting treatment ....................................................... (38,073) 981 (423) (1,827)
Completion of the second tranche of the sale of Ping An ................... – 553 4,637 7,984 
Estimated total after management actions completed in 2013 (US$m) .. 1,085,870 140,323 155,262 186,963 
Estimated capital ratios after management actions completed in 2013....  12.9%  14.3%  17.2% 
Reconciliation of accounting and regulatory balance sheets 
(Unaudited) 
At 31 December 2012 
 Accounting
 balance
 sheet 
 Decon-
 solidation
  of insurance/
 other entities 
Consolidation
  of banking 
 associates 
 Regulatory
 balance
 sheet 
Ref US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
Assets
Trading assets ............................................................................... 408,811 (144) 1,477 410,144 
Loans and advances to customers ................................................ 997,623 (11,957) 119,698 1,105,364 
of which: 
–  impairment allowances on IRB portfolios ........................... i (10,255) – – (10,255)
–  impairment allowances on STD portfolios .......................... k (5,857) – (2,726) (8,583)
Financial investments ................................................................... 421,101 (50,256) 33,110 403,955 
Capital invested in insurance and other entities ........................... – 8,384 – 8,384 
Interests in associates and joint ventures ..................................... 17,834 – (17,127) 707
of which:  
–  positive goodwill on acquisition .......................................... h 670 (640) 30
Goodwill and intangible assets ..................................................... h 29,853 (4,983) 687 25,557 
Other assets ................................................................................... 817,316 (34,672) 82,469 865,113 
of which:  
–  goodwill and intangible assets of disposal groups  
held for sale .......................................................................... h 146 (117) – 29
–  retirement benefits assets ..................................................... g 2,846 – – 2,846
– impairment allowances on asset held for sale ..................... (703) – – (703)
of which: 
– IRB portfolios ................................................................... i (691) – – (691)
– STD portfolios .................................................................. k (12) – – (12)
Total assets .................................................................................. 2,692,538 (93,628) 220,314 2,819,224  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Capital > Capital structure 
288
At 31 December 2012 
 Accounting
 balance
 sheet 
 Decon-
 solidation
  of insurance/
 other entities 
Consolidation
  of banking 
 associates 
 Regulatory
 balance
 sheet 
Ref US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
Liabilities and equity 
Deposits by banks ......................................................................... 107,429 (202) 51,296 158,523 
Customer accounts ........................................................................ 1,340,014 (652) 158,631 1,497,993 
Trading liabilities .......................................................................... 304,563 (131) 119 304,551 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ................................. 87,720 (12,437) – 75,283 
of which:  
–  term subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital ............... .. m 16,863 – – 16,863
–  hybrid capital securities included in tier 1 capital .............. .. j 4,696 – – 4,696
Debt securities in issue ................................................................. 119,461 (11,390) 1,888 109,959 
Retirement benefits liabilities ....................................................... g 3,905 (21) 52 3,936 
Subordinated liabilities ................................................................. 29,479 3 2,953 32,435 
of which: 
–  hybrid capital securities included in tier 1 capital. .............. j 2,828 – – 2,828
–  perpetual subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital ......... l 2,778 – – 2,778
–  term subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital ............ … m 23,873 – – 23,873
Other liabilities ............................................................................. 516,838 (67,562) 5,375 454,651 
of which: 
– contingent liabilities and contractual commitments ............ 301 – – 301
of which:  
–  credit-related provisions on IRB portfolios ......................... i 267 – – 267
–  credit-related provisions on STD portfolios ........................ k 34 – – 34
Total shareholders’ equity ............................................................ a 175,242 (626) (0) 174,616 
of which: 
–  other equity instruments included in tier 1 capital .............. c, j 5,851 – – 5,851
–  preference share premium included in tier 1 capital ........... b 1,405 – – 1,405
Non-controlling interests .............................................................. d 7,887 (610) 0 7,277 
of which: 
–  non-cumulative preference shares issued by subsidiaries 
included in tier 1 capital ....................................................... e 2,428 – – 2,428
–  non-controlling interests included in tier 2 capital, 
cumulative preferred stock ................................................... f 300 – – 300
–  non-controlling interests attributable to holders of  
ordinary shares in subsidiaries included in tier 2 capital ..... f,m 201 – – 201
Total liabilities and equity ......................................................... 2,692,538 (93,628) 220,314 2,819,224 
For footnote, see page 292. 
The references (a) – (m) identify balance sheet components which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital on page 286.
Regulatory and accounting consolidations 
(Unaudited) 
The basis of consolidation for financial accounting 
purposes is described in Note 1 on the Financial 
Statements and differs from that used for regulatory 
purposes. The table above provides a reconciliation 
of the financial accounting balance sheet to the 
regulatory balance sheet. Not all items are 
reconcilable, due to regulatory adjustments that are 
applied, for example to non-core capital instruments 
before they can be included in the Group’s 
regulatory capital base. It is the regulatory balances, 
and not the financial accounting balance sheet, 
which form the basis for the regulatory capital 
calculations. Investments in banking associates 
are equity accounted in the financial accounting 
consolidation, whereas their assets and liabilities are 
proportionally consolidated for regulatory purposes. 
Subsidiaries and associates engaged in insurance and 
non-financial activities are excluded from the 
regulatory consolidation and are deducted from 
regulatory capital. The regulatory consolidation does 
not include SPEs where significant risk has been 
transferred to third parties. Exposures to these 
SPEs are risk-weighted as securitisation positions 
for regulatory purposes. Entities in respect of which 
the basis of consolidation for financial accounting 
purposes differs from that used for regulatory 
purposes can be found in the Pillar 3 Disclosures 
2012 report. 
Basel III and its implementation in Europe 
(Unaudited) 
In July 2011, the European Commission published 
proposals for a new Regulation and Directive, 
known collectively as CRD IV, to give effect to the 
Basel III framework in the EU. The majority of the 
Basel III proposals are in the Regulation, removing  289
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
national discretion. However, capital buffers such 
as those for countercyclical and capital conservation 
are in the Directive and are subject to transposition 
into national law by member states. CRD IV 
implementation has been delayed and the timetable 
for finalisation is uncertain. 
In October 2012, the FSA wrote to large firms 
to set out the disclosures they are required to make 
of capital resources on a first year transitional basis 
under CRD IV. We have made these disclosures in 
appendix III of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 report. 
Following the FSA’s setting of a Capital 
Resources Floor, and in order to manage our 
transition to Basel III under CRD IV, we provide 
below some insight for investors of the possible 
effects of these rules on our capital position. We have 
estimated our pro-forma CET1 ratio by applying 
our interpretation of the CRD IV draft July 2011 
text post the transition period (end point CRD IV) 
to our balance sheet position at 31 December 2012. 
In managing our capital position to meet our 
internal CET1 target, we consider management 
actions resulting from our six filters strategy that 
we either have already taken or would take, if the 
CRD IV rules were to be finalised in the July 2011 
form. These are reflected in the table below under 
‘Estimated regulatory impact of management 
actions’. Other management actions could be taken 
depending upon the finalised rules and timing of 
implementation but, as such, have not been included. 
The application of the CRD IV rules on this 
basis would translate into an estimated CET1 ratio 
of 9.0% before management actions and 10.3% after 
such actions, as detailed in the table below. 
Estimated effect of CRD IV end point rules applied to the 31 December 2012 position 
(Unaudited) 
At 31 December 2012 
RWAs
US$m 
Capital
US$m 
Reported core tier 1 capital under the current regime .................................................................................... 138,789 
Regulatory adjustments applied to core tier 1 in respect of amounts subject to CRD IV treatment 
Investments in own shares through the holding of composite products of which HSBC is a component 
(exchange traded funds, derivatives, and index stock)........................................................................... (1,322)
Surplus non-controlling interest disallowed in CET1 ............................................................................... (2,299)
Removal of filters under current regime 
–  Unrealised gains/(losses) on available-for-sale debt securities ............................................................. (1,223)
–  Unrealised gains on available-for-sale equities ...................................................................................... 2,088 
–  Reserves arising from revaluation of property ...................................................................................... 1,202 
–  Defined benefit pension fund liabilities ................................................................................................. (1,596)
Excess of expected losses over impairment allowances deducted 100% from CET1 .............................. (3,084)
Removal of 50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses .................................................................. (111)
Securitisations positions risk-weighted under CRD IV.............................................................................. 1,776 
Deferred tax liabilities on intangibles ........................................................................................................ 267
Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability (excluding those arising from temporary differences) (456)
Additional valuation adjustment (referred to as PVA) .............................................................................. (1,720)
Debit valuation adjustment ........................................................................................................................ (372)
Individually immaterial holdings in CET1 capital of banks, financial institutions and insurance in 
aggregate above 10% of HSBC CET1 .................................................................................................. (5,994)
Deductions under threshold approach 
Amount exceeding the 10% threshold: 
–  Significant investments in CET1 capital of banks, financial institutions and insurance ...................... (6,697)
Amount in aggregate exceeding the 15% threshold: 
–  Significant investments in CET1 capital of banks, financial institutions and insurance ...................... (2,265)
–  Deferred tax assets ................................................................................................................................. (1,532)
Estimated CET1 capital under CRD IV .................................................................................................... 115,451 
Reported total RWAs ..................................................................................................................................... 1,123,943 
Changes to capital requirements introduced by CRD IV  
Credit valuation adjustment ....................................................................................................................... 60,360 
Counterparty credit risk (other than credit valuation adjustment) ............................................................. 25,682 
Amounts in aggregate below 15% threshold and therefore subject to 250% risk weight ......................... 43,295 
Securitisation positions and free deliveries risk-weighted under CRD IV ............................................... 44,513 
Investments in commercial entities now risk-weighted ............................................................................ 393
Deferred tax assets moved to threshold deduction under CRD IV ........................................................... (8,976) 
Estimated total RWAs under CRD IV ....................................................................................................... 1,289,210 
Estimated CET1 ratio .................................................................................................................................. 9.0%  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Capital > Capital structure / Future developments 
290
At 31 December 2012 
RWAs
US$m 
Capital
US$m 
Estimated regulatory impact of management actions 
Management actions completed in 2013: 
Dilution of our shareholding in Industrial Bank and the subsequent change in accounting treatment .... (38,880) (2,150)
Completion of the second tranche of the sale of Ping An ......................................................................... 3,522 9,393 
Estimated total after management actions completed in 2013 ....................................................................... 1,253,852 122,694 
Estimated CET1 ratio after management actions completed in 2013 .................................................... 9.8% 
Planned short-term management actions if rules are finalised in their current form:  
Mitigation of immaterial holdings
9
 ............................................................................................................ 2,645 7,052 
Estimated total after planned management actions ........................................................................................ 1,256,497 129,746 
Estimated CET1 ratio after planned management actions ...................................................................... 10.3% 
For the detailed basis of preparation, see 
page 298 of the Appendix to Capital. 
The table above presents a reconciliation of our 
reported core tier 1 capital and RWAs position at 
31 December 2012 to the pro-forma estimated 
CET1 end point capital and estimated RWAs based 
on our interpretation of the July 2011 draft CRD IV 
regulation, supplemented by FSA guidance and, in 
lieu of guidance, our expectation of how these draft 
rules will be updated following EU negotiations. 
CRD IV is not yet in law and its provisions are 
subject to ongoing negotiation and amendment. As 
such, the finalised rules could have a materially 
different effect on CET1 and RWAs.  
The CRD IV rule changes introduce a revised 
definition of regulatory capital, primarily focused 
on CET1 capital as the predominant form of going 
concern capital, with a greater quantum to be held 
by banks. There are increased capital deductions and 
new regulatory adjustments affecting this higher tier 
of capital. The new rules also introduce increased 
RWA requirements, mainly for CCR. 
The largest impact on our CET1 capital is the 
deduction of unconsolidated significant investments 
in banks, financial institutions and insurance entities 
of US$9.0bn (shown as US$6.7bn and US$2.3bn in 
the table above). This results from a reallocation of 
current deductions to this higher tier of capital and 
new rules for calculating the amounts to be 
deducted.
Adding to the above, the regulatory treatment 
applied to immaterial unconsolidated investments in 
banks, financial institutions and insurance entities, 
whereby a maturity restriction does not recognise the 
netting of long and short positions when the short 
position is less than one year residual maturity, 
even though they are hedged from a market risk 
perspective. This results in an estimated deduction 
of US$6.0bn. The effect on capital is exacerbated 
by its impact on the threshold for other deductions. 
The rules are currently in draft and subject to 
ongoing negotiation. If they were to be finalised in 
their current form, the holdings of such positions 
would generate a disproportionate capital cost and 
potentially the relevant business could be curtailed, 
closed or our hedging would be adjusted to negate 
the impact. 
Capital management initiatives and management 
actions already adopted by the Group, in accordance 
with our six filters strategic framework, have 
contributed to mitigating the effect of the future 
rules. In 2012, this included the continuing run-off 
of capital intensive portfolios including the US 
CML and the GB&M legacy credit portfolios and 
the sale of the Card and Retail Services business. 
Post year-end, we sold our remaining investment 
in Ping An and reduced our percentage holding 
in Industrial Bank following a private placement 
by the company.  
Although the effect of the future CRD IV rules 
is shown above on an end point basis, the rules allow 
for a transition period of six years to phase in the 
new deductions and regulatory adjustments. On a 
CRD IV first year transitional basis our CET1 ratio, 
if applied to our year end 2012 position, would be 
11.5% before management actions. 
As a result of the capital resources floor, we 
currently manage our capital position to meet an 
internal target CET1 ratio on an end point basis for 
year end 2013. We will continue to manage our 
capital position to ensure that it exceeds current 
regulatory requirements and is well placed to meet 
expected future regulatory requirements. We will 
review our capital target ratios on an ongoing basis, 
reflecting any changes in the regulatory environment 
as they develop.  291
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Future developments 
Systemically important banks 
(Unaudited) 
In parallel with the Basel III proposals, the Basel 
Committee issued a consultative document in July 
2011, ‘Global systemically important banks: 
assessment methodology and the additional loss 
absorbency requirement’. In November 2011, it 
published its rules and the Financial Stability Board 
(‘FSB’) issued the initial list of global systemically 
important banks (‘G-SIB’s). This list, which 
included HSBC and 28 other major banks from 
around the world, will be re-assessed periodically 
through annual re-scoring of the individual banks 
and a triennial review of the methodology. 
The requirements, initially for those banks 
identified in November 2014 as G-SIBs, will be 
phased in from 1 January 2016, becoming fully 
effective on 1 January 2019. National regulators 
have discretion to introduce higher thresholds than 
the minima. In November 2012, the FSB published a 
revised list of G-SIBs and their current assessment of 
the appropriate capital charge. HSBC was assigned 
an add-on of 2.5%. 
UK regulatory reform 
(Unaudited) 
The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis. 
However, the UK financial services regulatory 
structure is currently in the process of substantial 
reform. Legislation has been passed to abolish the 
FSA and establish three new regulatory bodies from 
1 April 2013. 
The three new bodies will comprise the 
Financial Policy Committee (‘FPC’) of the Bank 
of England, the Prudential Regulation Authority 
(‘PRA’) and the Financial Conduct Authority 
(‘FCA’). The FPC will not directly supervise firms, 
being responsible for macro-prudential regulation 
and considering systemic risk affecting economic 
and financial stability. The PRA and the FCA will 
inherit the majority of the FSA’s existing functions 
as the micro-prudential supervisors. Some 
subsidiaries such as HSBC Bank will be ‘dual-
regulated’ firms, subject to prudential regulation 
by the PRA and to conduct regulation by the FCA. 
These reforms will endow the new regulatory bodies 
with additional powers. For example, under certain 
circumstances the PRA and FCA will be able to 
issue directions to unregulated qualifying parent 
undertakings such as HSBC Holdings.  
In the case of the FPC, its January 2013 Draft 
Policy Statement, ‘The Financial Policy Committee’s 
power to supplement capital requirements’, states that 
it will have two main powers: the first is to make 
recommendations, and the second is a power to direct 
the FCA and the PRA to adjust specific macro-
prudential tools, namely the countercyclical capital 
buffer (‘CCB’) and sectoral capital requirements 
(‘SCR’s’). The UK Government is proposing to make 
the FPC responsible for setting the CCB, a Basel III 
global requirement applied to certain financial 
institutions in the UK. The CCB is a macro-
prudential tool at the disposal of national authorities 
that can be deployed to protect the banking sector 
from future potential losses when the FPC judges 
that threats to financial stability have arisen in the 
UK which increase system-wide risk. Should a CCB 
be required, it is expected to be set in the range of 
0-2.5%.
It is also planned under the new legislation to 
give the FPC ‘direction power’, over SCR’s. The 
SCR tool is more targeted and would allow the FPC 
to change capital requirements above minimum 
regulatory standards for exposures to three broad 
sectors judged to pose a risk to the system as a whole 
(residential property, including mortgages; 
commercial property; and other parts of the financial 
sector). However, on occasion this may be applied to 
more granular sub-sectors (for example, to 
mortgages with high loan to value or loan to income 
ratios at origination). This will include both banking 
book and trading book exposures and be irrespective 
of the domicile of the ultimate borrower. 
The CCB and SCR tools are described as broad 
tools designed to reduce the likelihood and severity 
of financial crises, their primary purpose being to 
tackle cyclical risks. They provide the FPC with the 
means to increase the amount of capital that banks 
must hold when threats to financial stability are 
judged to be emerging. However, the scale of capital 
add-ons in respect of SCR has not been quantified.  
There is also a proposal for a systemic risk 
buffer for the banking system as a whole (or a subset 
thereof) to mitigate structural macro-prudential risk. 
Potential effect of regulatory proposals on 
HSBC’s capital requirements 
Given the above it is uncertain what HSBC’s final 
capital requirement will be. However, quantified 
Pillar 1 capital requirements are as follows: 
CET1 requirements from 1 January 2019 
Minimum CET1  4.5% 
Capital conservation buffer  2.5% 
G-SIB buffer  2.5% 
Against the backdrop of eurozone instability, 
on a temporary basis, the EBA recommended that  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Capital > Future developments // Appendix to Capital > Capital management 
292
banks aim to reach a 9% EBA defined core tier 1 
ratio by the end of June 2012. In October 2012 the 
EBA announced that they would no longer monitor 
the core tier 1 ratio but instead expect banks to hold 
an equivalent nominal amount of capital. This new 
EBA recommendation on capital conservation will 
require banks to maintain a nominal amount of 
core tier 1 capital corresponding to the level of 
9% of RWAs at the end of June 2012. This equates 
to US$104bn for HSBC. We will continue to review 
our internal target CETI ratio of 9.5% to 10.5% as 
the applicable regulatory capital requirements evolve 
during the period until 1 January 2019. 
We also hold additional capital in respect of 
Pillar 2, the process of internal capital adequacy 
assessment and supervisory review which leads to a 
final determination by the FSA of individual capital 
guidance and any capital planning buffer that may 
be required. 
Complementing the above, and also within the 
Pillar 2 process, the FSA first advised the Group in 
2012 of a capital resources floor. This is expressed 
as a minimum target CET1 ratio calculated on a 
Basel III end point basis, to be achieved by 
December 2013. 
In 2013 the FSA will introduce new industry-
wide capital measures. They will floor all sovereign 
loss given defaults (‘LGD’s) at 45% and we estimate 
the effect of this to be an increase of US$19bn 
RWAs. Additionally, a stringent supervisory 
slotting approach for our UK commercial real estate 
portfolio will be introduced. For HSBC, this will roll 
out across the relevant business during 2013. 
Furthermore, the FSA have informed HSBC of a 
framework which will be used when assessing 
wholesale portfolios with a low number of defaults. 
This framework will impose LGD and exposure at 
default (‘EAD’) floors based on the foundation 
approach for portfolios with less than 20 events of 
default per country. 
Structural banking reform 
(Unaudited) 
In September 2011, the Independent Commission on 
Banking (‘ICB’) recommended heightened capital 
requirements for UK banking groups. In June 2012, 
the UK Government published its consultation, 
‘Banking reform: delivering stability and supporting 
a sustainable economy’, which set out its detailed 
proposals for implementing the ICB’s 
recommendations, such as ring-fencing and bail-in 
debt. In October 2012, the UK Government 
published draft primary legislation. This legislation 
was presented for pre-legislative scrutiny to the 
UK’s Parliamentary Commission on Banking 
Standards who presented their initial findings in 
December 2012. In February 2013, the UK 
Government responded to these findings and issued 
a revised Bill. The Government intends to enact the 
legislation by the end of this parliament in 2015 
and to have reforms in place by 2019. 
In October 2012, the Liikanen Report delivered 
its recommendations to the EC to reform the 
structure of the European banking sector. This also 
recommends ring-fencing, focused on isolating 
trading activities (rather than deposits as in the ICB 
recommendations) and, in principle, additional bail-
in debt. We continue to monitor these developments. 
Footnotes to Capital 
  1 The value represents marked-to-market method only.
  2 Operational risk RWAs, under the standardised approach, are calculated using an average of the last three years’ revenues. For
business disposals, the operational risk RWAs are not released immediately on disposal, but diminish over a period of time. The RWAs 
for the Card and Retail Services business at 31 December 2012 represent the remaining operational risk RWAs for the business.  
  3 RWAs are non-additive across geographical regions due to market risk diversification effects within the Group. 
  4 Includes externally verified profits for the year ended 31 December 2012. 
  5 Mainly comprises unrealised gains/losses on available-for-sale debt securities related to SPEs. 
  6 Under FSA rules, unrealised gains/losses on debt securities net of tax must be excluded from capital resources. 
  7 Under FSA rules, any defined benefit asset is derecognised and a defined benefit liability may be substituted with the additional funding 
that will be paid into the relevant schemes over the following five-year period. 
  8 Mainly comprise investments in insurance entities and the AFS investment in Ping An. Due to the expiry of the transitional provision, 
with effect from 1 January 2013, material insurance holding companies acquired prior to 20 July 2006, will be deducted 50% from tier 
1 and 50% from total capital. 
  9 This management action potentially arises only under rules on a CRD IV basis and has therefore not been included in the composition
of regulatory capital table, which is drawn up on the basis of the current rules.  293
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Appendix to Capital 
Capital management, capital measurement and RWA movement
Capital management 
(Audited) 
Approach and policy 
Our approach to capital management is driven by our strategic and organisational requirements, taking into account 
the regulatory, economic and commercial environment in which we operate. Pre-tax return on risk-weighted assets 
(‘RoRWA’) is an operational metric by which the global businesses are managed on a day-to-day basis. The metric 
combines return on equity and regulatory capital efficiency objectives. It is our objective to maintain a strong capital 
base to support the risks inherent in our business and invest in accordance with our six filters framework, exceeding 
both consolidated and local regulatory capital requirements at all times. 
Our policy on capital management is underpinned by a capital management framework which enables us to 
manage our capital in a consistent manner. The framework, which is approved by the GMB annually, incorporates 
a number of different capital measures including market capitalisation, invested capital, economic capital and 
regulatory capital. Following the FSA setting of a capital resources floor as a Basel III ratio, whilst also monitoring 
capital at a Group level on a Basel II basis, we set our internal target on an end point Basel III CET1 basis.
Capital measures 
• market capitalisation is the stock market value of HSBC;  
• invested capital is the equity capital invested in HSBC by our shareholders, adjusted for certain reserves and goodwill previously 
amortised or written off; 
• economic capital is the internally calculated capital requirement which we deem necessary to support the risks to which we are exposed; 
and
• regulatory capital is the capital which we are required to hold in accordance with the rules established by the FSA for the consolidated
Group and by our local regulators for individual Group companies. 
Our assessment of capital adequacy is aligned to our assessment of risks, including: credit, market, operational, 
interest rate risk in the banking book, pension fund, insurance, structural foreign exchange risk and residual risks.  
Stress testing 
We incorporate stress testing in capital plans because it helps us to understand how sensitive the core assumptions 
in our capital plans are to the adverse effect of extreme but plausible events. Stress testing allows us to formulate 
our response and mitigate risk in advance of conditions exhibiting the identified stress scenarios. The actual market 
stresses which occurred throughout the financial system in recent years have been used to inform our capital planning 
process and enhance the stress scenarios we employ. In addition to our internal stress tests, others are undertaken, 
both at the request of regulators and by the regulators themselves using their prescribed assumptions. We take into 
account the results of all such regulatory stress testing when assessing our internal capital requirements. 
Risks to capital 
Outside the stress-testing framework, a list of top and emerging risks is regularly evaluated for their effect on the core 
tier 1 capital ratio. In addition, there are risks identified that are technically not within the scope of this list, but which
still have the potential to affect our RWAs and/or capital position. These risks are also included in the evaluation 
of risks to capital. The downside or upside scenarios are assessed against our capital management objectives and 
mitigating actions are assigned as necessary. The responsibility for global capital allocation principles and decisions 
rests with the GMB. Through our internal governance processes, we seek to maintain discipline over our investment 
and capital allocation decisions and seek to ensure that returns on investment are adequate after taking into account 
capital costs. Our strategy is to allocate capital to businesses and entities on the basis of their ability to achieve 
established RoRWA objectives and their regulatory and economic capital requirements.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Capital > Appendix to Capital > Capital measurement and allocation 
294
Risk-weighted asset targets 
Top-down RWA targets are established for the global business lines, in accordance with the Group’s strategic 
direction and risk appetite. As these targets are deployed to lower levels of management, action plans for 
implementation are developed. These may include growth strategies; active portfolio management; restructuring; 
business and/or customer-level reviews; RWA efficiency and optimisation initiatives and risk-mitigation. Our capital 
management process is articulated in the annual Group capital plan which is approved by the Board.  
RWA targets are approved by the GMB on an annual basis and business performance against them is monitored 
through regular reporting to the Group ALCO. The management of capital deductions is also addressed in the RWA 
monitoring framework through additional notional charges for these items. 
A range of analysis is employed in the RWA monitoring framework to identify the key drivers of movements in 
the position, such as book size and book quality. Particular attention is paid to identifying and segmenting items 
within the day-to-day control of the business and those items that are driven by changes in risk models or regulatory 
methodology. 
Capital generation 
HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and also provides them with non-equity 
capital where necessary. These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings’ own capital issuance and 
profit retention. As part of its capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance 
between the composition of its capital and its investment in subsidiaries. 
Capital measurement and allocation 
(Unaudited) 
The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis and therefore receives information on the capital adequacy of, 
and sets capital requirements for, the Group as a whole. Individual banking subsidiaries are directly regulated by their 
local banking supervisors, who set and monitor their capital adequacy requirements. In 2012, we calculated capital at 
a Group level using the Basel II framework as amended for CRD III, commonly known as Basel 2.5. 
Our policy and practice in capital measurement and allocation at Group level is underpinned by the Basel II rules and 
Basel III proposals. However, local regulators are at different stages of implementation and some local reporting, 
notably in the US, is still on a Basel I basis. In most jurisdictions, non-banking financial subsidiaries are also subject 
to the supervision and capital requirements of local regulatory authorities. 
Basel II is structured around three ‘pillars’: minimum capital requirements, supervisory review process and market 
discipline. The CRD implemented Basel II in the EU and the FSA then gave effect to the CRD by including the 
latter’s requirements in its own rulebooks. 
Regulatory capital 
For regulatory purposes, our capital base is divided into three main categories, namely core tier 1, other tier 1 and tier 
2, depending on the degree of permanency and loss absorbency exhibited. 
• core tier 1 capital comprises shareholders’ equity and related non-controlling interests. The book values of 
goodwill and intangible assets are deducted from core tier 1 capital and other regulatory adjustments are made 
for items reflected in shareholders’ equity which are treated differently for the purposes of capital adequacy; 
• qualifying capital instruments such as non-cumulative perpetual preference shares and hybrid capital securities 
are included in other tier 1 capital; and 
• tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated loan capital, related non-controlling interests, allowable 
collective impairment allowances and unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of equity instruments held as 
available for sale. Tier 2 capital also includes reserves arising from the revaluation of properties. 
To ensure the overall quality of the capital base, the FSA’s rules set restrictions on the amount of hybrid capital 
instruments that can be included in tier 1 capital relative to core tier 1 capital, and limits overall tier 2 capital to no 
more than tier 1 capital.  295
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Pillar 1 capital requirements 
Pillar 1 covers the capital resources requirements for credit risk, market risk and operational risk. Credit risk includes 
counterparty credit risk and securitisation requirements. These requirements are expressed in terms of RWAs. 
Credit risk capital requirements 
Basel II applies three approaches of increasing sophistication to the calculation of Pillar 1 credit risk capital 
requirements. The most basic, the standardised approach, requires banks to use external credit ratings to determine 
the risk weightings applied to rated counterparties. Other counterparties are grouped into broad categories and 
standardised risk weightings are applied to these categories. The next level, the internal ratings-based (‘IRB’) 
foundation approach, allows banks to calculate their credit risk capital requirements on the basis of their internal 
assessment of a counterparty’s probability of default (‘PD’), but their estimates of exposure at default (‘EAD’) and 
loss given default (‘LGD’) are subject to standard supervisory parameters. Finally, the IRB advanced approach 
allows banks to use their own internal assessment in both determining PD and quantifying EAD and LGD. 
The capital resources requirement, which is intended to cover unexpected losses, is derived from a formula specified 
in the regulatory rules which incorporates PD, LGD, EAD and other variables such as maturity and correlation. 
Expected losses under the IRB approaches are calculated by multiplying PD by EAD and LGD. Expected losses 
are deducted from capital to the extent that they exceed total accounting impairment allowances.  
For credit risk we have adopted the IRB advanced approach for the majority of our portfolios, with the remainder on 
either IRB foundation or standardised approaches. 
Under our Basel II rollout plans, a number of our Group companies and portfolios are in transition to advanced IRB 
approaches. At the end of 2012, portfolios in most of Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and North America 
were on advanced IRB approaches. Others remain on the standardised or foundation approaches under Basel II, 
pending definition of local regulations or model approval, or under exemptions from IRB treatment. 
• Counterparty credit risk 
CCR arises for OTC derivatives and securities financing transactions. It is calculated in both the trading and non-
trading books and is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction may default before completing the satisfactory 
settlement of the transaction. Three approaches to calculating CCR and determining exposure values are defined 
by Basel II: standardised, mark-to-market and internal model method. These exposure values are used to 
determine capital requirements under one of the credit risk approaches: standardised, IRB foundation and IRB 
advanced. 
We use the mark-to-market and internal model method approaches for CCR. Our longer-term aim is to migrate 
more positions from the mark-to-market to the internal model method approach. 
• Securitisation 
Securitisation positions are held in both the trading and non-trading books. For non-trading book securitisation 
positions, Basel II specifies two methods for calculating credit risk requirements, the standardised and the IRB 
approaches. Both rely on the mapping of rating agency credit ratings to risk weights, which range from 7% to 
1,250%. Positions that would otherwise be weighted at 1,250% are deducted from capital. 
Within the IRB approach, we use the ratings-based method for the majority of our non-trading book 
securitisation positions, and the internal assessment approach for unrated liquidity facilities and programme-wide 
enhancements for asset-backed securitisations. 
The majority of securitisation positions in the trading book are treated for capital purposes as if they are held in 
the non-trading book under the standardised or IRB approaches. Other traded securitisation positions, known as 
correlation trading, are treated under an internal model approach approved by the FSA. 
Market risk capital requirement 
The market risk capital requirement is measured using internal market risk models where approved by the FSA, or 
the FSA’s standard rules. Our internal market risk models comprise VAR, stressed VAR, incremental risk charge and 
correlation trading under the comprehensive risk measure.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Capital > Appendix to Capital > RWA movement 
296
Operational risk capital requirement 
Basel II includes a capital requirement for operational risk, again utilising three levels of sophistication. The capital 
required under the basic indicator approach is a simple percentage of gross revenues, whereas under the standardised 
approach it is one of three different percentages of total operating income less insurance premiums allocated to each 
of eight defined business lines. Both these approaches use an average of the last three financial years’ revenues. 
Finally, the advanced measurement approach uses banks’ own statistical analysis and modelling of operational risk 
data to determine capital requirements. We have adopted the standardised approach in determining our operational 
risk capital requirements. 
Pillar 2 capital requirements 
We conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (‘ICAAP’) to determine a forward looking assessment 
of our capital requirements given our business strategy, risk profile, risk appetite and capital plan. This process 
incorporates the Group’s risk management processes and governance framework. A range of stress tests are applied 
to our base capital plan. These, coupled with our economic capital framework and other risk management practices, 
are used to assess our internal capital adequacy requirements. 
The ICAAP is examined by the FSA as part of its Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process, which occurs 
periodically to enable the regulator to define the individual capital guidance or minimum capital requirements for 
HSBC and capital planning buffer where required. 
Pillar 3 disclosure requirements 
Pillar 3 of Basel II is related to market discipline and aims to make firms more transparent by requiring them to 
publish specific, prescribed details of their risks, capital and risk management under the Basel II framework at least 
annually. Our Pillar 3 Disclosures 2012 report is published on the HSBC website, www.hsbc.com. 
RWA movement by key driver - basis of preparation and supporting notes 
(Unaudited) 
Credit risk and counterparty credit risk drivers – definitions and quantification  
The causal analysis of RWA movements splits the total movement in IRB RWAs into six drivers, described below. 
The first four relate to specific, identifiable and measurable changes. The remaining two, book size and book quality, 
are derived after accounting for movements in the first four specific drivers.
1.  Foreign exchange movements  
This is the movement in RWAs as a result of changes in the exchange rate between the functional currency of the 
HSBC company owning each portfolio and US dollars, being our presentation currency for consolidated reporting. 
Our structural foreign exchange exposures are managed with the primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that 
our consolidated capital ratios and the capital ratios of individual banking subsidiaries are largely protected from the 
effect of changes in exchange rates.  
2.  Acquisitions and disposals 
This is the movement in RWAs as a result of the disposal or acquisition of business operations. This can be whole 
businesses or parts of a business. The movement in RWAs is quantified based on the credit risk exposures as at the 
end of the month preceding a disposal or following an acquisition.  
3.  Model updates 
New/updated models  
RWA movements arising from the implementation of new models and from changes to existing parameter models 
are allocated to this driver. This figure will also include changes which arise following review of modelling 
assumptions. Where a model recalibration reflects an update to more recent performance data, the resulting RWA 
changes are not assigned here, but instead reported under book quality.  
RWA changes are estimated based on the impact assessments made in the testing phase prior to implementation. 
These values are used to simulate the impact of new or updated models on the portfolio at the point of  297
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
implementation, assuming there were no major changes in the portfolio from the testing phase to implementation 
phase.
Portfolios moving onto IRB approach 
Where a portfolio moves from the standardised approach to the IRB approach, the RWA movement by key driver 
statement shows the increase in IRB RWAs, but does not show the corresponding reduction in standardised approach 
RWAs as its scope is limited to IRB only.  
The movement in RWAs is quantified at the date at which the IRB approach is applied, and not during the testing 
phase as with a new/updated model. 
4.  Methodology and policy 
Internal updates 
This captures the RWA impact resulting from changing the internal treatment of exposures. This may include, but is 
not limited to, identification of netting and credit risk mitigation.  
External updates 
This specifies the impact resulting from additional or changing regulatory requirements. This includes, but is not 
limited to, regulatory-prescribed changes to the RWA calculation. The movement in RWAs is quantified by 
comparing the RWAs calculated for that portfolio under the old and the new requirements.  
5.  Book size 
RWA movements attributed to this driver are those we would expect to experience for the given movement in 
exposure, as measured by EAD, assuming a stable risk profile. These RWA movements arise in the normal course of 
business, such as growth in credit exposures or reduction in book size from run-offs and write-offs. 
The RWA movement is quantified as follows: 
• RWA and EAD changes captured in the four drivers above are excluded from the total movements to create an 
adjusted movement in EAD and RWA for the period.  
• The average RWA to EAD percentage is calculated for the opening position and is applied to the adjusted 
movement in EAD. This results in an estimated book size RWA movement based on the assumption that the 
EAD to RWA percentage is constant throughout the period.  
As the calculation relies on averaging, the output is dependent upon the degree of portfolio aggregation and the 
number of discrete time periods for which the calculation is undertaken. For each quarter of 2012 this calculation was 
performed for each HSBC company with an IRB portfolio, split by the main Basel categories of credit exposures, as 
described in the table below: 
Basel categories of IRB credit exposures within HSBC 
Central governments and central banks Corporate foundation IRB Qualifying revolving retail exposures  
Institutions Other advanced IRB Retail SME 
Corporate advanced IRB Retail mortgages Other retail 
The total of the results is shown in book size within the RWA movement by key driver table. 
6.  Book quality 
This represents RWA movements resulting from changes in the underlying credit quality of customers. These are 
caused by changes to IRB risk parameters which arise from actions such as, but not limited to, model recalibration, 
change in counterparty external rating, or the influence of new lending on the average quality of the book. The 
change in RWAs attributable to book quality is calculated as the balance of RWA movements after taking account of 
all drivers described above.  
The RWA movement by key driver statement includes only movements which are calculated under the IRB 
approach. Certain classes of credit risk exposure are treated as capital deductions and therefore reductions are not 
shown in this statement. If the treatment of a credit risk exposure changes from RWA to capital deduction in the 
period, then only the reduction in RWAs would appear in the RWA movement by key driver tables. In this instance, 
a reduction in RWAs does not necessarily indicate an improvement in the capital position.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Capital > Appendix to Capital > CRD IV end point 
298
Market risk drivers – definitions and quantification  
The RWA movement by key driver for market risk combines the credit risk drivers 5 and 6 into a single driver called 
‘Movements in risk levels’. The market risk RWA driver called ‘Foreign exchange movements and other’ includes 
foreign exchange movements and additional items which can not be reasonably assigned to any of the other drivers.  
Basis of preparation of the estimated effect of the CRD IV end point applied to the 31 December 
2012 position. 
(Unaudited) 
The table on page 289 presents a reconciliation of our reported core tier 1 and RWA position at 31 December 2012 to 
the pro-forma estimated CET1 and estimated RWAs based on the Group’s interpretation of the draft July 2011 
CRD IV legislation and/or guidance provided by the FSA and, in lieu of guidance, our current expectation of how 
these draft 2011 rules will be updated by subsequent EU deliberations.  
CRD IV has not yet become law and its provisions are subject to on-going negotiation and amendment. In addition, 
formal Implementing Technical Standards (‘ITS’) due for issue by the EBA are still to be drafted and finalised, 
leaving the CRD IV rules subject to significant interpretation. Despite the uncertainty around a number of areas 
in the rules, our disclosures are based on the draft July 2011 CRD IV text. Pending finalisation of CRD IV, we have 
not definitively upgraded the models and systems used to calculate capital numbers in a CRD IV environment which, 
as a consequence, are subject to change. Consequently, the final CRD IV impact on the Group’s CET1 and RWAs 
may be different from our current estimates. 
The detailed basis of preparation is described below for items that are different from our current treatment under 
Basel II. For individual immaterial holdings in banks, financial institutions and insurance that are, in aggregate, 
above 10% of the Group’s CET1 capital, we have included specific short term management actions that could be 
taken to negate the capital deduction. For other CRD IV proposals, additional management actions could also be 
taken dependent upon the finalised rules and timing of implementation but, as such, have not been included. 
Regulatory adjustments applied to core tier 1 in respect of amounts subject to CRD IV treatment 
Investments in own shares through the holding of composite products of which HSBC is a component 
(exchange traded funds, derivatives, and index stock): the value of our holdings of own CET1 instruments, 
where it is not already deducted under IFRSs, is deducted from CET1. Under CRD IV, deduction comprises not only 
direct but also indirect, actual and contingent, banking and trading book gross long positions. Trading book positions 
are calculated net of short positions only where there is no counterparty credit risk on these short positions (this 
restriction does not apply to index positions). We have not recognised the benefit of non-index short positions, even 
where they are executed with central counterparties or are fully collateralised. Under current rules, there is no 
regulatory adjustment made on the amounts already deducted under IFRS rules. 
Surplus non-controlling interest disallowed in CET1: non-controlling interests arising from the issue of common 
shares by our banking subsidiaries receive limited recognition. The excess over a minimum of 7% of the CET1 of the 
relevant subsidiary is not allowable in the Group’s CET1 to the extent it is attributable to minority shareholders. 
Under current rules, there is no regulatory restriction applied to these items. 
Unrealised gains/(losses) on available-for-sale debt securities: under CRD IV , there is no adjustment to remove 
from CET1 capital unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale debt securities. Under current FSA rules, these 
are removed from capital (net of tax).  
Unrealised gains on available-for-sale equities and reserves arising from revaluation of property: there is no 
adjustment for unrealised gains and losses on reserves arising from the revaluation of property and on available-for-
sale equities. Under current FSA rules, unrealised net gains on these items are included in tier 2 capital (net of 
deferred tax) and net losses are deducted from tier 1 capital.  
Defined benefit pension fund liabilities: the amount of retirement benefit liabilities as reported on the balance sheet 
is fully recognised in CET1 rather than being replaced by any committed funding plans as current FSA rules permit.  
Excess of expected losses over impairment allowances deducted 100% from CET1: the amount of excess 
expected loss over impairment allowance is deducted 100% from CET1. Under current FSA rules, this amount is 
deducted 50% from CT1 and 50% from total capital.    299
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Removal of 50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses: the amount of expected losses in excess of 
impairment allowances that is deducted from CET1 capital is not reduced for any related tax effects. Under current 
FSA rules, any related tax credit offset is recognised 50% in CT1 and 50% in tier 1 capital. 
Securitisation positions risk-weighted under CRD IV: securitisation positions that were deducted from core tier 1 
under current rules have been included in RWAs at 1,250%. 
Deferred tax liabilities on intangibles: the amount of intangible assets deducted from CET1 has been reduced by 
the related deferred tax liability. Under current rules, the goodwill and intangibles are deducted at their accounting 
value.
Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability (excluding those arising from temporary differences): the
deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability and do not arise from temporary differences are deducted 100% 
from CET1. The deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability and arise from temporary differences are subject 
to the separate threshold deduction approach detailed separately. Under current rules, these items receive a risk 
weighting of 100%.  
Additional valuation adjustment (referred to as prudent valuation adjustment or ‘PV A’): under current FSA 
rules, banks are required to comply with requirements for prudent and reliable valuation of any balance sheet position 
measured at market or fair value. Under CRD IV, all assets and derivatives measured at fair value are subject to 
specified standards for prudent valuation, covering uncertainty around the input factors into the fair value valuation 
models – namely, uncertainty around the mark to market of positions, model risk, valuation of less liquid positions 
and credit valuation adjustments (‘CVA’). 
Where the accounting fair value calculated under IFRS is higher than the valuation amount resulting from the 
application of the prudential adjustments, this would result in an additional valuation adjustment or PVA deduction 
from common equity tier 1 capital.  
Following FSA direction, we have included an estimate of the impact of PVA, although there is guidance outstanding 
following a recent consultation on a related EBA draft regulatory technical standard issued on 13 November 2012. 
Further clarity on the requirements following finalisation of the EBA process and discussions with our regulator 
could potentially change this figure. 
Debit valuation adjustment (‘DV A’): the amount of gains and losses on OTC derivative liabilities that results from 
changes to our own credit spread are derecognised from CET1. 
Individually immaterial holdings in CET1 capital of banks, financial institutions and insurance in aggregate 
above 10% of HSBC CET1: under CRD IV, the investments in CET1 instruments of banks, financial institutions 
and insurance entities, where we have a holding of not more than 10% of the CET1 instruments issued by those 
entities, are deducted from CET1, to the extent the aggregate amount of such holdings exceeds 10% of our CET1 
(calculated before any threshold deductions).  
The estimated deduction follows the draft July 2011 CRD IV rules and guidance provided by the FSA, which impose 
a restriction on the netting of long and short positions held in the trading book, whereby the maturity of the short 
positions has to match the maturity of the long position, or have a residual maturity of no less than a year. 
While rules are in draft and this aspect is still being debated, we have disclosed the impact of the rules as written. 
However, a range of management actions from adjustment to the hedging strategy, curtailment or closure of the 
business could be applied to mitigate the capital deduction.
Deductions under threshold approach: under CRD IV, where we have a holding of more than 10% of the CET1 
instruments issued by banks, financial institutions and insurance entities which is not part of our regulatory 
consolidation, that holding is subject to a threshold deduction approach. Under current rules, these exposures are 
deducted 50% from tier 1 capital and 50% from total capital, except for certain insurance holdings that met the 
requirements under the transitional provision of the current rules and until 31 December 2012 were allowed to be 
deducted 100% from total capital. 
Deferred tax assets that rely on the future profitability of the bank to be realised and which arise from temporary 
differences are also subject to this threshold deduction approach. Under current rules, these assets would be subject to 
100% risk weighting.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review (continued) 
Capital > Appendix to Capital > CRD IV end point // Corporate Governance > Report / Letter from Group Chairman 
300
Under CRD IV, the amount of such deferred tax assets and significant investments which individually and in 
aggregate exceed 10% and 15%, respectively, of our CET1 are fully deducted from CET1 capital. Amounts falling 
below the 10% and 15% thresholds are risk weighted at 250%. 
Changes to capital requirements introduced by CRD IV 
Credit valuation adjustment: introduced as a new requirement under CRD IV rules, this is a capital charge to cover 
the risk of mark-to-market losses on expected counterparty risk and referred to as a regulatory CVA risk capital 
charge.
We have estimated our regulatory CVA risk capital charge based on the draft July 2011 CRD IV text, calculated on a 
full range of OTC derivative counterparties without exemptions that may be available under the final CRD IV text. 
Where we have both specific risk VAR approval and internal model method approval for a product, the CVA VAR 
approach has been used to calculate the CVA capital charge. Where we do not hold both approvals, the standardised 
approach has been applied.  
Counterparty credit risk (other than credit valuation adjustment): the additional requirements introduced by 
CRD IV and included in the CCR charge include: the increase in the asset value correlation multiplier for financial 
counterparties, additional requirements for collateralised counterparties, margin period of risk and new requirements 
for exposures to central clearing counterparties (‘CCPs’). 
In estimating the amount included for CCPs, we have assumed that all our CCPs are ‘qualifying’ under the 
requirements of CRD IV, although this will ultimately depend on confirmation from the competent regulatory 
authority of the CCP in question that the CCP complies with all the recommendations for CCPs published by the 
Committee on payment and settlement systems and by the technical committee of the International Organisation of 
Securities Commissions. Where we do not have full data disclosed for a given CCP, we have assumed full deduction 
of default fund exposures. 
Amounts in aggregate below 15% threshold and therefore subject to 250% risk weight: as explained above, 
items that fall under the threshold approach treatment under CRD IV, and which are below the 10% and 15% 
thresholds, are risk-weighted at 250%.  
Securitisation positions and free deliveries risk-weighted under CRD IV: securitisation positions which were 
deducted 50% from core tier 1 and 50% from total capital, and free deliveries that were deducted from total capital 
under current rules, are now included in RWAs at 1,250%.
Investment in commercial entities now risk-weighted: under CRDIV investments in commercial entities that are 
not qualifying holdings are risk weighted. These were deducted under the current rules.  
Deferred tax assets moved to threshold approach or deduction under CRD IV: deferred tax assets, which were 
risk-weighted at 100% under the standardised approach under current rules, are treated as a capital deduction from 
CET1 to the extent they rely on the future profitability of the bank to be realised. Those that do not rely on future 
profitability shall continue to be risk weighted.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance
Corporate Governance Report / Letter from the Group Chairman  
301
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Corporate Governance 
 Page  App
1
Corporate Governance Report .................. 301
Letter from the Group Chairman ............. 301
Directors ....................................................... 302
Secretary ...................................................... 307
Adviser to the Board ................................... 307
Group Managing Directors ........................ 308
Board of Directors ....................................... 309
Directors ........................................................ 309
Corporate governance codes ......................... 316
Board committees ........................................ 318
Group Management Board ............................ 318
Group Audit Committee ................................ 319
Group Risk Committee ................................. 323
Financial System Vulnerabilities  
Committee ..................................................... 328
Group Remuneration Committee .................. 329
Nomination Committee ................................. 329
Corporate Sustainability Committee ............. 330
Internal control ............................................ 332
Going Concern Basis ................................... 334
Employees .................................................... 335
Global People Survey .................................... 335
Reward .......................................................... 335
Employee relations ........................................ 335
Diversity and inclusion ................................. 335
Staff development ......................................... 335
Employment of disabled persons .................. 336
Health and safety ........................................... 336
Remuneration policy ..................................... 336
Employee share plans .................................... 336
Other required disclosures ......................... 339
Share capital .................................................. 340
Directors’ interests ........................................ 343
Supplier payment policy ............................... 344
Dividends and shareholders .......................... 344
2013 Annual General Meeting ................... 339
1 Appendix to Report of the Directors.
Corporate Governance Report 
The statement of corporate governance practices 
set out on pages 301 to 370 and information 
incorporated by reference constitutes the Corporate 
Governance Report of HSBC Holdings. The reports 
of Board Committees are contained within the 
Corporate Governance Report. 
Letter from the Group Chairman 
Dear Shareholder 
At HSBC, we are committed to the highest standards 
of corporate governance. This is more important than 
ever in light of developments and changes in 
regulatory policy for financial services, society’s 
view of the role of banks and the need to maintain 
investor confidence. We believe that a strong and 
transparent corporate governance framework is 
directly linked to the long-term success of the 
Group.
A values-led culture, high behavioural standards 
and robust procedures are fundamental to a strong 
corporate governance framework. As we reported 
to you last year, a renewed emphasis has been placed 
on values at HSBC, ensuring our employees are 
empowered to do the right thing and act with 
courageous integrity. The role played by HSBC 
Values in daily operating practice is fundamental 
to our culture and HSBC Values continue to be 
embedded in how we conduct our business.  
In my statement to shareholders on pages 1 to 4 
of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012, I outline 
the significant challenges faced by the Company, 
both during the year and in the future, and the way 
we endeavour to address these challenges. We now 
have the structure to help us reduce complexity and 
to run the Group more effectively on a global basis. 
We are formulating and implementing global 
standards to ensure that our conduct matches our 
values.
In this Corporate Governance Report, we outline 
the way in which the Group’s corporate governance 
framework operates, including the role and 
responsibilities of the Board and each of its 
Committees. We continue to review and develop this 
framework in light of changes in the Group’s 
businesses and the external environment, taking 
into account the views of external parties where 
appropriate. As in previous years, we have benefited 
from input from a third-party facilitator whose report 
was used by the Board in its annual review of its own 
effectiveness.  
Ensuring there is an appropriate balance 
of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is 
an important aspect of corporate governance. The 
expertise and experience of our Board was 
augmented in 2012 with the appointments of 
Joachim Faber, former Chief Executive Officer of 
Allianz Global Investors AG, and John Lipsky, 
former First Deputy Managing Director of the 
International Monetary Fund. It was augmented 
further in 2013 with the appointments of Renato  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Letter from the Group Chairman / Directors  
302
Fassbind, former Chief Financial Officer of Credit 
Suisse Group SA, and Jim Comey, former United 
States Deputy Attorney General. 
We have also taken steps to strengthen non-
executive oversight of matters relating to anti-money 
laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing and 
proliferations financing. A new Board committee, the 
Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 
(‘FSVC’), will provide governance, oversight and 
policy guidance over the framework of controls and 
procedures designed to identify areas where HSBC 
may become exposed, and through that exposure, 
expose the financial system more broadly to 
financial crime or system abuse. The FSVC will use 
the knowledge and experience of its members to 
place the Group in a position of leadership in this 
area and will provide the Board with a forward-
looking perspective on financial crime risk. 
The executive committee structure has been 
enhanced during the year with the establishment 
of a regular separate meeting of the Group 
Management Board to focus on developing and 
implementing global standards reflecting best 
practices which must be adopted and adhered to 
consistently throughout the Group.  
During the year, the Board adopted a Board 
diversity policy, which is consistent with the Group’s 
strategic focus on ethnicity, age and gender diversity 
for the employee base. At the 2011 Annual General 
Meeting, I stated the Board’s intention to exceed the 
aspirational target set by Lord Davies in his report 
Women on Boards of 25% female representation on 
the boards of FTSE 100 companies by 2015. Our 
policy re-states this intention.  
We recognise that our strategy to be the world’s 
leading international bank relies on a foundation of 
good corporate governance and we endeavour to be 
at the forefront of this field in the coming years. 
D J Flint, Group Chairman
4 March 2013
Directors  
D J Flint, CBE, 57 
Group Chairman 
Skills and experience: extensive governance 
experience gained through membership of the 
Boards of HSBC and BP p.l.c.; considerable 
knowledge of finance and risk management in 
banking, multinational financial reporting, treasury 
and securities trading operations; honoured with a 
CBE in recognition of his services to the finance 
industry; member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland and the Association of 
Corporate Treasurers. Fellow of The Chartered 
Institute of Management Accountants. Joined HSBC 
in 1995. 
Appointed to the Board: 1995 
Current appointments include: director of The 
Hong Kong Association; and Chairman of the 
Institute of International Finance since 6 June 2012. 
A member of the Mayor of Beijing’s International 
Business Leaders’ Advisory Council as well as the 
Mayor of Shanghai’s International Business Leaders’ 
Advisory Council; and a member of the International 
Advisory Board of the China Europe International 
Business School, Shanghai. 
Former appointments include: Group Finance 
Director and Chief Financial Officer; and Executive 
Director, Risk and Regulation. Co-Chairman of the 
Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group III; 
Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council’s 
review of the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control; 
member of the Accounting Standards Board and the 
Standards Advisory Council of the International 
Accounting Standards Board; served on the Large 
Business Forum on Tax and Competitiveness and the 
Consultative Committee of the Large Business 
Advisory Board of HM Revenue and Customs; 
partner in KPMG; and non-executive director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee of BP p.l.c. 
S T Gulliver, 53 
Group Chief Executive 
Skills and experience: a career banker with over 
30 years’ international experience with HSBC; has 
held a number of key roles in the Group’s operations 
worldwide, including in London, Hong Kong, 
Tokyo, Kuala Lumpur and the United Arab Emirates; 
played a leading role in developing and expanding 
Global Banking and Markets, the wholesale banking  303
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
division of the Group with operations in over 65 
countries and territories. Joined HSBC in 1980. 
Appointed to the Board: 2008
Current appointments include: Chairman of The 
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited; and Chairman of the Group Management 
Board. A member of the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore International Advisory Panel since 1 June 
2012 and a member of the International Advisory 
Council of the China Banking Regulatory 
Commission since 10 July 2012. 
Former appointments include: Chairman, Europe, 
Middle East and Global Businesses and Chairman of 
HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 
and HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA. 
Head of Global Banking and Markets; Co-Head of 
Global Banking and Markets; Head of Global 
Markets; Head of Treasury and Capital Markets in 
Asia-Pacific; Deputy Chairman of HSBC Trinkaus 
& Burkhardt AG and a member of its Supervisory 
Board. Ceased to be Chairman of HSBC France on 
22 November 2012. 
S A Catz
†
, 51 
Skills and experience: a background in international 
business leadership, having helped transform Oracle 
into the largest producer of business management 
software and the world’s leading supplier of software 
for information management. 
Appointed to the Board: 2008 
Current appointments include: President and 
Chief Financial Officer of Oracle Corporation. 
Joined Oracle in 1999 and appointed to the board 
of directors in 2001. 
Former appointments include: Managing Director 
of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.  
L M L Cha
†
, GBS, 63 
Member of the Corporate Sustainability Committee 
and, since 1 January 2013, Chairman. 
Skills and experience: extensive regulatory and 
policy making experience in the finance and securities 
sector in Hong Kong and mainland China; formerly 
Vice Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory 
Commission, being the first person outside mainland 
China to join the Central Government of the People’s 
Republic of China at vice-ministerial rank; awarded 
Gold and Silver Bauhinia Stars by the Hong Kong 
Government for public service; formerly Deputy 
Chairman of the Securities and Futures Commission 
in Hong Kong; and has worked in the US and Asia. 
Appointed to the Board: 2011 
Current appointments include: non-executive 
Deputy Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation Limited; non-official member 
of the Executive Council of Hong Kong SAR; a 
Hong Kong Deputy to the 12th National People’s 
Congress of China; non-executive director of China 
Telecom Corporation Limited; member of the 
Advisory Board of the Yale School of Management; 
Senior International Advisor for Foundation Asset 
Management Sweden AB; member of the State Bar 
of California; and Chairman of the Financial Services 
Development Council of Hong Kong SAR since 
17 January 2013. Appointed a non-executive director 
of Unilever PLC with effect from 14 May 2013. 
Former appointments include: non-executive 
director of Bank of Communications Co., Ltd., 
Baoshan Iron and Steel Co. Limited; Johnson 
Electric Holdings Limited; and Chairman of the 
University Grants Committee in Hong Kong. 
Ceased to be a director of Hong Kong Exchanges 
and Clearing Limited on 24 April 2012; Tata 
Consultancy Services Limited on 29 June 2012; 
Chairman of the ICAC Advisory Committee on 
Corruption on 31 December 2012; and Chairman 
of the Task Force on the Financial Services 
Development Council of Hong Kong SAR on 
17 January 2013. 
M K T Cheung
†
, GBS, OBE, 65 
Member of the Group Audit Committee. 
Skills and experience: a background in international 
business and financial accounting, particularly in 
Greater China and the wider Asian economy; retired 
from KPMG Hong Kong in 2003 after more than 
30 years; awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star by the 
Hong Kong Government. Fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. 
Appointed to the Board: 2009 
Current appointments include: non-executive 
director of Hang Seng Bank Limited and HKR 
International Limited; non-executive Chairman of 
the Airport Authority Hong Kong and the Council 
of the Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology; director of The Association of Former 
Council Members of The Stock Exchange of Hong 
Kong Limited and The Hong Kong International 
Film Festival Society Ltd; and a member of the 
Working Group on Transportation under the HSBC HOLDINGS PLC
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Directors
304
Economic Development Commission of the Hong 
Kong SAR Government since 17 January 2013. 
Former appointments include: non-executive 
director of Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited and 
Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited; 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of KPMG 
Hong Kong; and council member of the Open 
University of Hong Kong. Ceased to be a non-
official member of the Executive Council of the 
Hong Kong SAR on 1 July 2012. 
J B Comey
†
, 52 
Member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities 
Committee on 4 March 2013.
Skills and experience: extensive experience in both
the public and private sectors in the US federal and 
state justice systems and as General Counsel to 
leading international businesses. Former US Deputy 
Attorney General responsible for supervising 
operations of the US Department of Justice. As US 
Attorney for the Southern District of New York, 
oversaw the prosecution of corporate executives on 
fraud and securities-related charges and international 
drug cartels. 
Appointed to the Board: 4 March 2013 
Current appointments include: Columbia 
University Law School, Senior Research Scholar 
and Hertog Fellow on National Security Law. 
Former appointments include: General Counsel 
of Bridgewater Associates, LP; Senior Vice 
President and General Counsel of Lockheed Martin 
Corporation; US Deputy Attorney General; US 
Attorney for the Southern District of New York; 
and Assistant US Attorney for the Eastern District 
of Virginia.
J D Coombe
†
, 67 
Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and 
member of the Group Risk Committee and Group 
Remuneration Committee. 
Skills and experience: a background in 
international business, financial accounting and the 
pharmaceutical industry. Formerly Chief Financial 
Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc with responsibility 
for the group’s financial operations globally. Fellow 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 
and Wales. 
Appointed to the Board: 2005 
Current appointments include: non-executive 
Chairman of Hogg Robinson Group plc and non-
executive Chairman of Home Retail Group plc since 
4 July 2012. 
Former appointments include: executive director 
and Chief Financial Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc; 
non-executive director of GUS plc; member of the 
Supervisory Board of Siemens AG; Chairman of The 
Hundred Group of Finance Directors; and member 
of the Accounting Standards Board. Ceased to be a 
council member of The Royal Academy of Arts on 
18 September 2012. 
J Faber
†
, 62 
Member of the Group Risk Committee since 1 March 
2012.
Skills and experience: a background in banking 
and asset management with significant international 
experience, having worked in Germany, Tokyo, New 
York and London. Former Chief Executive Officer 
of Allianz Global Investors AG and member of the 
management board of Allianz SE; 14 years’ 
experience with Citigroup Inc. holding positions in 
Trading and Project Finance and as Head of Capital 
Markets for Europe, North America and Japan. Has a 
doctorate from the University of Administrative 
Sciences in Speyer. 
Appointed to the Board: 1 March 2012
Current appointments include: Chairman of the 
supervisory board of Deutsche Börse AG; Chairman 
of the Shareholder Committee of  Joh A. Benckiser 
SARL from 1 January 2012; independent director of 
Coty Inc.; director of Allianz France S.A., Allianz 
Investment Management GmbH and Allianz Climate 
Solutions GmbH; and member of the advisory 
boards of the Siemens Group Pension Board, the 
European School for Management and Technology 
and the German Council for Sustainable 
Development.
Former appointments include: Chairman of 
Allianz Global Investors Kapitalanlagegesellschaft 
and Allianz Global Investors Deutschland GmbH; 
Chairman of the board of Allianz Global Investors 
SGR; and member of the board of Allianz SpA and 
of the supervisory board of Bayerische Boerse AG. 
R A Fairhead
†
, CBE, 51 
Chairman of the Group Risk Committee and the 
Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, and 
member of the Group Audit Committee and 
Nomination Committee.  305
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Skills and experience: a background in international 
industry, publishing, finance and general 
management. Formerly Finance Director of Pearson 
plc with responsibility for overseeing the day-to-day 
running of the finance function and directly 
responsible for global financial reporting and 
control, tax and treasury. Has a Master’s in Business 
Administration from the Harvard Business School. 
Appointed to the Board: 2004 
Current appointments include: Chairman and 
director of Financial Times Group Limited; director 
of Pearson plc and non-executive director of The 
Economist Newspaper Limited. Will retire from 
these appointments on 27 April 2013. Non-executive 
member of the board of the UK Government’s 
Cabinet Office. 
Former appointments include: Executive Vice 
President, Strategy and Group Control of Imperial 
Chemical Industries plc; Finance Director of Pearson 
plc; and Chairman and director of Interactive Data 
Corporation.
R Fassbind
†
, 57 
Member of the Group Audit Committee and the 
Group Remuneration Committee since 1 March 
2013.
Skills and experience: a background in financial
accounting and international business. Formerly 
Chief Financial Officer of Credit Suisse Group SA 
and ABB Group. Has a Master’s in Business 
Administration and a PhD in Economics from the 
University of Zurich. 
Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2013 
Current appointments include: Vice Chairman of 
the Supervisory Board and member of the audit and 
compensation committees of Swiss Reinsurance 
Company; member of the supervisory board and 
audit committee of Kühne + Nagel International 
AG; independent director of Oanda Corporation; 
and member of the supervisory board of the Swiss 
Federal Audit Oversight Authority. 
Former appointments include: Chief Financial 
Officer of Credit Suisse Group AG; Senior Advisor 
to the Chief Executive, Credit Suisse Group AG; 
Chief Executive Officer of Diethelm Keller Group; 
Chief Financial Officer of ABB Group; Chairman 
of ABB (Switzerland) AG and DKSH AG; and a 
member of the supervisory board of Winterthur 
Insurance Company. 
J W J Hughes-Hallett
†
, CMG, SBS, 63 
Member of the Nomination Committee and until 
31 July 2012, the Group Risk Committee. Member 
of the Corporate Sustainability Committee since 
1 January 2013. 
Skills and experience: a background in financial 
accounting and experience of management of 
a broad range of international businesses, 
including aviation, insurance, property, shipping, 
manufacturing and trading in the Far East, UK, US 
and Australia. Awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by 
the Hong Kong Government. Fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. 
Appointed to the Board: 2005 
Current appointments include: Chairman of 
John Swire & Sons Limited; non-executive director 
of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited and Swire 
Pacific Limited; a trustee of the Esmée Fairbairn 
Foundation; member of The Hong Kong 
Association; and Chairman of the Governing 
Board of the Courtauld Institute of Art. 
Former appointments include: non-executive 
director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited and a trustee of the Dulwich 
Picture Gallery until 31 December 2012. 
W S H Laidlaw
†
, 57 
Member of the Group Remuneration Committee. 
Skills and experience: significant international 
experience, particularly in the energy sector, having 
had responsibility for businesses in four continents. 
Qualified Solicitor and Master’s in Business 
Administration from INSEAD. 
Appointed to the Board: 2008 
Current appointments include: Chief Executive 
Officer of Centrica plc; and Lead Non-executive 
Board Member of the UK Department for Transport.  
Former appointments include: Executive Vice 
President of Chevron Corporation; non-executive 
director of Hanson PLC; Chief Executive Officer 
of Enterprise Oil plc; and President and Chief 
Operating Officer of Amerada Hess Corporation. 
Ceased to be a member of the UK Prime Minister’s 
Business Advisory Group on 31 December 2012.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Directors / Secretary / Adviser to the Board  
306
J P Lipsky
†
, 66 
Member of the Group Risk Committee since 1 March 
2012 and Nomination Committee since 24 May 
2012.
Skills and experience: international experience 
having worked in Chile, New York, Washington and 
London and interacted with financial institutions, 
central banks and governments in many countries. 
Served at the International Monetary Fund as First 
Deputy Managing Director, Acting Managing 
Director and as Special Advisor. Has a PhD from 
Stanford University. 
Appointed to the Board: 1 March 2012
Current appointments include: Distinguished 
Visiting Scholar, International Economics 
Program at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced 
International Studies, Johns Hopkins University. 
Co-chairman of the Aspen Institute Program on the 
World Economy; director of the National Bureau of 
Economic Research; and member of the advisory 
board of the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy 
Research and the Council on Foreign Relations. 
A director of the Center for Global Development 
since 1 May 2012; and Global Policy Advisor for 
Anderson Global Macro, LLC since 4 February 
2013.
Former appointments include: Vice Chairman 
J P Morgan Investment Bank; director of the 
American Council on Germany and the Japan 
Society; and a trustee of the Economic Club of 
New York. 
J R Lomax
†
, 67 
Member of the Group Audit Committee and Group 
Risk Committee. 
Skills and experience: experience in both the public 
and private sectors and a deep knowledge of the 
operation of the UK government and financial system. 
Appointed to the Board: 2008 
Current appointments include: Chairman of the 
International Regulatory Strategy Group and a 
director of TheCityUK since 1 January 2013; 
non-executive director of The Scottish American 
Investment Company PLC, Reinsurance Group of 
America Inc., Arcus European Infrastructure Fund 
GP LLP and Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited 
(formerly BAA Limited); member of the Council 
of Imperial College, London; and President of the 
Institute of Fiscal Studies. 
Former appointments include: Deputy Governor, 
Monetary Stability, at the Bank of England and 
member of the Monetary Policy Committee; 
Permanent Secretary at the UK Government 
Departments for Transport and Work and Pensions 
and the Welsh Office; and Vice President and Chief 
of Staff to the President of the World Bank. 
I J Mackay, 51 
Group Finance Director 
Skills and experience: extensive financial and 
international experience, having worked in London, 
Paris, US and Asia. Member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Scotland. Joined HSBC 
in 2007. 
Appointed to the Board: 2010 
Current appointments include: member of the 
Group Management Board. 
Former appointments include: director of Hang 
Seng Bank Limited; Chief Financial Officer, Asia-
Pacific; and Chief Financial Officer, HSBC North 
America Holdings Inc; Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer of GE Consumer Finance and 
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of 
GE Healthcare – Global Diagnostic Imaging. 
Sir Simon Robertson
†
, 72 
Deputy Chairman and senior independent  
non-executive Director 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee and member 
of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee. 
Skills and experience: a background in international 
corporate advisory with a wealth of experience in 
mergers and acquisitions, merchant banking, 
investment banking and financial markets; honoured 
with a knighthood in recognition of his services to 
business; extensive international experience having 
worked in France, Germany, the UK and the US. 
Appointed to the Board: 2006  
Current appointments include: non-executive 
Chairman of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc until 2 May 
2013. The founding member of Robertson Robey 
Associates LLP, formerly Simon Robertson 
Associates LLP; non-executive director of Berry 
Bros. & Rudd Limited, The Economist Newspaper 
Limited; and, since 8 May 2012, Troy Asset 
Management; partner of NewShore Partners LLP; 
and trustee of the Eden Project Trust and the Royal 
Opera House Endowment Fund.  307
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Former appointments include: Managing Director 
of Goldman Sachs International and Chairman of 
Dresdner Kleinwort Benson. Ceased to be a non-
executive director of Royal Opera House, Covent 
Garden Limited on 31 July 2012. 
J L Thornton
†
, 59 
Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee. 
Skills and experience: experience that bridges 
developed and developing economies and the public 
and private sectors. A deep knowledge of financial 
services and education systems, particularly in Asia. 
During his 23-year career with Goldman Sachs, he 
played a key role in the firm’s global development 
and was Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia. 
Appointed to the Board: 2008 
Current appointments include: non-executive 
Chairman and director of HSBC North America 
Holdings Inc.; Director and Co-Chairman of Barrick 
Gold Corporation since 15 February 2012 and 5 June 
2012 respectively; professor and director of the 
Global Leadership Program at the Tsinghua 
University School of Economics and Management; 
Chairman of the Brookings Institution Board of 
Trustees; non-executive director of Ford Motor 
Company and China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited; 
director of National Committee on United States-
China Relations; trustee of China Institute and the 
China Foreign Affairs University; and member of 
the Council on Foreign Relations and the China 
Securities Regulatory Commission International 
Advisory Committee. 
Former appointments include: non-executive 
director of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China 
Limited and Intel Corporation, Inc.; trustee of Asia 
Society; and President of the Goldman Sachs Group, 
Inc. Ceased to be a non-executive director of News 
Corporation, Inc. on 30 November 2012. 
† Independent non-executive Director. 
Secretary
R G Barber, 62 
Group Company Secretary and Head of Corporate 
Governance 
Joined HSBC in 1980. Group Company Secretary 
since 1986 and Company Secretary of HSBC 
Holdings plc since 1990. Appointed a Group General 
Manager in 2006. Chairman of the Disclosure 
Committee. A member of the Listing Authority 
Advisory Committee of the Financial Services 
Authority and of the Primary Markets Group of 
the London Stock Exchange. Fellow of the Institute 
of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. Former 
HSBC appointments include: Corporation Secretary 
of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited and Company Secretary 
of HSBC Bank plc. 
Adviser to the Board 
D J Shaw, 66 
Adviser to the Board since 1998. Director of HSBC 
Bank Bermuda Limited. Ceased to be a director of 
HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA and 
HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA on 19 September 
2012. An independent non-executive director 
of Kowloon Development Company Limited and 
Shui On Land Limited. A solicitor and formerly a 
partner in Norton Rose. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Group Managing Directors / Board of Directors > Directors 
308
Group Managing Directors 
A Almeida, 56 
Group Head of Human Resources and Corporate 
Sustainability 
Joined HSBC in 1992. A Group Managing Director 
since 2008. Former HSBC appointments include: 
Global Head of Human Resources for Global 
Banking and Markets, Global Private Banking, 
Global Transaction Banking and HSBC Amanah. 
S Assaf, 52 
Chief Executive, Global Banking and Markets 
Joined HSBC in 1994. A Group Managing Director 
since 2011. Chairman of HSBC France since 
22 November 2012. A director of HSBC Trinkaus & 
Burkhardt AG. Former HSBC appointments include: 
director of HSBC Global Asset Management 
Limited; Head of Global Markets; and Head of 
Global Markets for Europe, Middle East and Africa. 
Ceased to be a director of HSBC Bank Egypt S.A.E. 
on 7 November 2012. 
I M Dorner, 58 
President and Chief Executive Officer of HSBC 
North America Holdings Inc. and HSBC USA. 
Joined HSBC in 1986. A Group Managing Director 
since 1 February 2013. Chairman of HSBC Bank 
USA, National Association and HSBC USA Inc.; 
President and Chief Executive Officer of HSBC 
North America Inc. Former HSBC appointments 
include: Chairman of HSBC Amanah Malaysia 
Berhad and HSBC Amanah Takaful (Malaysia) 
Sendirian Berhad; Deputy Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer of HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad; 
Chief Operating Officer, Treasury and Capital 
Markets; General Manager of Marketing, General 
Manager of Human Resources; and General 
Manager of Premier and Wealth Management, 
HSBC Bank plc. 
J M Flint, 44 
Chief Executive, Retail Banking and Wealth 
Management 
Joined HSBC in 1989. A Group Managing Director 
since 1 January 2013. A director of HSBC Bank 
Canada since 15 February 2012. Former HSBC 
appointments include: Chief of Staff to the Group 
Chief Executive and Group Head of Strategy and 
Planning; Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Global 
Asset Management; Group Treasurer; and Deputy 
Head of Global Markets. 
M P Kaur, 49 
Group Head of Internal Audit 
Will join HSBC and become a Group Managing 
Director on 1 April 2013. Former appointments 
include: Global Head of Group Audit for Deutsche 
Bank AG; Chief Financial Officer & Chief 
Operating Officer, Restructuring & Risk Division, 
Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc; Group Head of 
Compliance and Anti-Money Laundering, Lloyds 
TSB; and Global Director of Compliance, Global 
Consumer Group, Citigroup. 
A M Keir, 54 
Global Head of Commercial Banking 
Joined HSBC in 1981. A Group Managing Director 
since 2011. Former HSBC appointments include: 
Group General Manager, Commercial Banking, 
Europe and Global Co-Head, Global Commercial 
Banking. 
S A Levey, 49 
Chief Legal Officer 
Joined HSBC on 13 January 2012. A Group 
Managing Director since 18 January 2012. Former 
appointments include: Under Secretary for Terrorism 
and Financial Intelligence in the US Department of 
Treasury; Senior Fellow for National Security and 
Financial Integrity at the Council on Foreign 
Relations; Principal Associate Deputy Attorney 
General at the US Department of Justice; and Partner 
at Miller, Cassidy, Larroca & Lewin LLP and Baker 
Botts LLP. 
A M Losada, 58 
Chief Executive, Latin America and the Caribbean 
Joined HSBC in 1973. A Group Managing Director 
since 1 December 2012. Chairman of HSBC Bank 
(Panama) S.A. since 6 February 2012. A director of 
HSBC Bank Argentina S.A. since 2 May 2012 and 
a director of HSBC Mexico, S.A., Institucion de 
Banca Multiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC and Grupo 
Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. since 20 February 
2012. Former HSBC appointments include: Chief 
Executive Officer, HSBC Argentina; and Deputy 
Head, Personal Financial Services, Brazil.  309
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
M M Moses, 55 
Group Chief Risk Officer 
Joined HSBC in 2005. A Group Managing Director 
since 2010. Director of HSBC Insurance (Bermuda) 
Limited. A director of HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) 
SA and HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) 
SA since 19 September 2012. Former HSBC 
appointments include Chief Financial and Risk 
Officer, Global Banking and Markets.  
S P O’Sullivan, 57 
Group Chief Operating Officer 
Joined HSBC in 1980. A Group Managing Director 
since 2011. Former HSBC appointments include: 
Group Chief Technology and Services Officer; 
director and Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Bank 
plc; and Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Bank 
Canada. 
B Robertson, 58 
Chief Executive, HSBC Bank plc 
Joined HSBC in 1975. A Group Managing Director 
since 2008. Chairman of HSBC Life (UK) Limited. 
Director of HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited since 
1 January 2012. Former HSBC appointments 
include: Group Chief Risk Officer; Group General 
Manager, Group Credit and Risk; and Head of 
Global Banking and Markets for North America. 
P T S Wong, 61 
Chief Executive, The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation Limited 
Joined HSBC in 2005. A Group Managing Director 
since 2010. Chairman of HSBC Bank (China) 
Company Limited and HSBC Bank Malaysia 
Berhad. Non-executive director of Hang Seng Bank 
Limited and Bank of Communications Co., Ltd. 
Independent non-executive director of Cathay 
Pacific Airways Limited. Former HSBC 
appointments include: director of HSBC Bank 
Australia Limited. Ceased to be Vice Chairman of 
HSBC Bank (Vietnam) Ltd on 16 January 2012 and 
a director of Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of 
China, Ltd on 7 December 2012. 
Board of Directors 
The purpose of HSBC’s management structure, 
headed by the Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings 
(the ‘Board’) and led by the Group Chairman, is to 
promote the long-term success of the Company and 
deliver sustainable value to our shareholders. The 
Board sets the strategy and risk appetite for the 
Group and approves capital and operating plans 
presented by management for the achievement of 
the strategic objectives it has set. Implementation 
of the strategy set by the Board is delegated to the 
Group Management Board (‘GMB’) which is led by 
the Group Chief Executive. 
Directors 
HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board. The authority 
of the Directors is exercised in Board meetings 
where the Board acts collectively. At the time of 
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012
on 4 March 2013, the Board comprised the Group 
Chairman, Group Chief Executive, the Group 
Finance Director and 13 non-executive Directors 
whose names and brief biographical particulars are 
included on pages 302 to 307. The Group Chairman, 
Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance 
Director are HSBC employees. Non-executive 
Directors are not HSBC employees and do not 
participate in the daily business management of 
HSBC; they bring an external perspective, 
constructively challenge and help develop proposals 
on strategy, scrutinise the performance of 
management in meeting agreed goals and objectives 
and monitor the risk profile and the reporting of 
performance. The non-executive Directors bring 
experience from a number of industries and business 
sectors, including the leadership of large complex 
multinational enterprises. 
Terms of appointment 
The Board has determined the time commitment 
expected of non-executive Directors to be 30 to 36 
days per annum. Time devoted to the Company 
could be considerably more, particularly if serving 
on Board committees.  
Letters setting out the terms and conditions of 
appointment of each of the non-executive Directors, 
including the time commitment expected of each 
of them, are available for inspection at 8 Canada 
Square, London E14 5HQ and will be made 
available for 15 minutes before the Annual General 
Meeting and during the Meeting itself.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board of Directors > Directors 
310
Powers of the Board 
The Board is responsible for managing the business 
of HSBC Holdings and, in doing so, may exercise its 
powers, subject to any relevant laws and regulations 
and to the Articles of Association. In particular, the 
Board may exercise all the powers of the Company 
to borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or 
any part of the undertaking, property or assets 
(present or future) of HSBC Holdings and may also 
exercise any of the powers conferred on it by the 
Companies Act 2006 and/or by shareholders. The 
Board is able to delegate and confer on any Director 
holding executive office any of its powers, 
authorities and discretions (including the power to 
sub-delegate) for such time and on such terms as it 
thinks fits. In addition, the Board may establish any 
local or divisional boards or agencies for managing 
the business of HSBC Holdings in any specified 
locality and delegate and confer on any local or 
divisional board, manager or agent so appointed any 
of its powers, authorities and discretions (including 
the power to sub-delegate) for such time and on such 
terms as it thinks fit. The Board may also, by power 
of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person or 
persons to be the agent of HSBC Holdings and may 
delegate to any such person or persons any of its 
powers, authorities and discretions (including the 
power to sub-delegate) for such time and on such 
terms as it thinks fit. 
The Board delegates the management and day-
to-day running of HSBC to the GMB but retains to 
itself approval of certain matters including operating 
plans, risk appetite and performance targets, 
procedures for monitoring and controlling operations, 
the authority or the delegation of authority to 
approve credit, market risk limits, acquisitions, 
disposals, investments, capital expenditure or 
realisation or creation of a new venture, specified 
senior appointments and any substantial change in 
balance sheet management policy. 
During 2012 the Board adopted terms of 
reference which are available at www.hsbc.com/1/2/ 
about/board-of-directors. The Board will review its 
terms of reference annually. 
The Directors who served during the year 
were S A Catz, L M L Cha, M K T Cheung, 
J D Coombe, J Faber (appointed 1 March 2012), 
R A Fairhead, D J Flint, A A Flockhart (retired 
31 July 2012), S T Gulliver, J W J Hughes-Hallett, 
W S H Laidlaw, J P Lipsky (appointed 1 March 
2012), J R Lomax, I J Mackay, G Morgan (retired 
25 May 2012), N R N Murthy (retired 31 December 
2012), Sir Simon Robertson, J L Thornton and 
Sir Brian Williamson (retired 25 May 2012).  
HSBC Holdings was registered in Hong Kong 
under part XI of the Companies Ordinance on 
17 January 1991. 
Board meetings 
Eight Board meetings and a one-day strategy 
meeting were held in 2012. At least one Board 
meeting each year is held in a key strategic location 
outside the UK. During 2012, Board meetings were 
held in Hong Kong and Washington D.C. 
The table below shows each Director’s 
attendance at meetings of the Board held while he or 
she was a Director during 2012. One meeting of the 
Board was held at short notice in 2012.  
Twelve meetings of committees of the Board 
appointed to discharge specific business were held 
during 2012. These meetings are not shown in the 
table below. 
During 2012, the non-executive Directors and 
the Group Chairman met twice without the other 
executive Directors. The non-executive Directors 
also met twice without the Group Chairman, 
including to appraise the Group Chairman’s 
performance. 
Attendance record 
 Meetings 
 attended 
 Meetings
 eligible to
 attend as
 a Director 
S A Catz .................................. 8 8
L M L Cha ............................... 8 8
M K T Cheung ........................ 8 8
J D Coombe ............................ 8 8
J Faber
1,2
 .................................. 6 6
R A Fairhead
3
 .......................... 6 8
D J Flint .................................. 8 8
A A Flockhart
4
 ........................ 4 5
S T Gulliver ............................ 8 8
J W J Hughes-Hallett .............. 7 8
W S H Laidlaw ....................... 8 8
J P Lipsky
1
 .............................. 6 6
J R Lomax ............................... 8 8
I J Mackay ............................... 8 8
G Morgan
5
 ............................... 4 4
N R N Murthy
6
 ........................ 7 8
Sir Simon Robertson ............... 8 8
J L Thornton ........................... 8 8
Sir Brian Williamson
5
 ............. 4 4
Meetings held in 2012 ........... 8
1 Appointed a Director on 1 March 2012. 
2 Also attended one meeting by invitation before becoming a 
Director.
3 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness.
4 Retired as a Director on 31 July 2012. 
5 Retired as a Director on 25 May 2012. 
6 Retired as a Director on 31 December 2012.   311
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive 
The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief 
Executive are separate and held by experienced 
full-time Directors. There is a clear division of 
responsibilities at the head of the Company between 
the running of the Board and the executive 
responsibility for running HSBC’s business. The 
key responsibilities of the Group Chairman and 
the Group Chief Executive are set out below. 
Key responsibilities 
Group Chairman – D J Flint
1
• Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
• Develops relationships with governments, regulators and 
investors.
• Leads the Group’s interactions on matters of public policy and 
regulatory reform with regard to the banking and financial 
services industry.
• Maintains corporate reputation and character.
• Undertakes performance management of the Group Chief 
Executive.
1 Appointed Group Chairman in December 2010. 
Group Chief Executive – S T Gulliver
1
• Develops, and delivers performance against, business plans. 
• Develops Group strategy, in agreement with the Group 
Chairman, for recommendation to the Board. 
• As Chairman of the GMB, drives performance within strategic 
goals and commercial objectives agreed by the Board. 
1 Appointed Group Chief Executive in January 2011. 
The Group Chief Executive has an office in 
London and in Hong Kong. 
Deputy Chairman and senior independent 
non-executive Director 
The key responsibilities of the Deputy Chairman and 
senior independent non-executive Director are set 
out below.  
Key responsibilities 
Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive 
Director – Sir Simon Robertson
1
• Deputises for the Group Chairman at meetings of the Board or 
shareholders. 
• Supports the Group Chairman in his role. 
• Acts as an intermediary for other non-executive Directors  
when necessary. 
• Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the  
Group Chairman. 
• Ensures there is a clear division of responsibility between the 
Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive. 
• Is available to shareholders should they have concerns which 
contact through the normal channels cannot resolve or for 
which such contact would be inappropriate. 
1 Appointed senior independent non-executive Director in 
2007 and Deputy Chairman in December 2010. 
Board balance and independence of 
Directors 
The Board includes a strong presence of both 
executive and non-executive Directors and no 
individual or small group can dominate its decision 
making. The size of the Board is appropriate given 
the complexity and geographical spread of our 
business and the significant time demands placed on 
the non-executive Directors, particularly those who 
serve as members of Board committees. 
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews 
the structure, size and composition of the Board 
(including the skills, knowledge and experience 
required of Directors) necessary to address and 
challenge adequately key risks and issues that 
confront, or may confront, the Board and makes 
recommendations to the Board with regard to any 
changes. 
During 2012, the Board adopted a Board 
diversity policy. Further information on this policy 
can be found on page 329. 
The Board considers all of the non-executive 
Directors to be independent in character and 
judgement. The Board has determined S A Catz, 
L M L Cha, M K T Cheung, J B Comey, 
J D Coombe, J Faber, R A Fairhead, R Fassbind, 
J W J Hughes-Hallett, W S H Laidlaw, J P Lipsky, 
J R Lomax, Sir Simon Robertson and J L Thornton 
to be independent. When determining independence 
the Board considers that calculation of the length of 
service of a non-executive Director begins on the 
date of his or her first election by shareholders as a 
Director of HSBC Holdings. Given the complexity 
and geographical spread of our business, the 
experience of previous service on a HSBC 
subsidiary company board can be a considerable 
benefit and does not detract from a Director’s 
independence. In reaching its determination of each 
non-executive Director’s independence, the Board 
has concluded that there are no relationships or 
circumstances which are likely to affect a Director’s 
judgement and any relationships or circumstances 
which could appear to do so were considered not to 
be material. From the conclusion of the Annual 
General Meeting in 2013, R A Fairhead will have 
served on the Board for more than nine years and, in 
that respect only, will not meet the usual criteria for 
independence set out in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. 
In accordance with the Rules Governing the 
Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board of Directors > Directors / Corporate governance codes 
312
Hong Kong Limited, each non-executive Director 
determined by the Board to be independent has 
provided an annual confirmation of his or her 
independence to HSBC Holdings. 
Information and support  
The Board regularly reviews reports on progress 
against financial objectives, business developments 
and investor and external relations. The chairmen of 
Board committees and the Group Chief Executive 
report to each meeting of the Board on the activities 
of the committees since the previous Board meeting. 
The Board receives regular reports and presentations 
on strategy and developments in the global 
businesses and principal geographical areas. Regular 
reports are also provided to the Board and Board 
committees on the Group’s risk appetite profile, 
top and emerging risks, risk management, credit 
exposures and the Group’s loan portfolio, asset 
and liability management, liquidity, litigation, 
compliance and reputational issues. The agenda and 
supporting papers are distributed in advance of all 
Board and Board committee meetings to allow 
time for appropriate review and to facilitate full 
discussion at the meetings. All Directors have full 
and timely access to all relevant information and 
may take independent professional advice if 
necessary at the Company’s expense. 
The Directors have free and open contact with 
management at all levels. When attending Board 
offsites and when travelling for other reasons, 
non-executive Directors are encouraged to take 
opportunities to see business operations at first hand 
and to meet management. 
Non-executive Directors have an open invitation 
to attend meetings of the GMB to further enhance 
their understanding and awareness of our businesses 
and the senior leadership team.  
Induction
Full, formal and tailored induction programmes, 
with particular emphasis on risk management and 
internal controls systems, are arranged for newly 
appointed Directors. The programmes consist of a 
series of meetings with other Directors and senior 
executives to enable new Directors to familiarise 
themselves with our strategy, risk appetite and risk 
management, operations and internal controls. 
Directors also receive comprehensive guidance on 
directors’ duties and liabilities. As part of the 
induction process the Group Company Secretary will 
coordinate a development programme based on an 
individual Director’s needs. Induction programmes 
are also arranged for newly appointed members of 
committees.  
Training and Development  
Focused in-house training sessions are arranged in 
conjunction with scheduled Board meetings. Unless 
otherwise indicated, all Directors
1
 attended Board 
Meetings in 2012 at which briefings on the following 
topics were given: 
• Capital market perspectives on HSBC
2,3
• CMB strategy
2
 and business update 
• GB&M strategy
2
 and business update 
• RBWM strategy
2
and business update 
• GPB strategy
2
and business update
3
• Macroeconomic outlook
2
• Europe strategy
2
• US strategy
2
• China strategy
2
• Outlook for Greater China
2
• Marks and Spencer Bank 
• Latin America 
• Global geopolitics 
• IT infrastructure 
Except:
1 R Fassbind and J B Comey who were not Directors at the 
time of the briefings. 
2 J Faber and J P Lipsky who were not Directors at the time 
of the briefing. 
3 R A Fairhead who was unable to attend the briefing. 
Executive Directors 
In the performance of their roles as Group Chairman, 
Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, 
respectively, D J Flint, S T Gulliver and I J Mackay 
develop and refresh their skills and knowledge of the 
Group’s businesses and operations through day-to-
day interactions and briefings with senior 
management of the Group’s businesses and 
functions; and presenting on the Group’s businesses 
to investors and analysts.  They remain abreast of 
developments affecting the financial services sector, 
and banking in particular, by representing HSBC’s 
interests at conferences, advisory groups and other 
events and meetings with regulators and other 
authorities. During 2012, this included the activities 
set out below: 
D J Flint
Chairman of the International Institute of Finance, 
including leading member’s meetings and giving 
keynote speeches. Participated in panel discussions 
and gave key note speeches on economic growth and 
financial regulation at a number of leading events 
including the International Monetary Conference, the 
Hong Kong Trade Development Council’s Think 
Asia Event, City Week 2012, a Chatham House  313
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
conference, St. Gallen Symposium and The Salzburg 
Global Seminar. Gave the Aileen Beattie Memorial 
Lecture at the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of Scotland on the opportunities to improve the 
financial services sector following the crisis. 
Presented to the Cambridge Executive Leadership 
Programme on leadership. Attended and participated 
in panel discussions at the World Economic Forum 
in Davos. Attended prudential regulation meetings 
with the FSA. 
S T Gulliver
Gave keynote speeches at the Fung Global Institute 
annual forum and a Conservative Parliamentary 
China Group meeting on UK trade links with China. 
Gave presentations at several Asian-focussed events 
including the China Development Forum in Beijing, 
the China Investment Corporation global investment 
forum, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
Finance Minsters Investors Summit in Hong Kong 
and the International Advisory Council of the China 
Banking Regulatory Commission. Attended the 
World Economic Forum in Davos. Attended 
prudential regulation meetings with the FSA. 
Chaired the Group’s strategy day for investors in 
London. Gave the keynote speech at an HSBC-led 
international corporate and structured banking event 
for UK exporters. 
I J Mackay
Participated in meetings of the European Chief 
Financial Officers Network, the FSA Chief Financial 
Officers Group and the Bank for International 
Settlements. Attended conferences focused on Asian 
investment and European finance. Attended 
prudential regulation meetings with the FSA and the 
Hong Kong Monetary Authority. Presented at the 
Group’s strategy day for investors in London and 
hosted regular meetings with investors in the UK, 
US and Hong Kong. 
Non-executive Directors 
A personalised approach to training and 
development of non-executive Directors is applied. 
Non-executive Directors are given opportunities to 
update and develop their skills and knowledge 
through briefings by senior executives and externally 
run seminars. Non-executive Directors have access 
to internal training and development resources. 
Development plans and records of training and 
development activities are maintained by the 
Group Company Secretary to facilitate the Group 
Chairman’s annual review of each non-executive 
Director.
In addition to the briefings given at Board 
Meetings of HSBC Holdings, the following non-
executive Directors undertook bespoke training 
sessions and other activities, including attending 
Board committee meetings at which briefings were 
given during 2012 to develop and refresh their 
knowledge and skills as set out below: 
S A Catz 
Attended bespoke briefings on managing operational 
and reputational risk and recovery and resolution 
planning.
L M L Cha 
Gave keynote speeches at the Institute of Directors 
in Hong Kong on the need for a financial services 
development council and at the Hong Kong 
Economic Summit. Participated in the Global 
Agenda Council on Global Financial system at the 
World Economic Forum. Attended bespoke briefings 
from HSBC Holdings on: senior management 
succession planning and diversity; extraterritorial 
application of laws and their impact on HSBC’s 
global businesses; HSBC brand management and 
sponsorship portfolio; the Group’s compliance 
assurance model; regulation and its impact on risk; 
and the FSA’s ‘Three lines of defence’ operational 
risk model. As a director and Vice Chairman of 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
attended bespoke briefings or board meetings at 
which briefings were given on: the Group’s business 
in Asia-Pacific; international operations; information 
technology; CMB; financial regulation; GB&M; the 
Hong Kong SAR’s relationships with India and 
China; and RBWM in India. Participated in the 
annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive 
directors.
M K T Cheung 
Attended events for independent non-executive 
directors organised by KPMG and Deloitte and 
a seminar on international financial reporting 
standards organised by the Hong Kong Institute of 
Certified Public Accountants. Attended meetings of 
the Group Audit Committee at which briefings were 
given on developments in regulatory and accounting 
requirements and the regulatory environment. As 
a director of Hang Seng Bank attended bespoke 
briefings or board meetings at which briefings were 
given on: Basel III requirements; RBWM strategy; 
the Hong Kong Competition Ordinance; supervisory 
requirements of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority; 
changes to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Listing  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board of Directors > Directors 
314
Rules; obligations under the Hong Kong Securities 
and Futures Ordinance; and mechanisms for core 
risk appetite measures.  Participated in the annual 
forum for HSBC Group non-executive directors. 
J D Coombe 
Attended events for non-executive directors run by 
Tapestry Networks and Ernst & Young on bank 
governance and by PricewaterhouseCoopers on 
updates in financial accounting. Attended bespoke 
briefings on prudential regulation, reform of the UK 
financial services industry regulatory authorities and 
managing operational risk in the Finance global 
function. Attended meetings of Board committees at 
which briefings were given on the regulatory 
environment and developments in accounting 
requirements, risk and executive remuneration, the 
risk control frameworks for the global businesses, 
Group recovery and resolution planning and legal 
reform. Chaired the annual forum for the chairmen 
of HSBC Group audit and risk committees. 
Participated in the annual forum for HSBC Group 
non-executive directors. 
J Faber 
Undertook a personal induction programme 
comprising bespoke briefings on: CMB and GB&M, 
with particular focus on operations in the UK and 
Europe; the structure and responsibilities of a 
number of the Group’s global functions, including: 
Strategy and Planning; Corporate Sustainability; 
Risk (including Compliance); Finance; and Legal; 
and corporate governance (including Directors’ 
duties and obligations, HSBC’s governance 
structure, Global Standards and Business Principles, 
international corporate governance codes and listing 
obligations). Attended bespoke briefings on 
prudential regulation and HSBC’s business in 
Germany. Attended meetings of the Group Risk 
Committee at which briefings were given on the risk 
control frameworks for the global businesses, Group 
recovery and resolution planning and legal and 
regulatory reform. 
R A Fairhead 
Attended bespoke briefings on prudential regulation. 
Attended meetings of committees of the Board at 
which briefings were given on the regulatory 
environment and developments in accounting 
requirements and risk, the risk control frameworks 
for the global businesses, Group recovery and 
resolution planning and legal and regulatory reform. 
Participated in a risk workshop co-hosted by HSBC 
and Cambridge University Centre for Risk Studies. 
R Fassbind
1
Undertook a personal induction programme 
comprising bespoke briefings on: each of the 
Group’s global businesses; the structure and 
responsibilities of a number of the Group’s global 
functions, including: Strategy and Planning; 
Corporate Sustainability; Risk; Finance; Human 
Resources; and Internal Audit; corporate governance 
(including Directors’ duties and obligations, HSBC’s 
governance structure, Global Standards and Business 
Principles, international corporate governance codes 
and listing obligations); IT and Operations; and the 
Group’s Insurance business. 
J W J Hughes-Hallet 
Attended meetings of the Group Risk Committee at 
which bespoke briefings were given on the risk 
control frameworks for the global businesses, Group 
recovery and resolution planning and legal and 
regulatory reform. 
W S H Laidlaw 
Attended bespoke briefings on individual liquidity 
adequacy assessment in the UK. Attended meetings 
of the Group Remuneration Committee at which 
briefings were given on regulatory developments in 
executive remuneration. 
J P Lipsky 
Undertook a personal induction programme 
comprising bespoke briefings on: GB&M; the 
structure and responsibilities of a number of the 
Group’s global functions, including: Strategy and 
Planning; Risk (including compliance); Finance ; 
Legal ; and governance (including Directors’ duties 
and obligations, HSBC’s governance structure, 
Global Standards and Business Principles, 
international corporate governance codes and 
listing obligations). Attended bespoke briefings on 
prudential regulation. Attended meetings of the 
Group Risk Committee at which briefings were 
given on the risk control frameworks for the global 
businesses, Group recovery and resolution planning 
and legal and regulatory reform. Participated in the 
annual forum for HSBC Group non-executive 
directors.
J R Lomax 
Attended an event for non-executive directors run 
by Tapestry Networks and Ernst & Young on bank 
governance and the Trilateral Commission’s Europe 
conference in Helsinki. Attended meetings of  315
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
committees of the Board at which briefings 
were given on the regulatory environment and 
developments in regulatory and accounting 
requirements and risk, the risk control frameworks 
for the global businesses, Group recovery and 
resolution planning and legal and regulatory reform. 
Participated in a risk workshop co-hosted by HSBC 
and Cambridge University Centre for Risk Studies 
and in the annual forum for HSBC Group non-
executive directors. 
Sir Simon Robertson 
Attended bespoke briefings on prudential regulation, 
GPB, GB&M, Legal (including US regulatory 
matters), and Strategy and Planning. Attended a 
briefing from the external auditor on its role in the 
Group’s financial reporting. Develops and refreshes 
knowledge of the Group’s businesses and operations 
through regular interactions with, and receipt of 
briefings from, the Group Chairman and Group 
Chief Executive. Participated in the annual forum 
for HSBC Group non-executive directors. 
J L Thornton 
Attended bespoke briefings on prudential regulation 
and anti-money laundering and compliance. 
Attended meetings of the Group Remuneration 
Committee at which briefings were given on 
regulatory developments in executive remuneration. 
As chairman of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 
attended board meetings at which briefings were 
given on: the Dodd-Frank Act; key US strategic 
considerations comprising the transformation of the 
US business (including regulatory and remediation 
planning, business disposals and demise, core 
business re-engineering and changing the culture); 
and the Group’s global businesses in the US 
including, in particular, the US consumer and 
mortgage lending business. 
Performance evaluation 
In September 2012, Bvalco Ltd was commissioned 
to facilitate and report on the review of effectiveness 
of the Board, with particular focus on the 
effectiveness of committees and their interaction 
with the Board, the relationship and information 
flows between the subsidiaries and the Board, the 
balance of skills on the Board and the level of time 
commitment required from Directors. A legal firm 
which is engaged from time to time by the Company 
to provide legal services holds a 20% shareholding 
in Bvalco Ltd. Bvalco Ltd has confirmed that it does 
not have any other connection with the Company. 
Bvalco’s report was prepared following interviews 
with Directors and senior members of management 
and a review of relevant documents. Factors assessed 
during Bvalco’s review included the Group’s culture, 
handling of reputational issues, composition of the 
Board, effectiveness of the Group Chairman, 
interaction between Board members and 
management, and Board Committee structure. 
Bvalco’s evaluation of the Board considered 
the balance of skills, experience, independence 
and knowledge of the Company on the Board, its 
diversity, including gender, how the Board works 
together as a unit and other factors relevant to its 
effectiveness.  
The Bvalco report concluded that the Board 
operates effectively with a number of important 
strengths. The report is used by the Board in its 
annual evaluation of its own performance and that 
of its committees and by the Group Chairman in his 
review of the individual performance of Directors. 
The Board will monitor implementation of actions 
arising from its 2012 performance evaluation. All 
actions arising from the Board’s 2011 performance 
evaluation have been implemented. 
It is the intention of the Board to continue to 
undertake an evaluation of its performance and that 
of its committees and individual Directors annually, 
with external input to the process at least every third 
year. 
Formal evaluation of the individual performance 
of each Director is undertaken annually by the Group 
Chairman using the findings of the performance 
evaluation process undertaken by the Board and, as 
appropriate, the records of training and development 
activities undertaken by Directors. During this 
evaluation, the Group Chairman discusses the 
contribution of the Director and the time spent by 
them in performing their responsibilities. The 
Group Chairman has confirmed that all of the non-
executive Directors continue to perform effectively 
and to demonstrate commitment to their roles. 
The non-executive Directors, led by the Deputy 
Chairman and senior independent non-executive 
Director, are responsible for the evaluation of the 
performance of the Group Chairman. 
Appointment, retirement and re-election of 
Directors 
The Board may at any time appoint any person who 
is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy 
or as an addition to the existing Board, but the total 
number of Directors shall not exceed twenty-five. 
Any Director so appointed by the Board shall retire 
at the Annual General Meeting following his or her 
appointment and shall be eligible for re-election but 
would not be taken into account in determining the  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board of Directors > Directors / Corporate governance codes 
316
number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at 
such meeting in accordance with the Articles of 
Association. The Board may appoint any Director 
to hold any employment or executive office and 
may revoke or terminate any such appointment. 
Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, appoint 
a person a Director or remove any Director before 
the expiration of his period of office. On the 
recommendation of the Nomination Committee 
and in compliance with provision B.7.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Board has decided 
that all of the Directors should be subject to annual 
re-election by shareholders. Accordingly, all of the 
Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting and offer themselves for re-
election. Each of the executive Directors is 
employed, on a rolling contract which requires 
12 months’ notice to be given by either party. None 
of the non-executive Directors has a service contract 
with HSBC. 
Relations with shareholders 
All Directors are encouraged to develop an 
understanding of the views of major shareholders. 
Non-executive Directors are invited to attend analyst 
presentations and other meetings with institutional 
investors and their representative bodies. Directors 
also meet representatives of institutional 
shareholders annually to discuss corporate 
governance matters.  
All executive Directors and certain other senior 
executives hold regular meetings with institutional 
investors. The Board receives a regular investor 
relations activity report which provides feedback 
from meetings with institutional shareholders and 
brokers, analysts’ forecasts, information from 
research reports and share price performance data. 
Twice each year the Board also receives a report 
from one of our corporate brokers on market views 
and investor relations.  
On several occasions during 2012, non-
executive Directors, including the senior 
independent non-executive Director, met or 
corresponded with institutional investors and 
their representatives to discuss governance and 
remuneration. 
As senior independent non-executive Director, 
Sir Simon Robertson is available to shareholders 
should they have concerns which contact through 
the normal channels of Group Chairman, Group 
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director or other 
executives cannot resolve or for which such contact 
would be inappropriate. He may be contacted 
through the Group Company Secretary at 8 Canada 
Square, London E14 5HQ. 
During 2012, the Board established a 
shareholder communication policy which is 
available on www.hsbc.com.  
Conflicts of interest, indemnification of 
Directors, relevant audit information and 
contracts of significance 
The Board has authority to approve Directors’ 
conflicts and potential conflicts of interest and 
has adopted a policy and procedures for the 
determination of terms of authorisation for such 
situations. The Board’s powers to authorise conflicts 
are operating effectively and the procedures are 
being followed. A review of situational conflicts 
which have been authorised from time to time and 
the terms of those authorisations is undertaken by 
the Board annually.
Our Articles of Association provide that 
Directors are entitled to be indemnified out of the 
assets of HSBC Holdings against claims from 
third parties in respect of certain liabilities. Such 
indemnity provisions have been in place during 
the financial year but have not been utilised by the 
Directors.
Each person who is a Director at the time of 
approval of this report confirms that so far as he or 
she is aware, there is no relevant audit information 
of which the auditor is unaware and the Director has 
taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken 
as a Director in order to make himself or herself 
aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the auditor is aware of that 
information. This confirmation is given pursuant to 
section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should 
be interpreted in accordance therewith and subject 
to the provisions thereof. 
None of the Directors had, during the year or 
at the end of the year, a material interest, directly 
or indirectly, in any contract of significance with 
any HSBC company. 
Corporate governance codes 
HSBC is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance. HSBC has complied during 2012 
with the applicable code provisions of: (i) The UK 
Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council; (ii) the Code on Corporate 
Governance Practices set out in Appendix 14 to the 
Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The 
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, from 
1 January 2012 until its amendment and replacement  317
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
by the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code on 
1 April 2012; and (iii) the Hong Kong Corporate 
Governance Code from 1 April 2012 to 
31 December 2012, save that the Group Risk 
Committee (all the members of which are 
independent non-executive Directors), which was 
established in accordance with the recommendations 
of the Report on Governance in UK banks and 
other financial industry entities, is responsible 
for the oversight of internal control (other than 
internal control over financial reporting) and 
risk management systems (Hong Kong Corporate 
Governance Code provision C.3.3 paragraphs (f), 
(g) and (h)). If there were no Group Risk Committee, 
these matters would be the responsibility of the 
Group Audit Committee. At its meeting on 24 May 
2012, the Board adopted Terms of Reference and 
approved a shareholder communication policy 
as required under the Hong Kong Corporate 
Governance Code. The UK Corporate Governance 
Code is available at www.frc.org.uk and the Hong 
Kong Corporate Governance Code is available at 
www.hkex.com.hk. 
The Board has adopted a code of conduct for 
transactions in HSBC Group securities by Directors. 
The code of conduct complies with The Model Code 
in the Listing Rules of the FSA and with The Model 
Code for Securities Transactions by Directors of 
Listed Issuers (‘Hong Kong Model Code’) set out in 
the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The 
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, save that 
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited has 
granted certain waivers from strict compliance with 
the Hong Kong Model Code. The waivers granted 
by The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited 
primarily take into account accepted practices in the 
UK, particularly in respect of employee share plans. 
Following specific enquiry, each Director has 
confirmed that he or she has complied with the 
code of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group 
securities throughout the year, save that, on 15 June 
2012, an independent non-executive Director 
acquired an interest as beneficial owner in 3,950 
retail bonds and as non-beneficial owner in 1,170 
retail bonds of RMB10,000 each issued by HSBC 
Bank plc before giving notification and receiving 
written clearance to deal. On 10 January 2013, an 
independent non-executive Director disposed of 
an interest as beneficial owner in 500 units of euro-
denominated preferred securities of EUR1,000 each 
issued by HSBC Capital Funding (Euro 2) L.P. 
before giving notification. All Directors have since 
been reminded of their obligations under the code of 
conduct for transactions in HSBC Group Securities.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees > Group Management Board / Group Audit Committee 
318
Board committees 
Group Audit 
Committee
Group Risk 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Corporate 
Sustainability 
Committee
Board
Group
Remuneration 
Committee
Non-executive 
responsibility 
for oversight 
of, and advice 
to the Board 
on, high level 
risk-related 
matters 
and risk 
governance.
Non-executive 
responsibility 
for setting the 
overarching 
principles, 
parameters 
and gover-
nance frame-
work of the 
Group’s 
remuneration 
policy and the 
remuneration 
of senior 
executives.
Non-executive 
responsibility 
for leading 
the process 
for Board 
appointments 
and for 
identifying and 
nominating, 
for approval 
by the Board, 
candidates 
for appoint-
ment to 
the Board.
Non-executive 
responsibility 
for advising 
the Board, 
committees 
of the Board 
and executive 
management
on corporate 
sustainability 
policies, 
including 
environmental, 
social and 
ethical issues.
Group
Management
Board
Executive 
management 
committee 
which is 
responsible for 
management 
and day-to-day 
running of 
HSBC under 
the direct 
authority of 
the Board.
KEY  ROLE
Financial 
System 
Vulnerabilities 
Committee
Non-executive 
responsibility 
for oversight of 
(i) controls and 
procedures to 
identify areas 
where HSBC 
and the 
financial 
system may 
become 
exposed to 
financial crime 
or system 
abuse, and (ii) 
HSBC policies 
and procedures 
sufficient to 
ensure the 
continuing 
obligations to 
regulatory and 
law enforce-
ment agencies 
are met.
Non-executive 
responsibility 
for oversight 
of, and advice 
to the 
Board on, 
matters 
relating to 
financial 
reporting.
The Board has established a number of committees 
consisting of Directors, Group Managing Directors 
and, in the case of the Financial System 
Vulnerabilities Committee and Corporate 
Sustainability Committee, co-opted non-director 
members. The key roles of the principal committees 
are described above. The Chairman of each non-
executive Board committee reports to each meeting 
of the Board on the activities of the committee since 
the previous Board meeting.
The terms of reference of the non-executive 
Board committees are available at 
www.hsbc.com/boardcommittees. Each non-
executive Board committee reviews its terms of 
reference annually. 
Appointments of Directors to each non-
executive Board committee are made for periods 
of up to three years, extendable by no more than 
two additional three-year periods. 
Group Management Board 
Members
1,2
S T Gulliver (Chairman) and I J Mackay, 
who are executive Directors, and A Almeida, 
S Assaf, I M Dorner, J M Flint, A M Keir, 
S A Levey, A M Losada, M M Moses, 
S P O’Sullivan, B Robertson and P T S Wong, 
all of whom are Group Managing Directors. 
1 As at 4 March 2013. 
2 M P Kaur has been appointed a member with effect from 1 
April 2013. 
The head of each global business and global function 
and the chief executive of each region attend GMB 
meetings, either as members or by invitation. 
The GMB meets frequently and exercises the 
powers, authorities and discretions of the Board in so 
far as they concern the management and day-to-day 
running of HSBC Holdings. Matters reserved for 
approval by the Board are described on page 310.  319
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
The GMB is a key element of our management 
reporting and control structure such that all of our 
line operations are accountable either to a member of 
the GMB or directly to the Group Chief Executive, 
who in turn reports to the Group Chairman. The 
Board has set objectives and measures for the GMB. 
These align senior executives’ objectives and 
measures with the strategy and operating plans 
throughout HSBC. 
The Group Chief Executive (who is Chairman 
of the GMB) reports to each meeting of the Board 
on the activities of the GMB. 
Regular Risk Management Meetings of GMB, 
chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, are held 
to establish, maintain and periodically review the 
policy and guidelines for the management of risk 
within the Group. 
Regular Global Standards Steering Meetings of 
the GMB, co-chaired by the Group Chief Risk 
Officer and Group Chief Legal Officer, are held to 
develop and implement global standards reflecting 
best practices which must be adopted and adhered to 
consistently throughout the Group. 
Group Audit Committee 
The Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’) has non-
executive responsibility for oversight of, and advice 
to, the Board on matters relating to financial 
reporting and for non-executive oversight of internal 
controls over financial reporting. 
 Meetings 
 attended 
 Meetings
 eligible
 to attend 
Members
1
J D Coombe (Chairman) ......... 5 5
M K T Cheung ........................ 5 5
R A Fairhead ........................... 5 5
J R Lomax ............................... 5 5
Meetings held in 2012 ........... 5
1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.
R Fassbind was appointed a member of the 
GAC on 1 March 2013. 
The Board has determined that M K T Cheung, 
J D Coombe, R A Fairhead, R Fassbind and 
J R Lomax are independent according to SEC 
criteria and may be regarded as audit committee 
financial experts for the purposes of section 407 of 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and have recent and relevant 
financial experience for the purposes of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. 
The governance structure for the oversight of 
financial reporting is set out below. Each major 
operating subsidiary has established a board 
committee with non-executive responsibility for 
oversight of matters relating to financial reporting. 
Governance 
Authority Membership Responsibilities include: 
Board Executive and non-
executive Directors  
• Financial reporting 
• Appoints senior financial officers 
• Delegates authorities in relation to financial matters 
GAC Independent non-executive 
Directors 
• Monitors the integrity of financial statements 
• Oversees the internal control systems over financial reporting, including reviewing their 
effectiveness  
• Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function 
• Reviews the Company’s financial and accounting policies and practices 
• Advises the Board on appointment of the external auditor and is responsible for oversight and 
remuneration of the external auditor  
Disclosure 
Committee 
Representatives from 
global businesses, 
functions and certain 
Group companies 
• Reviews the Group’s material communications with investors 
• Assists the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to discharge their
obligations relating to financial reporting under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
• Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of controls and procedures established to ensure 
that information is disclosed appropriately and on a timely basis 
• Reports findings and makes recommendations to the Group Chief Executive, Group 
Finance Director and the GAC 
Subsidiary board 
committees 
responsible for 
oversight of 
financial
reporting and 
global business 
audit committees  
Independent non-executive 
directors and/or 
independent members, as 
appropriate 
• Provide certification to the GAC or intermediate audit committee on financial statements and 
internal controls over financial reporting of relevant subsidiaries or businesses, as appropriate HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees > Group Audit Committee 
320
Committee activities 
The GAC undertook the following activities in the 
discharge of its responsibilities:  
• Financial reporting. The Committee advised 
the Board on meeting its external financial 
reporting obligations through its reviews of 
financial statements, interim reports and interim 
management statements prior to approval by the 
Board. The Committee also undertook the 
following:
 endorsed the going concern statement and 
the statement of compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code and Hong 
Kong Corporate Governance Code 
(formerly the Code on Corporate 
Governance Practices in Appendix 14 to the 
Rules Governing the Listing of Securities 
on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong 
Limited) for inclusion in the financial 
statements; 
 advised the Board that the annual report and 
accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable;  
 received reports on proposed changes to the 
Group’s disclosures in the financial 
statements and the adequacy of procedures 
to identify transactions and matters 
requiring disclosure under certain 
accounting standards;  
 reviewed accounting policies and practices, 
including approval of the critical accounting 
policies;
 considered provisioning for, and disclosure 
of, certain litigation and regulatory matters 
with external legal counsel providing a 
status update on these matters;  
 received a presentation from the Global 
Head of Tax on current tax issues; 
 received a report on the European Banking 
Authority Capital Exercise 2012 to monitor 
adherence to recommended core tier 1 
ratios; and
 reviewed the procedures for the submission 
by employees of concerns regarding 
accounting and/or auditing matters.
During 2012, the GAC considered the 
significant accounting issues described below. 
In addressing these issues the Committee 
considered the appropriateness of management’s 
judgements and estimates and, where 
appropriate, discussed these judgements and 
estimates with the external auditor.  The 
Committee considered: 
 the circumstances leading to the recognition 
of a provision at 30 June 2012 relating to 
US regulatory and law enforcement 
investigations into inadequate compliance 
with anti-money laundering, US Bank 
Secrecy and sanctions laws. The Committee 
noted that management had considered the 
available information, recent developments, 
the opinions of external legal counsel and 
the outcome of past cases on similar 
matters. The Committee discussed the 
judgements exercised by management in 
forming a best estimate of the amount that 
might have been required to settle the 
matter, and agreed that a provision of 
US$700m should be made, while noting 
that this estimate was highly uncertain, and 
that the amount, when determined, could be 
higher, possibly significantly so. In the third 
quarter, the Committee considered the latest 
developments in this matter and discussed 
the possibility of a criminal prosecution 
being brought against one or more Group 
companies and the possible implications. 
The Committee agreed with management’s 
judgement that the provision should be 
increased to US$1.5bn, while continuing to 
note that the final amount could be 
significantly higher. Subsequently, the 
Committee noted the payments made in 
December 2012 under the agreements to 
achieve resolution with US and UK 
government agencies, and the terms of the 
Deferred Prosecution Agreement;  
 the developments in the industry 
investigations and reviews into the setting 
of Libor, Euribor and other benchmark 
interest and foreign exchange rates by 
various regulators and competition and 
enforcement authorities around the world. 
The Committee discussed the high degree 
of uncertainty as to the resolution of these 
regulatory investigations and reviews, 
including the timing and potential impact;  
 HSBC’s exposure to the payment of redress 
in respect of the possible mis-selling of 
payment protection insurance policies in the 
UK and the related provisions. The 
Committee considered the key assumptions 
which determine the provisions and the 
factors driving the increase during the year. 
Management’s assessment was that the 
amount of provision at 31 December 2012  321
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
of US$1.3bn is based on appropriate 
assumptions about future expected redress 
payments, while noting the sensitivity of the 
provision to different outcomes from those 
assumed; 
 HSBC’s involvement in the sale of interest 
rate swaps to small and medium sized 
businesses in the UK and the potential costs 
of remediation. The Committee noted that 
the provision of US$598m at 31 December 
2012 reflected the outcome of the FSA’s 
findings from the pilot reviews completed 
by banks on the selling of these products to 
customers;  
 the level of loan impairment allowances and 
charges throughout the year, discussing 
with management the reasons for significant 
increases, notably in Brazil as a result of 
economic conditions and strong growth in 
lending in recent periods. The Committee 
considered the judgements and estimates 
involved in applying roll rate 
methodologies and noted the recognition of 
an additional impairment allowance of 
US$225m in respect of the US mortgage 
lending portfolios to reflect a longer 
estimated average period of time from 
current status to write-off. In response to an 
industry letter from the FSA concerning the 
application of loan impairment 
methodologies to loan portfolios vulnerable 
to credit stresses, the Committee considered 
reports on the application of HSBC’s 
accounting policies and loan impairment 
methodologies. The Committee also 
considered a report on credit exposures and 
the extent of refinancing risk in HSBC’s 
UK corporate real estate lending portfolio, 
and how this is reflected in loan impairment 
allowances; 
 the recoverability of major deferred tax 
assets balances recognised, including the 
deferred tax asset balances recognised in 
the US, Mexico and Brazil; 
 management’s judgements involved in the 
change in estimation methodology for credit 
valuation adjustments and debit valuation 
adjustments on derivative financial 
instruments as at 31 December 2012 as a 
result of changing market practices;  
 the impairment test performed on HSBC’s 
investment in Bank of Communications 
Co., Limited as at 31 December 2012. 
During the year, the market value of the 
investment was below the carrying amount 
for a period of approximately ten months, 
which gave rise to an indicator of 
impairment. The impairment test identified 
that, based on an assessment of the value in 
use of the investment, the investment is not 
impaired; and  
 management’s conclusion that goodwill 
relating to GB&M Europe is not impaired 
following reduced profitability in the
second half of 2012 which triggered the re-
testing of the related goodwill as at 
31 December 2012. The Committee noted 
that disclosure has been made with regards 
to the extent to which a change in key 
assumptions would result in the recoverable 
amount to be equal to its carrying amount 
(see note 23 on the financial statements). 
• Internal controls over financial reporting.
The Committee undertook an annual review of 
HSBC’s systems of internal controls over 
financial reporting. During 2012, the Committee 
monitored the effectiveness of such internal 
controls and reported regularly to the Board as 
described on page 334. The Committee received 
regular reports from the Group Finance 
Director, the Group Chief Accounting Officer, 
and the Group Head of Internal Audit. Minutes 
of the Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) and 
executive committee meetings including 
the GMB and Risk Management Meetings were 
provided to the Committee members. The 
Committee also reviewed the adequacy of 
resources, qualifications and experience of staff 
in the Finance function. Reports were submitted 
to the Committee on internal control matters in 
relation to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Group 
Finance Director, the Group Chief Risk Officer, 
the Group Head of Internal Audit, the Group 
Chief Accounting Officer, Group Company 
Secretary, external auditor and other senior 
executives attended Committee meetings. The 
Committee had regular discussions with the 
external auditor and the Group Head of Internal 
Audit, with an opportunity at each meeting for 
discussions to take place without management 
present.
• Effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The Committee satisfied itself that the internal 
audit function was effective and adequately 
resourced through regular meetings held with, 
and reports provided by, the Group Head of 
Internal Audit on internal audit issues, including 
the effectiveness and adequacy of resources. 
KPMG undertook a quality assurance review of  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees > Group Audit Committee / Group Risk Committee  
322
the internal audit function and concluded that 
overall, the internal audit function generally 
conformed to the Institute of Internal Auditors’ 
International  Standards and Code of Ethics for 
the Professional Practice on Internal Auditing. 
The Committee received reports over the course 
of 2012 on the activities of the internal audit 
function and reviewed its planned activities for 
the following year.  
• Legal and regulatory environment. The
Committee received regular reports on litigation 
and on the application of changes in law, 
regulation, accounting policies and practices 
and regulatory developments, including reports 
on developments in the programme to change 
International Financial Reporting Standards, 
Basel III, the recommendations of the 
Independent Commission on Banking, Dodd-
Frank Act and changes in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and Guidance on Audit 
Committees. 
• External auditor. The Committee provided 
oversight of the external auditor through regular 
meetings with the external auditor, including 
meetings without management present, and 
receiving reports on the external auditor’s 
strategy in relation to the audit of financial 
statements and the progress of the audit. The 
Committee monitored the effectiveness of the 
audit process through a review of the public 
report published by the Financial Reporting 
Council’s Audit Inspection Unit on the 
inspection of the external auditor, an assessment 
against a best practice checklist for evaluating 
external auditors, an external audit assessment 
questionnaire completed by the chief financial 
officers of the Group’s major geographical 
regions, a review of the relationship between the 
Group and the external auditor at a senior level 
and considered the results of feedback provided 
to the external auditor by members of the 
finance function throughout the Group. The 
Committee approved the remuneration and 
terms of engagement and recommended to the 
Board the re-appointment of the external 
auditor.
• Terms of reference and effectiveness of the 
Committee. The Committee undertook an 
annual review of its terms of reference and of 
its own effectiveness. Changes were made to 
the Committee’s terms of reference to reflect 
changes to the requirements of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code applicable to 
financial years beginning on or after 1 October 
2012 and the Hong Kong Corporate Governance 
Code.
In addition to the scheduled Committee 
meetings, the Chairman met regularly with the 
Group Finance Director, the Group Chief 
Accounting Officer, the Group Chief Risk Officer, 
the Group Head of Internal Audit, other senior 
executives and the external auditor. 
Terms of reference and subsidiary company 
audit oversight
The GAC is responsible for non-executive oversight 
of internal controls over financial reporting.  
To ensure consistency of scope and approach 
by subsidiary company audit committees, the 
GAC has established core terms of reference to 
guide subsidiary companies when adopting terms 
of reference for their audit committees. The 
Committee’s endorsement is required for any 
proposed material changes to subsidiary audit 
committee terms of reference and for appointments 
to such committees. 
A forum for the chairmen of our principal 
subsidiary company committees with responsibility 
for non-executive oversight of financial reporting 
and risk-related matters was held in June 2012 to 
share understanding and to facilitate a consistent 
approach to the way in which these subsidiary 
company committees operate. The next forum will 
be held in June 2013. 
Arrangements relating to the external 
auditor 
The Committee has recommended to the Board that 
KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditor at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
KPMG has been the Group’s auditor since 1991, 
when HSBC Holdings became the ultimate holding 
company of the Group, without a tender process for 
the external audit contract having taken place. It is 
our intention that a tender process for the external 
audit contract will be undertaken, with the successful 
audit firm being appointed by 2015. 
The Board has approved, on the 
recommendation of the Committee, a policy for 
the employment by HSBC of former employees 
of KPMG. The Committee receives an annual report 
on such former employees who are employed and 
the number in senior positions. This report enables 
the Committee to consider whether there has been 
any impairment, or appearance of impairment, of the 
external auditor’s judgement, objectivity or 
independence in respect of the audit. The external  323
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
auditor provided written confirmation of its 
independence under industry standards. 
The policies for the pre-approval of specific 
services that may be provided by the principal 
auditor are kept under review by the Committee and 
amended as necessary to meet the dual objectives of 
ensuring that we benefit in a cost effective manner 
from the cumulative knowledge and experience of 
our auditor, while also ensuring that our external 
auditor maintains the necessary degree of 
independence and objectivity. These pre-approval 
policies apply to all services where any HSBC 
company pays for the service, or is a beneficiary 
or addressee of the service, and has selected or 
influenced the choice of KPMG. All services 
provided by KPMG during 2012 were pre-approved 
by the Committee or were entered into under pre-
approval policies established by the Committee. 
The pre-approved services relate to regulatory 
reviews, agreed-upon procedures reports, other types 
of attestation reports, the provision of advice and 
other non-audit services allowed under SEC 
independence rules. The services fall into the 
categories of audit services, audit-related services, 
tax services and other services. 
An analysis of the remuneration paid in respect 
of audit and non-audit services provided by KPMG 
for each of the past three years is disclosed in Note 8 
on the Financial Statements. 
Group Risk Committee 
The GRC is responsible for advising the Board on 
high-level risk-related matters and risk governance 
and for non-executive oversight of risk management 
and internal controls (other than over financial 
reporting).
 Meetings 
 attended 
 Meetings
 eligible
 to attend 
Members
1
R A Fairhead
2
 (Chairman) ...... 6 7
J D Coombe ............................ 7 7
J Faber
3
 .................................... 5 5
J W J Hughes-Hallett
4
 ............. 4 5
J P Lipsky
3
 .............................. 5 5
J R Lomax ............................... 7 7
Meetings held in 2012 ........... 7
1 All members are independent non-executive Directors. 
2 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness. 
3 Appointed a member of the Committee on 1 March 2012. 
4 Retired as a member of the Committee on 31 July 2012. 
John Trueman, a non-executive director of 
HSBC Bank plc and Chairman of its risk and audit 
committees has continued to attend meetings of 
the GRC by invitation during 2012. Robert 
Herdman, a non-executive director of HSBC North 
America Holdings Inc. and HSBC Bank USA, has 
been invited by the GRC to attend its meetings from 
the beginning of 2013. Their experience of risk-
related matters in the financial services industry 
is valued by the Committee. 
Governance
All of HSBC’s activities involve, to varying degrees, 
the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and 
management of risk or combinations of risks. The 
Board, advised by the Committee, requires and 
encourages a strong risk governance culture which 
shapes the Group’s attitude to risk. The Board 
and the Committee oversee the maintenance 
and development of a strong risk management 
framework by continually monitoring the risk 
environment, top and emerging risks facing the 
Group and mitigating actions planned and taken. 
The Committee monitors the effectiveness of 
the Group’s risk management and internal controls 
systems other than over financial reporting, which 
are monitored by the GAC. 
The governance structure for the management 
of risk is set out in the following table. Each major 
operating subsidiary has established a board 
committee with non-executive responsibility for 
oversight of risk-related matters and an executive 
committee with responsibility for risk-related 
matters.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees > Group Risk Committee 
324
Governance structure for the management of risk 
Authority Membership Responsibilities include: 
Board Executive and non-executive 
Directors 
• Approves risk appetite, strategy and performance targets 
for the Group 
• Approves appointment of senior risk officers 
• Delegates authority for risk management 
• Encourages a strong risk governance culture which shapes 
the Group’s attitude to risk 
GRC Independent non-executive Directors • Advises the Board on: 
– risk appetite and alignment with strategy 
– alignment of remuneration with risk appetite (through 
advice to the Group Remuneration Committee) 
– risks associated with proposed strategic acquisitions and 
disposals
• Reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of risk 
management and internal controls (other than over 
financial reporting) 
• Oversees the maintenance and development of a 
supportive culture in relation to the management of risk 
Financial System Vulnerabilities 
Committee 
Executive Directors and co-opted 
non-director members 
• Oversees controls and procedures designed to identify 
areas of exposure to financial crime or system abuse 
• Oversees matters relating to anti-money laundering, 
sanctions, terrorist financing and proliferation financing 
• Reviews policies and procedures to ensure continuing 
obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies are 
met 
Risk Management Meeting of the 
GMB 
Global Standards Steering Meeting 
of the GMB 
Group Chief Risk Officer 
Group Chief Legal Officer 
Group Chief Executive 
Group Finance Director 
All other Group Managing Directors 
Group Chief Risk Officer 
Group Chief Legal Officer 
Group Chief Executive 
Group Finance Director 
All other Group Managing Directors 
• Formulates high-level global risk policy 
• Exercises delegated risk management authority 
• Oversees implementation of risk appetite and controls 
• Monitors all categories of risk and determines appropriate 
mitigating action  
• Promotes a supportive Group culture in relation to risk 
management 
• Develops and implements global standards reflecting best 
practices which must be adopted and adhered to 
throughout the Group 
• Oversees initiatives to ensure our conduct matches our 
values
Global Risk Management Board Group Chief Risk Officer 
Chief Risk Officers of HSBC’s global 
businesses and regions 
Heads of risk areas within the Global 
Risk Function  
• Supports the Risk Management Meeting and the Group 
Chief Risk Officer in providing strategic direction for the 
Global Risk function, sets priorities and oversees their 
execution
• Oversees consistent approach to accountability for, and 
mitigation of, risk across the Global Risk function  
Subsidiary board committees  
responsible for risk-related matters 
and global business risk 
committees 
Independent non-executive directors 
and/or other independent members, as 
appropriate 
• Provides certification to the GRC or intermediate risk 
committee on risk-related matters and internal controls 
(other than over financial reporting) of relevant 
subsidiaries or businesses, as appropriate 
Risk reporting and monitoring 
The GRC regularly monitors:  
• the Group’s risk appetite and risk profile against 
key performance/risk indicators, as set out in the 
Group’s Risk Appetite Statement, on a Group-
wide, global business and regional basis;  
• the top and emerging risks facing the Group; 
and
• the risk profiles for separate categories of risk 
within the Group’s business identified in the 
Group’s Risk Appetite Statement, on a Group-
wide, global business and regional basis;  
and reviews the mitigating actions proposed by 
management.  
Reports on these items are presented at each 
meeting of the Committee. Regular reports from the 
Risk Management Meeting, which is the executive 
body responsible for overseeing risk, are also 
presented. 
In carrying out its responsibilities the 
Committee is closely supported by the Group Chief 
Risk Officer. The Committee also receives regular  325
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
presentations from the Group Head of Compliance, 
Group Head of Internal Audit, the Chief Legal 
Officer and other business, function and risk heads. 
Risk appetite 
Risk appetite is a key component of our management 
of risk. The Board, advised by the GRC, approves 
the Group’s risk appetite, which describes the types 
and levels of risk that the Group is prepared to 
accept in executing our strategy and which is set out 
in the Group’s Risk Appetite Statement. Embedding 
risk appetite statements and the related monitoring 
and reporting framework across the Group has 
continued to be an area of significant focus in 2012 
with initiatives undertaken to: 
• further integrate consideration of risk appetite 
into the process for developing the Annual 
Operating Plan and to enhance alignment 
between Group strategy and risk appetite; and 
• continue to embed and develop risk appetite 
statements throughout the global businesses and 
functions.
Our risk appetite framework is underpinned by 
the following core characteristics: 
Risk appetite: core characteristics 
• Risk must be commensurate with sustainable returns 
• Strong balance sheet 
• Healthy capital position 
• Conservative liquidity management 
• Strong brand 
• Robust Group structure of separate legal entities  
• The global businesses should produce sustainable long-term 
earnings growth 
• Risk diversification 
These core characteristics are applied to define 
the risk appetite statements on a Group-wide, global 
business and regional level. The relevant strategic 
and operational objectives, within which we expect 
businesses and regions to operate, are expressed 
quantitatively across the following dimensions: 
Strategic and operational objectives 
Earnings 
  1. Generate sustainable economic profit commensurate with the risks taken 
  2. Maintain capital in excess of regulatory and internal economic capital requirements  
  3. Maintain a strong tier 1 ratio comprising a high proportion of core tier 1 
  4. Maintain a well diversified funding structure with a particular focus on advances to core funding ratios  
Capital and liquidity 
  5. Off-balance sheet vehicles should not be material in size relative to the total balance sheet 
Impairments and 
expected losses 
  6. Manage impairments and expected losses within the Group’s tolerance 
  7. Manage all risk categories within the risk appetite 
  8. Harness benefits from business diversification to generate non-volatile and sustainable earnings 
Risk category and 
diversification 
  9. Compete for business with international customers where market connectivity is critical, businesses with 
local customers where we have local scale and products where global scale is critical to effectiveness 
Scenario and 
stress testing 
10. Use robust and appropriate scenario stress testing to assess the potential impact on the Group’s capital 
adequacy and strategic plans 
Top and emerging risks 
Identifying and monitoring top and emerging risks 
is integral to our approach to risk management. We 
define a ‘top risk’ as being a current, emerged risk 
which has arisen across any of our risk categories, 
regions or global businesses and has the potential to 
have a material impact on our financial results or 
our reputation and the sustainability of our long-term 
business model, and which may form and crystallise 
within a one year horizon. We consider an ‘emerging 
risk’ to be one which has large uncertain outcomes 
which may form and crystallise beyond a one-year 
horizon and, if it were to crystallise, could have a 
material effect on our long-term strategy. 
The GRC discusses top and emerging risks with 
management at each of its meetings. Current top and 
emerging risks, which are summarised below, are 
viewed as falling into three broad categories: 
macroeconomic and geopolitical; macro-prudential, 
regulatory and legal risks to our business model; and 
risks related to our business operations, governance 
and internal control systems. 
The following table shows the current top and 
emerging risks identified through our risk 
management processes:  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees > Group Risk Committee 
326
Current top and emerging risks 
Categories 
 Top and emerging risks 
Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk • Emerging market slow down  
• Macroeconomic risks within developed economies  
• Increased geopolitical risk in certain regions  
Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our 
business model 
• Regulatory developments affecting our business model and Group 
profitability
• Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions and requirements relating to 
conduct of business and financial crime negatively affecting our results and 
brand 
• Dispute risk 
Risks related to our business operations, governance 
and internal control systems 
• Regulatory commitments and consent orders including under the Deferred 
Prosecution Agreement 
• Challenges to achieving our strategy in a downturn 
• Internet crime and fraud 
• Level of change creating operational complexity and heightened operational 
risk 
• Information security risk 
• Model risk 
Stress testing 
Our stress testing and scenario analysis programme 
is central to the monitoring of top and emerging 
risks. It highlights the vulnerabilities of our business 
and capital plans to the adverse effects of extreme 
but plausible events. 
The outcome of the testing and analysis is also 
used to assess the potential impact of the relevant 
scenarios on the demand for regulatory capital 
compared with its supply.  
Management develops action plans to mitigate 
risks identified. The extent to which those action 
plans are implemented depends on management’s 
evaluation of the risks and their potential 
consequences, taking into account HSBC’s risk 
appetite.
Further information on scenario stress testing is 
set out on pages 127 and 128. 
Stress tests and scenario tests fall into three 
main classifications: regulatory scenarios; Group-
wide business scenarios; and specific business or 
exposure scenarios. 
During the year, the GRC reviewed the outcome 
of a number of stress tests undertaken by the Group 
and the implementation of action plans to mitigate 
risks where appropriate; including stress tests on the 
Annual Operating Plan under mild and severe 
macroeconomic scenarios, a Group reverse liquidity 
stress test, a Group reverse solvency stress test and a 
eurozone break-up stress test. 
Internal Audit has conducted a review of 
stress testing within the Group including model 
development, validation and use, and the 
methodology, governance and management of 
enterprise-wide stress testing. The development of 
HSBC’s stress testing and scenario testing analysis 
programme will continue to be an area of focus for 
the Committee. 
Committee activities 
The GRC undertook the following key activities in 
the discharge of its responsibilities: 
• Oversight of executive risk management. 
Regular reports and presentations were received 
from the Group Chief Risk Officer including at 
each meeting a presentation of a ‘risk map’, 
which provided analysis, on a Group-wide, 
global business and regional basis, of risk 
profiles for categories of risk identified in the 
Group Risk Appetite Statement, and a top 
and emerging risks report which summarised 
proposed mitigating actions for identified risks. 
• Legal and regulatory environment. Reports
were received from the Chief Legal Officer on 
forward-looking legal risks, the Group Head of 
Compliance on forward-looking compliance 
risks and the Head of Group Performance and 
Reward. Regular updates were received on the 
investigations by US regulatory and law 
enforcement authorities and US dispute risk and 
compliance matters in the US and the steps 
taken to remediate these compliance issues. The 
Group Finance Director, Group Chief Risk 
Officer, Group Chief Accounting Officer, Group 
Company Secretary and the external auditor and 
other senior executives attended Committee 
meetings.  
• Stress testing. The Committee reviewed the 
outcome of certain stress tests referred to in the  327
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
section headed ‘Stress Testing’ on pages 127 
and 128. 
• Review of effectiveness of internal controls. 
The Committee undertook an annual review of 
HSBC’s systems of internal controls, other than 
over financial reporting.  During 2012, the 
Committee monitored the effectiveness of such 
internal controls and reported regularly to the 
Board as described on page 334. A series of 
presentations were made, and reports submitted, 
by the Group Chief Risk Officer and other 
business and function heads to the Committee 
on the risk control framework in their respective 
business or function. Reports from the Group 
Head of Internal Audit on the internal audit 
process and weaknesses identified in internal 
controls (other than over financial reporting) 
were presented to the Committee, as well as 
reports from regulators relating to the internal 
control systems.  
• Risk appetite. The Committee reviewed the 
alignment of risk appetite and Group strategy. 
Regular reviews were undertaken of the Group’s 
risk profile against the key performance 
indicators set out in the risk appetite statement 
which considered the need for any adjustment to 
the risk appetite. Refinements to the 2012 Risk 
Appetite Statement were approved with the 
refined 2012 Risk Appetite Statement being 
used in the preparation of the Annual Operating 
Plan for 2013. Reports and presentations were 
received from the Group Chief Risk Officer, 
including on the results of HSBC’s stress testing 
and scenario analysis programme.  
• Alignment of remuneration with risk 
appetite. Presentations and reports were 
received on remuneration-related proposals to 
assist the Committee in giving advice to the 
Group Remuneration Committee on the 
alignment of remuneration with risk appetite. 
The GRC considered risk-related issues to have 
been appropriately taken into account by the 
Group Remuneration Committee, including 
when determining the total variable pay funding 
pool for the 2012 performance year and the 
proposed design of the performance scorecard 
for the 2013 performance year. The Committee 
received presentations on the procedure for 
determining individual variable pay awards, 
including the risk assessment process for 
identifying matters for which risk-related 
adjustments may be made to individual and 
team awards. The process by which an 
individual’s adherence to HSBC Values and the 
Group’s risk-related policies and procedures is 
taken into account in performance assessment 
and determination of variable pay was also 
reported  to the Committee. The Committee 
provided advice and feedback on risk-related 
matters to the Group Remuneration Committee 
where appropriate. 
• Top and emerging risks. In monitoring top and 
emerging risks the Committee received reports 
from the Group Chief Risk Officer and the 
Group Head of Compliance as well as other 
members of senior management on risks 
identified and developments in the Group’s 
business, including the changing regulatory 
environment; the implications of regulatory 
investigations and global market risk such as the 
implications of an emerging market slowdown 
and the impact on trade and capital flows.  
• Acquisitions and disposals. The Committee 
received reports and presentations on risk issues 
relating to proposed strategic acquisitions and 
the risk management of disposals and advised 
the Board appropriately. The Group Head of 
Mergers and Acquisitions and other members 
of senior management involved in proposed 
acquisitions and disposals attended meetings 
of the Committee as appropriate. 
• Oversight of risk governance framework.
Minutes of the GAC, Group Remuneration 
Committee and executive committee meetings 
including the GMB, the Risk Management 
Meeting and the Group Reputational Risk 
Policy Committee were provided to Committee 
members. From January 2013 the minutes of the 
Global Standards Steering Meeting and from 
February 2013 the minutes of the Financial 
System Vulnerabilities Committee will be made 
available to the Committee. 
• Terms of reference and Committee 
effectiveness. The Committee undertook a 
review of its terms of reference and of its own 
effectiveness. The Committee recommended to 
the Board a change to its terms of reference to 
maintain consistency with the terms of reference 
of the GAC which were amended to comply 
with changes to the requirements of the Hong 
Kong Corporate Governance Code.  
• In addition to the scheduled Committee 
meetings, the Chairman met regularly with the 
Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of 
Internal Audit, the Group Finance Director, the 
Chief Legal Officer and other senior executives 
as required. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees > Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee / Group Remuneration Committee / Nomination Committee 
328
Professional external advice on US compliance 
matters has been provided by Promontory Financial 
Group, US financial consultants. 
Terms of reference and subsidiary company 
risk oversight 
The GRC is responsible for non-executive oversight 
of risk management and internal controls, other than 
internal controls over financial reporting which is 
the responsibility of the GAC.  
To ensure consistency of scope and approach 
by subsidiary company committees, the GRC has 
established core terms of reference to guide 
subsidiary companies when adopting terms of 
reference for their non-executive risk committees 
(or audit committees if those committees are also 
responsible for the oversight of risk related matters).  
The Committee’s endorsement is required for 
any proposed material changes to subsidiary 
company risk committee terms of reference and 
for appointments to such committees. 
A forum for the chairmen of HSBC’s principal 
subsidiary company committees with responsibility 
for non-executive oversight of financial reporting 
and risk-related matters was held in June 2012 to 
share understanding and to facilitate a consistent 
approach to the way in which these subsidiary 
committees operate. The next forum will be held 
in June 2013. 
Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee
Members
1
R A Fairhead (Chairman) 
J B Comey
2
N Fishwick
3
D Hartnett
3, 4
W Hughes
3
Sir Simon Robertson 
L H Schrank
3
J C Zarate
3, 5 
1 All members appointed on 18 January 2013, unless 
otherwise indicated. 
2 Appointed on 4 March 2013, being the date he became a 
Director.
3 Co-opted non-director member of the Committee. 
4 Appointed on 1 February 2013. 
5 Also provides advisory services to the board of HSBC North 
America Holdings Inc. 
The Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, 
established by resolution of the Board in January 
2013, has non-executive responsibility for 
governance, oversight and policy guidance over the 
framework of controls and procedures designed to 
identify areas where HSBC may become exposed 
and through that exposure, expose the financial 
system more broadly to financial crime or system 
abuse. The Committee will also have oversight of 
matters relating to anti-money laundering, sanctions, 
terrorist financing and proliferation financing, 
including the establishment, implementation, 
maintenance and review of adequate policies and 
procedures sufficient to ensure the continuing 
obligations to regulatory and law enforcement 
agencies are met.  
The Committee will oversee and report to the 
Board on implementation of the actions necessary 
to build assurance in these areas and will seek to 
provide the Board with a forward-looking 
perspective on financial crime risk. 
The Committee will meet at least four times 
each year. 
Co-opted non-director members 
Five co-opted non-director members have been 
appointed advisers to the Committee to support its 
work. Brief biographical particulars are set out 
below:
N Fishwick, CMG: former senior official in the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (‘FCO’), 
specialising in security and counter-terrorism; 
seconded from 2001 to 2004 to HM Customs and 
Excise as Head of Intelligence (Law Enforcement), 
focusing on international counter-narcotics, tax and 
excise fraud; awarded the CMG in 2009.
D Hartnett, CB: former Permanent Secretary for 
Tax at HM Revenue and Customs; focused on tax 
policy development, compliance and enforcement 
and international tax issues during his 36-year career 
in tax administration; former deputy chairman of the 
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development's Forum on Tax Administration. 
W Hughes, CBE QPM: former head of the UK’s 
Serious Organised Crime Agency; international 
experience in the disruption, dismantling and 
criminal investigation of organised crime.  
L H Schrank: former chief executive officer of 
SWIFT, the global financial messaging system 
which supplies secure standardised financial 
messaging services and interface software to 
financial institutions; oversaw SWIFT’s relationship 
with the US Treasury Department and other 
countries on counter-terrorism issues.  
The Honourable J C Zarate: Senior Adviser at the 
Center for Strategic and International Studies; the 
Senior National Security Analyst for CBS News; a 
Visiting Lecturer of Law at the Harvard Law School; 
national security consultant; former Deputy Assistant  329
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
to the President and Deputy National Security 
Advisor for Combating Terrorism responsible 
for developing and implementing the US 
Government’s counter-terrorism strategy and 
policies related to transnational security threats; 
former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for 
Terrorist Financing and Financial Crime; and former 
federal prosecutor who served on terrorism 
prosecution teams. 
Group Remuneration Committee 
 Meetings 
 attended 
 Meetings
 eligible
 to attend 
Members
1
J L Thornton (Chairman) ........ 7 8
J D Coombe ............................ 8 8
W S H Laidlaw ....................... 8 8
G Morgan
2
 .............................. 5 5
Meetings held in 2012 ........... 8
1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.
2 Retired as a Director on 25 May 2012.
R Fassbind has been appointed a member of the 
Committee since March 2013. 
The Group Remuneration Committee is 
responsible for approving remuneration policy. As 
part of its role, it considers the terms of annual 
incentive plans, share plans, other long-term 
incentive plans and the individual remuneration 
packages of executive Directors and other senior 
Group employees, including all in positions of 
significant influence and those having an impact on 
our risk profile and in doing so takes into account the 
pay and conditions across the Group. No Directors 
are involved in deciding their own remuneration. 
The Directors’ Remuneration Report is set out 
on pages 347 to 367. 
Nomination Committee 
 Meetings 
 attended 
 Meetings
 eligible
 to attend 
Members
1
Sir Simon Robertson 
(Chairman) .......................... 4 4
R A Fairhead
2
 ......................... 3 4
J W J Hughes-Hallett .............. 4 4
J P Lipsky
3
 .............................. 2 2
Sir Brian Williamson
4
 ............. 1 2
Meetings held in 2012 ........... 4
1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.
2 Took a temporary leave of absence due to illness.
3 Appointed a member of the Committee on 24 May 2012.
4 Retired as a Director on 25 May 2012.
Committee activities 
The Committee undertook the following key 
activities in the discharge of its responsibilities: 
• Appointments of new Directors. The
Committee oversaw the process for the 
appointments of J Faber, R Fassbind and 
J P Lipsky as Directors. An external search 
consultancy, MWM Consulting, was used 
in relation to these appointments. MWM 
Consulting has no other connection with HSBC. 
The Committee also oversaw the process for the 
appointment of J B Comey, who was introduced 
to us by a member of senior management. 
Having regard to his public and private sector 
roles neither external consultants nor advertising 
were considered necessary in relation to this 
appointment. 
• Board appointment process. The Committee 
leads the process for Board appointments, 
with the support of external consultants as 
appropriate. The Board has satisfied itself that 
the Committee has appropriate plans in place 
for orderly succession to the Board reflecting 
an appropriate balance of skills and experience 
on the Board. 
• Forward planning. The Committee adopts 
a forward-looking approach to potential 
candidates for appointment to the Board that 
takes into account the needs and development 
of the Group’s businesses and the expected 
retirement dates of current Directors. 
• Size, structure and composition. The
Committee monitored the size, structure and 
composition of the Board through consideration 
of the skills, knowledge and experience required 
of the Board and the skills, knowledge and 
experience of the current Directors. The 
Committee considered the re-election of 
Directors at the Annual General Meeting and 
has recommended to the Board that all Directors 
should stand for re-election. 
• Diversity. During the year, the Board adopted 
a policy on Board diversity which is consistent 
with the Group’s strategic focus on ethnicity, 
age and gender diversity for the employee base. 
Board appointments will continue to be made 
based on merit and candidates will be 
considered against objective criteria, having 
due regard for the benefits of diversity on 
the Board, including gender. The Committee 
developed measurable objectives to implement 
this policy and monitored progress towards 
achieving these objectives. The Board diversity  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board Committees > Corporate Sustainability Committee 
330
policy is available at www.hsbc.com/investor-
relations/governance/corporate-governance-
codes. The benefits of diversity continue to 
influence succession planning and are key 
criteria in the instructions to external search 
consultants. 
• Director training and development. The
Committee reviewed and monitored the training 
and continuous professional development of 
Directors and senior management. 
• Time commitment and independence of non-
executive Directors. The Committee made 
recommendations to the Board, having assessed 
the independence of, and time required from, the 
non-executive Directors.  
• Terms of reference and Committee 
effectiveness. The Committee undertook a 
review of its terms of reference and its own 
effectiveness including the Committee’s role in 
assessing the independence of the non-executive 
Directors as required following changes made to 
The Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code. 
Before recommending an appointment to the 
Board, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience of the Board and, in light 
of this, and taking into account the needs of the 
Group’s businesses, identifies the role and 
capabilities required for a particular appointment. 
Candidates are considered on merit against these 
criteria. Care is taken to ensure that appointees 
have enough time to devote to us. Prospective 
Directors are asked to identify any significant other 
commitments and confirm they have sufficient time 
to discharge what is expected of them. 
Corporate Sustainability Committee 
 Meetings 
 attended 
 Meetings
 eligible
 to attend 
Members
L M L Cha (Chairman)
1
.......... 3 4
N R N Murthy
2
........................ 4 4
G V I Davis
3
............................ 3 4
Lord May
4
............................... 4 4
Dame Mary Marsh
4
................. 4 4
Meetings held in 2012 ........... 4
1 Appointed Chairman on 1 January 2013. 
2 Retired as a Director and Chairman of the Committee on 
31 December 2012. 
3 Retired as a co-opted non-director member of the 
Committee on 29 November 2012. 
4 Co-opted non-director member of the Committee. 
J W J Hughes-Hallett has been a member of the 
Committee since 1 January 2013. 
Sustainability governance
The Corporate Sustainability Committee is 
responsible for advising the Board, committees of 
the Board and executive management on corporate 
sustainability policies across the Group including 
environmental, social and ethical issues. 
Corporate Sustainability exists as a global 
function. Senior executives are charged with 
implementing sustainable business practice in all 
major regions through inclusion in the HSBC Global 
Standards Manuals; and, through induction and 
developmental training. Local teams are in charge 
of embedding corporate sustainability strategies 
within banking activities. 
HSBC reports on its progress in developing 
and implementing its sustainability strategy 
annually in the HSBC Sustainability Report, which 
is independently verified and prepared using the 
Global Reporting Initiative framework. The HSBC
Sustainability Report 2012 will be issued on 24 May 
2013 and will be available at www.hsbc.com/ 
sustainability. 
Corporate sustainability
At HSBC, we understand that the success of our 
business is closely connected to the environmental, 
social and economic landscape. For us, corporate 
sustainability means achieving sustainable profit 
growth so that we can continue to reward 
shareholders and employees, build long-lasting 
relationships with customers and suppliers, pay taxes 
and duties in those countries where we operate, and 
invest in communities for future growth. The way 
we do business is as important as what we do: our 
responsibilities to our customers, employees and 
shareholders as well as to the countries and 
communities in which we operate go far wider 
than simply being profitable. 
Our continuing financial success depends, 
in part, on our ability to identify and address 
environmental, social and ethical factors which 
present risks or opportunities for the business. 
These can affect our reputation, drive employee 
engagement, help manage the risks of lending, 
leverage savings through eco-efficiency and secure 
new revenue streams. They generally fall into one 
or more of the four broad areas discussed below. 
Business finance 
We aim to build long-term customer relationships 
around the world through the provision of a 
consistent and high-quality service and customer 
experience. We use the benefits of our scale,  331
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
financial strength, geographical reach and strong 
brand value to achieve this. 
We aim to take advantage of the opportunities 
and manage the risks presented by emerging global 
trends by developing sustainable business models 
to address them. We understand that the world is 
changing and the threats of climate change and its 
impact on availability of natural resources are 
becoming ever more real. Increasing urbanisation, 
a growing population and rising commodity prices 
all raise concerns over potential resource constraints. 
For example, as recent HSBC research shows, 
climate change means that past hydrological trends 
are no longer indicative of future availability of 
freshwater; we face local water supply shortages 
as global demand increases.  
HSBC continues to play a leading role in 
shaping the market response to these challenges, 
identifying how business can adapt in ways that 
bring both social and environmental benefits, while 
providing viable economic returns. Throughout 
2012, our Climate Change Centre of Excellence has 
continued to research the likely effects that climate 
change, and the responses to it, will have on our 
business and those of our customers. In the past year, 
HSBC Global Research has published reports on 
‘Water Stress – Analysing the global challenges’ and 
‘Less Bread for your Dough – The impact of rising 
food prices on the global economy’. 
HSBC’s Climate Business Council continues 
to support Global Businesses to identify customer 
opportunities arising from the shift to a low carbon 
economy. HSBC’s Global Banking and Markets 
teams played a leading role in some of the largest 
renewable energy projects announced in 2012. 
HSBC provided a range of financial services to the 
largest offshore wind project in Europe and the most 
powerful wind farm in Latin America. The two 
projects combined will provide over 666 megawatts 
of clean energy – equivalent of enough electricity 
to power over half a million homes. These deals 
highlight HSBC’s credentials in providing asset 
finance within the low carbon energy market and the 
strength of commercial teams working across several 
markets.  
Operational environmental efficiency 
We focus our environmental initiatives primarily on 
addressing and responding to issues associated with 
climate change, including energy use, water and 
waste management. This issue has the potential to 
affect materially our customers and, by extension, 
our long-term success, introducing new risks to 
business activity. We continue to focus on the ten 
goals of our operational sustainability strategy, 
which we announced at the end of 2011. Between 
2012 and 2020 we aim to reduce our annual 
employee carbon emissions by one tonne, from 
3.5 to 2.5 tonnes. 
HSBC’s carbon dioxide emissions 
For the period 1 October 2011 to 30 September 2012, 
carbon dioxide emissions from HSBC’s global 
operations were 963,000 tonnes. This was 3% less 
than the 991,000 tonnes emitted in 2011. This figure 
is subject to independent verification. Further 
information on the Group’s carbon dioxide emissions 
will be given in the HSBC Sustainability Report 2012.
Community investment  
We have a long-standing commitment to the 
communities in which we operate. Many of our key 
markets are emerging economies. Our operations 
bring benefits to our host countries through tax 
contributions, and to local people and businesses 
through employment, training, purchasing and 
investment. Beyond our core business, we aim to 
encourage social and economic opportunity through 
community investment activities. Our focus is on 
education and the environment because we believe 
they are essential building blocks for the 
development of communities and are prerequisites 
for economic growth. These philanthropic 
programmes aim to involve employees in the work 
of local non-government organisations (‘NGOs’) and 
charities. Our global education programmes focus on 
helping disadvantaged children, promoting financial 
literacy and international and cultural understanding. 
In 2012, we launched our new flagship 
environmental programme, the HSBC Water 
Programme. This is a five-year, US$100m 
programme in partnership with three NGOs 
which rank amongst the world’s most respected 
environmental and development organisations. 
Together with Earthwatch, WaterAid and WWF, the 
Programme will deliver the powerful combination 
of water provision, protection, information and 
education; resulting in the most ground-breaking 
water programme committed to by a financial 
organisation. The Programme will benefit 
communities in need and enable economies to 
prosper, driving development and social-economic 
growth. Following the success of our previous 
HSBC Climate Partnership, this programme will 
create a community of employees and opportunities 
for employee involvement and volunteering. 
In 2012, we donated a total of US$120m to 
community investment projects (2011: US$96m).  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Internal control  
332
Employee issues 
‘Employee engagement’ describes employees’ 
emotional and intellectual commitment to their 
organisation and its success and is critical to the 
long-term ability of the Group to deliver the highest 
quality of financial services. Our Global People 
Survey is carried out every other year and shows 
that employees value our commitment to sustainable 
business practices and view us as being a leader in 
this regard. In the latest survey, taken in 2011, 
81% of colleagues said they were satisfied with the 
actions HSBC is taking to embed sustainability (e.g. 
environmental and social issues) into the way we 
run our business.
Sustainability risk 
Our approach to managing sustainability risk is 
detailed in the Appendix to Risk on page 280. 
Internal control 
The Directors are responsible for internal control 
in HSBC and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
Procedures have been designed for safeguarding 
assets against unauthorised use or disposal; for 
maintaining proper accounting records; and for the 
reliability and usefulness of financial information 
used within the business or for publication. Such 
procedures are designed to manage and mitigate the 
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can 
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement, errors, losses or fraud. 
The procedures also enable HSBC Holdings to 
discharge its obligations under the ‘Handbook of 
Rules and Guidance’ issued by the FSA, HSBC’s 
lead regulator. 
The key procedures that the Directors have 
established are designed to provide effective internal 
control within HSBC and accord with the ‘Internal 
Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the 
Combined Code’ issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council. Such procedures for the ongoing 
identification, evaluation and management of the 
significant risks faced by HSBC have been in place 
throughout the year and up to 4 March 2013, the date 
of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts 
2012. In the case of companies acquired during the 
year, the internal controls in place are being 
reviewed against HSBC’s benchmarks and integrated 
into HSBC’s processes. 
HSBC’s key internal control procedures include 
the following: 
• Global standards. Functional, operating, 
financial reporting and certain management 
reporting standards are established by global 
function management committees, for 
application throughout HSBC. These are 
supplemented by operating standards set by 
functional and local management as required for 
the type of business and geographical location 
of each subsidiary. 
• Delegation of authority within limits set by 
the Board. Authority to operate the various 
subsidiaries and responsibilities for financial 
performance against plans and for capital 
expenditure are delegated to their respective 
chief executive officers within limits set by the 
Board. Delegation of authority from the Board 
to individuals requires those individuals to 
maintain a clear and appropriate apportionment 
of significant responsibilities and to oversee the 
establishment and maintenance of systems of 
control appropriate to the business. The 
appointment of executives to the most senior 
positions within HSBC requires the approval of 
the Board. 
• Risk identification and monitoring. Systems 
and procedures are in place in HSBC to identify, 
control and report on the major risks including 
credit, market, liquidity, capital, financial 
management, model, reputational, pension, 
strategic, sustainability, operational (including 
accounting, tax, legal, compliance, fiduciary, 
information, external fraud, internal fraud, 
political, physical, business continuity, systems 
operations, project and people risk) and Islamic 
finance risk. Exposure to these risks is 
monitored by risk management committees, 
asset and liability committees and executive 
committees in subsidiaries and, for the Group, in 
Risk Management Meetings (‘RMM’) of the 
GMB which are chaired by the Group Chief 
Risk Officer. RMM meets each month (except 
August) to address asset, liability and risk 
management issues. HSBC’s operational risk 
profile and the effective implementation of the 
Group’s operational risk management 
framework is monitored by the Global 
Operational Risk and Control Committee 
(‘GORCC’), which reports to the RMM. Model 
risks are monitored by the Model Oversight 
Committee which also reports to the RMM. The 
minutes of the GMB meetings and the RMM are 
provided to members of the GAC, the GRC and 
the Board.
• Changes in market conditions/practices. 
Processes are in place to identify new risks 
arising from changes in market 
conditions/practices or customer behaviours, 
which could expose HSBC to heightened risk  333
Overview Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
of loss or reputational damage. During 2012, 
attention was focused on: 
− severe economic slowdown in mature 
economies impacting global growth; 
− eurozone members departure from the 
currency union; 
− increased geopolitical risk; 
− emerging market slowdown; 
− macroeconomic risks within developed 
economies; 
− regulatory developments affecting our 
business model and Group profitability; 
− regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions 
and requirements relating to conduct of 
business and financial crime negatively 
affecting our results and brand; 
− dispute risk;  
− regulatory commitments and consent orders 
including the Deferred Prosecution 
Agreements; 
− challenges to achieving our strategy in a 
downturn; 
− internet crime and fraud;  
− social media risk; 
− level of change creating operational 
complexity and heightened operational risk; 
− information risk; and 
− model risk.  
• Strategic plans. Periodic strategic plans are 
prepared for global businesses, global functions 
and certain geographical regions within the 
framework of the Group’s strategy. Annual 
Operating Plans, informed by detailed analysis 
of risk appetite describing the types and 
quantum of risk that we are prepared to take in 
executing our strategy, are prepared and adopted 
by all major HSBC operating companies and set 
out the key business initiatives and the likely 
financial effects of those initiatives. 
• Disclosure Committee. The Disclosure 
Committee reviews material public disclosures 
made by HSBC Holdings for any material 
errors, misstatements or omissions. The 
membership of the Disclosure Committee, 
which is chaired by the Group Company 
Secretary, includes the heads of Global Finance, 
Legal, Risk and Compliance, Communications, 
Investor Relations and Internal Audit functions 
and representatives from the principal regions 
and global businesses. The integrity of 
disclosures is underpinned by structures and 
processes within the Finance and Risk functions 
that support expert and rigorous analytical 
review of financial reporting complemented by 
certified reviews by heads of global businesses, 
global functions and certain legal entities. 
• Financial reporting. The Group financial 
reporting process for preparing the consolidated 
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 is controlled 
using documented accounting policies and 
reporting formats, supported by a chart of 
accounts with detailed instructions and guidance 
on reporting requirements, issued by Group 
Finance to all reporting entities within the 
Group in advance of each reporting period end. 
The submission of financial information from 
each reporting entity to Group Finance is subject 
to certification by the responsible financial 
officer, and analytical review procedures at 
reporting entity and Group levels. 
• Responsibility for risk management.
Management of global businesses and global 
functions are primarily accountable for 
managing, measuring and monitoring their 
risks and controls. Processes consistent with 
the Three Lines of Defence principle are in 
place to ensure weaknesses are escalated to 
senior management and addressed. 
• IT operations. Centralised functional control 
is exercised over all IT developments and 
operations. Common systems are employed for 
similar business processes wherever practicable. 
• Functional management. Global functional 
management is responsible for setting policies, 
procedures and standards for the following 
risks: credit, market, liquidity, capital, financial 
management, model, reputational, pension, 
strategic, sustainability and operational risk 
(including accounting, tax, legal, compliance, 
fiduciary, information security, security and 
fraud, systems and people risk). Authorities to 
enter into credit and market risk exposures are 
delegated with limits to line management of 
Group companies. The concurrence of the 
appropriate global function is required, however, 
to credit proposals with specified higher risk 
characteristics. Credit and market risks are 
measured and reported on in subsidiaries and 
aggregated for review of risk concentrations on 
a Group-wide basis. 
• CEO Attestation process. Global Operational 
Risk coordinate the annual CEO Attestation 
process under which the chief executive officer 
of each of the Group’s material subsidiaries 
confirms that the internal control framework 
applicable to that subsidiary has been assessed 
and any significant open issues have been 
identified, with action plans in place to address 
weaknesses. The remediation of these issues is  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Internal control > Going concern basis / Employees 
334
monitored by the Operational Risk and Internal 
Control (‘ORIC’) teams for the relevant 
regions/global businesses and reports on 
progress are presented to their ORIC 
committees and quarterly to Global Operational 
Risk. An annual report and updates on identified 
issues and remediation plans are presented to the 
GRC and the GAC. 
• Internal Audit. The establishment and 
maintenance of appropriate systems of internal 
control is primarily the responsibility of 
business management. The Global Internal 
Audit function, which is centrally controlled, 
provides independent assurance in respect of the 
design and operating effectiveness of the risk 
management and control frameworks across the 
Group, focusing on the areas of greatest risk to 
HSBC using a risk-based approach. The head of 
this function reports to the Group Chairman, the 
Group Chief Executive Officer, the GAC and 
the GRC on risk-related matters.  
• Internal Audit recommendations. Executive
management is responsible for ensuring that 
recommendations made by the Internal Audit 
function are implemented within an appropriate 
and agreed timetable. Confirmation to this effect 
must be provided to Internal Audit. 
• Reputational risk. Policies to guide subsidiary 
companies and management at all levels in the 
conduct of business to safeguard the Group’s 
reputation are established by the Board and its 
committees, subsidiary company boards and 
their committees and senior management. 
Reputational risks can arise from a variety of 
causes including environmental, social and 
governance issues, as a consequence of 
operational risk events and as a result of 
employees acting in a manner inconsistent with 
HSBC’s Values. As a banking group, HSBC’s 
good reputation depends upon the way in 
which it conducts its business but it can also be 
affected by the way in which clients, to which 
it provides financial services, conduct their 
business or use financial products and services. 
The GAC has non-executive responsibility for 
oversight of internal controls over financial reporting 
and the GRC has non-executive responsibility for 
internal controls other than over financial reporting. 
The GRC and the GAC have kept under review 
the effectiveness of this system of internal control 
and have reported regularly to the Board of 
Directors. In carrying out their reviews the GRC and 
the GAC receive regular business and operational 
risk assessments; regular reports from the Group 
Chief Risk Officer and the Head of Global Internal 
Audit; reports on the annual reviews of the internal 
control framework of HSBC Holdings which 
cover all internal controls, both financial and 
non-financial; annual confirmations from chief 
executives of principal subsidiary companies as 
to whether there have been any material losses, 
contingencies or uncertainties caused by weaknesses 
in internal controls; internal audit reports; external 
audit reports; prudential reviews; and regulatory 
reports. The GRC monitors the status of top and 
emerging risks which impact or may impact the 
Group and considers whether the mitigating actions 
put in place are appropriate. In addition, when 
unexpected losses have arisen or when incidents 
have occurred which indicate gaps in the control 
framework or in adherence to Group policies, the 
GRC and the GAC review special reports, prepared 
at the instigation of management, which analyse the 
cause of the issue, the lessons learned and the actions 
proposed by management to address the issue.  
The Directors, through the GRC and the GAC, 
have conducted an annual review of the effectiveness 
of our system of internal control covering all 
material controls, including financial, operational 
and compliance controls, risk management systems, 
the adequacy of resources, qualifications and 
experience of staff of the accounting and financial 
reporting function and the risk function, and their 
training programmes and budget. The review does 
not extend to joint ventures or associates. The 
GRC and the GAC have received confirmation that 
executive management has taken or is taking the 
necessary actions to remedy any failings or 
weaknesses identified through the operation of 
our framework of controls. 
Going concern basis 
The financial statements are prepared on a going 
concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the 
Group and parent company have the resources to 
continue in business for the foreseeable future. 
In making this assessment, the Directors have 
considered a wide range of information relating 
to present and future conditions, including future 
projections of profitability, cash flows and capital 
resources. Further information relevant to the 
assessment is provided elsewhere in this report. 
In particular, HSBC’s principal activities, business 
and operating models, strategic direction and top 
and emerging risks are described in the ‘Overview’ 
section; a financial summary, including a review of 
the consolidated income statement and consolidated 
balance sheet, is provided in the ‘Operating and 
Financial Review’ section; HSBC’s objectives,  335
Overview Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
policies and processes for managing credit, liquidity 
and market risk are described in the ‘Risk’ section; 
and HSBC’s approach to capital management and 
allocation is described in the ‘Capital’ section.  
Employees 
At 31 December 2012 we had a total workforce of 
270,000 full-time and part-time employees compared 
with 298,000 at the end of 2011 and 307,000 at the 
end of 2010. Our main centres of employment are 
the UK with approximately 48,000 employees, India 
30,000, Hong Kong 28,000, Brazil 23,000, mainland 
China 18,000, Mexico 18,000, the US 17,000 and 
France 10,000. 
In the context of the current global financial 
services operating environment, a high performance 
and values-led work force is critical. We encourage 
open and honest communication in decision making. 
Employment issues and financial, economic, 
regulatory and competitive factors affecting 
HSBC’s performance are regularly shared with 
our employees. 
Global People Survey 
In 2012, quarterly Pulse Surveys were introduced 
to assess in a more timely way the understanding and 
execution of our Group strategy, our culture, our 
performance and the engagement of our people 
generally. Every three months, a quarter of the 
Group’s employees are randomly sampled and hence 
all employees are covered over the course of the 
year. A Global People Survey will take place 
biennially, the next one being in 2013.  
Over 2012, the Group strategy index score 
improved by 2% to 54% in the fourth quarter and the 
average participation rate was 56%, which is around 
median for comparable surveys externally. 
Reward 
Our approach to reward is meritocratic and market 
competitive, underpinned by an ethical and values 
based performance culture which aligns the interests 
of our employees, shareholders, regulators and 
customers. See ‘Employee share plans’ on pages 336 
to 337. 
Employee relations 
We negotiate and consult with recognised unions as 
appropriate. The five highest concentrations of union 
membership are in Argentina, Brazil, mainland 
China, Malta and Mexico. It is our policy to 
maintain well-developed communications and 
consultation programmes with all employee 
representative bodies and there have been no 
material disruptions to our operations from labour 
disputes during the past five years. 
Diversity and inclusion 
HSBC is committed to building a values-driven high 
performance culture where all employees are valued, 
respected and where their opinions count. We remain 
committed to meritocracy, which requires a diverse 
and inclusive culture where employees believe that 
their views are heard, their concerns are attended 
to and they work in an environment where bias, 
discrimination and harassment on any matter, 
including gender, age, ethnicity, religion, sexuality 
and disability are not tolerated and where 
advancement is based on objectivity. Our inclusive 
culture helps us respond to our diverse customer 
base, while developing and retaining a secure supply 
of skilled, committed employees. Our culture will be 
strengthened by employing the best people and 
optimising their ideas, abilities and differences.  
Oversight of our diversity and inclusion agenda 
and related activities resides with executives on the 
Group Diversity Committee, complemented by the 
Group People Committee and local People/Diversity 
Committees. 
Staff development 
The development of employees in both developed 
and emerging markets is essential to the future 
strength of our business. We have implemented a 
systematic approach to identifying, developing 
and deploying talented employees to ensure an 
appropriate supply of high calibre individuals with 
the values, skills and experience for current and 
future senior management positions. 
In 2012, we continued to build global 
consistency across our learning curricula and to 
improve the relevance and quality of learning 
programmes. We have endeavoured to achieve a 
standard of excellence focusing on leadership, 
values and technical capability.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Employees 
336
Employment of disabled persons 
We believe in providing equal opportunities for all 
employees. The employment of disabled persons is 
included in this commitment and the recruitment, 
training, career development and promotion of 
disabled persons is based on the aptitudes and 
abilities of the individual. Should employees 
become disabled during their employment with us, 
efforts are made to continue their employment and, 
if necessary, appropriate training and reasonable 
equipment and facilities are provided. 
Health and safety 
The maintenance of appropriate health and safety 
standards remains a key responsibility of all 
managers and we are committed to proactively 
managing all health and safety risks associated with 
our business. Our objectives are to identify, remove, 
reduce or control material risks relating to fires and 
accidents or injuries to employees, customers and 
visitors.
Group policies, standards and guidance for the 
management of health and safety are set by global 
Corporate Real Estate. Achieving these in each 
country in which we operate is the responsibility 
of the Chief Operating Officer of that country with 
support and coordination provided by the Health 
and Safety Coordinator for that country. 
In terms of physical and geopolitical risk, 
Global Security and Fraud Risk provide regular 
security risk assessments to assist management in 
judging the level of terrorist and violent criminal 
threat. Regional Security and Fraud Risk functions 
conduct regular security reviews of all Group 
buildings to ensure measures to protect our staff, 
buildings, assets and information are appropriate 
to the level of threat. 
We remain committed to maintaining our 
preparedness and to ensuring the highest standards 
of health and safety wherever in the world we 
operate.
Remuneration policy 
The quality and commitment of our human capital 
is fundamental to our success and accordingly the 
Board aims to attract, retain and motivate the very 
best people. As trust and relationships are vital in our 
business our goal is to recruit those who are 
committed to making a long-term career with the 
organisation. 
HSBC’s reward strategy supports this objective 
through balancing of both short-term and sustainable 
performance. Our reward strategy aims to reward 
success, not failure, and be properly aligned with our 
risk framework and related outcomes. In order to 
ensure alignment between remuneration and our 
business strategy, individual remuneration is 
determined through assessment of performance 
delivered against both annual and long-term 
objectives summarised in performance scorecards 
as well as adherence to the HSBC Values of being 
‘open, connected and dependable’ and acting with 
‘courageous integrity’. Altogether, performance is 
judged, not only on what is achieved over the short 
and long-term, but also on how it is achieved, as the 
latter contributes to the sustainability of the 
organisation.  
The financial and non-financial measures 
incorporated in the annual and long-term scorecards 
are carefully considered to ensure alignment with the 
long-term strategy of the Group. 
Further information on the Group’s approach 
to remuneration is given on page 347. 
Employee share plans 
Share options and discretionary awards of shares 
granted under HSBC share plans align the interests 
of employees with those of shareholders. The tables 
on the following pages set out the particulars of 
outstanding options, including those held by 
employees working under employment contracts 
that are regarded as ‘continuous contracts’ for the 
purposes of the Hong Kong Employment Ordinance. 
The options were granted at nil consideration. No 
options have been granted to substantial shareholders, 
suppliers of goods or services, or in excess of the 
individual limit for each share plan. No options were 
cancelled by HSBC during the year. 
A summary for each plan of the total number 
of the options which were granted, exercised or 
lapsed during 2012 is shown in the following tables. 
Further details required to be disclosed pursuant 
to Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing 
of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong 
Kong Limited are available on our website at 
www.hsbc.com by selecting ‘Investor Relations’, 
then ‘Governance’, then ‘Share Plans’, and on the 
website of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong 
Limited at www.hkex.com.hk or can be obtained 
upon request from the Group Company Secretary, 
8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ. Particulars of 
options held by Directors of HSBC Holdings are 
set out on page 363. 
Note 7 on the Financial Statements gives details 
on share-based payments, including discretionary 
awards of shares granted under HSBC share plans.  337
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
All-employee share option plans 
All-employee share option plans have operated 
within the Group and employees on the first working 
day of the year were eligible to be granted options to 
acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. Options 
under the plans are usually exercisable after one, 
three or five years. The exercise of options may be 
advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, 
for example on retirement, and may be extended in 
certain circumstances, for example on the death of a 
participant, the executors of the participant’s estate 
may exercise options up to six months beyond the 
normal exercise period. The middle market closing 
price for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares quoted 
on the London Stock Exchange, as derived from the 
Daily Official List on 23 April 2012, the day before 
options were granted in 2012, was £5.46. 
The all-employee share option plans will 
terminate on 27 May 2015 unless the Directors 
resolve to terminate the plans at an earlier date. 
HSBC Holdings All-employee Share Option Plans  
     HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
Dates of awards  Exercise price   Exercisable  At Granted Exercised  Lapsed  At 
 from   to   from to   from   to  1 Jan 2012 during year during year  during year  31 Dec 2012
Savings-Related Share Option Plan
1
 26 Apr 
 2006 
 24 Apr  
 2012 
 (£)
 3.3116
 (£)
 6.6870 
 1 Aug
 2011 
 31 Jan
 2018 68,499,109 20,726,298 25,390,031 8,859,311 54,976,065
Savings-Related Share Option Plan: International
2
 26 Apr 
 2006  
 24 Apr  
 2012  
 (£)
 3.3116
 (£) 
 6.6870  
 1 Aug
 2011  
 31 Jan
 2018 26,615,253 8,549,570 12,032,666 5,663,420 17,468,737
 26 Apr  
 2006  
 24 Apr 
 2012  
 (US$)
 4.8876
 (US$) 
12.0958  
 1 Aug
 2011  
 31 Jan
 2018 9,752,066 2,666,374 3,440,522 2,489,024 6,488,894
 26 Apr  
 2006 
 24 Apr 
 2012 
 (€)
 3.6361
 (€) 
 9.5912 
 1 Aug
 2011 
 31 Jan
 2018 3,176,265 827,832 1,407,390 416,444 2,180,263
 26 Apr  
 2006 
 24 Apr 
 2012 
 (HK$)
37.8797
 (HK$) 
94.5057 
 1 Aug
 2011 
 31 Jan
 2018 45,422,511 12,098,312 21,684,534 4,198,449 31,637,840
1 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £5.46. 
2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £5.45.
Discretionary Share Option Plans 
There have been no grants of discretionary share options under employee share plans since 30 September 2005. 
    Exercise    HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
Dates of awards  price (£)  Exercisable  At  Exercised  Lapsed   At 
 from   to   from  to   from  to  1 Jan 2012   during year   during year   31 Dec 2012 
HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan
1,2
 7 May 
 2002 
 20 Apr  
 2005  6.0216  7.9606 
 7 May
 2005 
 20 Apr
 2015 120,797,419 1,606,032 32,018,464 87,172,923 
HSBC Share Plan 
 30 Sep 
 2005     7.9911 
 30 Sep
 2008 
 30 Sep
 2015 86,046 – – 86,046 
1 The HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan expired on 26 May 2005. No options have been granted under the Plan since that date. 
2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £6.43. 
Subsidiary company share plans 
HSBC France 
When it was acquired in 2000, HSBC France and 
certain of its subsidiary companies operated 
employee share option plans under which options 
could be granted over their respective shares. 
Under the terms of the employee share option 
plan, holders of options to acquire shares of HSBC 
France were obliged to exchange the HSBC France 
shares they received on exercise of these options for 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. Details of options 
to acquire shares in HSBC France are set out in the 
following table. No further options will be granted 
under this share plan.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Employees > Other required disclosures / 2013 AGM 
338
HSBC France
    HSBC France shares of €5 
Exercisable At Exercised Lapsed  At
Date of award  
 Exercise
 price (€)  from to 1 Jan 2012
1
 during year during year  31 Dec 2012
1
1 Oct 2002 ..............  142.84
  2 Oct 
 2005 
 1 Oct
 2012 22,645 – 22,645 –
1 If options over HSBC France Shares had been exercised, these options would have been exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
in the ratio of 13.499897 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC France share. At 31 December 2012, The CCF Employee 
Benefit Trust 2001 (Private Banking France) held 989,502 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. 
HSBC Finance 
Upon the acquisition of HSBC Finance in 2003, all 
outstanding options over, and rights to receive, 
HSBC Finance common shares were converted into 
options over, and rights to receive, HSBC Holdings 
ordinary shares in the same ratio as the share 
exchange offer for the acquisition of HSBC Finance 
(2.675 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each  
HSBC Finance common share). The exercise price 
payable for each option was adjusted using the same 
exchange ratio. 
Details of options to acquire shares in HSBC 
Holdings under the share plan of HSBC Finance are 
set out in the following table. No further options will 
be granted under this share plan. 
HSBC Finance: 1996 Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan 
     HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
Date of award  Exercise   Exercisable At Exercised  Lapsed   At 
    price (US$)   from  to 1 Jan 2012 during year
1
during year   31 Dec 2012
2
20 Nov 2002 .......  9.29  20 Nov 2003 20 Nov 2012 2,429,538 2,053,838 375,700  – 
1 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £6.06.
2 At 31 December 2012, the HSBC (Household) Employee Benefit Trust 2003 held 281,477 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and 1,455 
American Depositary Shares, each of which represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. 
HSBC Bank Bermuda 
Upon the acquisition of HSBC Bank Bermuda 
Limited (‘HSBC Bank Bermuda’) in 2004, all 
outstanding options over HSBC Bank Bermuda 
shares were converted into options to acquire HSBC 
Holdings ordinary shares using an exchange ratio 
calculated by dividing US$40 (being the 
consideration paid for each HSBC Bank Bermuda 
share) by the average price of HSBC Holdings  
ordinary shares over the five day period to the 
completion of the acquisition. The exercise price 
payable for each option was adjusted using the same 
exchange ratio. 
Details of options to acquire shares in HSBC 
Holdings under the share plans of HSBC Bank 
Bermuda are set out in the following table. No 
further options will be granted under the share plans 
of HSBC Bank Bermuda. 
HSBC Bank Bermuda 
    Exercise    HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
Dates of awards  price (US$)   Exercisable  At  Exercised  Lapsed   At 
 from   to   from to   from  to  1 Jan 2012   during year  during year  31 Dec 2012
1
Share Option Plan 2000    
 30 Jan 
 2002  
 21 Apr 
 2003   9.32 14.02  
 30 Jan
 2003 
 21 Apr
 2013  1,014,026 – 864,102  149,924 
Directors’ Share Option Plan    
 3 Apr 
 2002     13.95
 3 Apr
 2003 
 3 Apr
 2012  16,881 – 16,881  – 
1 At 31 December 2012, the HSBC (Bank of Bermuda) Employee Benefit Trust 2004 held 2,108,830 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
which may be used to satisfy the exercise of employee share options.  339
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Other required disclosures 
Further information about share capital, directors’ 
interests, supplier payment policy, dividends and 
shareholders is set out in the Appendix to this section 
on pages 340 to 346. 
2013 Annual General Meeting 
Our Annual General Meeting in 2013 will be held at 
the Barbican Hall, Barbican Centre, London EC2 on 
24 May 2013 at 11.00am. 
An informal meeting of shareholders will be 
held at 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong on 
Monday 20 May 2013 at 4.30pm. 
Resolutions to receive the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2012, approve the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, elect or re-elect Directors and reappoint 
KPMG Audit Plc as auditor will be submitted to 
the Annual General Meeting. KPMG Audit Plc has 
expressed its willingness to continue in office and  
the Group Audit Committee and the Board has 
recommended that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed. 
Resolutions will also be submitted to the Annual 
General Meeting to renew the authority for the 
allotment of shares, disapply pre-emption rights, 
renew the authority for the purchase of ordinary 
shares, and approve general meetings (other than 
Annual General Meetings) being called on a 
minimum of 14 clear days’ notice. 
A live webcast of the Annual General Meeting 
will be available on www.hsbc.com. From shortly 
after the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting 
until 30 June 2013 a recording of the proceedings 
will be available on www.hsbc.com. 
On behalf of the Board 
D J Flint, Group Chairman 4 March 2013 
HSBC Holdings plc 
Registered number 617987   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Appendix > Other required disclosures > Share capital 
340
Appendix to Report of the Directors 
Other required disclosures
Share capital 
Issued share capital 
The nominal value of our issued share capital paid up at 31 December 2012 was US$9,238,018,832 divided into 
18,476,008,664 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, 1,450,000 non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and 
1 non-cumulative preference share of £0.01. 
The percentage of the nominal value of our total issued share capital paid up at 31 December 2012 represented by the 
ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and the non-cumulative 
preference share of £0.01 was approximately 99.9998%, 0.0002%, and 0%, respectively. 
Rights and obligations attaching to shares  
The rights and obligations attaching to each class of shares in our share capital are set out in our Articles of 
Association subject to certain rights and obligations that attach to each class of preference share as determined by the 
Board prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares. Set out below is a summary of the rights and obligations 
attaching to each class of shares with respect to voting, dividends, capital and, in the case of the preference shares, 
redemption.  
To be registered, a transfer of shares must be in relation to shares which are fully paid up and on which we have no 
lien and to one class of shares denominated in the same currency. The transfer must be in favour of a single transferee 
or no more than four joint transferees and it must be duly stamped (if required). The transfer must be delivered to our 
registered office or our Registrars accompanied by the certificate to which it relates or such other evidence that 
proves the title of the transferor. 
If a shareholder or any person appearing to be interested in our shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the 
Companies Act 2006 (which confers upon public companies the power to require information from any person whom 
we know or have reasonable cause to believe to be interested in the shares) and has failed in relation to any shares 
(the ‘default shares’) to supply the information requested within the period set out in the notice, then the member, 
unless the Board otherwise determines, is not entitled to be present at or to vote the default shares at any general 
meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder. If the default shares represent at least 0.25% 
in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, unless the Board otherwise determines, any dividend shall be 
withheld by the Company without interest, no election may be made for any scrip dividend alternative, and no 
transfer of any shares held by the member will be registered except in limited circumstances. 
Ordinary shares 
Subject to the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Association, HSBC Holdings may, by ordinary resolution, 
declare dividends to be paid to the holders of ordinary shares, though no dividend shall exceed the amount 
recommended by the Board. The Board may pay interim dividends as appears to the Board to be justified by the 
profits available for distribution. All dividends shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the percentage of the 
nominal amount paid up on the shares during any portion or portions of the period in respect of which the dividend is 
paid, but if any share is issued on terms providing that it shall rank for dividend as from a particular date, it shall 
rank for dividend accordingly. Subject to the Articles of Association, the Board may, with the prior authority of an 
ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders and subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may determine, 
offer to any holders of ordinary shares the right to elect to receive ordinary shares of the same or a different currency, 
credited as fully paid, instead of cash in any currency in respect of the whole (or some part, to be determined by the 
Board) of any dividend specified by the ordinary resolution. At the 2012 Annual General Meeting shareholders gave 
authority to the Directors to offer a scrip dividend alternative until the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual 
General Meeting in 2017 or 24 May 2017.  
Preference shares 
There are three classes of preference shares in the share capital of HSBC Holdings, non-cumulative preference 
shares of US$0.01 each (the ‘Dollar Preference Shares’), non-cumulative preference shares of £0.01 each (the  341
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
‘Sterling Preference Shares’) and non-cumulative preference shares of €0.01 (the ‘Euro Preference Shares’). The 
Dollar Preference Shares in issue are Series A Dollar Preference Shares and the Sterling Preference Share in issue is 
a Series A Sterling Preference Share. There are no Euro Preference Shares in issue. 
Dollar Preference Shares 
Holders of the Dollar Preference Shares are only entitled to attend and vote at general meetings if any dividend 
payable on the relevant preference shares in respect of such period as the Board shall determine prior to allotment 
thereof is not paid in full or in such other circumstances, and upon and subject to such terms, as the Board may 
determine prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares. In the case of the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 
4 March 2013 the relevant period determined by the Board is four consecutive dividend payment dates. Whenever 
holders of the Dollar Preference Shares are entitled to vote on a resolution at a general meeting, on a show of hands 
every such holder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote and on a poll every such holder who is 
present in person or by proxy shall have one vote per preference share held by him or her or such number of votes per 
share as the Board shall determine prior to allotment of such share. 
Subject to the Articles of Association, holders of the Dollar Preference Shares have the right to a non-cumulative 
preferential dividend at such rate, on such dates and on such other terms and conditions as may be determined by the 
Board prior to allotment thereof in priority to the payment of any dividend to the holders of ordinary shares and any 
other class of shares of HSBC Holdings in issue (other than (i) the other preference shares in issue and any other 
shares expressed to rank pari passu therewith as regards income; and (ii) any shares which by their terms rank in 
priority to the relevant preference shares as regards income). A dividend of US$62 per annum is payable on each 
Dollar Preference Share in issue at 4 March 2013. The dividend is paid at the rate of US$15.50 per quarter at the sole 
and absolute discretion of the Board.  
A dividend will not be declared or paid on the Dollar Preference Shares if payment of the dividend would cause 
HSBC Holdings not to meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements of the FSA or the profit of HSBC 
Holdings available for distribution as dividends is not sufficient to enable HSBC Holdings to pay in full both 
dividends on the relevant preference shares and dividends on any other shares that are scheduled to be paid on the 
same date and that have an equal right to dividends. Dividends will not be declared or paid on any class of shares of 
HSBC Holdings ranking lower in the right to dividends than the Dollar Preference Shares nor redeem nor purchase 
in any manner any of its other shares ranking equal with or lower than the Dollar Preference Shares unless it has paid 
in full, or set aside an amount to provide for payment in full, the dividends on the Dollar Preference Shares for the 
then-current dividend period. 
The Dollar Preference Shares carry no rights to participate in the profits or assets of HSBC Holdings other than as set 
out in the Articles of Association and subject to the Companies Act 2006, do not confer any right to participate in 
any offer or invitation by way of rights or otherwise to subscribe for additional shares in HSBC Holdings, do not 
confer any right of conversion and do not confer any right to participate in any issue of bonus shares or shares issued 
by way of capitalisation of reserves. 
Subject to the relevant insolvency laws and the Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings, holders of the Dollar 
Preference Shares have the right in a winding up of HSBC Holdings to receive out of the assets of HSBC Holdings 
available for distribution to its shareholders, in priority to any payment to the holders of the ordinary shares and any 
other class of shares of HSBC Holdings in issue (other than (i) the other relevant preference shares and any other 
shares expressed to rank pari passu therewith as regards repayment of capital; and (ii) any shares which by their 
terms rank in priority to the relevant preference shares as regards repayment of capital), a sum equal to any unpaid 
dividend on the Dollar Preference Shares which is payable as a dividend in accordance with or pursuant to the 
Articles of Association and the amount paid up or credited as paid up on the Dollar Preference Shares together with 
such premium (if any) as may be determined by the Board prior to allotment thereof. In the case of the Dollar 
Preference Shares in issue at 4 March 2013, the premium is US$999.99 per Dollar Preference Share. 
The Dollar Preference Shares may be redeemed in accordance with the Articles of Association and the terms on 
which Dollar Preference Shares were issued and allotted. In the case of the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 
4 March 2013, HSBC Holdings may redeem such shares in whole at any time on or after 16 December 2010, subject 
to the prior consent of the FSA.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Appendix > Other required disclosures > Share capital / Directors’ interests
342
Sterling Preference Shares 
The Sterling Preference Shares carry the same rights and obligations under the Articles of Association as the Dollar 
Preference Shares, save in respect of certain rights and obligations that attach to Sterling Preference Shares to be 
determined by the Board prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares and the timing and payment of proceeds 
from the redemption of each class of share. The one Sterling Preference Share in issue at 4 March 2013 carries the 
same rights and obligations as the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 4 March 2013 to the extent described in the 
section above save as follows: 
1. the holder of the Sterling Preference Share is not entitled to attend or vote at general meetings;  
2. the Sterling Preference Share may be redeemed in whole on any date as may be determined by the Board; and 
3. the exceptions to the circumstances in which a dividend will not be declared or paid do not apply. 
A dividend of £0.04 per annum is payable on the Sterling Preference Share in issue at 4 March 2013. The 
dividend is paid at the rate of £0.01 per quarter at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. 
Euro Preference Shares  
The Euro Preference Shares carry the same rights and obligations under the Articles of Association as the Dollar 
Preference Shares, save in respect of certain rights and obligations that attach to Euro Preference Shares which are to 
be determined by the Board prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares and the timing and payment of 
proceeds from the redemption of each class of share. 
Share capital during 2012 
The following events occurred during the year in relation to the ordinary share capital of HSBC Holdings: 
Scrip dividends 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Market value 
Issued in lieu of  In  Number  US$  £ 
Third interim dividend for 2011 .....................................  January 2012 96,994,187 7.4224 4.7461 
Fourth interim dividend for 2011 ...................................  May 2012 28,357,393 9.1170 5.7466 
First interim dividend for 2012 ......................................  July 2012 91,127,385 8.2065 5.2022 
Second interim dividend for 2012 ..................................  October 2012 87,820,228 8.9127 5.6560 
Third interim dividend for 2012 .....................................  December 2012 65,036,059 9.8255 6.1138 
All-Employee share plans 
 Number Exercise price 
 from  to 
HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans 
HSBC ordinary shares issued in £ .................................................. 37,422,697  £  3.3116  6.1760 
HSBC ordinary shares issued in HK$ ............................................. 21,684,534  HK$  37.8797  63.9864 
HSBC ordinary shares issued in US$ ............................................. 3,440,522  US$  4.8876  8.7225 
HSBC ordinary shares issued in € .................................................. 1,407,390  €  3.6361  6.0657 
Options over HSBC ordinary shares lapsed ........................................ 21,626,648 
Options over HSBC ordinary shares granted in response to 
approximately 53,000 applications from HSBC employees 
in over 60 countries and territories on 24 April 2012 ..................... 44,868,386 
Plan d’Epargne Entreprise 
HSBC ordinary shares issued for the benefit of non-UK resident  
employees of HSBC France and its subsidiaries ............................ 2,274,523  €  5.695 
Discretionary share incentive plans 
 HSBC ordinary  Exercise price  Options 
 shares issued   (£)  lapsed 
Options exercised under: 
The HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan ...............  1,606,032  6.0216  32,018,464  343
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Authority to allot shares 
At the Annual General Meeting in 2012, shareholders renewed the general authority for the Directors to allot new 
shares. The general authority is to allot up to 3,624,050,000 ordinary shares, 15,000,000 non-cumulative preference 
shares of £0.01 each, 15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and 15,000,000 non-cumulative 
preference shares of €0.01 each. Within this, the Directors have authority to allot up to a maximum of 906,012,000 
ordinary shares wholly for cash to persons other than existing shareholders. 
Other than as described above, the Directors did not allot any shares during 2012. 
Treasury shares 
In accordance with the terms of a waiver granted by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on 19 December 2005, HSBC 
Holdings will comply with the applicable law and regulation in the UK in relation to the holding of any shares in 
treasury and with the conditions of the waiver in connection with any shares it may hold in treasury. No shares are 
currently held in treasury.  
Directors’ interests 
Pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing Rules and according to the register of Directors’ interests maintained 
by HSBC Holdings pursuant to section 352 of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the Directors of 
HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2012 had the following interests, all beneficial unless otherwise stated, in the shares 
and loan capital of HSBC Holdings and its associated corporations:  
Directors’ interests – shares and loan capital 
At 31 December 2012 
 At 
 1 January 
 2012 
 Beneficial
 owner 
 Child 
 under 18 
 or spouse 
 Jointly 
 with 
 another 
 person  Trustee 
 Total 
 interests
1
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
J D Coombe ...................................... 21,139 22,387 – – – 22,387 
R A Fairhead ..................................... 21,300 – – 21,300 – 21,300 
D J Flint ............................................ 272,861 313,326 – – 37,162
2
350,488 
S T Gulliver ...................................... 2,731,100 2,553,592 176,885 – – 2,730,477 
J W J Hughes-Hallett ........................ 46,952 – – – – –
W S H Laidlaw ................................. 31,872 32,252 – – 1,416
2
33,668 
J P Lipsky
3
 ........................................ – 15,000 – – – 15,000 
I J Mackay ......................................... 133,648 118,813 – – – 118,813 
Sir Simon Robertson ......................... 176,709 9,486 – – 167,750
2
177,236 
J L Thornton
4
 .................................... 10,250 – 10,250 – – 10,250 
US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000
HSBC Holdings  
6.5% Subordinated Notes 2036  
L M L Cha ........................................ 300 300 – – – 300
RMBm RMBm RMBm RMBm RMBm RMBm 
HSBC Bank 2.875% Notes 2015  
J Faber
5
.............................................. – 5.1 – – – 5.1 
1 Details of executive Directors’ other interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares arising from the HSBC Holdings savings-related share 
option plans, the HSBC Share Plan and the HSBC Share Plan 2011 are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 363. At
31 December 2012, the aggregate interests under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in HSBC Holdings ordinary 
shares, including interests arising through employee share plans were: D J Flint – 566,423; S T Gulliver – 5,178,992 and I J Mackay – 
536,205. Each Director’s total interests represents less than 0.03% of the shares in issue. 
2 Non-beneficial. 
3 Interest in 3,000 listed American Depositary Shares (‘ADS’), which are categorised as equity derivatives under Part XV of the Securities 
and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong. Each ADS represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
4 Interest of spouse in 2,050 listed ADS. 
5 Non-beneficial interest in renminbi (RMB) 1.2m 2.875% Notes 2015.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Appendix > Other required disclosures > Supplier payment policy / Dividends and shareholders
344
S T Gulliver ceased to have an interest as beneficial owner in one share of €5 in HSBC France (representing less than 
0.01 per cent of the shares in issue), following his resignation as a director of that company on 22 November 2012. 
S T Gulliver had waived his rights to receive dividends on the share and had undertaken to transfer the share to 
HSBC on ceasing to be a director of HSBC France. 
No Directors held any short position as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in the shares 
and loan capital of HSBC Holdings and its associated corporations. Save as stated above, none of the Directors had 
an interest in any shares or debentures of HSBC Holdings or any associated corporation at the beginning or at the end 
of the year, and none of the Directors or members of their immediate families were awarded or exercised any right to 
subscribe for any shares or debentures in any HSBC corporation during the year. Since the end of the year, the 
aggregate interests of the following Director has increased by the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares shown 
against his name: 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
D J Flint (beneficial owner) .................................................................................................................................................... 35
1
1 The acquisition of shares in the HSBC Holdings UK Share Incentive Plan through regular monthly contributions. 
Since the end of the year, the aggregate interests of the following Director have decreased by the number of 
debentures shown against his name. 
HSBC Capital Funding (Euro 2) L.P. 5.3687% Preferred Securities 2014 EUR000
R Fassbind (beneficial owner) ................................................................................................................................................ 500
There have been no other changes in the share and loan capital interests of the Directors from 31 December 2012 to 
the date of this Report. Any subsequent changes up to the last practicable date before the publication of the Notice of
Annual General Meeting will be set out in the notes to that Notice. 
At 31 December 2012, non-executive Directors and senior management (being executive Directors and Group 
Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings) held, in aggregate, beneficial interests in 14,450,028 HSBC Holdings 
ordinary shares (0.08% of the issued ordinary shares). 
At 31 December 2012, executive Directors and senior management held, in aggregate, options to subscribe for 
357,509 of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans and HSBC 
Holdings Group Share Option Plan. These options are exercisable between 2012 and 2016 at prices ranging from 
£3.3116 to £7.2181 per ordinary share. 
Supplier payment policy 
HSBC has signed up to the Government’s Prompt Payment Code (further information on, and copies of, the Code 
can be obtained by visiting www.promptpaymentcode.org.uk).  
Our policy is to settle terms of payment with our suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that 
those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the terms of payment.  
The amount due to trade creditors at 31 December 2012 represented 39 days’ average daily purchases of goods 
and services received from such creditors, calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, as amended by 
Statutory Instrument 2008 No. 410. The average amount due to trade creditors during 2012 represented 28 days' 
average daily purchases of goods and services received from such creditors. 
Dividends and shareholders 
Dividends for 2012 
First, second and third interim dividends for 2012, each of US$0.09 per ordinary share, were paid on 5 July 2012, 
4 October 2012 and 12 December 2012 respectively. Note 10 on the Financial Statements gives more information 
on the dividends declared in 2012. On 4 March 2013, the Directors declared a fourth interim dividend for 2012 of 
US$0.18 per ordinary share in lieu of a final dividend, which will be payable on 8 May 2013 in cash in US dollars, 
or in sterling or Hong Kong dollars at exchange rates to be determined on 29 April 2013, with a scrip dividend 
alternative. As the fourth interim dividend for 2012 was declared after 31 December 2012 it has not been included  345
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
in the balance sheet of HSBC as a debt. The reserves available for distribution at 31 December 2012 
were US$38,175m. 
A quarterly dividend of US$15.50 per 6.20% non-cumulative US Dollar Preference Share, Series A (‘Series A Dollar 
Preference Share’), (equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A American Depositary Share, each of which 
represents one-fortieth of a Series A Dollar Preference Share), was paid on 15 March, 15 June, 17 September and 
17 December 2012. 
Dividends for 2013 
The proposed timetable for interim dividends in respect of 2013 on the ordinary shares is set out in the Shareholder 
Information section on page 516. 
Quarterly dividends of US$15.50 per Series A Dollar Preference Share (equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per 
Series A American Depositary Share, each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A Dollar Preference Share) 
and £0.01 per Series A Sterling Preference Share were declared on 7 February 2013 for payment on 15 March 2013. 
Communication with shareholders  
Communication with shareholders is given high priority. The Board has adopted a shareholder communication policy 
which is available on www.hsbc.com. Extensive information about our activities is provided to shareholders in the 
Annual Report and Accounts, the Annual Review and the Interim Report which are available on www.hsbc.com. 
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors and enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their 
shareholdings and our business are welcomed and are dealt with in an informative and timely manner. All 
shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting or the informal meeting of shareholders held in 
Hong Kong to discuss our progress. Shareholders may send enquiries to the Board in writing to the Group Company 
Secretary, HSBC Holdings plc, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ or by sending an email to 
shareholderquestions@hsbc.com. 
Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting as provided 
by the UK Companies Act 2006. Requests to call a general meeting may be made by members representing at least 
5% of the paid-up capital of the Company as carries the right of voting at general meetings of the Company 
(excluding any paid-up capital held as treasury shares). A request must state the general nature of the business to be 
dealt with at the meeting and may include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved and is intended to be 
moved at the meeting. A resolution may properly be moved at a meeting unless it would, if passed, be ineffective 
(whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Company's constitution or otherwise); it is defamatory 
of any person; or it is frivolous or vexatious. A request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form and must be 
authenticated by the person or persons making it. A request may be made in writing to the postal address referred to 
in the paragraph above or by sending an email to shareholderquestions@hsbc.com. At any meeting convened on such 
request no business shall be transacted except that stated by the requisition or proposed by the Board. 
Notifiable interests in share capital 
At 31 December 2012, we had received the following disclosures (which have not been subsequently changed) of 
major holdings of voting rights pursuant to the requirements of Rule 5 of the FSA Disclosure Rules and Transparency 
Rules: 
• Legal & General Group Plc gave notice on 9 March 2010 that it had a direct interest on 8 March 2010 in 
696,851,431 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, representing 3.99% of the total voting rights at that date; and 
• BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 9 December 2009 that on 7 December 2009 it had the following: an indirect 
interest in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of 1,142,439,457; qualifying financial instruments with 705,100 voting 
rights that may be acquired if the instruments are exercised or converted; and financial instruments with similar 
economic effect to qualifying financial instruments which refer to 234,880 voting rights, each representing 6.56%, 
0.0041% and 0.0013% respectively, of the total voting rights at that date. 
At 31 December 2012, according to the register maintained by HSBC Holdings pursuant to section 336 of the 
Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong: 
• JPMorgan Chase & Co. gave notice on 7 November 2012 that on 30 October 2012 it had the following interests 
in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares: a long position of 1,261,592,952 shares; a short position of 71,252,702  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Appendix – Other required disclosures > Dividends and shareholders // DRR 
346
shares; and a lending pool of 1,007,026,189 shares, each representing 6.85%, 0.39% and 5.47%, respectively, 
of the ordinary shares in issue at that date. Since 31 December 2012 and following interim notifications on 14, 
17, 23 January and 13 February 2013, JPMorgan Chase & Co. gave notice on 15 February 2013 that on 12 
February 2013 it had the following interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares: a long position of 1,294,366,810 
shares; a short position of 64,591,997 shares; and a lending pool of 1,017,759,703 shares each representing 
7.00%, 0.35% and 5.51% respectively, of the ordinary shares in issue at that date. 
• BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 10 November 2012 that on 7 November 2012 it had the following interests in 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares: a long position of 1,103,721,816 shares and a short position of 35,922,568 
shares, each representing 5.99% and 0.19%, respectively, of the ordinary shares in issue at that date. Since 
31 December 2012 and following interim notifications on 3 and 4 January 2013, BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 
8 January 2013 that on 3 January 2013 it had the following interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares: a long 
position of 1,110,172,768 shares and a short position of 35,234,325 shares, each representing 6.00% and 0.19%, 
respectively, of the ordinary shares in issue at that date. 
In compliance with the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited at 
least 25% of the total issued share capital has been held by the public at all times during 2012 and up to the date of 
this Report. 
Dealings in HSBC Holdings shares 
Except for dealings as intermediaries by HSBC Bank and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, which 
are members of a European Economic Area exchange, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries have purchased, sold or 
redeemed any of our listed securities during the year ended 31 December 2012.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
Summary letter from the Group Remuneration Committee Chairman 
347
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Report of the Group 
Remuneration Committee 
 Page App
1
Summary letter from the Group 
Remuneration Committee Chairman ... 347
Summary of remuneration policy ............. 351
Summary of 2012 remuneration outcomes  354
Additional disclosures ................................
Emoluments table ......................................... 361
Non-executive Directors’ fees ...................... 362
Other directorships ....................................... 363
Share plans .................................................... 363
Pensions ........................................................ 365
Employee compensation and benefits .......... 366
1 Appendix to Directors’ Remuneration Report
Summary letter from the Group 
Remuneration Committee Chairman 
Dear Shareholder 
This report covers the reporting period from 
1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 and provides 
details of the Group Remuneration Committee 
(‘the Committee’) and remuneration policy of the 
Company.  
This report has been prepared by the Committee 
with reference to the draft regulations put forward 
by the UK Government Department of Business, 
Innovation and Skills regarding the requirements 
for the content of a Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
The regulations will apply to all UK companies 
listed on a major stock exchange with financial years 
ending on or after October 2013, and this report is 
therefore prepared using the new standards on a 
voluntary basis, to meet best practice in reporting. 
In line with this draft legislation, the report 
is provided in three sections: the summary of the 
report, a section outlining HSBC’s forward-looking 
remuneration policy and a section setting out 
remuneration outcomes for 2012. Additional 
disclosures as required under Schedule 8 of the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 and other 
disclosure requirements are provided at the end of 
the report in the appendix. 
Remuneration strategy 
The quality and commitment of our human capital 
is fundamental to our success and accordingly the 
Board aims to attract, retain and motivate the very 
best people. As trust and relationships are vital in 
our business, our goal is to recruit those who are 
committed to maintaining a long-term career with 
the organisation. 
HSBC’s reward strategy supports this objective 
through balancing both short-term and sustainable 
performance. Our reward strategy aims to reward 
success, not failure, and be properly aligned with 
our risk framework and risk outcomes. 
In order to ensure alignment between 
remuneration and our business strategy, individual 
remuneration is determined through assessment 
of performance delivered against both annual and 
long-term objectives summarised in performance 
scorecards as well as adherence to the HSBC Values 
of being ‘open, connected and dependable’ and 
acting with ‘courageous integrity’. Altogether, 
performance is judged, not only on what is achieved 
over the short and long term, but also on how it is 
achieved, as the latter contributes to the 
sustainability of the organisation. 
The financial and non-financial measures 
incorporated in the annual and long-term scorecards 
are carefully considered to ensure alignment with the 
long-term strategy of the Group. 
Structure of remuneration 
In order to simplify remuneration, elements are 
limited to the following: 
• fixed pay; 
• benefits;
• annual incentive; and 
• the Group Performance Share Plan. 
The Group Performance Share Plan (‘GPSP’) 
was developed to incentivise senior executives to 
deliver sustainable long-term business performance. 
A key feature of the GPSP is that participants are 
required to hold the awards, once they have vested, 
until retirement, thereby enhancing the alignment of 
interest between the senior executives of the Group 
and shareholders. Further details are given on 
page 351. 
Executive Directors, Group Managing Directors 
and Group General Managers participate in both 
performance-related plans, namely the annual 
incentive and the GPSP. Other employees across the 
Group are eligible to participate in annual incentive 
arrangements. Both the annual incentive and long-
term incentive awards are funded from a single 
annual variable pay pool from which individual 
awards are considered. Funding of the Group’s 
annual variable pay pool is determined in the 
context of Group profitability, capital strength, 
and shareholder returns. This approach ensures  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
Summary letter from the Group Remuneration Committee Chairman 
348
that performance related awards for any global 
business, global function, geography or level of 
staff are considered in a holistic fashion. 
Overall performance summary of 2012 
During 2012, management continued to execute the 
Board endorsed strategy to simplify, restructure and 
grow the Group. The Group announced 26 disposals 
or closures exiting non-strategic markets and selling 
businesses and non-core investments. The Group 
also recorded an additional US$2.0bn in sustainable 
cost savings, which takes total annualised savings to 
US$3.6bn. This surpasses the cumulative target of 
US$2.5bn to US$3.5bn on sustainable savings since 
2011. A focus on positioning the business for growth 
delivered underlying revenue growth in most priority 
markets. The growth in these markets was a factor 
in generating a record reported profit before tax in 
CMB as HSBC maintained its position as the 
world’s largest global trade finance bank, as reported 
in the Oliver Wyman Global Transaction Banking 
Survey 2012.
The following summarises the Group’s 2012 
financial performance: 
• reported profit before tax fell compared with 
2011, but rose on an underlying basis; 
• underlying revenue grew by 7%, led by GB&M 
which recorded growth in the majority of its 
businesses, most notably in Credit and Rates, 
as spreads tightened and investor sentiment 
improved in Europe. CMB also recorded 
revenue growth as customer loans and advances 
increased in all regions, with over half of this 
growth coming from the faster-growing regions 
of Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and Latin 
America, driven by higher trade-related lending. 
In Europe, lending balances increased, notably 
in the UK, despite muted demand for credit. In 
addition, RBWM experienced revenue growth 
in all faster-growing regions, in particular Hong 
Kong and Latin America; 
• loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions reduced significantly, notably in 
North America, primarily reflecting the 
continued decline in lending balances and 
lower delinquency rates in CML; 
• notwithstanding the sustainable savings noted 
above, the cost efficiency ratio increased from 
57.5% in 2011 to 62.8% in 2012 and remained 
outside the Group’s target range. This was 
primarily due to fines and penalties paid as 
part of the settlement of the investigations into 
our past inadequate compliance with anti-
money laundering and sanctions laws, 
additional provisions in respect of UK customer 
redress programmes and a credit in 2011 
relating to defined benefit pension obligations 
in the UK which did not recur. The increase also 
reflected inflationary pressures on wages and 
salaries in certain of our Latin American and 
Asian markets, investment in strategic 
initiatives, including certain business expansion 
projects, enhanced processes and technology 
capabilities, and increased investment in 
regulatory and compliance infrastructure, 
primarily in the US; 
• we maintained a strong balance sheet, with a 
ratio of customer advances to customer accounts 
of 74.4%; 
• return on average ordinary shareholders’ 
equity was 8.4%, down from 10.9% in 2011, 
primarily reflecting adverse movements in the 
fair value of our own debt attributable to credit 
spreads, a higher tax charge and higher average 
shareholders’ equity;  
• dividends in respect of 2012 to our shareholders 
were increased from US$0.41 per ordinary 
share in 2011 to US$0.45 per ordinary share; 
and
• core tier 1 capital increased during 2012 
through capital generation and the reduction 
of risk-weighted assets following business 
disposals. 
Group variable pay pool 
(Unaudited) 
The 2012 Group variable pay pool was considered in 
the context of the Group’s underlying profit before 
tax. This calculation of profit excludes movements 
in the fair value of own debt attributable to credit 
spread and the impact of acquisitions and disposals 
and includes the costs of the US regulatory and law 
enforcement fines and penalties and other items of 
redress arising in 2012. For the purposes of 
considering the variable pay pool the normal profits 
from the disposed businesses up to their actual 
disposal are included in the calculation.  
Specific actions taken in respect of 2012 
• In addition to the cost of fines and penalties and 
redress being taken into account in the initial 
determination of the variable pay pool through 
their impact on underlying profits, a further 
reduction was made to the overall 2012 pool by 
the Committee to reflect the reputational damage 
incurred from the US legal and regulatory fines 
and penalties and to shift a higher proportion of 
the impact to the variable pay pool.  349
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
• Additionally, for annual incentive awards in 
respect of 2012 for executive Directors, Group 
Managing Directors and Group General 
Managers, the deferred element of the 2012 
incentive will be deferred for an extended period 
of five years and will vest subject to satisfactory 
completion of the Deferred Prosecution 
Agreements and subject to the terms of the 
GPSP.
• The Committee has further exercised its 
discretion and reduced the performance outcome 
of the 2012 long-term scorecard. For further 
details see page 357. 
• Clawback has been exercised by the Committee 
during 2012 and 2013 principally in respect of 
the US regulatory and law enforcement fines 
and penalties. 
Group 
Global Banking 
and Markets 
 2012  2011  2012   2011 
 US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
Total variable pay pool .................................................................  3,689  4,223  1,266   1,210 
 %  %  %   % 
Variable compensation incentive pool as a percentage of 
underlying pre-tax profit (pre-variable pay)
1
 ...........................  17  18  13   14 
Proportion of incentive that is deferred ........................................  17  16  28   27 
1 The 2012 Group pre-tax profit pre-variable pay calculation is described on page 348. The 2011 Group pre-tax profit pre-variable pay 
includes the add-back of restructuring costs incurred during the year, and the adjustment for movements in the fair value of own debt 
attributable to credit spread. 
Change in key metrics 
(Unaudited) 
The table and charts below show the percentage 
change in profit, dividends and overall expenditure 
on staff pay. 
 Underlying 
  profit  Dividend 
 Overall
 expenditure 
 on staff pay
 %  %  %
Change: 
2012 from 2011 ..... +18  +10  –3
On a pro forma basis, attributable profits 
(excluding movements in the fair value of own debt 
and before variable pay distributions) are allocated 
in the proportions shown in the charts below.
Pro forma post-tax profits allocation 
Retained
earnings/
capital
60%
Dividends¹
29%
Variable pay²
11%
2012
Retained
earnings/
capital
50%
Dividends¹
35%
Variable pay²
15%
2011
1 Inclusive of dividends to holders of other equity instruments and net of scrip issuance. Dividends per ordinary share declared in respect 
of 2012 were US$0.45, an increase of 10% compared with 2011. 
2 Total variable pay pool net of tax and portion to be delivered by the award of HSBC shares.
Role, membership and activities of the 
Committee 
Within the authority delegated by the Board, the 
Committee is responsible for approving the Group’s 
remuneration policy. The Committee also determines 
the remuneration of Directors, senior employees, 
employees in positions of significant influence and 
employees whose activities have or could have an 
impact on our risk profile and, in doing so, takes into 
account the pay and conditions across the Group. 
No Directors are involved in deciding their own 
remuneration. 
The members of the Committee during 2012 
were J L Thornton (Chairman), J D Coombe, 
W S H Laidlaw and G Morgan (retired as a Director 
on 25 May 2012). R Fassbind was appointed a 
member of the Committee on 1 March 2013.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
Summary letter from the Group Remuneration Committee Chairman / Summary of remuneration policy 
350
There were eight meetings of the Committee 
during 2012. The table on page 329 gives details 
of Directors’ attendance at these meetings. The 
Committee has decided to not use external advisers 
except in exceptional circumstances. During 2012, 
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer were engaged to 
provide legal advice in connection with the clawback 
process. During the year, the Group Chief Executive 
provided regular briefings to the Committee and the 
Committee received advice from the Group 
Managing Director, Group Head of Human 
Resources and Corporate Sustainability, 
A Almeida, the Group Head of Performance and 
Reward, T Roberts and the Group Chief Risk 
Officer, M M Moses, all of whom provided advice 
as part of their executive role as employees of 
HSBC. The Committee also received advice and 
feedback from the Group Risk Committee on risk-
related matters relevant to remuneration and the 
alignment of remuneration with risk appetite. 
J L Thornton 
Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee 
4 March 2013  351
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Summary of remuneration policy 
The following remuneration policy for Directors is 
subject to a binding shareholder vote every three 
years commencing with the 2013 financial year. 
Additionally, the section on service contracts and 
exit payments is also subject to the binding vote and 
can be found on page 359. 
Purpose and link to strategy  Operation and planned changes to policy Opportunity and performance metrics 
Fixed pay
Takes account of experience and 
personal contribution to the 
individual’s role. 
No fixed pay increases are proposed for executive 
Directors in 2013. 
n/a
Benefits
Takes account of local market 
practice.
Benefits include the provision of medical insurance, 
other insurance cover, tax return preparation and 
travel assistance. No changes were made to 
HSBC’s benefits policy during the year. 
n/a
Annual incentive
1
Drives and rewards performance 
against annual financial and 
non-financial measures and 
adherence to HSBC Values 
which are consistent with the 
medium to long-term strategy.
Awards are delivered in the form of cash and shares 
with the structure and deferral meeting the FSA 
Remuneration Code requirements. 
The total vesting period of deferred awards will be 
no less than 3 years as mandated under the FSA 
Remuneration Code. Where the total vesting period 
is three years the share awards will be subject to a 
six month retention period upon vesting. 
Maximum incentive is three times fixed pay. 
Performance is measured against an annual 
scorecard, based on a mixture of financial and 
non-financial measures. The scorecards vary by 
individual. Further detail on each scorecard for 
the most recent awards can be found on page 355. 
The policy for determining awards is set out on 
page 352.  
Group Performance Share 
Plan (‘GPSP’)
1
Incentivises sustainable long-
term performance and alignment 
with shareholder interests.
Award levels are determined by considering 
performance up to the date of grant against 
enduring performance measures set out in the 
long-term performance scorecard. 
The award is subject to a five-year vesting period 
during which the Committee has the authority to 
claw back all or part of the award. Please refer to 
page 353 for more details on clawback. 
On vesting, the shares (net of tax) must be retained 
until the participant retires. 
Maximum award is six times fixed pay. 
The long-term scorecard against which 
performance will be assessed in 2013 is detailed 
below. The 2013 scorecard remains consistent 
with 2012. Overall performance is to be judged on 
performance outcomes and adherence to HSBC 
Values being a gating mechanism. See page 356 
for further details. 
Pension No pension changes proposed for 2013. n/a
Non-executive Director Non-executive Directors receive only fees and are 
not eligible to receive benefits, pension or any 
annual or long-term incentives. 
The current fee, which was approved by 
shareholders in 2011, is £95,000 per annum. A fee 
of £45,000 per annum is payable to the senior 
independent non-executive Director. In addition, 
non-executive Directors received the following fees 
for service on Board Committees: 
• Group Audit, Group Risk, Group Remuneration 
and Financial System Vulnerabilities 
Committees: 
– Chairman: £50,000 
– Member: £30,000 
• Nomination and Corporate Sustainability 
Committees: 
– Chairman: £40,000 
– Member: £25,000 
n/a
1 This approach applies to all executive Directors with the exception of the Group Chairman, D J Flint, who, from 2011, is not eligible for 
annual incentive and is not expected to be granted awards under the GPSP other than in exceptional circumstances. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
Summary of remuneration policy 
352
Long-term Incentive Plan – Group Performance 
Share Plan 2013 long-term scorecard 
Measure
 Long-term 
 target range  Weighting 
Return on equity ..................  12% – 15%  15% 
Cost efficiency ratio ............  48% – 52%  15% 
Capital strength ....................  >10%  15% 
Progressive dividend payout 
within 40% - 60% range ......  40% – 60%  15% 
Strategy ................................  Judgement  20% 
Brand equity ........................ 
Top 3 rating and 
 improve US$bn 
 value  5% 
Compliance and reputation ...  Judgement  10% 
People...................................  Judgement  5% 
 100% 
Material factors taken into account when 
setting pay policy 
The Committee takes into account a variety of 
factors when determining the remuneration policy 
for Directors. A summary of these factors is 
provided below. 
Internal factors 
Funding
HSBC considers pay across the Group when 
determining remuneration levels for its executive 
Directors. Eligibility for the GPSP is restricted to 
executive Directors, Group Managing Directors and 
Group General Managers. Other employees across 
the Group are also eligible to participate in annual 
incentive arrangements. Both the annual incentive 
and long-term incentive awards are funded from a 
single annual variable pay pool from which 
individual awards are considered. 
The dilution limits set out in the HSBC share 
plans comply with the Association of British 
Insurers’ guidelines. Prior to 2012, all equity-settled 
awards of Performance Shares and Restricted Shares 
vesting under the HSBC Share Plans were satisfied 
by the transfer of existing shares held under a trust. 
To create additional core tier 1 capital and retain 
funds within HSBC, Restricted Share vestings since 
2012 have been satisfied by a mixture of existing 
shares from the trust and new issue shares. 
External factors 
Regulation
There is still a wide divergence in how regulations 
operate globally and this presents significant 
challenges to HSBC, which operates in 81 countries 
and territories worldwide. In order to deliver long-
term sustainable performance, it is important we 
have market-competitive remuneration and 
equivalence of reward across geographic boundaries 
in order to attract, motivate and retain talented and 
committed employees around the world. We ensure 
our remuneration policies are aligned with both new 
regulatory practices and the interests of shareholders 
and confirm that HSBC is fully compliant with the 
Financial Stability Board and the FSA guidance and 
rules on remuneration. 
Comparator group 
The Committee considers market data for executive 
Directors’ remuneration packages from a defined 
remuneration comparator group. This group consists 
of nine global financial services companies, namely 
Banco Santander, Bank of America, Barclays, BNP 
Paribas, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase 
& Co, Standard Chartered and UBS. These 
companies were selected on the basis of their 
broadly similar business coverage, size and 
international scope, and are subject to annual review 
for continuing relevance. 
Shareholder context 
See page 360. 
Variable pay pool determination 
The Committee considers many factors in 
determining the Group’s variable pay pool funding. 
The variable pay pool takes into account the 
performance of the Group which is considered 
within the context of our Risk Appetite Statement. 
This helps to ensure that the variable pay pool is 
shaped by risk considerations. The Risk Appetite 
Statement describes and measures the amount and 
types of risk that HSBC is prepared to take in 
executing its strategy. It shapes the integrated 
approach to business, risk and capital management 
and supports achievement of the Group’s objectives. 
The Group Chief Risk Officer regularly updates the 
Committee on the Group’s performance against 
the Risk Appetite Statement. 
The Committee uses these updates when 
considering remuneration to ensure that return, 
risk and remuneration are aligned. 
We use a counter-cyclical funding methodology 
which is categorised by both a floor and a ceiling 
and the payout ratio reduces as performance 
increases to avoid pro-cyclicality risk. The floor 
recognises that franchise protection is typically 
required irrespective of performance levels. 
The ceiling recognises that at higher levels of 
performance it is possible to limit reward as it is  353
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
not necessary to continue to increase the variable pay 
pool and thereby limiting the risk of inappropriate 
behaviour to drive financial performance. 
In addition, our funding methodology considers 
the relationship between capital, dividends and 
variable pay to ensure that the distribution of post-
tax profits between these three elements is 
considered appropriate (see page 349 for the 2012 
and the 2011 split). It is deemed fundamental to the 
Group that a majority of post-tax profit should be 
allocated to capital and to shareholders, particularly 
when a strong performance is delivered. 
Finally, the commercial requirement to remain 
competitive in the market and overall affordability 
are considered. 
Clawback 
In order to reward genuine performance and not 
failure, individual awards are made on the basis 
of a risk-adjusted view of both financial and non-
financial performance. However, if the assessment 
of performance subsequently proves to be inaccurate 
or incorrect, then unvested deferred awards made 
since 2010 can be clawed back by the Committee. 
Individual awards 
Individual awards are based on the achievement of 
both financial and non-financial objectives. These 
objectives, which are aligned with the Group’s 
strategy, are detailed in participants’ annual 
performance scorecards and the collective long-term 
performance scorecard of participants in the GPSP. 
Performance is then measured and reviewed against 
the objectives on a regular basis. 
Overall performance under both scorecards is 
judged on outcomes but most importantly, adherence 
to the HSBC Values as described on page 356 is a 
prerequisite before any individual can be considered 
for any variable pay. In other words, adherence with 
the values acts as a gating item. These values are 
key to the running of a sound, sustainable bank. 
Specifically, our most senior employees had a 
separate values rating for 2012 which directly 
influenced their overall performance rating and, 
accordingly, their variable pay. 
In addition, the global Risk and Compliance 
functions carry out annual reviews for senior 
executives and risk-takers (defined as HSBC Code 
Staff). These reviews determine whether there are 
any instances of non-compliance with Risk and 
Compliance procedures and expected behaviour. 
Instances of non-compliance are escalated to senior 
management for consideration in variable pay 
decisions, clawback and ongoing employment. 
Group-wide thematic reviews of risk are 
also carried out to determine if there are any 
transgressions which could affect the amount of 
current year variable pay or any instances where 
clawback of previously awarded variable pay is 
required. Risk and Compliance input is a critical 
part of the assessment process in determining the 
performance of HSBC Code Staff (which includes 
the executive Directors) and in ensuring that their 
individual remuneration has been appropriately 
assessed with regard to risk. 
We require a proportion of variable pay awards 
above certain thresholds to be deferred into awards 
of HSBC shares. This is to ensure that the Group’s 
interests and those of its employees are aligned 
with those of the Group’s shareholders, that the 
Group’s approach to risk management supports the 
interests of all stakeholders and that remuneration is 
consistent with effective risk management. 
In considering individual awards, a comparison 
of the pay and employment conditions of our 
employees, Directors and senior executives is 
considered by the Committee.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
Summary of remuneration policy / 2012 remuneration outcomes 
354
Remuneration scenarios 
(Unaudited) 
S T Gulliver 
Value of package (£000) Composition of package (%) 
£0 £3,000 £6,000 £9,000 £12,000 £15,000
Maximum 
Target
Minimum
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
I J Mackay 
Value of package (£000) Composition of package (%) 
£0 £3,000 £6,000 £9,000 £12,000 £15,000
Maximum 
Target
Minimum
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Fixed
1
Long-term incentive plan
3
Annual incentive
2
1 Salary paid in the year for executive Directors, taxable benefits, pension and cash in lieu of pensions. 
2 Maximum award level as stated in policy. Includes deferred portion of award. Target has been defined as 50% of the maximum award. 
3 Maximum award level as stated in policy. Target has been defined as 50% of the maximum award. The GPSP scorecard has not been 
designed with a targeted or expected value of performance. For the purposes of the new regulations 50% of the maximum award is 
deemed as target. 
The following Directors have not been included in the 
disclosure above: D J Flint who has not been eligible 
for annual incentive since 2011 and is not expected to 
be granted awards under the GPSP other than in 
exceptional circumstances, and A A Flockhart, who 
ceased to be an executive Director on 30 April 2012. 
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to receive 
incentive awards. 
Summary of 2012 remuneration outcomes 
Single figure of remuneration for each executive Director 
(Unaudited) 
 Base salary  Benefits
1
 Pension
3
 Annual 
 incentives 
 Long-term 
 incentive 
 2012 
 total 
 2011 
 total 
 £000  £000  £000  £000  £000  £000   £000 
Executive Directors 
D J Flint ........................ 1,500 855 – – – 2,355 2,348 
A A Flockhart
2
 .............. 325 239 6 – – 570 3,639 
S T Gulliver .................. 1,250 1,220 13 1,950 3,000 7,433 8,047 
I J Mackay .................... 700 421 – 1,348 1,400 3,869 3,213 
1 The emoluments table on page 361 provides further details on the benefits included.
2 Ceased to be an executive Director on 30 April 2012. 
3 As disclosed on page 358. 
• Base salary: salary paid in year for executive 
Directors.
• Benefits: taxable benefits including cash in lieu 
of pension. 
• Annual incentive: annual incentive award cash 
and share payments (including deferred awards) 
for the 2012 performance year. The outcomes of 
the performance conditions which determined 
the award are described in the next section. 
Forty per cent of the annual incentive in respect 
of the 2012 performance year is non-deferred. 
The non-deferred incentive is split between 50% 
cash and 50% payable in HSBC Holdings 
Restricted Shares, which are subject to a six-
month retention period. 60% of the full annual 
incentive award is deferred equally between 
cash and shares and vests 100% after five years 
subject to the successful completion of the 
Deferred Prosecution Agreements and subject to 
the terms of the Plan.  355
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
• Long-term incentives: long-term incentives 
include all other awards where final vesting is 
determined as a result of the achievement of 
performance conditions that end in the year 
being reported on. For 2012 this would only 
include the 2013 GPSP. 
The GPSP awards to be granted in 2013 in 
respect of 2012 were assessed against the 2012 long-
term scorecard detailed on page 357. The award is 
subject to a five-year vesting period during which 
the Committee has the authority to claw back part 
or all of the award. On vesting, the net of tax shares 
must be retained until the participant retires.
Variable pay outcomes 
(Unaudited) 
   S T Gulliver I J Mackay 
 Maximum 
 multiple 
 2012 
 multiple 
 awarded 
 2012 
 £000 
 2011 
 £000 
 2012 
 multiple 
 awarded 
 2012 
 £000 
 2011 
 £000 
Salary
1
.........................................  1.00   1.00  1,250  1,250  1.00  700   700 
Annual incentive
2
........................  3.00   1.56  1,950  2,156  1.92  1,348   1,086 
GPSP Awards
3
............................  6.00   2.40  3,000  3,750  2.00  1,400   700 
Total ............................................     6,200  7,156  3,448   2,486 
1 As disclosed in the Directors’ emoluments table on page 361. 
2 50% of the annual incentive is delivered in cash with the remaining 50% in shares. 60% of the annual incentive for 2012 is deferred for 
five years. 100% vests on the fifth anniversary of grant subject to the successful completion of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement.
During the vesting period the Committee has the authority to claw back part or all of the award. 
3 As disclosed in the 2012 long-term scorecard and performance outcome on page 357. The award is subject to a five-year vesting period
during which the Committee has the authority to claw back part or all of the award. On vesting the net of tax shares must be retained
until the participant retires. 
Annual incentive 
  Maximum face 
 value of award 
 Performance 
 outcome 
 Awards 
 made 
Director    
S T Gulliver ...........................................................  300%  52%  156% 
I J Mackay .............................................................  300%  64%  192% 
Determining executive Directors’ 
performance 
S T Gulliver 
The annual incentive award made to S T Gulliver 
in respect of 2012 reflected the Committee’s 
assessment of the extent to which he had achieved 
the personal and corporate objectives set for him 
within his performance scorecard as agreed by 
the Board at the beginning of the year. This 
measurement took into account his performance 
against both the financial and non-financial measures 
which had been set to reflect the risk appetite and 
strategic priorities determined by the Board to be 
appropriate for 2012. 
In order for any award of annual incentive to 
be made under the above performance scorecard, 
the Committee firstly had to satisfy itself that 
S T Gulliver had personally met and shown 
leadership in promoting HSBC Values. This over-
riding test assessed behaviour around the HSBC 
Values principles of being ‘open, connected and 
dependable’ and acting with ‘courageous integrity’. 
Independent feedback was taken from direct reports 
and others lower in the organisation as well as from 
the Group Chairman. Taking this into account 
as well as its own experience and observation, 
including noting how S T Gulliver had dealt with 
situations where HSBC Values had not been met, 
the Committee concluded that S T Gulliver had 
exhibited strong leadership and personal behaviour 
in this area and so met the required standard. 
In aggregate, in assessing the calibration of 
S T Gulliver’s 2012 annual incentive against his 
theoretical maximum opportunity of three times 
base salary, an overall score of 52% (2011: 57.5%) 
of that maximum opportunity was judged to have 
been achieved. The achievement of the financial 
element of the scorecard was scored marginally 
higher than the non-financial measures. A summary 
of the assessment and rationale for the conclusions is 
set out below. Unless otherwise indicated, the 
figures in parentheses denote the opportunity within 
the scorecard.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
2012 remuneration outcomes 
356
Financial (60% weighting – achieved 32%) 
The Committee continued to judge Capital Strength 
(10%) and Dividend Payout (10%) as critically 
important reflections of financial performance 
as they encapsulate a number of key factors of 
importance to shareholders. In essence these 
elements demonstrate a combination of profit 
generation, control of capital usage, cash availability 
at the holding company and regulatory satisfaction 
with the preceding factors sufficient to support 
HSBC’s progressive dividend policy. In essence 
these elements are important indicators of the 
sustainability of shareholder reward. Reflecting a 
higher dividend in 2012 and a stronger core tier 1 
capital ratio, the Committee awarded full weighting 
of these elements of the scorecard. 
An opportunity of 15% was available in respect 
of delivering pre-tax profit improvement (on the 
underlying basis described on page 352 used to 
assess management performance) and this was 
judged to have been substantially met with the 
Committee awarding 80% of the available 
opportunity (12% award). Driving this assessment 
were the strong performances across the faster 
growing markets, particularly in Hong Kong, the 
turnaround in GB&M’s performance in Europe, the 
delivery of above target sustainable cost savings and 
lower loan impairment charges driven by marked 
improvement in the United States. 
Return on Equity (15%) did not meet the 
benchmark return. The Cost Efficiency Ratio (15%) 
also fell outside the required measure, in large part 
attributable to the significant regulatory and law 
enforcement fines and penalties incurred in the US 
and customer redress costs suffered in the UK. 
Non-financial (40% weighting – achieved 20%) 
25% of the available opportunity in this area related 
to Strategy Execution and 80% was judged to 
have been achieved (20% awarded). This strong 
performance reflected a combination of growing 
capital deployment into targeted areas of 
opportunity, particularly into faster growing markets, 
strategic cost efficiency initiatives successfully 
deployed, evidence of further benefits from global 
business integration, progress on building wealth 
management revenues and personal commitment to 
developing client relationships. 
The final opportunity under non-financial 
measures (15%) related to Risk and Compliance and 
in light of the US regulatory and law enforcement 
fines and penalties and further customer redress in 
the UK, no award was made under this element. 
The same deliberations and assessments with 
regard to performance and adherence to HSBC 
Values were undertaken by the Committee with 
regard to the performance of I J Mackay. This is 
summarised below. 
I J Mackay 
The performance scorecard for I J Mackay was 
weighted 30% financial, 70% non-financial. In 
aggregate, in assessing the quantum of the 2012 
annual incentive against the theoretical maximum 
opportunity of three times base salary, an overall 
score of 64% of that maximum opportunity was 
judged to have been achieved. 
The Committee considered that performance 
against the financial targets of Cost Disciplines and 
Capital and Liquidity Management had been met 
or were in progress. 
The Committee considered that performance 
against the non-financial targets including People, 
Reporting and Planning, Maintaining a Strong 
Control Environment and Regulatory Change had 
been met or were in progress. With regard to 
Compliance and Reputation, in light of the US 
regulatory and law enforcement fines and penalties 
and further customer redress in the UK no award 
was made under this element of the scorecard. 
Awards under the GPSP 
Awards to be granted in 2013 in respect of 2012 
were assessed against the 2012 long-term scorecard 
published in last year’s Annual Report and Accounts
and reproduced below. 
The performance assessment under the 2012 
long-term scorecard took into account achievements 
under both financial and non-financial objectives 
both of which were set within the context of the risk 
appetite and strategic direction agreed by the Board. 
Notwithstanding the detail or extent of 
performance delivery against the objectives, an 
individual’s eligibility for a GPSP award requires 
confirmation of adherence to HSBC Values which 
acts in effect as a gating mechanism to GPSP 
participation. Within the GPSP, the weighting 
between financial and non-financial measures 
in respect of 2012 was set at 60% and 40% 
respectively.  
In aggregate in respect of the objectives set 
for 2012, and in light of the significance of the legal 
and regulatory fines and penalties incurred in 2012, 
an overall performance outcome of 40% (2011:50%) 
of the scorecard was judged to have been achieved; 
this outcome applies to all eligible participants in the  357
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
GPSP. A summary of the assessment and rationale 
for the conclusions is set out below. Figures in 
parentheses reflect the available opportunity under 
the GPSP. 
Measure
 Long-term 
 target range  Weighting 
 Actual 2012 
 performance  Outcome 
Return on equity ...........................................................  12% – 15%  15%  8.4%¹  0% 
Cost efficiency ratio .....................................................  48% – 52%  15%  62.8%¹  0% 
Capital strength .............................................................  > 10%  15%  12.3%¹  15.0% 
Dividends (payout ratio) ...............................................  40% – 60%  15%  55.4%¹  15.0% 
Strategy .........................................................................  Judgement  20%  Judgement  15.0% 
Brand equity .................................................................  Top 3 rating and 
 improve US$bn value 
 5%  Top 3 rating but 
 drop in value² 
 0% 
Compliance and reputation ...........................................  Judgement  10%  Not met  0% 
People and values .........................................................  Judgement  5%  Judgement  3.75% 
Performance outcome ...................................................  100%  48.75% 
Committee discretion.....................................................  40.00% 
1 As reported in the Annual Report and Accounts 2012. 
2 Based on results from The Brand Finance® Banking 500 2013 survey.
The performance outcome of 40% was then applied 
to maximum face values (expressed as a percentage 
of salary) for each participant. The awards to be 
made in respect of 2012 are detailed below. 
 Maximum face 
 value of award 
 Performance  
 outcome 
 Awards 
 made 
Director    
S T Gulliver .....................................................................................  600%  40%  240% 
I J Mackay .......................................................................................  500%  40%  200% 
Financial (60% weighting – achieved 30%)
The opportunity of 60% was equally split in 2012 
between Capital Strength, Dividend Progression, 
Return on Equity and Cost Efficiency ratio. 
While the annual assessment looked at point in 
time achievement of the same performance elements, 
under the long-term plan consideration was given to 
progress made towards stated targets where these 
had not been met in the short term and to the 
sustainability of positive short-term performance. 
With regard to Capital Strength, the Committee 
considered favourably the steps taken to meet the 
Basel III targets in the accelerated timetable being 
required by the Group’s lead regulator. In addition to 
achieved and planned operating profit generation, 
the Committee noted favourably the extensive 
capital generated from business disposals, both 
from gains realised on sale and from release of risk-
weighted assets. Further support for a positive view 
of performance accrued from actions noted as having 
been taken to reduce the capital drag from legacy 
assets and exit portfolios and from steps being taken 
to mitigate the impact of the more onerous capital 
requirements arising from regulatory changes yet 
to take effect. Having reviewed these factors the 
Committee awarded the full opportunity (15%). 
On Dividend Progression, the Committee noted 
favourably the capacity to maintain a progressive 
policy, subject to performance, reflected in the 
Group’s capital position, its distributable reserves, 
its cash position and its planning assumptions. The 
Committee also noted external commentary on 
dividend paying capacity and regulatory interactions 
around the Group’s capital position. Having 
considered these factors the Committee awarded 
the full opportunity (15%). 
As noted in the assessment of the annual 
performance awards, the Group has not yet 
reached its target Return on Equity of 12-15%. The 
Committee deliberated on the benefits arising from 
the considerable restructuring and reshaping of the 
business which has been undertaken under the 
Group’s Six Filters framework, the delivery of 
sustainable cost savings ahead of target, the growth 
being achieved from investment in faster growing 
markets and the progress made in run-off of the exit 
portfolios and in reducing legacy underperforming 
assets. The Committee also reflected on the 
additional costs that would be incurred and revenues 
foregone from the programme of strengthening 
controls and compliance which is underway and 
from applying global standards in all markets. There 
was also note made of the continuing uncertainties 
from an incomplete regulatory reform agenda, 
from contingent legal risks and of the continuing 
significant customer redress costs from legacy 
activities being borne. As a consequence the 
Committee felt unable to make any award under 
this opportunity (15%).  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
2012 remuneration outcomes 
358
Similarly under the Cost Efficiency Ratio 
(‘CER’) element of the scorecard, despite good 
progress on sustainable cost savings the CER 
remains well above the target range of 48-52%. 
The Committee noted that a major element of the 
underperformance relates to legal and regulatory 
fines and penalties and customer redress costs which 
it cannot view as non-recurring. As a consequence 
the Committee judged that no award could be made 
under this opportunity (15%).  
Non-financial (40% weighting – achieved 18.75%)
Half the opportunity in this section related to the 
execution of strategic priorities laid down by the 
Board (20%). In assessing performance the 
Committee noted but looked beyond the short-term 
deliverables of targeted disposals and investments to 
review the frameworks being established to improve 
capital deployment, establish and enforce Global 
Standards, improve cost efficiency while 
maintaining strong operational and risk controls 
and enhance global business co-operation and 
integration. The Committee concluded that it 
would be an appropriate reflection of management 
achievement to award 75% of the available 
opportunity, namely 15%. 
A separate but connected appraisal was made 
of the human aspect of long-term strategy delivery 
where the Committee looked at recruitment of key 
personnel to fill critical roles, succession planning, 
values training and enforcement and the retention, 
motivation and collegiality of the senior 
management team in what had been a stressed 
environment. Once again the Committee awarded 
75% of the available opportunity of 5%, adding 
3.75% to the scorecard. 
With regard to Compliance and Reputation 
(10%) given the legal and regulatory fines and 
penalties incurred in 2012 and the continuation of 
significant further customer redress costs in the 
UK, the Committee concluded no award could be 
contemplated. 
This conclusion was followed through when 
assessing Brand Equity (5%) which technically 
scored 50% of the available opportunity as HSBC 
maintained a top three ranking in its peer group. The 
Committee used its discretion to reduce this award to 
nil in light of the reputational damage incurred from 
the US legal and regulatory fines and penalties. 
This performance assessment resulted in an 
overall score of 48.75%. Notwithstanding this, 
taking into account the significance of the legal and 
regulatory fines and penalties incurred in 2012 the 
Committee determined that the initial performance 
outcome should be reduced further to give a final 
performance outcome for 2012 of 40%. 
Contributions and allowances in lieu of 
pension entitlements 
D J Flint received an allowance of 50% of annual 
basic salary in lieu of personal pension 
arrangements. The allowance for 2012 amounted 
to £750,000. 
A A Flockhart retired as an executive Director 
on 30 April 2012 and until that date received 
employer contributions of 1.8% of basic salary into a 
pension plan and an allowance of 48.2% of basic 
salary. The employer contributions and the 
allowance for 1 January 2012 to 30 April 2012 
amounted to £162,500. 
S T Gulliver received employer contributions of 
4% of basic salary into a personal pension plan and 
an allowance of 46% of basic salary from 1 January 
2012 to 31 March 2012. From 1 April 2012, 
S T Gulliver received an allowance of 50% of basic 
salary in lieu of personal pension arrangements. The 
employer contributions and the allowance for the 
whole of 2012 amounted to £625,000. 
I J Mackay received an allowance of 50% of 
annual basic salary in lieu of personal pension 
arrangements. The allowance for 2012 amounted 
to £350,000. 
TSR Chart  
HSBC TSR and FTSE100 index  
Pursuant to the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 
2008, the graph below shows the TSR performance 
against the FTSE 100 Index for the five-year period 
ended 31 December 2012. The FTSE 100 Index has 
been chosen as this is a recognised broad equity 
market index of which HSBC Holdings is a member. 
70%
80%
90%
100%
110%
120%
Dec 2007 Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012
HSBC TSR FTSE 100
Source: International Data Corporation 359
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Service contracts and exit payments 
Our policy is to employ executive Directors on one 
year rolling contracts although longer initial terms 
may be approved by the Committee if considered 
appropriate. The Committee will, consistent with 
the best interests of the Group, seek to minimise 
termination payments. 
Director Contract date 
(rolling)
Notice period 
(Director & HSBC) 
Compensation on termination by the company without 
notice or cause 
D J Flint 14 February 2011 12 months Payment in lieu of notice equal to fixed pay, pension 
entitlements and other benefits. 
A A Flockhart¹ 14 February 2011 12 months Payment in lieu of notice equal to fixed pay, pension 
entitlements and other benefits. Eligible to be considered 
for a variable pay award upon termination of employment 
other than where the executive has resigned or the 
Company has terminated the executive’s employment with 
the contractual right to do so. 
S T Gulliver
2
10 February 2011 12 months Payment in lieu of notice equal to fixed pay, pension 
entitlements and other benefits. Eligible to be considered 
for a variable pay award upon termination of employment 
other than where the executive has resigned or the 
Company has terminated the executive’s employment with 
the contractual right to do so. 
I J Mackay 4 February 2011 12 months Payment in lieu of notice equal to fixed pay, pension 
entitlements and other benefits. Eligible to be considered 
for a variable pay award upon termination of employment 
other than where the executive has resigned or the 
Company has terminated the executive’s employment with 
the contractual right to do so.
1 Service contract terminated on 30 April 2012 – the date of retirement as an executive Director. 
2 The other benefits as part of the payment in lieu of notice do not include the accommodation and car provided in Hong Kong. 
Exit payments made in year 
A A Flockhart retired for health reasons as an 
executive of the Group and from his position as 
Chairman of Europe, Middle East, Africa, Latin 
America, Commercial Banking on 30 April 2012. 
A A Flockhart remained on the Board up to 31 July 
2012 in a non-executive Director capacity. Upon 
retirement on 30 April 2012, A A Flockhart received 
no compensation for loss of office other than 
contractual retirement benefits and was granted 
good leaver status on his unvested deferred cash and 
share awards as per the HSBC Share Plan rules. 
Subject to the terms of the Plan, the awards will vest 
in line with the vesting schedule at time of grant. 
Share ownership guidelines 
To ensure appropriate alignment with our 
shareholders, we operate a formal share ownership 
policy, expressed as a number of shares, for 
executive Directors and Group Managing Directors. 
The Committee considers that material share 
ownership by executives creates a community 
of interest between senior management and 
shareholders. 
Under the existing guidelines, the 
shareholding is expected to be achieved within 
five years of the executive’s appointment. All 
executive Directors exceed the expected holdings. 
Shareholding requirements for the Group executive 
Directors and Group Managing Directors are set out 
below. The Directors’ shareholdings at 31 December 
2012 are also set out below. There are no 
shareholding requirements for non-executive 
Directors. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
2012 remuneration outcomes / Appendix to DRR > Additional disclosures 
360
At 31 December 2012 
(or date of retirement) 
Shares awarded subject to deferral
Shareholding 
 requirement 
 (number) 
 Shares 
 legally 
  owned
1
 without
  performance
  conditions
2
 with
  performance
 conditions 
 Total  
  shareholding
3
  (number) 
 Estimated 
 value 
 £000 
Executive Directors  
D J Flint ............................... 400,000 313,326 211,269 – 524,595 3,394 
A A Flockhart
4
..................... 200,000 978,077
4
568,973
4
– 1,547,050
4
10,008
5
S T Gulliver ......................... 600,000 2,730,477 2,448,515 – 5,178,992 33,503 
I J Mackay ........................... 200,000 118,813 417,392 – 536,205 3,469 
Group Managing Directors
6
  125,000 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Non-executive Directors 
J D Coombe ......................... n/a 22,387 n/a n/a 22,387 145
R A Fairhead ........................ n/a 21,300 n/a n/a 21,300 138
W S H Laidlaw .................... n/a 32,252 n/a n/a 32,252 209
J P Lipsky ............................ n/a 15,000
7
n/a n/a 15,000
7
97
8
G Morgan ............................. n/a 84,347
9
n/a n/a 84,347
9
546
10
Sir Simon Robertson ............ n/a 9,486 n/a n/a 9,486 61
J L Thornton ........................ n/a 10,250
11
n/a n/a 10,250
11
66
8
Sir Brian Williamson ........... n/a 40,164
9
n/a n/a 40,164
9
260
10
  1 Includes interests held as beneficial owner and interests held by connected persons and excludes interests held non-beneficially as 
trustee.
  2 Includes GPSP awards which are made following an assessment of performance over the prior year but are then awarded subject to a
five-year vesting period. 
  3 For the purposes of our shareholding guidelines, unvested awards of Restricted Shares and GPSP awards are included. 
  4 Interests at 31 July 2012, the date of retirement as a Director. 
  5 Estimated value at 31 July 2012, the date of retirement as a Director. 
  6 All of the Group Managing Directors except one (who was appointed a Group Managing Director during 2012 and is therefore within
the five years permitted to achieve the expected holding) exceed the expected holdings. 
  7 Interest in 3,000 listed American Depositary Shares (‘ADS’), which are categorised as equity derivatives under Part XV of the 
Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong. Each ADS represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. 
  8 The ADS closing price on 31 December 2012 on the New York Stock Exchange was US$53.07. 
  9 Interests at 25 May 2012, the date of retirement as a Director. 
10 Estimated value at 25 May 2012, the date of retirement as a Director. 
11 Interest of spouse in 2,050 listed ADS.
The Committee monitors compliance with the 
share ownership guidelines annually. The Committee 
has full discretion in determining any penalties in 
cases of non-compliance, which could include a 
reduction of future awards of GPSP and/or an 
increase in the proportion of the annual variable 
pay that is deferred into shares. 
Shareholder context 
During the year the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee met with institutional shareholders to 
collect their views on current and developing 
remuneration practices. The Group considers these 
meetings vital to ensure that our reward strategy 
continues to be aligned with the long-term interests 
of our shareholders. 
The table below shows the advisory vote on the 
2011 Directors’ Remuneration Report at the May 
2012 Annual General Meeting. 
 Number of 
 votes cast  For  Against  Withheld 
Advisory vote on 2011 remuneration report ........  8,467,146,094  7,603,837,582 
 (89.80%) 
 863,308,512 
 (10.20%) 
 342,947,482  361
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Appendix to Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Additional disclosures
This appendix provides disclosures required under Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, and by the FSA. 
The following table shows the 2012 total remuneration of the Group Chairman and executive Directors of HSBC 
Holdings with annual incentives disclosed on a 2012 performance year basis, pursuant to the UK Listing Rules. 
Explanations of the constituent parts of the incentives calculated pursuant to the UK Companies Act 2006 and the 
UK Listing Rules are given in footnotes 4 and 5, respectively. 
Directors’ remuneration 
(Audited)
 D J Flint A A Flockhart
1
 S T Gulliver  I J Mackay
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Salary, allowances and benefits in kind .......... 2,355 2,348 564 1,578 2,470 2,043 1,121 1,427 
Annual incentive
2
............................................. – – – 1,926 1,950 2,156 1,348 1,086 
Total remuneration .......................................... 2,355 2,348 564 3,504 4,420 4,199 2,469 2,513 
US$000
Total remuneration .......................................... 3,732
3
3,763 894 5,616 7,004 6,729 3,913 4,027 
Emoluments table 
The following table shows the 2012 emoluments of the Group Chairman and executive Directors of HSBC Holdings, 
with annual incentives disclosed on an actual paid basis, pursuant to section 421 of the UK Companies Act 2006 and 
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008: 
Directors’ emoluments 
(Audited) 
D J Flint A A Flockhart
1
 S T Gulliver  I J Mackay
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Salary ............................................................... 1,500 1,500 325 975 1,250 1,250 700 700
Allowances
4
..................................................... 750 750 207 366 613 527 350 364
Benefits in kind
5
............................................... 105 98 32 237 607 266 71 363
Prior years deferred annual incentive now 
released
6
 ......................................................... 1,364 1,054 218 857 5,648 3,697 275 12
Current year non-deferred annual incentive
7
... – – – 770 780 862 539 434
Total emoluments ............................................ 3,719 3,402 782 3,205 8,898 6,602 1,935 1,873 
US$000
Total emoluments ............................................ 5,893 5,452 1,239 5,136 14,100 10,581 3,066 3,002 
1 Retired as an executive Director on 30 April 2012. 
2 The annual incentive for 2012 comprises the deferred and non-deferred annual incentives. 
3 The reduction in Total Remuneration in US$ between 2012 and 2011 is due to foreign exchange movements.
4 Allowances include an executive allowance paid to fund personal pension arrangements.
5 Benefits in kind include provision of medical insurance, other insurance cover, tax return preparation and travel assistance. S T Gulliver 
is also provided with HSBC-owned accommodation whilst in Hong Kong. In accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, the taxable rental value of the property is shown for the whole period 
notwithstanding that it is only occupied when S T Gulliver is in Hong Kong. 
6 Where applicable, comprise, subject to the rules of the respective share plans: (i) the estimated monetary value of 33% of the award of 
HSBC Holdings Restricted Shares will vest on 12 March 2013 arising from the 2011 annual incentive awarded in March 2012 that was
partly deferred into awards of HSBC Holdings Restricted Shares; (ii) the estimated monetary value of 33% of the award of HSBC 
Holdings Restricted Shares that will vest on 4 March 2013 arising from the 2010 annual incentive awarded in March 2011 that was
partly deferred into awards of HSBC Holdings Restricted Shares; (iii) the estimated monetary value of the remainder of the award of 
HSBC Holdings Restricted Shares that will vest on 5 March 2013 arising from the 2009 annual incentive awarded in March 2010 that
was fully deferred into awards of HSBC Restricted Shares; and (iv) 33% of the deferred cash award that will vest on 15 March 2013
arising from the 2010 annual incentive awarded in March 2011.  
7 Comprises 40% of the annual incentive in respect of the 2012 performance year that is non-deferred. The non-deferred incentive is 
payable in HSBC Holdings Restricted Shares, 50% of which are subject to a six month retention period.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Appendix to DRR > Additional disclosures 
362
Non-executive Directors’ fees 
Non-executive Directors’ fees are regularly reviewed and compared with other large international companies of 
comparable complexity. The current fee, which was approved by shareholders in 2011, is £95,000 per annum. 
A fee of £45,000 per annum is payable to the senior independent non-executive Director. In addition, non-executive 
Directors received the following fees for service on Board Committees: 
Board Committee annual fees 
 Chairman Member 
 Number of
 meetings
 held during
 £000 £000  2012
Group Audit Committee ............................................................................................. 50 30 5
Group Risk Committee ............................................................................................... 50 30 7
Group Remuneration Committee ............................................................................... 50 30 8
Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee
1
 ........................................................... 50 30 –
Nomination Committee .............................................................................................. 40 25 4
Corporate Sustainability Committee .......................................................................... 40 25 4
1 Established on 18 January 2013. 
Fees paid to non-executive Directors 
(Audited) 
2012 2011
£000 £000
S A Catz .................................................................................................................................................... 95 95
L M L Cha
1
............................................................................................................................................... 548 465
M K T Cheung
2
......................................................................................................................................... 166 165
J D Coombe .............................................................................................................................................. 205 205
J Faber
3
 ..................................................................................................................................................... 104 –
R A Fairhead ............................................................................................................................................. 200 200
A A Flockhart
4
 .......................................................................................................................................... 70 –
J W J Hughes-Hallett ................................................................................................................................ 138 150
W S H Laidlaw ......................................................................................................................................... 125 125
J P Lipsky
3
 ................................................................................................................................................ 119 –
J R Lomax ................................................................................................................................................. 155 155
G Morgan
5
 ................................................................................................................................................ 50 125
N R N Murthy
6
 .......................................................................................................................................... 135 135
Sir Simon Robertson ................................................................................................................................. 180 166
J L Thornton
7
............................................................................................................................................ 1,092 1,081 
Sir Brian Williamson
5
 ............................................................................................................................... 48 120
Total
8
 ......................................................................................................................................................... 3,430 3,187 
Total (US$000)
8
 ........................................................................................................................................ 5,435 5,108 
1 Includes fees as non-executive Director and Deputy Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and a 
member of its nomination committee. 
2 Includes fees as non-executive Director and member of the audit committee of Hang Seng Bank Limited. 
3 Appointed on 1 March 2012. 
4 A non-executive Director from 1 May to 31 July 2012. Includes fees as a non-executive Director and Chairman of HSBC Bank plc and a 
non-executive Director of HSBC Bank Middle East Limited from 1 May to 31 July 2012. 
5 Retired on 25 May 2012.
6 Retired on 31 December 2012. 
7 Includes fees as non-executive Chairman of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 
8 Total fees for 2011 and 2012 include the fees of non-executive Directors who retired in that year. 
Non-executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms not exceeding three years, subject to their re-election by 
shareholders at Annual General Meetings. Non-executive Directors have no service contract and are not eligible to 
participate in our share plans. Non-executive Directors’ current terms of appointment will expire as follows: 
• in 2013, R A Fairhead;
• in 2014, S A Catz, L M L Cha, J D Coombe, J W J Hughes-Hallett and W S H Laidlaw; and 
• in 2015, M K T Cheung, J Faber, J P Lipsky, J R Lomax, Sir Simon Robertson and J L Thornton.  363
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Subject to their re-election by shareholders, the terms of appointment of R Fassbind and J B Comey will expire in 
2016.
Other directorships 
Executive Directors, if so authorised by either the Nomination Committee or the Board, may accept appointments 
as non-executive directors of suitable companies which are not part of HSBC. Approval will not be given for 
an executive Director to accept a non-executive directorship of more than one FTSE 100 company nor the 
chairmanship of such a company. When considering a non-executive appointment, the Nomination Committee 
or Board will take into account the expected time commitment of such appointment. The time commitment for 
executive Directors’ external appointments will be reviewed as part of the annual Board review. Any remuneration 
receivable in respect of an external appointment is normally paid to HSBC, unless otherwise approved by the 
Nomination Committee. 
Share Plans
At 31 December 2012, the undernamed Directors held options and awards of Restricted Shares under the HSBC 
Share Plan and the HSBC Share Plan 2011 (including conditional awards of shares under the GPSP) to acquire the 
number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares set against their respective names. 
HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans  
(Audited) 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
 Dates of  Exercise Exercisable
 At 
 1 Jan 
 At
 31 Dec 2012 
 (or date of 
 award  price (£)  from
1
 until   2012  retirement) 
D J Flint .............................................  25 Apr 2007  6.1760  1 Aug 2012  31 Jan 2013 2,650 2,650 
D J Flint .............................................  24 Apr 2012  4.4621  1 Aug 2015  31 Jan 2016 – 2,016 
A A Flockhart ....................................  29 Apr 2009  3.3116  1 Aug 2014  31 Jan 2015 4,529 –
2
 US$   
I J Mackay .........................................  30 Apr 2008  11.8824  1 Aug 2011  31 Jan 2012 1,531 –
3
The HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans are all-employee share plans under which eligible employees may be granted
options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. Employees may make contributions of up to £250 (or equivalent) each month over a 
period of one, three or five years which may be used on the first, third or fifth anniversary of the commencement of the relevant savings 
contract, at the employee’s election, to exercise the options. The plans help align the interests of employees with the creation of 
shareholder value. The options were awarded for nil consideration and are exercisable at a 20% discount to the average market value of 
the ordinary shares on the five business days immediately preceding the invitation date. There are no performance criteria conditional
upon which the outstanding options are exercisable and there have been no variations to the terms and conditions since the awards were 
made. The market value per ordinary share at 31 December 2012 was £6.47. The highest and lowest market values per ordinary share
during the year were £6.55 and £4.91. Market value is the mid-market price derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List 
on the relevant date. Under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the options are categorised as unlisted physically settled 
equity derivatives. 
1 May be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, e.g. retirement. 
2 Options lapsed on 31 October 2012 following the end of the six month period following retirement within which employees may exercise
options under the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans. A A Flockhart retired as an employee on 30 April 2012. 
3 Option lapsed on 31 January 2012 following the end of the exercise period.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Appendix to DRR > Additional disclosures 
364
Awards of Restricted Shares  
HSBC Share Plan  
(Audited) 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
 Year in 
 which 
 Awards 
 held at 
Awards made 
during year 
Awards vested 
during year 
 Awards 
 held at
31 Dec 2012 
 Date of 
 award 
 awards 
 may vest 
 1 Jan
 2012  Number 
 Monetary
 value  Number 
 Monetary 
 value 
 (or date of 
 retirement)
1
£000 £000
D J Flint ............  1 Mar 2010   2011-2013
2
220,201 – – 111,340
3
617 116,700 
  15 Mar 2011   2012-2014
2
133,280 – – 44,516
4
256 94,569 
A A Flockhart
5
 ..  2 Mar 2009   2012  535,162 – – 541,651
6
3,028 –
  1 Mar 2010   2011-2013
2
212,927 – – 107,662
3
596 110,704 
  15 Mar 2011   2012-2014
2
86,062 – – 28,745
4
165 59,906 
S T Gulliver ......  1 Mar 2010   2011-2013
2
943,723 – – 477,174
3
2,644 500,148 
  15 Mar 2011    2012-2014
2
825,072 – – 275,575
4
1,585 585,436 
I J Mackay ........  2 Mar 2009   2012  104,244 – – 105,508
6
590 –
  1 Mar 2010   2011-2013
2
41,263 – – 20,864
3
116 21,868 
  15 Mar 2011   2012-2014
2
35,954 – – 12,008
4
69 25,513 
Vesting of Restricted Share awards is normally subject to the Director remaining an employee on the vesting date. The vesting date may be 
advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, e.g. death. Under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, interests in 
Restricted Share awards are categorised as the interests of a beneficial owner. 
1 Includes additional shares arising from scrip dividends. 
2 33% of the award vests on each of the first and second anniversaries of the date of the award, with the balance vesting on the third
anniversary of the date of the award. In the case of the awards granted on 15 March 2011 the shares (net of tax) are subject to a six 
month retention period following each vesting date. 
3 At the date of vesting, 27 February 2012, the market value per share was £5.54. The market value per share on the date of the award,
1 March 2010, was £6.82.  
4 At the date of vesting, 15 March 2012, the market value per share was £5.75. The market value per share on the date of the award, 
15 March 2011, was £6.46. 
5 Retired as an executive Director on 30 April 2012. The vesting of the awards will continue in line with the vesting schedule set at the 
date of grant and will also continue to accrue scrip dividends subject to the terms of the Plan. 
6 At the date of vesting, 5 March 2012, the market value per share was £5.59.  The market value per share on the date of the award, 2 
March 2009, was £3.99. 
Awards of Restricted Shares 
HSBC Share Plan 2011 
(Audited) 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
 Year in 
 which 
 Awards 
 held at 
Awards made 
during year 
Awards vested 
during year 
 Awards 
 held at
31 Dec 2012 
 Date of 
 award  
 awards 
 may vest 
 1 Jan
 2012  Number 
 Monetary
 value  Number 
 Monetary 
 value 
 (or date of 
 retirement)
1
£000 £000
A A Flockhart
2
 ...... 28 Feb 2012
3
  2012  – 68,941 385 68,941 385 –
 12 Mar 2012
4
 2013-2015  – 207,546 1,154 – – 213,044 
 12 Mar 2012
5
 2012  – 69,182 385 69,182 385 –
S T Gulliver .......... 28 Feb 2012
3
 2012  – 77,167 431 77,167 431 –
 12 Mar 2012
4
 2013-2015  – 232,312 1,292 – – 243,078 
 12 Mar 2012
5
  2012  – 77,437 431 77,437 431 –
I J Mackay ............ 28 Feb 2012
3
 2012  – 38,854 217 38,854 217 –
 12 Mar 2012
4
 2013-2015  – 116,968 650 – – 122,390 
 12 Mar 2012
5
  2012  – 38,989 217 38,989 217 –
Vesting of Restricted Share awards is normally subject to the Director remaining an employee on the vesting date. The vesting date may be 
advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, for example, death. Under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, 
interests in Restricted Share awards are categorised as the interests of a beneficial owner.  365
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
1 Includes additional shares arising from scrip dividends. 
2 Retired as an executive Director on 30 April 2012. The vesting of the awards will continue in line with the vesting schedule set at the 
date of grant and will also continue to accrue scrip dividends subject to the terms of the plan.
3 The non-deferred award vested immediately on 28 February 2012. At the date of vesting the market value per share was £5.59. 
4 At the date of the award, 12 March 2012, the market value per share was £5.56. 50% of these deferred awards are subject to a six month 
retention period upon vesting. 33% of the awards vest on each of the first and second anniversaries of the date of the awards, with the 
balance vesting on the third anniversary of the date of the award.
5 The non-deferred award vested immediately on 12 March 2012 and the shares (net of tax) were subject to a six month retention period. 
At the date of vesting, the market value per share was £5.56.
Conditional Awards under the GPSP 
HSBC Share Plan 2011 
(Audited) 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
 Year in 
 which 
 Awards 
 held at 
Awards made 
during year
1
 Awards
 held at
 31 Dec 2012 
 Date of 
award
 awards 
 may vest 
 1 Jan 
 2012  Number 
 Monetary 
 value 
 (or date of
  retirement)
2
   £000
A A Flockhart
3
 ...................................  23 Jun 2011  2016 178,373 – – 185,319 
S T Gulliver .......................................  23 Jun 2011  2016 392,119 – – 415,270 
  12 Mar 2012  2017 – 673,370 3,744 704,583 
I J Mackay .........................................  23 Jun 2011  2016 109,626 – – 116,099 
  12 Mar 2012  2017 – 125,695 699 131,522 
The GPSP is the long-term incentive plan under the HSBC Share Plan 2011. Vesting of GPSP awards is normally subject to the Director
remaining an employee on the vesting date. Any shares (net of tax) which the Director becomes entitled to on the vesting date are subject to 
a retention requirement until cessation of employment. Under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, interests in awards are 
categorised as the interests of a beneficial owner. 
1 At the date of award, 12 March 2012, the market value per share was £5.56. 
2 Includes additional shares arising from scrip dividends. 
3 Retired as an executive Director on 30 April 2012. The vesting of the awards will continue in line with the vesting schedule set at the 
date of grant and will also continue to accrue scrip dividends. 
Pensions 
Defined Benefit Pension arrangements 
(Audited) 
 Accrued  
 annual 
 pension at  
 31 December 
 2012 
 Increase in
 accrued
 pension
 during
 2012 
 Increase in 
 accrued 
 pension 
 during 2012, 
 excluding 
 any increase
  for inflation 
 Transfer 
 value 
 of accrued 
  pension at 
  31 December 
 2011
1
 Transfer 
 value
 of accrued 
 pension at 
 31 December
  2012
1
 Increase of 
 transfer value 
 of accrued 
 pension (less 
 personal 
contributions)
 in 2012
1
 Transfer value 
 (less personal 
 contributions) at 
 31 December 2012
relating to increase 
 in accrued pension 
 during 2012, 
 excluding any
 increase for inflation
1
 £000  £000  £000  £000  £000 £000 £000 
A A Flockhart
2
 . 339 32 15 5,638 6,105 467 251
1 The transfer value represents a liability of HSBC’s pension fund (the International Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme (‘ISRBS’)) and not 
a sum paid or due to the individual; it cannot therefore meaningfully be added to annual remuneration.
2 A A Flockhart ceased accrual of pension in the ISRBS on 30 November 2008 and he has deferred commencement of his pension. The 
ISRBS retains a liability for a contingent spouse’s pension of £140,000 per annum as at 31 December 2012. Although A A Flockhart
retired as an executive Director on 30 April 2012, this does not affect his benefits within the ISRBS. 
The following table shows unfunded pension payments, in respect of which provision has been made, during 2012 to 
six former Directors of HSBC Holdings. 
The payments in respect of R Delbridge and Sir Brian Pearse were made by HSBC Bank plc as former directors of 
that bank. The payment in respect of C F W de Croisset was made by HSBC France as a former director of that bank.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Appendix to DRR > Additional disclosures 
366
Unfunded pension payments 
(Audited) 
2012
£
2011
£
B H Asher ................................................................................................................................................. 111,763 106,441 
C F W de Croisset ..................................................................................................................................... 239,423 250,910 
R Delbridge ............................................................................................................................................... 160,754 153,099 
Lord Green ................................................................................................................................................ 42,174 40,946 
Sir Brian Pearse ........................................................................................................................................ 67,036 63,844 
Sir William Purves .................................................................................................................................... 118,313 112,679 
739,463 727,919 
Employee compensation and benefits 
(Unaudited) 
Set out below are details of emoluments paid to senior management (being executive Directors and Group Managing 
Directors of HSBC Holdings) for the year ended 31 December 2012 or for the period of appointment as a Director or 
Group Managing Director. 
Emoluments of senior management 
Senior
management
£000
Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind ..................................................................................................................... 15,461 
Pension contributions ............................................................................................................................................................. 315
Performance-related pay paid or receivable ........................................................................................................................... 33,066 
Inducements to join paid or receivable .................................................................................................................................. –
Compensation for loss of office ............................................................................................................................................. 715
Total ........................................................................................................................................................................................ 49,557 
Total (US$000) ....................................................................................................................................................................... 78,531 
The aggregate emoluments of senior management for the year ended 31 December 2012 was US$78,531,390. The 
emoluments of senior management were within the following bands: 
Number
senior
management 
£0 – £1,000,000 ...................................................................................................................................................................... 3
£1,000,001 – £2,000,000 ........................................................................................................................................................ 1
£2,000,001 – £3,000,000 ........................................................................................................................................................ 5
£3,000,001 – £4,000,000 ........................................................................................................................................................ 4
£4,000,001 – £5,000,000 ........................................................................................................................................................ 1
£7,000,001 – £8,000,000 ........................................................................................................................................................ 2
The aggregate amount set aside or accrued to provide pension, retirement or similar for executive Directors and 
senior management for the year ended 31 December 2012 was US$499,285. 
Set out below are details of remuneration paid to the five individuals whose emoluments were the highest in HSBC 
(including two executive Directors and two Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings), for the year ended 
31 December 2012. 
Emoluments of the five highest paid employees 
5 highest paid
employees
£000
Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind ..................................................................................................................... 6,112 
Pension contributions ............................................................................................................................................................. 155
Performance-related pay paid or receivable ........................................................................................................................... 21,513 
Inducements to join paid or receivable .................................................................................................................................. –
Compensation for loss of office ............................................................................................................................................. –
Total ........................................................................................................................................................................................ 27,780 
Total (US$000) ....................................................................................................................................................................... 44,022  367
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
The emoluments of the five highest paid employees were within the following bands: 
 Number of
 5 highest paid
 employees 
£3,800,001 – £3,900,000 ........................................................................................................................................................ 1
£4,600,001 – £4,700,000 ........................................................................................................................................................ 1
£4,800,001 – £4,900,000 ........................................................................................................................................................ 1
£7,000,001 – £7,100,000 ........................................................................................................................................................ 1
£7,400,001 – £7,500,000 ........................................................................................................................................................ 1
Remuneration of eight highest paid senior executives (members of the GMB, but not Directors of HSBC Holdings) 
Employee 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Fixed  
Cash based ..................... 650 632 650 650 650 650 851 488
Total fixed ...................... 650 632 650 650 650 650 851 488
Annual incentive
1
Cash ............................... 955 331 262 340 277 272 227 180
Non-deferred shares
2
...... 955 331 262 340 277 272 227 180
Deferred cash
3
 ................ 1,433 496 393 510 415 407 341 270
Deferred shares
3
.............. 1,433 496 393 510 415 407 341 270
Total annual incentive ... 4,776 1,654 1,310 1,700 1,384 1,358 1,136 900
Long-term incentive 
plan (GPSP)  
Deferred shares .............. 1,560 1,517 1,560 1,040 780 780 681 976
Total variable pay .......... 6,336 3,171 2,870 2,740 2,164 2,138 1,817 1,876 
Total remuneration ........ 6,986 3,803 3,520 3,390 2,814 2,788 2,668 2,364 
US$000
Total remuneration ......... 11,070 6,026 5,578 5,372 4,459 4,418 4,228 3,746 
1 Annual incentive in respect of performance year 2012. 
2 Awards vested, subject to a six month retention period.  
3 Awards vest 100% after five years subject to the successful completion of the Deferred Prosecution Agreements and subject to the terms 
of the Plan.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement 
368
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditor’s statement of their responsibilities 
set out in their report on pages 370 and 371, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective 
responsibilities of the Directors and of the Auditor in relation to the financial statements. The Directors are 
responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts 2012 comprising the consolidated financial statements 
of HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) and holding company financial statements for HSBC Holdings 
(the ‘parent company’) in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each 
financial year. The Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as 
endorsed by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.  
The Group and parent company financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as endorsed by the EU to 
present fairly the financial position, the performance for that period and for IFRSs purposes the cash flows of the Group 
and the parent company. The Companies Act 2006 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in 
the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair 
presentation. In addition, in order to meet certain US requirements, HSBC is required to present its financial statements 
in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’). Currently, there are no 
differences in application to HSBC between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB. 
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;  
• state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as endorsed by the EU; and 
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group 
and the parent company will continue in business. Since the Directors are satisfied that the Group and parent 
company have the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future, the financial statements continue 
to be prepared on the going concern basis. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the parent company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the 
parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. The 
Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of 
the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.  
The Directors are responsible for preparing, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, a Directors’ 
Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance statement on pages 2 to 367 of this Annual
Report and Accounts 2012 and for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012 as they 
appear on the Company’s website. UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors
1
, the names of whom are set out in the ‘Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance’ section 
on pages 302 to 307 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2012, confirm that: 
• to the best of their knowledge, the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as issued by the IASB and as endorsed by the EU, have been prepared in accordance with the 
applicable set of accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; 
• to the best of their knowledge, the management report represented by the Report of the Directors includes a 
fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that they face; and 
• they consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2012, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy. 
On behalf of the Board 
D J Flint
Group Chairman 4 March 2013 
1 Other than J B Comey, whose appointment as a Director will become effective on 4 March 2013.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of HSBC Holdings plc
Report 
369
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements of HSBC Holdings plc for the year ended 
31 December 2012 set out on pages 372 to 515. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the EU and 
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) and, as regards the parent company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006 and, in respect of the separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB, on terms 
that have been agreed. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and, in respect of the separate opinion in relation to 
IFRSs as issued by IASB, those matters that we have agreed to state to them in our report, and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company 
and the company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 368, the Directors 
are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s 
website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2012 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;  
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;  
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and  
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB 
As explained in Note 1(a) to the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to 
apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB.  
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of HSBC Holdings plc (continued)
Report 
370
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are 
not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
• the Directors’ Statement, set out on page 334, in relation to going concern; 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions 
of the June 2010 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and 
• certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration. 
G Bainbridge (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
London, England 
4 March 2013  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Financial Statements 
Contents 
371
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Financial Statements and Notes on the Financial Statements 
Page
Financial Statements 
Consolidated income statement ................................... 372
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income ..... 373
Consolidated balance sheet ......................................... 374
Consolidated statement of cash flows.......................... 375
Consolidated statement of changes in equity .............. 376
HSBC Holdings balance sheet .................................... 379
HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows..................... 380
HSBC Holdings statement of changes in equity ......... 381
Notes on the Financial Statements 
  1 Basis of preparation .......................................... 383
  2 Summary of significant accounting policies ..... 387
  3 Net income/(expense) from financial  
instruments designated at fair value ............. 406
  4 Net earned insurance premiums ........................ 407
  5 Net insurance claims incurred and movement  
in liabilities to policyholders ........................ 407
  6 Operating profit ................................................. 408
  7 Employee compensation and benefits .............. 409
  8 Auditors’ remuneration ..................................... 419
  9 Tax .....................................................................  421
10 Dividends .......................................................... 425
11 Earnings per share ............................................. 426
12 Segmental analysis ............................................ 426
13 Analysis of financial assets and liabilities  
by measurement basis ................................... 432
14 Trading assets .................................................... 436
15 Fair values of financial instruments  
carried at fair value ....................................... 437
16 Fair values of financial instruments  
not carried at fair value ................................. 447
17 Reclassification of financial assets ................... 450
Page
18 Financial assets designated at fair value ........... 451
19 Derivatives ........................................................ 452
20 Financial investments ........................................ 456
21 Transfers of financial assets .............................. 458
22 Interests in associates and joint ventures .......... 460
23 Goodwill and intangible assets ......................... 463
24 Property, plant and equipment .......................... 467
25 Investments in subsidiaries ............................... 469
26 Assets held for sale and other assets ................. 471
27 Trading liabilities .............................................. 473
28 Financial liabilities designated at fair value ..... 473
29 Debt securities in issue ...................................... 474
30 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale  
and other liabilities ........................................ 475
31 Liabilities under insurance contracts ................ 475
32 Provisions .......................................................... 478
33 Subordinated liabilities ...................................... 480
34 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-
balance sheet commitments ........................... 485
35 Foreign exchange exposures ............................. 493
36 Assets charged as security for liabilities and 
collateral accepted as security for assets ...... 493
37 Non-controlling interests ................................... 494
38 Called up share capital and other equity 
instruments .................................................... 495
39 Notes on the statement of cash flows ................ 498
40 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments 
and guarantees ............................................... 500
41 Lease commitments ........................................... 501
42 Special purpose entities ..................................... 502
43 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters ........ 506
44 Related party transactions ................................. 512
45 Events after the balance sheet date ................... 515 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Financial Statements (continued) 
Consolidated income statement / Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  
372
Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012 
 2012  2011   2010 
Notes US$m US$m US$m 
Interest income ................................................................................................ 56,702 63,005 58,345
Interest expense ............................................................................................... (19,030) (22,343) (18,904)
Net interest income .......................................................................................... 37,672 40,662 39,441 
Fee income ....................................................................................................... 20,149 21,497 21,117
Fee expense ...................................................................................................... (3,719) (4,337) (3,762)
Net fee income ................................................................................................. 16,430 17,160 17,355 
Trading income excluding net interest income ............................................... 4,408 3,283 4,680
Net interest income on trading activities ......................................................... 2,683 3,223 2,530
Net trading income .......................................................................................... 7,091 6,506 7,210 
Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives ......... (4,327) 4,161 (258)
Net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated  
at fair value ................................................................................................. 2,101 (722) 1,478
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value ... 3 (2,226) 3,439 1,220 
Gains less losses from financial investments .................................................. 1,189 907 968 
Dividend income .............................................................................................. 221 149 112 
Net earned insurance premiums ...................................................................... 4 13,044 12,872 11,146 
Gains on disposal of US branch network, US cards business and Ping An 
Insurance (Group) Company of China, Limited ........................................ 26 7,024 – – 
Other operating income ................................................................................... 2,100 1,766 2,562 
Total operating income ................................................................................. 82,545 83,461 80,014 
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to  
policyholders .............................................................................................. 5 (14,215) (11,181) (11,767)
Net operating income before loan impairment charges and  
other credit risk provisions ...................................................................... 68,330 72,280 68,247 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions ............................. 6 (8,311) (12,127) (14,039)
Net operating income .................................................................................... 60,019 60,153 54,208 
Employee compensation and benefits ............................................................. 7 (20,491) (21,166) (19,836)
General and administrative expenses .............................................................. (19,983) (17,459) (15,156)
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment .................... 24 (1,484) (1,570) (1,713)
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets .......................................... 23 (969) (1,350) (983)
Total operating expenses ............................................................................... (42,927) (41,545) (37,688)
Operating profit ............................................................................................. 6 17,092 18,608 16,520 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures ............................................... 22 3,557 3,264 2,517 
Profit before tax ............................................................................................. 20,649 21,872 19,037 
Tax expense ..................................................................................................... 9 (5,315) (3,928) (4,846)
Profit for the year .......................................................................................... 15,334 17,944 14,191 
Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company .............................. 14,027 16,797 13,159 
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests ................................................ 1,307 1,147 1,032 
 US$  US$   US$ 
Basic earnings per ordinary share ................................................................... 11 0.74  0.92   0.73 
Diluted earnings per ordinary share ................................................................ 11 0.74  0.91   0.72 
The accompanying notes on pages 383 to 515 form an integral part of these financial statements
1
.
For footnote, see page 382.  373
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2012 
 2012  2011   2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Profit for the year ........................................................................................................ 15,334 17,944  14,191 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) 
Available-for-sale investments ................................................................................... 5,070 674  5,835 
–  fair value gains
2
 .................................................................................................. 6,396 1,279  6,368 
–  fair value gains transferred to the income statement on disposal ...................... (1,872) (820) (1,174)
–  amounts transferred to the income statement in respect of impairment  
losses .................................................................................................................. 1,002 583  1,118
–  income taxes ....................................................................................................... (456) (368) (477)
Cash flow hedges ........................................................................................................ 109 187  (271)
–  fair value gains/(losses) ...................................................................................... 552 (581) (178)
–  fair value (gains)/losses transferred to the income statement ............................ (423) 788  (164)
–  income taxes ....................................................................................................... (20) (20) 71 
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans ...................................................... (195) 1,009  (61)
–  before income taxes ............................................................................................ (391) 1,267  (60)
–  income taxes ....................................................................................................... 196 (258) (1)
Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) of associates and joint  
ventures .................................................................................................................. 533 (710) 107 
–  share for the year................................................................................................. 311 (710) 107
–  reclassified to income statement on disposal ..................................................... 222 – –
Exchange differences .................................................................................................. 1,017 (2,865) (567)
–  foreign exchange gains reclassified to income statement on disposal of a 
foreign operation................................................................................................. (1,128) –  –
–  other exchange difference .................................................................................. 2,145 (2,865) (567)
Income tax attributable to exchange differences ........................................................ – 165  – 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax ................................................ 6,534 (1,540) 5,043 
Total comprehensive income for the year .................................................................. 21,868 16,404  19,234 
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: 
–  shareholders of the parent company .................................................................. 20,455 15,366  18,087 
–  non-controlling interests .................................................................................... 1,413 1,038  1,147 
21,868 16,404  19,234 
The accompanying notes on pages 383 to 515 form an integral part of these financial statements
1
.
For footnote, see page 382.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Financial Statements (continued) 
Consolidated balance sheet / Consolidated statement of cash flows  
374
Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2012 
 2012   2011 
Notes US$m US$m 
Assets 
Cash and balances at central banks ............................................................................................... 141,532 129,902 
Items in the course of collection from other banks ....................................................................... 7,303 8,208 
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness .................................................................. 22,743 20,922 
Trading assets ................................................................................................................................ 14 408,811 330,451 
Financial assets designated at fair value ....................................................................................... 18 33,582 30,856 
Derivatives ..................................................................................................................................... 19 357,450 346,379 
Loans and advances to banks ........................................................................................................ 152,546 180,987 
Loans and advances to customers ................................................................................................. 997,623 940,429 
Financial investments .................................................................................................................... 20 421,101 400,044 
Assets held for sale ........................................................................................................................ 26 19,269 39,558 
Other assets .................................................................................................................................... 26 54,716 48,699 
Current tax assets ........................................................................................................................... 515 1,061 
Prepayments and accrued income ................................................................................................. 9,502 10,059 
Interests in associates and joint ventures ...................................................................................... 22 17,834 20,399 
Goodwill and intangible assets ...................................................................................................... 23 29,853 29,034 
Property, plant and equipment ....................................................................................................... 24 10,588 10,865 
Deferred tax assets ......................................................................................................................... 9 7,570 7,726 
Total assets .................................................................................................................................... 2,692,538 2,555,579 
Liabilities and equity 
Liabilities
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation ..................................................................................... 22,742 20,922 
Deposits by banks .......................................................................................................................... 107,429 112,822 
Customer accounts ......................................................................................................................... 1,340,014 1,253,925 
Items in the course of transmission to other banks ....................................................................... 7,138 8,745 
Trading liabilities ........................................................................................................................... 27 304,563 265,192 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value .................................................................................. 28 87,720 85,724 
Derivatives ..................................................................................................................................... 19 358,886 345,380 
Debt securities in issue .................................................................................................................. 29 119,461 131,013 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale ................................................................................... 30 5,018 22,200 
Other liabilities .............................................................................................................................. 30 33,862 27,967 
Current tax liabilities ..................................................................................................................... 1,452 2,117 
Liabilities under insurance contracts ............................................................................................. 31 68,195 61,259 
Accruals and deferred income ....................................................................................................... 13,184 13,106 
Provisions ...................................................................................................................................... 32 5,252 3,324 
Deferred tax liabilities ................................................................................................................... 9 1,109 1,518 
Retirement benefit liabilities ......................................................................................................... 7 3,905 3,666 
Subordinated liabilities .................................................................................................................. 33 29,479 30,606 
Total liabilities ............................................................................................................................... 2,509,409 2,389,486 
Equity
Called up share capital ................................................................................................................... 38 9,238 8,934 
Share premium account ................................................................................................................. 10,084 8,457 
Other equity instruments ............................................................................................................... 5,851 5,851 
Other reserves ................................................................................................................................ 29,722 23,615 
Retained earnings .......................................................................................................................... 120,347 111,868 
Total shareholders’ equity ............................................................................................................. 175,242 158,725 
Non-controlling interests ............................................................................................................... 37 7,887 7,368 
Total equity .................................................................................................................................... 183,129 166,093 
Total equity and liabilities ............................................................................................................. 2,692,538 2,555,579 
The accompanying notes on pages 383 to 515 form an integral part of these financial statements
1
.
For footnote, see page 382. 
D J Flint, Group Chairman 375
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2012 
 2012  2011   2010 
 Notes US$m US$m US$m 
Cash flows from operating activities    
Profit before tax ............................................................................................... 20,649  21,872  19,037 
Adjustments for: 
– net gain from investing activities ............................................................. (2,094) (1,196) (1,698)
– share of profits in associates and joint ventures ...................................... (3,557) (3,264) (2,517)
– gain on disposal of US branch network, US cards business and  
Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Limited ...................... (7,024) – – 
– other non-cash items included in profit before tax .................................. 39 19,778  19,878  18,887 
– change in operating assets ........................................................................ 39 (116,521) (7,412) (13,267)
– change in operating liabilities .................................................................. 39 89,070  44,012  42,272 
– elimination of exchange differences
3
....................................................... (3,626) 10,840  (1,799)
– dividends received from associates .......................................................... 489 304  441 
– contributions paid to defined benefit plans .............................................. (733) (1,177) (3,321)
– tax paid ..................................................................................................... (5,587) (4,095) (2,293)
Net cash (used in)/generated from operating activities ................................... (9,156) 79,762  55,742 
Cash flows from investing activities 
Purchase of financial investments ................................................................... (342,974) (319,008) (341,202)
Proceeds from the sale and maturity of financial investments ....................... 329,926  311,702  321,846 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment ..................................................... (1,318) (1,505) (2,533)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment ............................... 241 300  4,373 
Proceeds from the sale of loan portfolios ........................................................ – –  4,243 
Net purchase of intangible assets .................................................................... (1,008) (1,571) (1,179)
Net cash outflow from acquisition of subsidiaries .......................................... – –  (86)
Net cash inflow from disposal of US branch network and US  
cards business............................................................................................... 20,905 – – 
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from disposal of other subsidiaries  
and businesses ............................................................................................. (863) 216  466 
Net cash outflow from acquisition of or increase in stake of associates ........ (1,804) (90) (1,589)
Net cash outflow from the deconsolidation of funds ...................................... – –  (19,566)
Proceeds from disposal of Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China 
Limited ......................................................................................................... 1,954 – – 
Proceeds from disposal of other associates and joint ventures ....................... 594 25  254 
Net cash generated/(used) in investing activities ............................................ 5,653 (9,931) (34,973)
Cash flows from financing activities  
Issue of ordinary share capital ......................................................................... 594 96  180 
Issue of other equity instruments .................................................................... – –  3,718 
Net sales/(purchases) of own shares for market-making and 
investment purposes .................................................................................... (25) (225) 163 
Net sales/(purchases) of own shares to meet share awards and share  
option awards .............................................................................................. – (136) 11 
On exercise of share options ........................................................................... – –  2 
Subordinated loan capital issued ..................................................................... 37 7  4,481 
Subordinated loan capital repaid ..................................................................... (1,754) (3,777) (2,475)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from change in stake in subsidiaries .................... (14) 104  (229)
Dividends paid to shareholders of the parent company .................................. (5,925) (5,014) (3,441)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests .................................................... (572) (568) (595)
Dividends paid to holders of other equity instruments ................................... (573) (573) (413)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities ................................... (8,232) (10,086) 1,402 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents ................................ (11,735) 59,745  22,171 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January .......................................................... 325,449  274,076  250,766 
Exchange differences in respect of cash and cash equivalents ....................... 1,594 (8,372) 1,139 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December .................................................... 39 315,308  325,449  274,076 
The accompanying notes on pages 383 to 515 form an integral part of these financial statements
1
.
For footnote, see page 382.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Financial Statements (continued) 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity  
376
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2012 
2012
Other reserves 
 Called up 
 share 
 capital 
 Share
  Premium
4
 Other 
 equity 
 instru-
 ments 
 Retained 
 earnings
5,6,7
 Available- 
 for-sale 
 fair value 
 reserve 
 Cash flow 
  hedging
  reserve
8
 Foreign 
 exchange 
 reserve 
 Merger 
  Reserve
5,9
 Total 
 share-
 holders’ 
 equity 
 Non-
 controlling
 interests 
 Total 
 equity 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 1 January .............................................................................. 8,934 8,457 5,851 111,868 (3,361) (95) (237) 27,308 158,725 7,368 166,093  
Profit for the year ...................................................................... – – – 14,027 – – – – 14,027 1,307 15,334  
Other comprehensive income (net of tax) ................................ – – – 321 5,010  108 989 – 6,428 106 6,534  
Available-for-sale investments ............................................ – – – – 5,010  – – – 5,010 60 5,070  
Cash flow hedges ................................................................. – – – – – 108 – – 108 1 109
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans ................ – – – (212) – – – – (212) 17 (195) 
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and  
joint ventures .................................................................... 533 533 533
Exchange differences ........................................................... – – – – – – 989 – 989 28 1,017  
Total comprehensive income for the year ................................ – – – 14,348 5,010  108 989 – 20,455 1,413 21,868  
Shares issued under employee remuneration and  
share plans ............................................................................ 119 1,812 – (1,337) – – – – 594 – 594
Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising  
thereon
4
 ................................................................................. 185 (185) – 2,429 – – – – 2,429 – 2,429  
Dividends to shareholders
10
...................................................... – – – (8,042) – – – – (8,042) (707) (8,749) 
Tax credit on distributions......................................................... – – – 32 – – – – 32 – 32
Own shares adjustment ............................................................. – – – 2 – – – – 2 – 2
Cost of share-based payment arrangements ............................. – – – 988 – – – – 988 – 988
Income taxes on share-based payments ................................... – – – 42 – – – – 42 – 42
Other movements ...................................................................... – – – (26) – – – – (26) (20) (46) 
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries .................................. – – – – – – – – – (108) (108) 
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that  
did not result in loss of control ............................................ – – – 43 – – – – 43 (59) (16) 
At 31 December ........................................................................ 9,238 10,084 5,851 120,347 1,649  13 752 27,308  175,242 7,887 183,129   377
Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2012 (continued) 
2011
    Other reserves    
 Called up 
 share 
 capital 
 Share 
  Premium
4
 Other 
 equity 
 instru-
 ments 
 Retained 
 earnings
5,6,7
 Available- 
 for-sale 
 fair value 
 reserve  
 Cash flow 
  hedging 
  reserve
8
 Foreign 
 exchange 
 reserve 
 Merger 
  Reserve
5,9
 Total 
 share-
 holders’ 
 equity 
 Non-
 controlling 
 interests 
 Total 
 equity 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 1 January .............................................................................. 8,843 8,454 5,851 99,105 (4,077) (285) 2,468 27,308  147,667 7,248 154,915  
Profit for the year ...................................................................... – – – 16,797 – – – – 16,797 1,147 17,944  
Other comprehensive income (net of tax) ................................ – – – 368 716  190 (2,705) – (1,431) (109) (1,540) 
Available-for-sale investments ............................................ – – – – 716   – – – 716 (42) 674  
Cash flow hedges ................................................................. – – – – –  190 – – 190 (3) 187  
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans ................ – – – 1,078 –  – – – 1,078 (69) 1,009  
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and  
joint ventures .................................................................... – – – (710) –  – – – (710) – (710) 
Exchange differences ........................................................... – – – – –  (2,705) – (2,705) 5 (2,700) 
Total comprehensive income for the year ................................ – – – 17,165 716  190 (2,705) – 15,366 1,038 16,404  
Shares issued under employee share plans .............................. 6 90 – – – – – – 96 – 96  
Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising  
thereon
4
 ................................................................................. 85 (87) – 2,232 – – – – 2,230 – 2,230  
Dividends to shareholders
10
 ...................................................... – – – (7,501) – – – – (7,501) (815)(8,316) 
Tax credit on distributions......................................................... – – – 128 – – – – 128  128  
Own shares adjustment ............................................................. – – – (361) – – – – (361) – (361) 
Cost of share-based payment arrangements ............................. – – – 1,154 – – – – 1,154 – 1,154  
Income taxes on share-based payments ................................... – – – 21 – – – – 21 – 21  
Other movements ...................................................................... – – – (75) – – – – (75) 28 (47) 
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries .................................. – – – – – – – – – (252) (252) 
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that  
did not result in loss of control ............................................ – – – – – – – – – 121 121  
At 31 December ........................................................................ 8,934 8,457 5,851 111,868 (3,361) (95) (237) 27,308 158,725 7,368 166,093   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Financial Statements (continued) 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity / HSBC Holdings balance sheet 
378
2010
    Other reserves    
 Called up 
 share 
 capital 
 Share 
  Premium
4
 Other 
 equity 
 instru-
 ments 
 Retained 
 earnings
5,6,7
 Available- 
 for-sale 
 fair value 
 reserve  
 Cash flow 
  hedging 
  reserve
8
 Foreign 
 exchange 
 reserve 
 Merger 
  Reserve
5,9
 Total 
 share-
 holders’ 
 equity 
 Non-
 controlling 
 interests 
 Total 
 equity 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 1 January .............................................................................. 8,705 8,413 2,133 88,737 (9,965) (26) 2,994 27,308  128,299 7,362 135,661  
Profit for the year ...................................................................... – – – 13,159 – – – – 13,159 1,032 14,191  
Other comprehensive income (net of tax) ................................ – – – 49 5,671  (266) (526) – 4,928 115 5,043  
Available-for-sale investments ................................................. – – – – 5,671   – – – 5,671 164 5,835  
Cash flow hedges ...................................................................... – – – – –  (266) – – (266) (5) (271) 
Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans ................................. – – – (58) –  – – – (58) (3) (61) 
Share of other comprehensive income of associates  
and joint ventures ................................................................. – – – 107 –  – – – 107 – 107  
Exchange differences ............................................................... – – – – –  – (526) – (526) (41) (567) 
Total comprehensive income for the year ................................ – – – 13,208 5,671  (266) (526) – 18,087 1,147 19,234  
Shares issued under employee share plans .............................. 12 168 – – – – – – 180 – 180  
Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising  
thereon
4
 ................................................................................. 126 (127) – 2,524 – – – – 2,523 – 2,523  
Capital securities issued
11
 ......................................................... – – 3,718 – – – – – 3,718 – 3,718  
Dividends to shareholders
10
 ...................................................... – – – (6,350) – – – – (6,350) (725)(7,075) 
Tax credit on distributions ........................................................ – – – 122 – – – – 122 – 122  
Own shares adjustment ............................................................. – – – 174 – – – – 174 – 174  
Cost of share-based payment arrangements ............................. – – – 812 – – – – 812 – 812  
Income taxes on share-based payments ................................... – – – (14) – – – – (14) – (14) 
Other movements ...................................................................... – – – (58) 217  7 – – 166 3 169 
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries .................................. – – – – – – – – – (436) (436) 
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that  
did not result in loss of control ............................................ – – – (50) – – – – (50) (103) (153) 
At 31 December ........................................................................ 8,843 8,454 5,851 99,105 (4,077) (285) 2,468 27,308  147,667 7,248 154,915  
The accompanying notes on pages 383 to 515 form an integral part of these financial statements
1
.
For footnotes, see page 382.  379
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
HSBC Holdings balance sheet at 31 December 2012 
 2012 2011
Notes US$m US$m 
Assets  
Cash at bank and in hand: 
– balances with HSBC undertakings ........................................................................................ 353 316
Derivatives ..................................................................................................................................... 19 3,768 3,568 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings ................................................................................. 41,675 28,048 
Financial investments .................................................................................................................... 1,208 1,078 
Current tax assets ........................................................................................................................... 147 104
Prepayments and accrued income ................................................................................................. 82 32
Investments in subsidiaries ............................................................................................................ 25 92,234 90,621 
Property, plant and equipment ....................................................................................................... 3 4
Deferred tax assets ......................................................................................................................... 9 14 91
Total assets .................................................................................................................................... 139,484 123,862 
Liabilities and equity  
Liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings ......................................................................................... 12,856 2,479 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value .................................................................................. 28 23,195 21,151 
Derivatives ..................................................................................................................................... 19 760 1,067 
Debt securities in issue .................................................................................................................. 29 2,691 2,613 
Other liabilities .............................................................................................................................. 30 30 911
Accruals and deferred income ....................................................................................................... 1,018 1,008 
Subordinated liabilities .................................................................................................................. 33 11,907 12,450 
Total liabilities ............................................................................................................................... 52,457 41,679 
Equity
Called up share capital ................................................................................................................... 38 9,238 8,934 
Share premium account ................................................................................................................. 10,084 8,457 
Other equity instruments ............................................................................................................... 5,828 5,828 
Other reserves ................................................................................................................................ 37,170 36,849 
Retained earnings .......................................................................................................................... 24,707 22,115 
Total equity .................................................................................................................................... 87,027 82,183 
Total equity and liabilities ............................................................................................................. 139,484 123,862 
The accompanying notes on pages 383 to 515 form an integral part of these financial statements
1
.
For footnote, see page 382. 
D J Flint, Group Chairman  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Financial Statements (continued) 
HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows / Statement of changes in equity  
380
HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2012 
 2012   2011 
Notes US$m US$m 
Cash flows from operating activities 
Profit before tax ............................................................................................................................. 8,679 5,758 
Adjustments for: 
– non-cash items included in profit before tax ......................................................................... 39 535 77
– change in operating assets ...................................................................................................... 39 (4,011) (5,489)
– change in operating liabilities ................................................................................................ 39 2,951 (414)
– net loss from investing activities ............................................................................................ – 570
– tax paid ................................................................................................................................... (549) (57)
Net cash generated from operating activities ................................................................................ 7,605 445
Cash flows from investing activities 
Proceeds from sale of financial investments ................................................................................. – 941
Net cash outflow from acquisition of or increase in stake of subsidiaries ................................... (1,973) (626)
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities .................................................................................. (1,973) 315
Cash flows from financing activities  
Issue of ordinary share capital ....................................................................................................... 1,905 96
Sales of own shares to meet share awards and share option awards ............................................ 178 –
Subordinated loan capital repaid ................................................................................................... (760) (750)
Debt securities issued .................................................................................................................... 2,000 5,338 
Debt securities repaid .................................................................................................................... (2,420) –
Dividends paid ............................................................................................................................... (5,925) (5,014)
Dividends paid to holders of other equity instruments ................................................................. (573) (573)
Net cash used in financing activities ............................................................................................. (5,595) (903)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents .............................................................. 37 (143)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January ........................................................................................ 316 459
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December .................................................................................. 39 353 316
The accompanying notes on pages 383 to 515 form an integral part of these financial statements
1
.
For footnote, see page 382.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
Footnotes // Notes on the Financial Statements > 1 – Basis of preparation 
381
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
HSBC Holdings statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2012 
Other reserves 
Called up
 share
 capital 
 Share
 Premium
4
 Other
 equity
 instru- 
 ments 
 Retained
 earnings
12
 Available- 
 for-sale 
 fair value 
 reserve 
 Other 
 paid-in 
  capital
13
 Merger 
and other 
  Reserves
9
 Total
 share-
 holders’
 equity 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 1 January 2012 ................................. 8,934 8,457 5,828 22,115 12 1,710 35,127 82,183 
Profit for the year .................................. – – – 8,082 – – – 8,082 
Other comprehensive income  
(net of tax) ........................................ – – – – 102 – – 102
Available-for-sale investments ............. – – – – 129 – – 129
Income tax ............................................ – – – – (27) – – (27)
Total comprehensive income for  
the year ............................................. – – – 8,082 102 – – 8,184 
Shares issued under employee share 
plans .................................................. 119 1,812 – (26) – – – 1,905 
Shares issued in lieu of dividends  
and amounts arising thereon
4
 ........... 185 (185) – 2,429 – – – 2,429 
Dividends to shareholders
10
 ..................... – – – (8,042) – – – (8,042)
Tax credit on distributions .................... – – – 32 – – – 32
Own shares adjustment ......................... – – – 379 – – – 379
Exercise and lapse of share options ...... – – – (219) – 219 – –
Cost of share-based payment 
arrangements .................................... – – – 55 – – – 55
Income taxes on share-based payments  – – – 10 – – – 10
Equity investments granted to  
employees of subsidiaries under 
employee share plans ....................... – – – (108) – – – (108)
Other movements .................................. – – – – – – – –
At 31 December 2012 .......................... 9,238 10,084 5,828 24,707 114 1,929 35,127 87,027 
        
At 1 January 2011................................. 8,843 8,454 5,828 21,440 56 1,583 35,127 81,331 
Profit for the year .................................. – – – 5,471 – – – 5,471 
Other comprehensive income  
(net of tax) ........................................ – – – – (44) – – (44)
Available-for-sale investments ............. – – – – (61) – –  (61)
Income tax ............................................ – – – – 17 – –  17
Total comprehensive income for  
the year ............................................. – – – 5,471 (44) – – 5,427 
Shares issued under employee share 
plans .................................................. 6 90 – – – – – 96 
Shares issued in lieu of dividends  
and amounts arising thereon
4
 ........... 85 (87) – 2,232 – – – 2,230 
Dividends to shareholders
10
 ..................... – – – (7,501) – – – (7,501)
Tax credit on distributions .................... – – – 128 – – – 128 
Own shares adjustment ......................... – – – (265) – – – (265)
Exercise and lapse of share options ...... – – – (127) – 127 – – 
Cost of share-based payment 
arrangements .................................... – – – 57 – – – 57 
Equity investments granted to  
employees of subsidiaries under 
employee share plans ....................... – – – 674 – – – 674 
Other movements .................................. – – – 6 – – – 6 
At 31 December 2011 ........................... 8,934 8,457 5,828 22,115 12 1,710 35,127 82,183 
Dividends per ordinary share at 31 December 2012 were US$0.41 (2011: US$0.39; 2010: US$0.34). 
The accompanying notes on pages 383 to 515 form an integral part of these financial statements
1
.
For footnotes, see page 382.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Financial Statements (continued) 
Footnotes // Notes on the Financial Statements > 1 – Basis of preparation 
382
Footnotes to Financial Statements 
  1 The ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 54 to 57, the audited sections of ‘Risk’ on pages 123 to 280 and the audited sections of 
‘Capital’ on pages 281 to 300 are also an integral part of these financial statements. 
  2 Fair value gains in available-for-sale investments for 2012 include US$737m relating to the investment in Ping An classified as assets 
held for sale. 
  3 Adjustment to bring changes between opening and closing balance sheet amounts to average rates. This is not done on a line-by-line
basis, as details cannot be determined without unreasonable expense. 
  4 Share premium includes a nil deduction in respect of issuance costs incurred during the year (2011: US$2m; 2010: US$1m). 
  5 Cumulative goodwill amounting to US$5,138m has been charged against reserves in respect of acquisitions of subsidiaries prior to 
1 January 1998, including US$3,469m charged against the merger reserve arising on the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc. The balance
of US$1,669m has been charged against retained earnings. 
  6 Retained earnings include 86,394,826 (US$874m) of own shares held within HSBC’s Insurance business, retirement funds for the 
benefit of policyholders or beneficiaries within employee trusts for the settlement of shares expected to be delivered under employee
share schemes or bonus plans, and the market-making activities in Global Markets (2011: 98,498,019 (US$1,320m); 2010: 
123,331,979 (US$1,799m)). 
  7 The movement in reserves relating to equity-settled share-based payment arrangement is recognised in ‘Retained earnings’ in the
‘Consolidated Statement of change in equity’ with effect from 1 January 2011. Previously it was disclosed separately in a ‘Share-based
payment reserve’ within ‘Other reserves’. Comparative data have been restated accordingly. The adjustment reduced ‘Other reserves’
and increased ‘Retained earnings’ by US$1,982m at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$2,274m; 2010: US$1,755m). There was no effect on 
basic or diluted earnings per share following this change. 
  8 Amounts transferred to the income statement in respect of cash flow hedges include US$43m gain (2011: US$104m gain; 2010: 
US$605m gain) taken to ‘Net interest income’ and US$380m gain (2011: US$893m loss; 2010: US$441m loss) taken to ‘Net trading 
income’.
  9 Statutory share premium relief under Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 (the ‘Act’) was taken in respect of the acquisition of
HSBC Bank plc in 1992, HSBC France in 2000 and HSBC Finance Corporation in 2003 and the shares issued were recorded at their 
nominal value only. In HSBC’s consolidated financial statements the fair value differences of US$8,290m in respect of HSBC France
and US$12,768m in respect of HSBC Finance Corporation were recognised in the merger reserve. The merger reserve created on the 
acquisition of HSBC Finance Corporation subsequently became attached to HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited (‘HOHU’), 
following a number of intra-group reorganisations. During 2009, pursuant to Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985, statutory share
premium relief was taken in respect of the rights issue and US$15,796m was recognised in the merger reserve. The merger reserve
includes the deduction of US$614m in respect of costs relating to the rights issue, of which US$149m was subsequently transferred to 
the income statement. Of this US$149m, US$121m was a loss arising from accounting for the agreement with the underwriters as a 
contingent forward contract. The merger reserve excludes the loss of US$344m on a forward foreign exchange contract associated with
hedging the proceeds of the rights issue.  
10 Including distributions paid on preference shares and capital securities classified as equity. 
11 During June 2010, HSBC Holdings issued US$3,800m of Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities, Series 2 (‘capital securities’) on
which there were US$82m of external issuance costs and US$23m of intra-group issuance costs which are classified as equity under
IFRSs. The capital securities are exchangeable at HSBC Holdings’ option into non-cumulative US dollar preference shares on any 
coupon payment date. Interest on the captial securities is paid quarterly and may be deferred at the discretion of HSBC Holdings. The 
capital securities may only be redeemed at the option of HSBC Holdings. 
12 Retained earnings include 3,903,901 (US$57m) of own shares held to fund employee share plans (2011: 33,557,764 (US$563m)). 
13 Other paid-in capital arises from the exercise and lapse of share options granted to employees of HSBC Holdings subsidiaries.  383
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
1 Basis of preparation  
(a) Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have 
been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) and as endorsed by the EU. EU-endorsed IFRSs may differ 
from IFRSs as issued by the IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs have not been endorsed by 
the EU.
At 31 December 2012, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2012 
affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements, and there was no difference between IFRSs 
endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to HSBC. Accordingly, HSBC’s 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by 
the IASB. 
IFRSs comprise accounting standards issued by the IASB and its predecessor body as well as interpretations 
issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) and its predecessor body. 
As a result of changing market practices in response to regulatory and accounting changes, as well as general 
market developments, HSBC revised its methodology for estimating the credit valuation adjustment (‘CVA’) for 
derivatives at 31 December 2012. Previously, the probability of default (‘PD’) used in the CVA calculation was 
based on HSBC’s internal credit rating for the counterparty taking into account how credit ratings may 
deteriorate over the duration of the exposure based on historical rating transition matrices. The revised 
methodology maximises the use of the PDs based on market-observable data, such as credit default swap 
(‘CDS’) spreads. Where CDS spreads are not available, PDs are estimated having regard to market practice, 
considering relevant data including both CDS indices and historical rating transition matrices. In addition, HSBC 
aligned its methodology for estimating the debit valuation adjustment (‘DVA’) to be consistent with that applied 
for CVA as at 31 December 2012. Historically, HSBC considered that a zero spread was appropriate in respect 
of own credit risk and consequently did not adjust derivative liabilities for its own credit risk. 
At 31 December 2012, the effect of the changes in fair value estimates as a result of the revisions to 
methodology was to reduce derivative liabilities by US$518m and to reduce derivative assets by US$899m 
resulting in a reduction in net trading income of US$381m. It is impracticable to estimate the effect of the 
changes in fair value estimates on future periods. See Note 15 for further information on CVA and DVA 
methodologies. 
During 2012, HSBC adopted a number of interpretations and amendments to standards which had an 
insignificant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of 
HSBC Holdings. 
(b) Differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards
There are no significant differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms 
of their application to HSBC and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial 
statements been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards. The Notes on the 
Financial Statements, taken together with the Report of the Directors, include the aggregate of all disclosures 
necessary to satisfy IFRSs and Hong Kong reporting requirements. 
(c) Presentation of information
Disclosures under IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ concerning the 
nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments have been included in the 
audited sections of the ‘Report of the Directors: Risk’ on pages 123 to 280. 
Capital disclosures under IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ have been included in the audited 
sections of ‘Report of the Directors: Capital’ on pages 281 to 300. 
Disclosures relating to HSBC’s securitisation activities and structured products have been included in the 
audited section of ‘Report of the Directors: Risk’ on pages 123 to 280. 
In accordance with HSBC’s policy to provide disclosures that help investors and other stakeholders understand  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
1 – Basis of preparation 
384
the Group’s performance, financial position and changes thereto, the information provided in the Notes on the 
Financial Statements and the Report of the Directors goes beyond the minimum levels required by accounting 
standards, statutory and regulatory requirements and listing rules. In particular, HSBC has provided additional 
disclosures following the issue of the Enhanced Disclosures Task Force (‘EDTF’) report ‘Enhancing the Risk 
Disclosures of Banks’ in 2012 and will further enhance its risk disclosures in 2013. The report aims to help 
financial institutions identify areas that investors had highlighted needed better and more transparent information 
about banks’ risks, and how these risks relate to performance measurement and reporting. The recommendations 
for disclosure improvement focused on the principal risks faced by the banking industry, and included 
disclosures about risk governance, capital adequacy, liquidity, funding, credit risk, market risk and other risks. In 
addition, HSBC follows the British Bankers’ Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure (‘the BBA 
Code’). The BBA Code aims to increase the quality and comparability of UK banks’ disclosures and sets out five 
disclosure principles together with supporting guidance. In line with the principles of the BBA Code, HSBC 
assesses good practice recommendations issued from time to time by relevant regulators and standard setters and 
will assess the applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing disclosures where appropriate.  
In publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, HSBC 
Holdings has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its 
individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these financial statements. 
HSBC’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars which is also HSBC Holdings’ functional 
currency. HSBC Holdings’ functional currency is the US dollar because the US dollar and currencies linked to 
it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its 
subsidiaries, as well as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities. 
HSBC uses the US dollar as its presentation currency in its consolidated financial statements because the US 
dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business.  
(d) Use of estimates and assumptions
The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and assumptions about future conditions. 
The use of available information and the application of judgement are inherent in the formation of estimates; 
actual results in the future may differ from estimates upon which financial information is prepared. Management 
believes that HSBC’s critical accounting policies where judgement is necessarily applied are those which relate 
to impairment of loans and advances, goodwill impairment, the valuation of financial instruments, deferred tax 
assets and provisions for liabilities. See ‘Critical accounting policies’ on pages 54 to 57, which form an integral 
part of these financial statements. 
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation 
uncertainty, are set out in the Notes on the Financial Statements. 
(e) Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC comprise the financial statements of HSBC Holdings and its 
subsidiaries made up to 31 December, with the exception of the banking and insurance subsidiaries of HSBC 
Bank Argentina, whose financial statements are made up to 30 June annually to comply with local regulations. 
Accordingly, HSBC uses their audited interim financial statements, drawn up to 31 December annually. 
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that HSBC gains control. The acquisition method of accounting is 
used when subsidiaries are acquired by HSBC. The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the 
consideration, including contingent consideration, given at the date of exchange. Acquisition-related costs are 
recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. The acquired 
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are generally measured at their fair values at the date of 
acquisition. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of 
non-controlling interest and the fair value of HSBC’s previously held equity interest, if any, over the net of the 
amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. The amount of non-controlling interest is 
measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable 
net assets. In a business combination achieved in stages, the previously held equity interest is remeasured at the 
acquisition-date fair value with the resulting gain or loss recognised in the income statement. In the event that the 
amount of net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of non-
controlling interest and the fair value of HSBC’s previously held equity interest, the difference is recognised  385
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
immediately in the income statement. 
Changes in a parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are treated as 
transactions between equity holders and are reported in equity. 
Entities that are controlled by HSBC are consolidated until the date that control ceases. 
In the context of Special Purpose Entities (‘SPE’s), the following circumstances may indicate a relationship in 
which, in substance, HSBC controls and consequently consolidates an SPE: 
• the activities of the SPE are being conducted on behalf of HSBC according to its specific business needs so 
that HSBC obtains benefits from the SPE’s operation; 
• HSBC has the decision-making powers to obtain the majority of the benefits of the activities of the SPE or, 
by setting up an ‘autopilot’ mechanism, HSBC has delegated these decision-making powers; 
• HSBC has rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the SPE and therefore may be exposed to risks 
incidental to the activities of the SPE; or 
• HSBC retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the SPE or its assets in order to 
obtain benefits from its activities. 
HSBC performs a re-assessment of consolidation whenever there is a change in the substance of the relationship 
between HSBC and an SPE. 
All intra-HSBC transactions are eliminated on consolidation. 
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC also include the attributable share of the results and reserves 
of joint ventures and associates. These are based on financial statements made up to 31 December, with the 
exception of BoCom, Ping An and Industrial Bank which are included on the basis of financial statements 
made up for the twelve months to 30 September. These are equity accounted three months in arrears in order 
to meet the requirements of the Group’s reporting timetable. HSBC takes into account the effect of significant 
transactions or events that occur between the period from 1 October to 31 December that would have a material 
effect on its results. As discussed further in Note 26, HSBC announced disposal of its entire shareholding in Ping 
An. As a result of the disposal of the first tranche of shares on 7 December 2012, HSBC no longer had 
significant influence over Ping An at 31 December 2012 and ceased to account for it as an associate. 
(f) Future accounting developments
At 31 December 2012, a number of standards and amendments to standards had been issued by the IASB which 
are not effective for these consolidated financial statements. In addition to the projects to complete financial 
instrument accounting, the IASB is continuing to work on projects on insurance, revenue recognition and lease 
accounting which, together with the standards described below, could represent significant changes to 
accounting requirements in the future. 
Amendments issued by the IASB  
Standards applicable in 2013 
In May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements,’ IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ and 
IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.’ In June 2012, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 
11 and IFRS 12 ‘Transition Guidance’. The standards and amendments are effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2013 with early adoption permitted. IFRSs 10 and 11 are required to be applied 
retrospectively. 
Under IFRS 10, there is one approach for determining consolidation for all entities, based on the concept 
of power, variability of returns and their linkage. This replaced the approach which applies to these financial 
statements which emphasises legal control or exposure to risks and rewards, depending on the nature of the 
entity. IFRS 11 places more focus on the investors’ rights and obligations than on the structure of the 
arrangement, and introduces the concept of a joint operation. IFRS 12 is a comprehensive standard on disclosure 
requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including for unconsolidated structured entities. 
We do not expect the overall effect of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11 on the financial statements to be material.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
1 – Basis of preparation / 2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
386
In May 2011, the IASB also issued IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement.’ This standard is effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 with early adoption permitted. IFRS 13 is required to be applied 
prospectively from the beginning of the first annual period in which it is applied. The disclosure requirements of 
IFRS 13 do not require comparative information to be provided for periods prior to initial application. 
IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance for all fair value measurements required or permitted by IFRSs. 
The standard clarifies the definition of fair value as an exit price, which is defined as a price at which an orderly 
transaction to sell the asset or to transfer the liability would take place between market participants at the 
measurement date under current market conditions, and enhances disclosures about fair value measurement. 
The effect of IFRS 13 is not expected to be material to HSBC. 
In June 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ (‘IAS 19 revised’). The revised 
standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 with early adoption permitted. 
IAS 19 revised is required to be applied retrospectively. 
The most significant amendment for HSBC is the replacement of interest cost and expected return on plan assets 
by a finance cost component comprising the net interest on the net defined benefit liability or asset. This finance 
cost component is determined by applying the same discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation 
to the net defined benefit liability or asset. The difference between the actual return on plan assets and the return 
included in the finance cost component in the income statement will be presented in other comprehensive 
income. The effect of this change is to increase the pension expense by the difference between the current 
expected return on plan assets and the return calculated by applying the relevant discount rate.  
Based on our estimate of the effect of this particular amendment on the 2012 consolidated financial statements, 
the change would have an immaterial effect on pre-tax profit and total operating expenses, with no effect on the 
pension liability. Therefore, the effect at the date of adoption on 1 January 2013 was not material to HSBC. 
In December 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 7 ‘Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and 
Financial Liabilities’ which requires the disclosures about the effect or potential effects of offsetting financial 
assets and financial liabilities and related arrangements on an entity’s financial position. The amendments are 
effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and interim periods within those annual 
periods. The amendments are required to be applied retrospectively. 
Standards applicable in 2014  
In December 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 32 ‘Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial 
Liabilities’ which clarify the requirements for offsetting financial instruments and address inconsistencies 
in current practice when applying the offsetting criteria in IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’. The 
amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and are required to be applied 
retrospectively. 
Based on our initial assessment, we do not expect the amendments to IAS 32 to have a material effect on 
HSBC’s financial statements. 
In October 2012, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 ‘Investment Entities’, which 
introduced an exception to the principle that all subsidiaries shall be consolidated. The amendments require a 
parent that is an investment entity to measure its investments in particular subsidiaries at fair value through 
profit or loss instead of consolidating all subsidiaries in its consolidated and separate financial statements. The 
amendments are effective from 1 January 2014 with early adoption permitted. Based on our initial assessment, 
we do not expect the amendments to have a material effect on HSBC’s consolidated financial statements. 
Standards applicable in 2015 
In November 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ which introduced new requirements for the 
classification and measurement of financial assets. In October 2010, the IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 9 
incorporating requirements for financial liabilities. Together, these changes represent the first phase in the 
IASB’s planned replacement of IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.’ 
Following the IASB’s decision in December 2011 to defer the effective date, the standard is effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015 with early adoption permitted. IFRS 9 is required to be applied 
retrospectively but prior periods need not be restated.  387
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
The second and third phases in the IASB’s project to replace IAS 39 will address the impairment of financial 
assets and hedge accounting. 
The IASB is in the process of amending the requirements for classification and measurement in IFRS 9 to 
address practice and other issues. 
The final IFRS 9 requirements for classification and measurement and impairment remain uncertain and so 
HSBC remains unable to provide a date by which it will apply IFRS 9 as a whole and it remains impracticable 
to quantify the effect of IFRS 9 as at the date of the publication of these financial statements. 
EU endorsement 
All the standards applicable in 2013 and 2014 have been endorsed for use in the EU, except for the amendments 
to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 ‘Transition Guidance’ and the amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 
‘Investment Entities’. Until these amendments are endorsed, the relief they provide for comparatives disclosures 
in accordance with IFRS 12 will not be available for use in the EU. 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies 
(a) Interest income and expense 
Interest income and expense for all financial instruments except for those classified as held for trading or 
designated at fair value (except for debt securities issued by HSBC and derivatives managed in conjunction with 
those debt securities) are recognised in ‘Interest income’ and ‘Interest expense’ in the income statement using 
the effective interest method. The effective interest method is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a 
financial asset or a financial liability (or groups of financial assets or financial liabilities) and of allocating the 
interest income or interest expense over the relevant period. 
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts or payments through 
the expected life of the financial instrument or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of 
the financial asset or financial liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, HSBC estimates cash flows 
considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument but excluding future credit losses. The calculation 
includes all amounts paid or received by HSBC that are an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial 
instrument, including transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts. 
Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows 
for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss. 
(b) Non-interest income
Fee income is earned from a diverse range of services provided by HSBC to its customers. Fee income is 
accounted for as follows:  
− income earned on the execution of a significant act is recognised as revenue when the act is completed (for 
example, fees arising from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of, a transaction for a third party, 
such as an arrangement for the acquisition of shares or other securities); 
− income earned from the provision of services is recognised as revenue as the services are provided (for 
example, asset management, portfolio and other management advisory and service fees); and  
− income which forms an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument is recognised as 
an adjustment to the effective interest rate (for example, certain loan commitment fees) and recorded in 
‘Interest income’. 
Net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and 
financial liabilities held for trading, together with the related interest income, expense and dividends.
Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value includes all gains and losses from changes 
in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss. Interest 
income and expense and dividend income arising on these financial instruments are also included, except for 
interest arising from debt securities issued by HSBC, and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt 
securities, which is recognised in ‘Interest expense’ (Note 2a).  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
388
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. This is the ex-dividend date for 
listed equity securities, and usually the date when shareholders have approved the dividend for unlisted equity 
securities.
(c) Operating segments
Due to the nature of the Group, HSBC’s chief operating decision-maker regularly reviews operating activity on 
a number of bases, including by geographical region and by global business. HSBC considers that geographical 
operating segments represent the most appropriate information for the users of the financial statements to best 
evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business activities in which HSBC engages, and the economic 
environments in which it operates. This reflects the importance of geographic factors on business strategy and 
performance, the allocation of capital resources, and the role of geographical regional management in executing 
strategy. As a result, HSBC’s operating segments are considered to be geographical regions. 
Measurement of segmental assets, liabilities, income and expenses is in accordance with the Group’s accounting 
policies. Segmental income and expenses include transfers between segments and these transfers are conducted 
on arm’s length terms and conditions. Shared costs are included in segments on the basis of the actual recharges 
made. The expense of the UK bank levy is included in the Europe geographical region as HSBC regards the levy 
as a cost of being headquartered in the UK. 
(d) Valuation of financial instruments
All financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. In the normal course of business, the fair value of 
a financial instrument on initial recognition is the transaction price (that is, the fair value of the consideration 
given or received). In certain circumstances, however, the fair value will be based on other observable current 
market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or on a valuation technique 
whose variables include only data from observable markets, such as interest rate yield curves, option volatilities 
and currency rates. When such evidence exists, HSBC recognises a trading gain or loss on inception of the 
financial instrument, being the difference between the transaction price and the fair value. When unobservable 
market data have a significant impact on the valuation of financial instruments, the entire initial difference in 
fair value from the transaction price as indicated by the valuation model is not recognised immediately in the 
income statement. Instead, it is recognised over the life of the transaction on an appropriate basis, when the 
inputs become observable, the transaction matures or is closed out, or when HSBC enters into an offsetting 
transaction. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial instruments measured at fair value are measured in 
accordance with HSBC’s valuation methodologies, which are described in Notes 15 and 16. 
(e) Reclassification of financial assets
Non-derivative financial assets (other than those designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial 
recognition) may be reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category in the following 
circumstances:  
− financial assets that would have met the definition of loans and receivables at initial recognition (if the 
financial asset had not been required to be classified as held for trading) may be reclassified out of the fair 
value through profit or loss category if there is the intention and ability to hold the financial asset for the 
foreseeable future or until maturity; and  
− financial assets (except financial assets that would have met the definition of loans and receivables at initial 
recognition) may be reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category and into another 
category in rare circumstances. 
When a financial asset is reclassified as described in the above circumstances, the financial asset is reclassified at 
its fair value on the date of reclassification. Any gain or loss already recognised in the income statement is not 
reversed. The fair value of the financial asset on the date of reclassification becomes its new cost or amortised 
cost, as applicable.  389
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
(f) Loans and advances to banks and customers
Loans and advances to banks and customers include loans and advances originated by HSBC which are not 
classified as held for trading or designated at fair value. Loans and advances are recognised when cash is 
advanced to a borrower. They are derecognised when either the borrower repays its obligations, or the loans 
are sold or written off, or substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred. They are initially 
recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised 
cost using the effective interest method, less any reduction from impairment or uncollectibility. Where exposures 
are hedged by derivatives designated and qualifying as fair value hedges, the carrying value of the loans and 
advances so hedged includes a fair value adjustment relating only to the hedged risk. 
Loans and advances are reclassified to ‘Assets held for sale’ when their carrying amounts are to be recovered 
principally through sale, they are available for sale in their present condition and their sale is highly probable 
(Note 2ac); however, such loans and advances continue to be measured in accordance with the policy described 
above.
HSBC may commit to underwrite loans on fixed contractual terms for specified periods of time, where the 
drawdown of the loan is contingent upon certain future events outside the control of HSBC. Where the loan 
arising from the lending commitment is expected to be held for trading, the commitment to lend is recorded as 
a derivative and measured at fair value through profit or loss. On drawdown, the loan is classified as held for 
trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss. Where it is not HSBC’s intention to trade but hold the 
loan, a provision on the loan commitment is only recorded where it is probable that HSBC will incur a loss. This 
may occur, for example, where a loss of principal is probable or the interest rate charged on the loan is lower 
than the cost of funding. On inception of the loan, the loan to be held is recorded at its fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. For certain transactions, such as 
leveraged finance and syndicated lending activities, the cash advanced is not necessarily the best evidence of the 
fair value of the loan. For these loans, where the initial fair value is lower than the cash amount advanced (for 
example, due to the rate of interest charged on the loan being below the market rate of interest), the write-down 
is charged to the income statement. The write-down will be recovered over the life of the loan, through the 
recognition of interest income using the effective interest method, unless the loan becomes impaired. The write-
down is recorded as a reduction to other operating income.
Financial assets which have been reclassified into the loans and receivables category are initially recorded at the 
fair value at the date of reclassification and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective 
interest rate determined at the date of reclassification.
(g) Impairment of loans and advances
Losses for impaired loans are recognised promptly when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or 
portfolio of loans has occurred. Impairment allowances are calculated on individual loans and on groups of loans 
assessed collectively. Impairment losses are recorded as charges to the income statement. The carrying amount 
of impaired loans on the balance sheet is reduced through the use of impairment allowance accounts. Losses 
which may arise from future events are not recognised. 
Individually assessed loans and advances 
The factors considered in determining whether a loan is individually significant for the purposes of assessing 
impairment include: 
– the size of the loan; 
– the number of loans in the portfolio; and 
– the importance of the individual loan relationship, and how this is managed. 
Loans that meet the above criteria will be individually assessed for impairment, except when volumes of defaults 
and losses are sufficient to justify treatment under a collective assessment methodology. 
Loans considered as individually significant are typically to corporate and commercial customers and are for 
larger amounts, which are managed on an individual relationship basis. Retail lending portfolios are generally 
assessed for impairment on a collective basis as the portfolios generally consist of large pools of homogeneous 
loans. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
390
For all loans that are considered individually significant, HSBC assesses on a case-by-case basis at each balance 
sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that a loan is impaired. The criteria used by HSBC to 
determine that there is such objective evidence include:  
– known cash flow difficulties experienced by the borrower; 
– contractual payments of either principal or interest being past due for more than 90 days;  
– the probability that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial realisation; 
– a concession granted to the borrower for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial 
difficulty that results in forgiveness or postponement of principal, interest or fees, where the concession is 
not insignificant; and  
–  there has been deterioration in the financial condition or outlook of the borrower such that its ability to 
repay is considered doubtful. 
For those loans where objective evidence of impairment exists, impairment losses are determined considering the 
following factors:
– HSBC’s aggregate exposure to the customer; 
– the viability of the customer’s business model and their capacity to trade successfully out of financial 
difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations; 
– the amount and timing of expected receipts and recoveries; 
– the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy; 
– the extent of other creditors’ commitments ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and the likelihood 
of other creditors continuing to support the company; 
– the complexity of determining the aggregate amount and ranking of all creditor claims and the extent to 
which legal and insurance uncertainties are evident;  
– the realisable value of security (or other credit mitigants) and likelihood of successful repossession; 
– the likely deduction of any costs involved in recovery of amounts outstanding;  
– the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make payments in, the currency of the loan if not denominated in 
local currency; and 
– when available, the secondary market price of the debt. 
The realisable value of security is determined based on the current market value when the impairment 
assessment is performed. The value is not adjusted for expected future changes in market prices; however, 
adjustments are made to reflect local conditions such as forced sale discounts. 
Impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan, which includes 
expected future receipts of contractual interest, at the loan’s original effective interest rate and comparing the 
resultant present value with the loan’s current carrying amount. The impairment allowances on individually 
significant accounts are reviewed at least quarterly and more regularly when circumstances require. This 
normally encompasses re-assessment of the enforceability of any collateral held and the timing and amount of 
actual and anticipated receipts. Individually assessed impairment allowances are only released when there is 
reasonable and objective evidence of a reduction in the established loss estimate. 
Collectively assessed loans and advances 
Impairment is assessed on a collective basis in two circumstances: 
– to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual 
assessment; and 
– for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant.  391
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Incurred but not yet identified impairment 
Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of impairment has been specifically identified on an 
individual basis are grouped together according to their credit risk characteristics for the purpose of calculating 
an estimated collective impairment. These credit risk characteristics may include country of origination, type of 
business involved, type of products offered, security obtained or other relevant factors. This reflects impairment 
losses that HSBC has incurred as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date, which HSBC is not 
able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably estimated. These losses will only be 
individually identified in the future. As soon as information becomes available which identifies losses on 
individual loans within the group, those loans are removed from the group and assessed on an individual basis 
for impairment. 
The collective impairment allowance is determined after taking into account: 
– historical loss experience in portfolios of similar credit risk characteristics (for example, by industry sector, 
loan grade or product); 
– the estimated period between impairment occurring and the loss being identified and evidenced by the 
establishment of an appropriate allowance against the individual loan; and 
– management’s experienced judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that 
the actual level of inherent losses at the balance sheet date is likely to be greater or less than that suggested 
by historical experience. 
The period between a loss occurring and its identification is estimated by local management for each identified 
portfolio. The factors that may influence this estimation include economic and market conditions, customer 
behaviour, portfolio management information, credit management techniques and collection and recovery 
experiences in the market. As it is assessed empirically on a periodic basis the estimated period between a loss 
occurring and its identification may vary over time as these factors change. 
Homogeneous groups of loans and advances 
Statistical methods are used to determine impairment losses on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of 
loans that are not considered individually significant, because individual loan assessment is impracticable. 
Losses in these groups of loans are recorded on an individual basis when individual loans are written off, at 
which point they are removed from the group. Two alternative methods are used to calculate allowances on a 
collective basis: 
 When appropriate empirical information is available, HSBC utilises roll rate methodology. This 
methodology employs statistical analyses of historical data and experience of delinquency and default to 
estimate the amount of loans that will eventually be written off as a result of the events occurring before the 
balance sheet date which HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan basis, and that can be reliably 
estimated. Under this methodology, loans are grouped into ranges according to the number of days past due 
and statistical analysis is used to estimate the likelihood that loans in each range will progress through the 
various stages of delinquency, and ultimately prove irrecoverable. In addition to the delinquency groupings, 
loans are segmented according to their credit characteristics as described above. Current economic 
conditions are also evaluated when calculating the appropriate level of allowance required to cover 
inherent loss. The estimated loss is the difference between the present value of expected future cash flows, 
discounted at the original effective interest rate of the portfolio, and the carrying amount of the portfolio. 
In certain highly developed markets, sophisticated models also take into account behavioural and account 
management trends as revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics.
 When the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll 
rate methodology, HSBC adopts a basic formulaic approach based on historical loss rate experience. The 
period between a loss occurring and its identification is explicitly estimated by local management, and is 
typically between six and twelve months. 
The inherent loss within each portfolio is assessed on the basis of statistical models using historical data 
observations, which are updated periodically to reflect recent portfolio and economic trends. When the most 
recent trends arising from changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural conditions are not fully reflected in  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
392
the statistical models, they are taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived from the 
statistical models to reflect these changes as at the balance sheet date. 
These additional portfolio risk factors may include recent loan portfolio growth and product mix, unemployment 
rates, bankruptcy trends, geographic concentrations, loan product features (such as the ability of borrowers to 
repay adjustable-rate loans where reset interest rates give rise to increases in interest charges), economic 
conditions such as national and local trends in housing markets and interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account 
management policies and practices, current levels of write-offs, adjustments to the period of time between loss 
identification and write-off, changes in laws and regulations and other factors which can affect customer 
payment patterns on outstanding loans, such as natural disasters. These risk factors, where relevant, are taken 
into account when calculating the appropriate level of impairment allowances by adjusting the impairment 
allowances derived solely from historical loss experience. 
Roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against actual 
outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate. 
Write-off of loans and advances 
Loans (and the related impairment allowance accounts) are normally written off, either partially or in full, when 
there is no realistic prospect of recovery. Where loans are secured, this is generally after receipt of any proceeds 
from the realisation of security. In circumstances where the net realisable value of any collateral has been 
determined and there is no reasonable expectation of further recovery, write-off may be earlier. 
Reversals of impairment 
If the amount of an impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively 
to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the excess is written back by reducing the loan 
impairment allowance account accordingly. The write-back is recognised in the income statement. 
Reclassified loans and advances 
Where financial assets have been reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category to the loans and 
receivables category, the effective interest rate determined at the date of reclassification is used to calculate any 
impairment losses.  
Following reclassification, where there is a subsequent increase in the estimates of future cash receipts as a result 
of increased recoverability of those cash receipts, the effect of that increase is recognised as an adjustment to the 
effective interest rate from the date of change in the estimate rather than as an adjustment to the carrying amount 
of the asset at the date of change in the estimate. 
Assets acquired in exchange for loans 
Non-financial assets acquired in exchange for loans as part of an orderly realisation are recorded as assets held 
for sale and reported in ‘Other assets’ if the carrying amounts of the assets are recovered principally through 
sale, the assets are available for sale in their present condition and their sale is highly probable. The asset 
acquired is recorded at the lower of its fair value less costs to sell and the carrying amount of the loan (net of 
impairment allowance) at the date of exchange. No depreciation is charged in respect of assets held for sale. Any 
subsequent write-down of the acquired asset to fair value less costs to sell is recognised in the income statement, 
in ‘Other operating income’. Any subsequent increase in the fair value less costs to sell, to the extent this does 
not exceed the cumulative write-down, is also recognised in ‘Other operating income’, together with any realised 
gains or losses on disposal. 
Renegotiated loans 
Loans subject to collective impairment assessment whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered 
past due, but are treated as up to date loans for measurement purposes once a minimum number of payments 
required have been received. Loans subject to collective impairment assessment whose terms have been 
renegotiated are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for the purposes of collective impairment 
assessment, to reflect their risk profile. Loans subject to individual impairment assessment, whose terms have 
been renegotiated, are subject to ongoing review to determine whether they remain impaired. The carrying  393
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
amounts of loans that have been classified as renegotiated retain this classification until maturity or 
derecognition. 
A loan that is renegotiated is derecognised if the existing agreement is cancelled and a new agreement made on 
substantially different terms, or if the terms of an existing agreement are modified, such that the renegotiated 
loan is substantially a different financial instrument. 
(h) Trading assets and trading liabilities
Treasury bills, debt securities, equity securities, loans, deposits, debt securities in issue, and short positions in 
securities are classified as held for trading if they have been acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of 
selling or repurchasing in the near term, or they form part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that 
are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit-taking. These 
financial assets or financial liabilities are recognised on trade date, when HSBC enters into contractual 
arrangements with counterparties to purchase or sell the financial instruments, and are normally derecognised 
when either sold (assets) or extinguished (liabilities). Measurement is initially at fair value, with transaction costs 
taken to the income statement. Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses from changes 
therein are recognised in the income statement in ‘Net trading income’.  
(i) Financial instruments designated at fair value
Financial instruments, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they meet one or more of 
the criteria set out below, and are so designated by management. HSBC may designate financial instruments at 
fair value when the designation: 
– eliminates or significantly reduces measurement or recognition inconsistencies that would otherwise arise 
from measuring financial assets or financial liabilities, or recognising gains and losses on them, on different 
bases. Under this criterion, the main classes of financial instruments designated by HSBC are:  
Long-term debt issues. The interest payable on certain fixed rate long-term debt securities issued has been 
matched with the interest on ‘receive fixed/pay variable’ interest rate swaps as part of a documented interest 
rate risk management strategy. An accounting mismatch would arise if the debt securities issued were 
accounted for at amortised cost, because the related derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in 
the fair value recognised in the income statement. By designating the long-term debt at fair value, the 
movement in the fair value of the long-term debt will also be recognised in the income statement.  
Financial assets and financial liabilities under unit-linked insurance and unit-linked investment 
contracts. Liabilities to customers under linked contracts are determined based on the fair value of the 
assets held in the linked funds, with changes recognised in the income statement. If no designation was 
made for the assets relating to the customer liabilities they would be classified as available for sale and the 
changes in fair value would be recorded in other comprehensive income. These financial instruments are 
managed on a fair value basis and management information is also prepared on this basis. Designation at fair 
value of the financial assets and liabilities under investment contracts allows the changes in fair values to be 
recorded in the income statement and presented in the same line;  
– applies to groups of financial assets, financial liabilities or combinations thereof that are managed, and their 
performance evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or 
investment strategy, and where information about the groups of financial instruments is reported to 
management on that basis. Under this criterion, certain financial assets held to meet liabilities under non-
linked insurance contracts are the main class of financial instrument so designated. HSBC has documented 
risk management and investment strategies designed to manage such assets at fair value, taking into 
consideration the relationship of assets to liabilities in a way that mitigates market risks. Reports are 
provided to management on the fair value of the assets. Fair value measurement is also consistent with the 
regulatory reporting requirements under the appropriate regulations for these insurance operations; and 
– relates to financial instruments containing one or more embedded derivatives that significantly modify the 
cash flows resulting from those financial instruments, including certain debt issues and debt securities held. 
The fair value designation, once made, is irrevocable. Designated financial assets and financial liabilities are 
recognised when HSBC enters into the contractual provisions of the arrangements with counterparties, which 
is generally on trade date, and are normally derecognised when either sold (assets) or extinguished (liabilities).  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
394
Measurement is initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken to the income statement. Subsequently, the 
fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in the income statement in 
‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’.  
(j) Financial investments
Treasury bills, debt securities and equity securities intended to be held on a continuing basis, other than those 
designated at fair value, are classified as available for sale or held to maturity. Financial investments are 
recognised on trade date when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties to purchase 
securities, and are normally derecognised when either the securities are sold or the borrowers repay their 
obligations. 
(i) Available-for-sale financial assets are initially measured at fair value plus direct and incremental transaction 
costs. They are subsequently remeasured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in other 
comprehensive income in ‘Available-for-sale investments – fair value gains/(losses)’ until the financial 
assets are either sold or become impaired. When available-for-sale financial assets are sold, cumulative 
gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement 
as ‘Gains less losses from financial investments’.  
Interest income is recognised on available-for-sale debt securities using the effective interest rate, calculated 
over the asset’s expected life. Premiums and/or discounts arising on the purchase of dated investment 
securities are included in the calculation of their effective interest rates. Dividends are recognised in the 
income statement when the right to receive payment has been established. 
At each balance sheet date an assessment is made of whether there is any objective evidence of impairment 
in the value of a financial asset. Impairment losses are recognised if, and only if, there is objective evidence 
of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial 
asset (a ‘loss event’) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the 
financial asset that can be reliably estimated. 
If the available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the difference between the financial asset’s acquisition 
cost (net of any principal repayments and amortisation) and the current fair value, less any previous 
impairment loss recognised in the income statement, is removed from other comprehensive income and 
recognised in the income statement. 
Impairment losses for available-for-sale debt securities are recognised within ‘Loan impairment charges 
and other credit risk provisions’ in the income statement and impairment losses for available-for-sale equity 
securities are recognised within ‘Gains less losses from financial investments’ in the income statement. 
The impairment methodologies for available-for-sale financial assets are set out in more detail below. 
– Available-for-sale debt securities. When assessing available-for-sale debt securities for objective 
evidence of impairment at the reporting date, HSBC considers all available evidence, including 
observable data or information about events specifically relating to the securities which may result in a 
shortfall in recovery of future cash flows. These events may include a significant financial difficulty of 
the issuer, a breach of contract such as a default, bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation, or the 
disappearance of an active market for the debt security because of financial difficulties relating to the 
issuer. 
These types of specific event and other factors such as information about the issuers’ liquidity, business 
and financial risk exposures, levels of and trends in default for similar financial assets, national and 
local economic trends and conditions, and the fair value of collateral and guarantees may be considered 
individually, or in combination, to determine if there is objective evidence of impairment of a debt 
security. 
In addition, when assessing available-for-sale asset-backed securities (‘ABS’s) for objective evidence 
of impairment, HSBC considers the performance of underlying collateral and the extent and depth of 
market price declines. Changes in credit ratings are considered but a downgrade of a security’s credit 
rating is not, of itself, evidence of impairment. The primary indicators of potential impairment are 
considered to be adverse fair value movements and the disappearance of an active market for a security. 
ABS impairment methodologies are described in more detail in Impairment methodologies on 
page 260. 395
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
– Available-for-sale equity securities. Objective evidence of impairment for available-for sale equity 
securities may include specific information about the issuer as detailed above, but may also include 
information about significant changes in technology, markets, economics or the law that provides 
evidence that the cost of the equity securities may not be recovered.  
A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost is also objective evidence 
of impairment. In assessing whether it is significant, the decline in fair value is evaluated against the 
original cost of the asset at initial recognition. In assessing whether it is prolonged, the decline is 
evaluated against the period in which the fair value of the asset has been below its original cost at initial 
recognition.
Once an impairment loss has been recognised on an available-for-sale financial asset, the subsequent 
accounting treatment for changes in the fair value of that asset differs depending on the nature of the 
available-for-sale financial asset concerned: 
– for an available-for-sale debt security, a subsequent decline in the fair value of the instrument is 
recognised in the income statement when there is further objective evidence of impairment as a result 
of further decreases in the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset. Where there is no further 
objective evidence of impairment, the decline in the fair value of the financial asset is recognised in 
other comprehensive income. If the fair value of a debt security increases in a subsequent period, and 
the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in 
the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement. If there is no 
longer objective evidence that the debt security is impaired, the impairment loss is also reversed through 
the income statement;  
– for an available-for-sale equity security, all subsequent increases in the fair value of the instrument 
are treated as a revaluation and are recognised in other comprehensive income. Impairment losses 
recognised on the equity security are not reversed through the income statement. Subsequent decreases 
in the fair value of the available-for-sale equity security are recognised in the income statement, to the 
extent that further cumulative impairment losses have been incurred in relation to the acquisition cost 
of the equity security.  
(ii) Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and 
fixed maturities that HSBC positively intends, and is able, to hold to maturity. Held-to-maturity investments 
are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, and are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment losses. 
(k) Sale and repurchase agreements (including stock lending and borrowing)
When securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price (‘repos’), they 
remain on the balance sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received. Securities 
purchased under commitments to sell (‘reverse repos’) are not recognised on the balance sheet and the 
consideration paid is recorded in ‘Loans and advances to banks’, ‘Loans and advances to customers’ or ‘Trading 
assets’ as appropriate. The difference between the sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and recognised 
over the life of the agreement for loans and advances to banks and customers, and as net trading income for 
trading assets. 
Securities lending and borrowing transactions are generally secured, with collateral taking the form of securities 
or cash advanced or received. The transfer of securities to counterparties under these agreements is not normally 
reflected on the balance sheet. Cash collateral advanced or received is recorded as an asset or a liability 
respectively. 
Securities borrowed are not recognised on the balance sheet. If they are sold on to third parties, an obligation to 
return the securities is recorded as a trading liability and measured at fair value, and any gains or losses are 
included in ‘Net trading income’. 
(l) Derivatives and hedge accounting
Derivatives are recognised initially, and are subsequently remeasured, at fair value. Fair values of exchange-
traded derivatives are obtained from quoted market prices. Fair values of over-the-counter derivatives are 
obtained using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
396
Derivatives may be embedded in other financial instruments, for example, a convertible bond with an embedded 
conversion option. Embedded derivatives are treated as separate derivatives when their economic characteristics 
and risks are not clearly and closely related to those of the host contract; the terms of the embedded derivative 
would meet the definition of a stand-alone derivative if they were contained in a separate contract; and the 
combined contract is not held for trading or designated at fair value. These embedded derivatives are measured 
at fair value with changes therein recognised in the income statement. 
Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive, or as liabilities when their fair value is 
negative. Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are only offset if the transactions 
are with the same counterparty, a legal right of offset exists, and the parties intend to settle the cash flows on a 
net basis. 
The method of recognising fair value gains and losses depends on whether derivatives are held for trading or are 
designated as hedging instruments, and if the latter, the nature of the risks being hedged. All gains and losses 
from changes in the fair value of derivatives held for trading are recognised in the income statement. When 
derivatives are designated as hedges, HSBC classifies them as either: (i) hedges of the change in fair value of 
recognised assets or liabilities or firm commitments (‘fair value hedges’); (ii) hedges of the variability in highly 
probable future cash flows attributable to a recognised asset or liability, or a forecast transaction (‘cash flow 
hedges’); or (iii) a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation (‘net investment hedges’). Hedge accounting 
is applied to derivatives designated as hedging instruments in a fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge 
provided certain criteria are met. 
Hedge accounting 
At the inception of a hedging relationship, HSBC documents the relationship between the hedging instruments 
and the hedged items, its risk management objective and its strategy for undertaking the hedge. HSBC also 
requires a documented assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether or not the 
hedging instruments, primarily derivatives, that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting 
the changes attributable to the hedged risks in the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items. Interest on 
designated qualifying hedges is included in ‘Net interest income’. 
Fair value hedge 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are 
recorded in the income statement, along with changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or group 
thereof that are attributable to the hedged risk. 
If a hedging relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the cumulative adjustment to the 
carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement based on a recalculated effective 
interest rate over the residual period to maturity, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case, 
it is released to the income statement immediately. 
Cash flow hedge 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow 
hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income within ‘Cash flow hedges – fair value gains/(losses)’. Any 
gain or loss in fair value relating to an ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
The accumulated gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income 
statement in the periods in which the hedged item will affect profit or loss. However, when the forecast 
transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains 
and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are removed from equity and included in the 
initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, 
any cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that time remains in equity until the 
forecast transaction is eventually recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer 
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in other comprehensive income is 
immediately reclassified to the income statement.  397
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Net investment hedge 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges. A gain 
or loss on the effective portion of the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income; a gain or 
loss on the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement. Gains and losses previously 
recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement on the disposal, or part 
disposal, of the foreign operation. 
Hedge effectiveness testing 
To qualify for hedge accounting, HSBC requires that at the inception of the hedge and throughout its life, each 
hedge must be expected to be highly effective (prospective effectiveness), and demonstrate actual effectiveness 
(retrospective effectiveness) on an ongoing basis. 
The documentation of each hedging relationship sets out how the effectiveness of the hedge is assessed. The 
method adopted by an entity to assess hedge effectiveness will depend on its risk management strategy. 
For prospective effectiveness, the hedging instrument must be expected to be highly effective in offsetting 
changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the period for which the hedge is 
designated. For actual effectiveness to be achieved, the changes in fair value or cash flows must offset each 
other in the range of 80% to 125%. 
Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement in ‘Net trading income’. 
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
All gains and losses from changes in the fair values of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are 
recognised immediately in the income statement. These gains and losses are reported in ‘Net trading income’, 
except where derivatives are managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at fair value (other 
than derivatives managed in conjunction with debt securities issued by HSBC), in which case gains and losses 
are reported in ‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’. The interest on derivatives 
managed in conjunction with debt securities issued by HSBC which are designated at fair value is recognised in 
‘Interest expense’. All other gains and losses on these derivatives are reported in ‘Net income from financial 
instruments designated at fair value’. 
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting include non-qualifying hedges entered into as part of 
documented interest rate management strategies for which hedge accounting was not, or could not, be applied. 
The size and direction of changes in fair value of non-qualifying hedges can be volatile from year to year, but do 
not alter the cash flows expected as part of the documented management strategies for both the non-qualifying 
hedge instruments and the assets and liabilities to which the documented interest rate strategies relate. Non-
qualifying hedges therefore operate as economic hedges of the related assets and liabilities. 
(m) Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual right to receive cash flows from the assets has expired; or 
when HSBC has transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows of the financial assets, and either: 
– substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred; or  
– HSBC has neither retained nor transferred substantially all the risks and rewards, but has not retained 
control.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is when the obligation is discharged, 
cancelled, or expires. 
(n) Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there 
is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or 
realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
398
(o) Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
HSBC classifies investments in entities which it controls as subsidiaries. Where HSBC is a party to a contractual 
arrangement whereby, together with one or more parties, it undertakes an economic activity that is subject to 
joint control, HSBC classifies its interest in the venture as a joint venture. HSBC classifies investments in 
entities over which it has significant influence, and that are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, as associates. 
For the purpose of determining this classification, control is considered to be the power to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. 
HSBC Holdings’ investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment losses. An impairment loss 
recognised in prior periods shall be reversed through the income statement if, and only if, there has been a 
change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount of the investment in subsidiary since the last 
impairment loss was recognised. 
Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method. Under this 
method, such investments are initially stated at cost, including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter 
for the post-acquisition change in HSBC’s share of net assets. 
(p) Goodwill and intangible assets
(i) Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries, when the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration 
transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest and the fair value of any previously held equity 
interest in the acquiree exceed the amount of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. If the amount 
of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired is greater, the difference is recognised immediately in the 
income statement. Goodwill arises on the acquisition of interests in joint ventures and associates when the 
cost of investment exceeds HSBC’s share of the net fair value of the associate’s or joint venture’s 
identifiable assets and liabilities.  
Intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill when they are separable or arise from contractual 
or other legal rights, and their fair value can be measured reliably.  
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (‘CGU’) for the purpose of impairment testing, which is 
undertaken at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. HSBC’s 
cash-generating units are based on geographical regions subdivided by global business. Impairment testing 
is performed at least annually, and whenever there is an indication that the CGU may be impaired, by 
comparing the recoverable amount of a CGU with its carrying amount. The carrying amount of a CGU is 
based on the assets and liabilities of each CGU, including attributable goodwill. The recoverable amount of 
an asset is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell, and its value in use. Value in use is the present value 
of the expected future cash flows from a cash-generating unit. If the recoverable amount is less than the 
carrying value, an impairment loss is charged to the income statement. Goodwill is stated at cost less 
accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill on acquisitions of interests in joint ventures and associates is included in ‘Interests in associates 
and joint ventures’ and is not tested separately for impairment. 
At the date of disposal of a business, attributable goodwill is included in HSBC’s share of net assets in the 
calculation of the gain or loss on disposal. 
Goodwill is included in a disposal group if the disposal group is a CGU to which goodwill has been 
allocated or it is an operation within such a CGU. The amount of goodwill included in a disposal group is 
measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the CGU 
retained.
(ii) Intangible assets include the present value of in-force long-term insurance business, computer software, 
trade names, mortgage servicing rights, customer lists, core deposit relationships, credit card customer 
relationships and merchant or other loan relationships. Computer software includes both purchased and 
internally generated software. The cost of internally generated software comprises all directly attributable 
costs necessary to create, produce and prepare the software to be capable of operating in the manner 
intended by management. Costs incurred in the ongoing maintenance of software are expensed immediately 
as incurred.  399
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Intangible assets are subject to impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances that 
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Where:  
– intangible assets have an indefinite useful life, or are not yet ready for use, they are tested for 
impairment annually. This impairment test may be performed at any time during the year, provided it is 
performed at the same time every year. An intangible asset recognised during the current period is 
tested before the end of the current year; and 
– intangible assets have a finite useful life, except for the present value of in-force long-term insurance 
business, they are stated at cost less amortisation and accumulated impairment losses and are amortised 
over their estimated useful lives. Estimated useful life is the lower of legal duration and expected useful 
life. The amortisation of mortgage servicing rights is included within ‘Net fee income’. 
For the accounting policy governing the present value of in-force long-term insurance business (see 
Note 2y). 
(iii) Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised, generally on a straight-line basis, over their useful 
lives as follows:
Trade names ............................................................................................................................ 10 years 
Mortgage servicing rights ....................................................................................................... generally between 5 and 12 years
Internally generated software .................................................................................................. between 3 and 5 years 
Purchased software .................................................................................................................. between 3 and 5 years 
Customer/merchant relationships ............................................................................................ between 3 and 10 years 
Other ........................................................................................................................................ generally 10 years 
(q) Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings are stated at historical cost, or fair value at the date of transition to IFRSs (‘deemed cost’), 
less any impairment losses and depreciation calculated to write-off the assets over their estimated useful lives as 
follows:
– freehold land is not depreciated; 
– freehold buildings are depreciated at the greater of 2% per annum on a straight-line basis or over their 
remaining useful lives; and 
– leasehold land and buildings are depreciated over the shorter of their unexpired terms of the leases or their 
remaining useful lives. 
Equipment, fixtures and fittings (including equipment on operating leases where HSBC is the lessor) are stated 
at cost less any impairment losses and depreciation, is calculated on a straight-line basis to write-off the assets 
over their useful lives, which run to a maximum of 35 years but are generally between 5 years and 20 years. 
Property, plant and equipment is subject to an impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances 
which indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.  
HSBC holds certain properties as investments to earn rentals or for capital appreciation, or both. Investment 
properties are included in the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income 
statement. Fair values are determined by independent professional valuers who apply recognised valuation 
techniques. 
(r) Finance and operating leases
Agreements which transfer to counterparties substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of 
assets, but not necessarily legal title, are classified as finance leases. When HSBC is a lessor under finance leases 
the amounts due under the leases, after deduction of unearned charges, are included in ‘Loans and advances to 
banks’ or ‘Loans and advances to customers’, as appropriate. The finance income receivable is recognised in 
‘Net interest income’ over the periods of the leases so as to give a constant rate of return on the net investment 
in the leases. 
When HSBC is a lessee under finance leases, the leased assets are capitalised and included in ‘Property, plant 
and equipment’ and the corresponding liability to the lessor is included in ‘Other liabilities’. A finance lease and 
its corresponding liability are recognised initially at the fair value of the asset or, if lower, the present value of  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
400
the minimum lease payments. Finance charges payable are recognised in ‘Net interest income’ over the period of 
the lease based on the interest rate implicit in the lease so as to give a constant rate of interest on the remaining 
balance of the liability. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases. When acting as lessor, HSBC includes the assets subject to 
operating leases in ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and accounts for them accordingly. Impairment losses are 
recognised to the extent that residual values are not fully recoverable and the carrying value of the assets is 
thereby impaired. When HSBC is the lessee, leased assets are not recognised on the balance sheet. Rentals 
payable and receivable under operating leases are accounted for on a straight-line basis over the periods of the 
leases and are included in ‘General and administrative expenses’ and ‘Other operating income’, respectively.  
(s) Income tax
Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to 
the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it 
is recognised in the same statement in which the related item appears. 
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable profit for the year, calculated using tax rates enacted 
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous 
years. HSBC provides for potential current tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to 
be paid to the tax authorities. Current tax assets and liabilities are offset when HSBC intends to settle on a net 
basis and the legal right to offset exists.  
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the 
balance sheet and the amounts attributed to such assets and liabilities for tax purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are 
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can 
be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the assets will be realised 
or the liabilities settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they arise in the same tax reporting group and relate to income 
taxes levied by the same taxation authority, and when HSBC has a legal right to offset.  
Deferred tax relating to actuarial gains and losses on post-employment benefits is recognised in other 
comprehensive income. Deferred tax relating to share-based payment transactions is recognised directly in 
equity to the extent that the amount of the estimated future tax deduction exceeds the amount of the related 
cumulative remuneration expense. Deferred tax relating to fair value re-measurements of available-for-sale 
investments and cash flow hedging instruments which are charged or credited directly to other comprehensive 
income, is also charged or credited to other comprehensive income and is subsequently recognised in the income 
statement when the deferred fair value gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. 
(t) Pension and other post-employment benefits
HSBC operates a number of pension and other post-employment benefit plans throughout the world. These plans 
include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans and various other post-employment benefits such as 
post-employment healthcare. 
Payments to defined contribution plans and state-managed retirement benefit plans, where HSBC’s obligations 
under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution plan, are charged as an expense as the employees render 
service.
The defined benefit pension costs and the present value of defined benefit obligations are calculated at the 
reporting date by the schemes’ actuaries using the Projected Unit Credit Method. The net charge to the income 
statement mainly comprises the current service cost, plus the unwinding of the discount rate on plan liabilities, 
less the expected return on plan assets, and is presented in operating expenses. Past service costs are charged 
immediately to the income statement to the extent that the benefits have vested, and are otherwise recognised 
on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits vest. Actuarial gains and losses comprise 
experience adjustments (the effects of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has 
actually occurred), as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions. Actuarial gains and losses are 
recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.  401
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
The defined benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of defined benefit 
obligations adjusted for unrecognised past service costs and reduced by the fair value of plan assets. Any net 
defined benefit surplus is limited to unrecognised past service costs plus the present value of available refunds 
and reductions in future contributions to the plan. 
The cost of obligations arising from other post-employment defined benefit plans, such as defined benefit health-
care plans, are accounted for on the same basis as defined benefit pension plans. 
(u) Share-based payments
HSBC enters into both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment arrangements with its employees as 
compensation for services provided by employees. Equity-settled share-based payment arrangements entitle 
employees to receive equity instruments of HSBC. Cash-settled share-based payment arrangements entitle 
employees to receive cash or other assets based on the price or value of the equity instruments of HSBC. 
The cost of equity-settled share-based payment arrangements with employees is measured by reference to the 
fair value of equity instruments on the date they are granted and recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to ‘Retained earnings’. The vesting period is the period 
during which all the specified vesting conditions of the arrangement are to be satisfied. The fair value of equity 
instruments that are made available immediately, with no vesting period attached to the award, are expensed 
immediately. 
For cash-settled share-based payment arrangements, the services acquired and liability incurred are measured at 
the fair value of the liability, as the employees render service. Until settlement, the fair value of the liability is 
remeasured, with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement. 
Fair value is determined by using appropriate valuation models, taking into account the terms and conditions of 
the award. Vesting conditions include service conditions and performance conditions; any other features of the 
arrangement are non-vesting conditions. Market performance conditions and non-vesting conditions are taken 
into account when estimating the fair value of the award at the date of grant, so that an award is treated as 
vesting irrespective of whether these conditions are satisfied, provided all other vesting conditions are satisfied.  
Vesting conditions, other than market performance conditions, are not taken into account in the initial estimate 
of the fair value at the grant date. They are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments 
included in the measurement of the transaction, so that the amount recognised for services received as 
consideration for the equity instruments granted shall be based on the number of equity instruments that 
eventually vest. On a cumulative basis, no expense is recognised for equity instruments that do not vest because 
of a failure to satisfy non-market performance or service conditions.  
Where an award has been modified, as a minimum, the expense of the original award continues to be recognised 
as if it had not been modified. Where the effect of a modification is to increase the fair value of an award or 
increase the number of equity instruments, the incremental fair value of the award of the extra equity instruments 
is recognised in addition to the expense of the original grant, measured at the date of modification, over the 
modified vesting period. 
A cancellation that occurs during the vesting period is treated as an acceleration of vesting, and recognised 
immediately for the amount that would otherwise have been recognised for services over the vesting period. 
Where HSBC Holdings enters into share-based payment arrangements involving employees of subsidiaries, 
the cost is recognised in ‘Investment in subsidiaries’ and credited to the ‘Retained earnings’ over the vesting 
period. When a subsidiary funds the share-based payment arrangement, ‘Investment in subsidiaries’ is reduced 
by the fair value of the equity instruments. 
(v) Foreign currencies
Items included in the financial statements of each of HSBC’s entities are measured using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). HSBC’s consolidated 
financial statements are presented in US dollars which is also HSBC Holdings’ functional currency.  
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing on 
the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into 
the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Any resulting exchange  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
402
differences are included in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at 
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the 
date of the initial transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are 
translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined. Any 
exchange component of a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in other comprehensive income if 
the gain or loss on the non-monetary item is recognised in other comprehensive income. Any exchange 
component of a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in the income statement if the gain or loss 
on the non-monetary item is recognised in the income statement. 
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets, including related goodwill where applicable, and liabilities of 
branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars, are translated 
into the Group’s presentation currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The results of 
branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated 
into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for the reporting period. Exchange differences arising from the 
retranslation of opening foreign currency net assets, and exchange differences arising from retranslation of the 
result for the reporting period from the average rate to the exchange rate prevailing at the period end, are 
recognised in other comprehensive income. Exchange differences on a monetary item that is part of a net 
investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the income statement of the separate financial statements. 
In consolidated financial statements these exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange differences relating thereto and previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement as a reclassification adjustment when the gain 
or loss on disposal is recognised. 
(w) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle a 
current legal or constructive obligation, which has arisen as a result of past events, and for which a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 
Contingent liabilities, which include certain guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security, are 
possible obligations that arise from past events whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence, or 
non-occurrence, of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of HSBC; or are present 
obligations that have arisen from past events but are not recognised because it is not probable that settlement will 
require the outflow of economic benefits, or because the amount of the obligations cannot be reliably measured. 
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the probability of 
settlement is remote.  
(x) Financial guarantee contracts
Liabilities under financial guarantee contracts which are not classified as insurance contracts are recorded 
initially at their fair value, which is generally the fee received or receivable. Subsequently, financial guarantee 
liabilities are measured at the higher of the initial fair value, less cumulative amortisation, and the best estimate 
of the expenditure required to settle the obligations. 
HSBC Holdings has issued financial guarantees and similar contracts to other Group entities. Where it has 
previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting 
applicable to insurance contracts, HSBC may elect to account for guarantees as an insurance contract in HSBC 
Holdings’ financial statements. This election is made on a contract by contract basis, but the election for each 
contract is irrevocable. Where these guarantees have been classified as insurance contracts, they are measured 
and recognised as insurance liabilities. 
(y) Insurance contracts
Through its insurance subsidiaries, HSBC issues contracts to customers that contain insurance risk, financial risk 
or a combination thereof. A contract under which HSBC accepts significant insurance risk from another party by 
agreeing to compensate that party on the occurrence of a specified uncertain future event, is classified as an 
insurance contract. An insurance contract may also transfer financial risk, but is accounted for as an insurance 
contract if the insurance risk is significant.  403
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
While investment contracts with discretionary participation features are financial instruments, they continue to 
be treated as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4. 
Insurance premiums 
Premiums for life insurance contracts are accounted for when receivable, except in unit-linked insurance 
contracts where premiums are accounted for when liabilities are established. 
Gross insurance premiums for non-life insurance business are reported as income over the term of the insurance 
contracts based on the proportion of risks borne during the accounting period. The unearned premium (the 
proportion of the business underwritten in the accounting year relating to the period of risk after the balance 
sheet date) is calculated on a daily or monthly pro rata basis.  
Reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the direct insurance 
contracts to which they relate. 
Insurance claims and reinsurance recoveries 
Gross insurance claims for life insurance contracts reflect the total cost of claims arising during the year, 
including claim handling costs and any policyholder bonuses allocated in anticipation of a bonus declaration. 
Claims arising during the year include maturities, surrenders and death claims. 
Maturity claims are recognised when due for payment. Surrenders are recognised when paid or at an earlier date 
on which, following notification, the policy ceases to be included within the calculation of the related insurance 
liabilities. Death claims are recognised when notified. 
Gross insurance claims for non-life insurance contracts include paid claims and movements in outstanding 
claims liabilities. 
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim. 
Liabilities under insurance contracts 
Liabilities under non-linked life insurance contracts are calculated by each life insurance operation based on 
local actuarial principles. Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts are at least equivalent to the 
surrender or transfer value which is calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or 
indices. 
Outstanding claims liabilities for non-life insurance contracts are based on the estimated ultimate cost of all 
claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date, whether reported or not, together with related claim-
handling costs and a reduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries. Liabilities for claims 
incurred but not reported are made on an estimated basis, using appropriate statistical techniques. 
A liability adequacy test is carried out on insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of the liabilities 
is sufficient in the light of current estimates of future cash flows. When performing the liability adequacy test, all 
contractual cash flows are discounted and compared with the carrying value of the liability. When a shortfall is 
identified it is charged immediately to the income statement. 
Future profit participation on insurance contracts with discretionary participation features 
Where contracts provide discretionary profit participation benefits to policyholders, liabilities for these contracts 
include provisions for the future discretionary benefits to policyholders. These provisions reflect actual 
performance of the investment portfolio to date and management expectation on the future performance in 
connection with the assets backing the contracts, as well as other experience factors such as mortality, lapses 
and operational efficiency, where appropriate. This benefit may arise from the contractual terms, regulation, or 
past distribution policy. 
Investment contracts 
Unit linked and non-linked 
Customer liabilities under linked and certain non-linked investment contracts and the corresponding financial 
assets are designated at fair value. Movements in fair value are recognised in ‘Net income from financial  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Summary of significant accounting policies 
404
investments designated at fair value’. Premiums receivable and amounts withdrawn are accounted for as 
increases or decreases in the liability recorded in respect of investment contracts. 
Liabilities under linked investment contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is 
calculated by reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices. 
Investment management fees receivable are recognised in the income statement over the period of the provision 
of the investment management services, in ‘Net fee income’. 
The incremental costs directly related to the acquisition of new investment contracts or renewing existing 
investment contracts are deferred and amortised over the period during which the investment management 
services are provided. 
Investment contracts with discretionary participation features 
While investment contracts with discretionary participation features are financial instruments, they continue to 
be treated as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4. The Group therefore recognises the premiums for those 
contracts as revenue and recognises as an expense the resulting increase in the carrying amount of the liability. 
In the case of net unrealised investment gains on these contracts, whose discretionary benefits principally reflect 
the actual performance of the investment portfolio, the corresponding increase in the liabilities is recognised in 
either the income statement or other comprehensive income, following the treatment of the unrealised gains on 
the relevant assets. In the case of net unrealised losses, a deferred participating asset is recognised only to the 
extent that its recoverability is highly probable. Movements in the liabilities arising from realised gains and 
losses on relevant assets are recognised in the income statement. 
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business 
The value placed on insurance contracts that are classified as long-term insurance business or long-term 
investment contracts with discretionary participating features (‘DPF’) and are in force at the balance sheet date 
is recognised as an asset. The asset represents the present value of the equity holders’ interest in the issuing 
insurance companies’ profits expected to emerge from these contracts written at the balance sheet date. 
The present value of in-force long-term insurance business and long-term investment contracts with DPF, 
referred to as ‘PVIF’, is determined by discounting the equity holders’ interest in future profits expected to 
emerge from business currently in force using appropriate assumptions in assessing factors such as future 
mortality, lapse rates and levels of expenses, and a risk discount rate that reflects the risk premium attributable to 
the respective contracts. The PVIF incorporates allowances for both non-market risk and the value of financial 
options and guarantees. The PVIF asset is presented gross of attributable tax in the balance sheet and movements 
in the PVIF asset are included in ‘Other operating income’ on a gross of tax basis. 
(z) Debt securities issued and deposits by customers and banks
Financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into the contractual provisions of the arrangements with 
counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and initially measured at fair value, which is normally the 
consideration received, net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred. Subsequent measurement of 
financial liabilities, other than those measured at fair value through profit or loss and financial guarantees, is 
at amortised cost, using the effective interest method to amortise the difference between proceeds received, net 
of directly attributable transaction costs incurred, and the redemption amount over the expected life of the 
instrument. 
(aa) Share capital
Shares are classified as equity when there is no contractual obligation to transfer cash or other financial assets. 
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of equity instruments are shown in equity as a deduction from 
the proceeds, net of tax.  
HSBC Holdings plc shares held by HSBC are recognised in equity as a deduction from retained earnings until 
they are cancelled. When such shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration 
received is included in equity, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and related income 
tax effects.  405
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
(ab) Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments that 
are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in 
value. Such investments are normally those with less than three months’ maturity from the date of acquisition. 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash and balances at central banks, treasury bills and other eligible bills, loans 
and advances to banks, items in the course of collection from or in transmission to other banks, and certificates 
of deposit. 
(ac) Assets held for sale 
Non-current assets and disposal groups (including both the assets and liabilities of the disposal groups) are 
classified as held for sale when their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through sale, they are 
available for sale in their present condition and their sale is highly probable. Non-current assets held for sale 
and disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell, except 
for those assets and liabilities that are not within the scope of the measurement requirements of IFRS 5 
‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’ such as deferred taxes, financial instruments, 
investment properties, insurance contracts and assets and liabilities arising from employee benefits. These are 
measured in accordance with the accounting policies described above. Immediately before the initial 
classification as held for sale, the carrying amounts of the asset (or assets and liabilities in the disposal group) are 
measured in accordance with applicable IFRSs. On subsequent remeasurement of a disposal group, the carrying 
amounts of the assets and liabilities noted above that are not within the scope of the measurement requirements 
of IFRS 5 are remeasured in accordance with applicable IFRSs before the fair value less costs to sell of the 
disposal group is determined.  
Income earned and expenses incurred on assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 
continue to be recognised in the appropriate line items in the income statement until the transaction is complete. 
Loan impairment charges incurred on assets held for sale continue to be recognised in ‘Loan impairment charges 
and other credit risk provisions’ and interest income and expense continue to be recognised in ‘Net interest 
income’. Once classified as held for sale, movements arising from the initial measurement or subsequent 
remeasurement of the non-current assets (or disposal groups) are recognised in ‘Other operating income’.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
3 – Net income from financial instruments at fair value / 4 – Net earned insurance premiums / 5 – Net insurance claims incurred
406
3 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value  
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value includes: 
• all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value, 
including liabilities under investment contracts;  
• all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with financial 
assets and liabilities designated at fair value; and
• interest income, interest expense and dividend income in respect of:  
– financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value; and  
– derivatives managed in conjunction with the above,  
except for interest arising from HSBC’s issued debt securities and derivatives managed in conjunction with those 
debt securities, which is recognised in ‘Interest expense’. 
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Net income/(expense) arising on:    
–  financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance and investment 
contracts ............................................................................................................. 2,980 (933)  2,349 
–  other financial assets designated at fair value ........................................................ 83 1,050  230 
–  derivatives managed in conjunction with other financial assets  
designated at fair value ...................................................................................... 35 (182)  (149)
3,098 (65)  2,430 
–  liabilities to customers under investment contracts ............................................... (996) 231 (946)
–  HSBC’s long-term debt issued and related derivatives ......................................... (4,327) 4,161  (258)
–  changes in own credit spread on long-term debt ............................................... (5,215) 3,933  (63)
–  derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC’s issued debt securities ........ 431 3,165  (275)
–  other changes in fair value ................................................................................. 457 (2,937)  80
–  other financial liabilities designated at fair value .................................................. (23) (911) (18)
–  derivatives managed in conjunction with other financial liabilities
designated at fair value ...................................................................................... 22 23  12 
(5,324) 3,504 (1,210)
(2,226) 3,439  1,220 
HSBC Holdings 
Net income/(expense) arising on HSBC Holdings long-term debt issued and related derivatives 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Net income/(expense) arising on:    
–  changes in own credit spread on long-term debt .................................................... (2,260) 1,657  248 
–  derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC Holdings issued
debt securities ..................................................................................................... 456 1,368  (482)
–  other changes in fair value ...................................................................................... (474) (1,113)  373 
(2,278) 1,912  139  407
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
4 Net earned insurance premiums
 Non-life
 insurance 
 Life 
 insurance 
 (non-linked) 
 Life 
 insurance
 (linked) 
 Investment 
 contracts 
 with DPF
1
 Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2012
Gross earned premiums ................................................ 716 6,862 3,325 2,699 13,602 
– gross written premiums ......................................... 760 6,815 3,325 2,699 13,599
– movement in unearned premiums ......................... (44) 47 – – 3
Reinsurers’ share of gross earned premiums ................ (107) (443) (8) – (558)
– gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers .......... (104) (408) (8) – (520)
– reinsurers’ share of movement in unearned  
premiums ............................................................... (3) (35) – – (38)
609 6,419 3,317 2,699 13,044 
2011      
Gross earned premiums ................................................ 1,144 6,238 2,801 3,155 13,338 
– gross written premiums ......................................... 1,175 6,207 2,804 3,155  13,341
– movement in unearned premiums ......................... (31) 31 (3) –  (3)
Reinsurers’ share of gross earned premiums ................ (180) (278) (8) – (466)
– gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers .......... (182) (255) (8) –  (445)
– reinsurers’ share of movement in unearned  
premiums ............................................................... 2 (23) – –  (21)
 964 5,960 2,793 3,155 12,872 
2010      
Gross earned premiums ................................................ 1,275 5,427 1,956 2,951 11,609 
– gross written premiums ......................................... 1,192 5,357 1,956 2,951  11,456
– movement in unearned premiums ......................... 83 70 – –  153
Reinsurers’ share of gross earned premiums ................ (160) (289) (14) – (463)
– gross written premiums ceded to reinsurers .......... (172) (266) (8) –  (446)
– reinsurers’ share of movement in unearned  
premiums ............................................................... 12 (23) (6) –  (17)
 1,115 5,138 1,942 2,951 11,146 
1 Discretionary participation features.
5 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders  
 Non-life
 insurance 
 Life 
 insurance 
 (non-linked) 
 Life 
 insurance
 (linked) 
 Investment 
 contracts  
  with DPF
1
 Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2012
Gross claims incurred and movement in liabilities ........... 342 6,558 3,984 3,645 14,529 
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid ..................... 339 1,566 1,810 2,525 6,240
– movement in liabilities .......................................... 3 4,992 2,174 1,120 8,289
Reinsurers’ share of claims incurred and  
movement in liabilities ............................................ (58) (479) 223 – (314)
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid ..................... (57) (160) (681) – (898)
– movement in liabilities .......................................... (1) (319) 904 – 584
284 6,079 4,207 3,645 14,215  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
6 – Operating profit / 7 – Employee compensation and benefits 
408
 Non-life
 insurance 
 Life 
 insurance 
 (non-linked) 
 Life 
 insurance 
 (linked) 
 Investment 
 contracts  
  with DPF
1
  Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2011      
Gross claims incurred and movement in liabilities ........... 435 5,729 2,462 3,005 11,631 
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid ..................... 631 1,793 1,129 2,628  6,181
– movement in liabilities.......................................... (196) 3,936 1,333 377  5,450
Reinsurers’ share of claims incurred and  
movement in liabilities ............................................ (85) (254) (111) – (450)
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid ..................... (81) (164) (56) –  (301)
– movement in liabilities .......................................... (4) (90) (55) –  (149)
 350 5,475 2,351 3,005 11,181 
2010      
Gross claims incurred and movement in liabilities ........... 625 5,108 2,520 3,716 11,969 
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid ..................... 815 1,355 507 2,023  4,700
– movement in liabilities.......................................... (190) 3,753 2,013 1,693  7,269
Reinsurers’ share of claims incurred and  
movement in liabilities ............................................ (100) (201) 99 – (202)
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid ..................... (114) (143) (45) –  (302)
– movement in liabilities .......................................... 14 (58) 144 –  100
 525 4,907 2,619 3,716 11,767 
1 Discretionary participation features. 
6 Operating profit 
Operating profit is stated after the following items of income, expense, gains and losses: 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Income 
Interest recognised on impaired financial assets
1
 ....................................................... 1,261 1,604 516 
Fees earned on financial assets or liabilities not held for trading nor designated
at fair value, other than fees included in effective interest rate calculations on
these types of assets and liabilities ......................................................................... 10,042 11,318 11,445 
Fees earned on trust and other fiduciary activities where HSBC holds
or invests assets on behalf of its customers ........................................................... 2,897 3,072 3,074 
Income from listed investments .................................................................................. 5,850 8,283 7,418 
Income from unlisted investments .............................................................................. 7,677 8,031 7,187 
Gain arising from dilution of interests in associates and joint ventures .................... – 208 188 
Expense
Interest on financial instruments, excluding interest on financial liabilities
held for trading or designated at fair value ............................................................ (17,625) (20,965) (17,549)
Fees payable on financial assets or liabilities not held for trading nor designated
at fair value, other than fees included in effective interest rate calculations on
these types of assets and liabilities ......................................................................... (1,501) (1,697) (1,529)
Fees payable relating to trust and other fiduciary activities where
HSBC holds or invests assets on behalf of its customers ...................................... (170) (182) (151)
UK bank levy .............................................................................................................. (472) (570) – 
Auditors’ remuneration (see Note 8) .......................................................................... (49) (51) (51)
Gains/(losses) 
Gain on disposal or settlement of loans and advances ............................................... 24 116 121 
Impairment of available-for-sale equity securities ..................................................... (420) (177) (105)
Gains on disposal of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and  
non-financial investments ...................................................................................... 187 57 701 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions ................................. (8,311) (12,127) (14,039)
Net impairment charge on loans and advances .......................................................... (8,160) (11,505) (13,548)
Impairment of available-for-sale debt securities ........................................................ (99) (631) (472)
Release/(impairment) in respect of other credit risk provisions ................................ (52) 9 (19) 409
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
1 During 2011 the Group adopted a more stringent treatment for impaired loans for geographical regions with significant levels of
forbearance. As a result loans and advances have been classified as impaired that under the previous disclosure convention would
otherwise have been classified as neither past due nor impaired or past due but not impaired. The effect of this change on 2011 reported 
numbers was to increase interest earned on impaired loans from US$0.3bn to US$1.5bn. Restatement of comparative data prior to 
31 December 2010 is impracticable (see page 162, ‘Impaired loans disclosure’, for further details).
7 Employee compensation and benefits
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Wages and salaries ...................................................................................................... 17,780 18,923 17,193 
Social security costs .................................................................................................... 1,633 1,754 1,567 
Post-employment benefits .......................................................................................... 1,078 489 1,076 
20,491 21,166 19,836 
Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year 
2012 2011 2010 
Europe ......................................................................................................................... 77,204 81,263 79,902 
Hong Kong ................................................................................................................. 28,764 30,323 29,105 
Rest of Asia-Pacific .................................................................................................... 88,015 92,685 89,737 
Middle East and North Africa .................................................................................... 8,645 8,816 8,983 
North America ............................................................................................................ 27,396 34,871 36,822 
Latin America ............................................................................................................. 54,162 58,026 57,778 
Total ............................................................................................................................ 284,186 305,984 302,327 
Included in ‘Wages and salaries’ above are share-based payment arrangements, as follows: 
Share-based payments income statement charge
2012 2011  2010 
US$m US$m  US$m 
Restricted and performance share awards
1
 ................................................................. 912 1,041 685 
Savings-related and other share option plans ............................................................. 96 121 127 
1,008 1,162 812 
Equity-settled share-based payments .......................................................................... 988 1,154 812 
Cash-settled share-based payments ............................................................................ 20 8 – 
1 Restricted share awards include awards granted under the Group Performance Share Plan (‘GPSP’). 
The share-based payment income statement charge above includes US$837m (2011: US$974m; 2010: US$610m) 
relating to deferred share awards. These awards are generally granted to employees early in the year following the 
year to which the award relates. The charge for these awards is recognised from the start of the period to which the 
service relates to the end of the vesting period. The vesting period is the period over which the employee satisfies 
certain service conditions in order to become entitled to the award. Due to the staggered vesting profile of certain 
deferred share awards, the employee becomes entitled to a portion of the award at the end of each year during the 
vesting period. The income statement charge reflects this vesting profile.  
In addition, wages and salaries also includes US$111m (2011: US$88m; 2010: US$15m) in respect of deferred cash 
awards for current and prior performance years. The reconciliation of total incentive awards (both deferred and non-
deferred) to income statement charge is as follows:  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
7 – Employee compensation and benefits  
410
Reconciliation of total incentive awards granted to incentive awards in employee compensation and benefits
2012 2011  2010 
US$m US$m  US$m 
Total incentive awards approved and granted for the current year
1
 .......................... 3,689 3,966 4,297 
Less: deferred bonuses awarded for the current year but not amortised .................... (355) (369) (778)
Total incentives awarded and recognised in the current year .................................... 3,334 3,597 3,519 
Current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years ............................... 671 897 625 
Other
2
 .......................................................................................................................... (28) (261) (109)
Total incentive awards for the current year included in employee compensation  
and benefits ............................................................................................................ 3,977 4,233 4,035 
1 This represents the amount of the Group variable pay pool that has been approved and granted. The total amount of Group variable pay 
pool approved by the Group Remuneration Committee is disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 347. 
2 This mainly comprises incentive awards paid to employees acting as selling agents, which form an integral part of the effective interest 
of a financial instrument, recognised as an adjustment to the effective interest rate and recorded in ‘Interest income’. 
The following table identifies the charge recognised in the current year, or expected to be recognised in future years, 
in relation to deferred bonus awards from the current year and prior year bonus pools.
Income statement charge for current and prior year bonus pools 
Current year
1
bonus pool 
Prior year 
bonus pools Total
US$m US$m US$m 
2012
Charge recognised in 2012 ......................................................................................... 277 671 948
   Deferred share awards ............................................................................................. 224 613 837
   Deferred cash awards ............................................................................................... 53 58 111
Charge expected to be recognised in 2013 or later .................................................... 355 376 731
   Deferred share awards ............................................................................................. 315 335 650
   Deferred cash awards ............................................................................................... 40 41 81
2011
Charge recognised in 2011 ......................................................................................... 165 897 1,062
   Deferred share awards ............................................................................................. 131 843 974
   Deferred cash awards ............................................................................................... 34 54 88
Charge expected to be recognised in 2012 or later .................................................... 369 731 1,100 
   Deferred share awards ............................................................................................. 289 652 941
   Deferred cash awards ............................................................................................... 80 79 159
2010
Charge recognised in 2010 ......................................................................................... – 625 625 
   Deferred share awards ............................................................................................. – 610 610
   Deferred cash awards ............................................................................................... – 15 15
Charge expected to be recognised in 2011 or later .................................................... 778 802 1,580 
   Deferred share awards ............................................................................................. 759 801 1,560
   Deferred cash awards ............................................................................................... 19 1 20
1 Current year bonus pool relates to the bonus pool declared for the reporting period (2012 for the current year, 2011 for the 2011 
comparatives and 2010 for the 2010 comparatives).  411
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Share-based payments 
HSBC share awards 
Award Policy Purpose
Restricted
share awards 
(including 
GPSP
awards)
• Vesting of awards generally subject to continued 
employment with HSBC. 
• Vesting is generally staggered over three years. GPSP 
awards vest after five years. 
• Certain shares subject to a retention requirement post-
vesting. In the case of GPSP awards retention applies 
until cessation of employment. 
• Awards generally not subject to performance conditions. 
• Awards granted from 2010 onwards are subject to 
clawback provision prior to vesting.
• Rewards employee performance and potential and 
supports retention of key employees. 
• To defer variable pay.
Movement on HSBC share awards
Restricted share awards
1
Performance share awards
2
 2012  2011  2012   2011 
 Number
 (000s) 
 Number 
 (000s) 
 Number  
 (000s) 
  Number 
 (000s) 
Outstanding at 1 January .............................................................. 262,241 229,092 – 4,425 
Additions during the year ............................................................. 107,928 100,819 – 154
Released in the year ...................................................................... (193,692) (56,301) – (883)
Forfeited in the year ...................................................................... (10,888) (11,369) – (3,696)
Outstanding at 31 December ........................................................ 165,589 262,241 – –
Weighted average fair value of awards granted (US$) ................  8.93 10.11 –   – 
1 Restricted share awards include awards granted under the Group Performance Share Plan (‘GPSP’).
2 Additions during 2011 comprised reinvested dividend equivalents. The last award of performance shares was made in 2008, and shares
under the plan were released in March 2011. 
HSBC share option plans 
Main plans Policy Purpose
Savings-
related share 
option plans 
• Exercisable within three months following the first 
anniversary of the commencement of a one-year savings 
contract or within six months following either the third or 
fifth anniversaries of the commencement of three-year or 
five-year contracts, respectively. 
• The exercise price is set at a 20% (2011: 20%) discount to 
the market value immediately preceding the date of 
invitation (except for the one-year options granted under 
the US sub-plan where a 15% discount is applied). 
• Eligible employees save up to £250 per month (or its 
equivalent in US dollars, Hong Kong dollars or euros), 
with the option to use the savings to acquire shares. 
• To align the interests of all employees with the creation of 
shareholder value. 
HSBC
Holdings
Group share 
option plan 
• Plan ceased in May 2005. 
• Exercisable between third and tenth anniversaries of the 
date of grant. 
• Long-term incentive plan between 2000 and 2005 during 
which certain HSBC employees were awarded share 
options. 
The table on page 412 shows the movement on HSBC share option plans during the year. 
Calculation of fair values 
The fair values of share options at the date of grant of the option are calculated using a Black-Scholes model. 
The fair value of a share award is based on the share price at the date of the grant. The fair value of a share option 
is inherently subjective and uncertain due to the assumptions made and the limitations of the model used.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
7 – Employee compensation and benefits 
412
Significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of options granted 
Savings-related share option plans 
 1-year plan  3-year plans  5-year plans 
2012
Risk-free interest rate
1
 (%) ......................................................................................... 0.4 0.6 1.2 
Expected life (years) ................................................................................................... 1 3 5
Expected volatility
2
 (%) .............................................................................................. 25 25 25
Share price at grant date (£) ........................................................................................ 5.46 5.46 5.46 
2011     
Risk-free interest rate
1
 (%) .........................................................................................  0.8  1.7   2.5 
Expected life (years) ...................................................................................................  1  3   5 
Expected volatility
2
 (%) ..............................................................................................  25  25   25 
Share price at grant date (£) ........................................................................................  6.37  6.37   6.37 
2010     
Risk-free interest rate
1
 (%) .........................................................................................  0.7  1.9   2.9 
Expected life (years) ...................................................................................................  1  3   5 
Expected volatility
2
 (%) ..............................................................................................  30  30   30 
Share price at grant date (£) ........................................................................................  6.82  6.82   6.82 
1 The risk-free rate was determined from the UK gilts yield curve. A similar yield curve was used for the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related
Share Option Plan: International. 
2 Expected volatility is estimated by considering both historic average share price volatility and implied volatility derived from traded 
options over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of similar maturity to those of the employee options. 
The expected US dollar denominated dividend yield was determined to be 5.0% per annum in line with consensus 
analyst forecasts (2011: 4.5%; 2010: 4.5%). 
HSBC subsidiary company share option plans 
There are a number of employee share option plans relating to HSBC France, HSBC Finance and HSBC Bank 
Bermuda as a result of the acquisition of these entities.  
Options granted prior to public announcement of the acquisitions vested on acquisition and are not included in the 
table below. HSBC France and HSBC Finance granted share options after announcement of the acquisition which 
vested in subsequent years. Of these, at 31 December 2012, none remained outstanding (2011: 2.4m). Full details of 
all options outstanding under these plans can be found in Note 38. 
Movement on HSBC share option plans
Savings-related 
share option plans 
HSBC Holdings Group 
share option plan 
HSBC Finance 
share option plan 
 Number 
 (000s) 
 WAEP
1
 £ 
 Number 
 (000s) 
 WAEP
1
 £ 
 Number 
 (000s) 
 WAEP
1
 US$ 
2012
Outstanding at 1 January ...................................................... 153,465  3.80 120,792  7.02 2,429 9.29 
Granted during the year
2
....................................................... 44,868  4.44 – – – –
Exercised during the year
3
.................................................... (63,954) 3.47 (1,606) 6.02 (2,054) 9.29 
Expired during the year ........................................................ (21,627) 4.82 (32,013) 7.29 (375) 9.29 
Outstanding at 31 December ................................................ 112,752  4.04 87,173  6.94 – –
At 31 December 2012 
Exercise price range (£): 
 3.00 – 4.50 ........................................................................ 95,333 – –
 4.51 – 6.00 ........................................................................ 16,129 – –
 6.01 – 7.50 ........................................................................ 1,290 82,278 –
 7.51 – 7.96 ........................................................................ – 4,895 –
Of which exercisable ............................................................   4,538 87,173 –
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) .......... 2.26 1.11 –
       
2011       
Outstanding at 1 January ...................................................... 157,855  3.87 152,758  7.12 2,429 9.29 
Granted during the year
2
 ....................................................... 23,199  5.11 –  – – – 
Exercised during the year
3
 .................................................... (7,439) 5.27 (646) 6.06 – – 
Expired during the year ........................................................ (20,150) 4.71 (31,320) 7.56 – – 
Outstanding at 31 December ................................................ 153,465  3.80 120,792  7.02 2,429 9.29  413
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Savings-related 
share option plans 
HSBC Holdings Group 
share option plan  
HSBC Finance 
share option plan 
 Number 
 (000s) 
 WAEP
1
 £ 
 Number 
 (000s) 
 WAEP
1
 £  
 Number 
 (000s)  
 WAEP
1
 US$ 
At 31 December 2011       
Exercise price range (£):       
 3.00 – 4.50 ......................................................................... 117,387  –  –  
 4.51 – 6.00 ......................................................................... 32,778  –  –  
 6.01 – 7.50 ......................................................................... 2,341  115,901  –  
 7.51 – 9.29 ......................................................................... 959  4,891  2,429  
Of which exercisable ............................................................ 3,209  120,792  2,429  
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) .......... 2.04  1.66  0.89  
1 Weighted average exercise price. 
2 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was US$1.63 (2011: US$2.11). 
3 The weighted average share price at the date the options were exercised was US$8.78 (2011: US$8.65) and US$9.00 (2011: US$9.51)
for the savings-related share option plans and HSBC Holdings Group share option plan, respectively. 
Post-employment benefit plans 
Income statement charge 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Defined benefit pension plans .................................................................................... 427 (172) 468 
– HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme .................................................................... 169 (428) 308 
– other plans ........................................................................................................... 258 256  160 
Defined contribution pension plans ........................................................................... 599 626  545 
1,026 454  1,013 
Defined benefit healthcare plans ................................................................................ 49 32  58 
Defined contribution healthcare plans ........................................................................ 3 3  5 
1,078 489  1,076 
Net assets/(liabilities) recognised on balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
Defined benefit pension plans 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme ..................................................................................................... 2,617  2,237 
–  fair value of plan assets ................................................................................................................ 29,092  26,604 
–  present value of defined benefit obligations ................................................................................ (26,475) (24,367)
Other plans ........................................................................................................................................... (2,585) (2,445)
–  fair value of plan assets ................................................................................................................ 9,015  8,232 
–  present value of defined benefit obligations ................................................................................ (11,600) (10,680)
–  effect of limit on plan surpluses ................................................................................................... (19) (18)
–  unrecognised past service cost ..................................................................................................... 19 21
Total ...................................................................................................................................................... 32 (208)
Defined benefit healthcare plans  
–  fair value of plan assets .................................................................................................................... 189 151
–  present value of defined benefit obligations .................................................................................... (1,261) (1,091)
–  unrecognised past service cost ......................................................................................................... (19) (21)
Total ...................................................................................................................................................... (1,091) (961)
Fair value of plan assets ........................................................................................................................... 38,296  34,987 
Present value of defined benefit obligations ............................................................................................ (39,336) (36,138)
Effect of limit on plan surpluses ............................................................................................................... (19) (18)
(1,059) (1,169)
Retirement benefit liabilities .................................................................................................................... (3,905) (3,666)
Retirement benefit assets .......................................................................................................................... 2,846  2,497  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
7 – Employee compensation and benefits 
414
Cumulative actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
At 1 January .................................................................................................................... (3,453) (4,720) (4,660)
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme ............................................................................... 208 1,945  321 
Other plans ...................................................................................................................... (440) (642) (275)
Healthcare plans ............................................................................................................. (154) (61) (112)
Change in the effect of limit on plan surpluses
1
............................................................. (5) 25  6 
Total actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income .................... (391) 1,267  (60)
At 31 December
2
 ............................................................................................................. (3,844) (3,453) (4,720)
1 Excludes exchange loss of US$4m (2011: US$4m loss; 2010: US$6m gain) 
2 Includes cumulative movements related to the limit on plan surpluses. This limit was US$19m at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$18m;
2010: US$47m) 
HSBC pension plans 
2012 2011 2010 
Number of plans worldwide ........................................................................................ 225 230 218 
% %  % 
Percentage of HSBC employees:    
– enrolled in defined contribution plans ................................................................ 62 64 63 
– enrolled in defined benefit plans ......................................................................... 23 25 27 
– covered by HSBC pension plans ......................................................................... 85 89 90 
HSBC has been progressively offering all new employees membership of defined contribution plans. 
The majority of the Group’s defined benefit plans are funded plans. The assets of most of the larger plans are held 
in trusts or similar funds separate from HSBC. The plans are reviewed at least annually or in accordance with local 
practice and regulations by qualified actuaries. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit 
obligations and related current service costs vary according to the economic conditions of the countries in which 
the plans are situated. 
At 31 December 2012, the present values of the defined benefit obligations of The HSBC Bank (UK) Pension 
Scheme was US$26,475m (2011: US$24,367m), The HSBC Group Hong Kong Local Staff Retirement Benefit 
Scheme was US$1,476m (2011:US$1,523m) and the HSBC North America (US) Retirement Income Plan was 
US$4,374m (2011: US$3,895m). These defined benefit pension plans covered 12% of HSBC’s employees and 
represented 82% of the Group’s present value of defined benefit obligations. The Pension Risk section on page 246 
and the Appendix to Risk on page 252 contain details about the characteristics and risks and amount, timing and 
uncertainty of future cash flows and policies and practices associated with these three schemes. 
The determinations described in the Pension Risk section on page 246 for actuarial funding valuation purposes are 
based on different methods and assumptions from those used for financial reporting purposes, and as a result should 
neither be compared nor related to other determinations included in these financial statements. There is no actuarial 
deficit in the Principal plan. 
HSBC healthcare benefits plans 
HSBC also provides post-employment healthcare benefits under plans in the UK, the US, Bermuda, Canada, Mexico 
and Brazil, the majority of which are unfunded. The majority of post-employment healthcare benefits plans are 
defined benefit plans and are accounted for in the same manner as defined benefit pension plans. The plans are 
reviewed at least annually or in accordance with local practice and regulations by qualified actuaries. The actuarial 
assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligation and related current service cost vary according to the 
economic conditions of the countries in which they are situated.  
At 31 December 2012, the present value of the defined benefit obligation of HSBC’s healthcare benefit plans was 
US$1,261m (2011: US$1,091m). In aggregate, healthcare benefit plans comprised 3% of HSBC’s present value of 
defined benefit obligations.  415
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Defined benefit pension plans 
Net asset/(liability) under defined benefit pension plans 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme Other plans 
2012 2011 2012 2011
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Fair value of plan assets 
At 1 January .................................................................................. 26,604 22,236 8,232 7,559 
Expected return on plan assets ..................................................... 1,245 1,325 486 481
Contributions by HSBC ................................................................ 238 600 475 565
– normal .................................................................................... 238 314 191 176
– special .................................................................................... – 286 284 389
Contributions by employees ......................................................... 37 34 20 22
Experience gains ........................................................................... 680 3,426 410 200
Benefits paid ................................................................................. (907) (803) (630) (495)
Assets distributed on settlements ................................................. – – (16) (25)
Exchange differences .................................................................... 1,195 (214) 38 (75)
At 31 December ............................................................................ 29,092 26,604 9,015 8,232 
Present value of defined benefit obligations 
At 1 January .................................................................................. (24,367) (22,858) (10,680) (9,785)
Current service cost ...................................................................... (236) (251) (310) (299)
Interest cost ................................................................................... (1,178) (1,233) (404) (456)
Contributions by employees ......................................................... (36) (34) (21) (22)
Actuarial losses ............................................................................. (472) (1,481) (850) (842)
Benefits paid ................................................................................. 906 804 743 569
Past service cost – vested immediately ........................................ – 587 (47) (40)
Past service cost – unvested benefits ............................................ – – 2 2
Reduction in liabilities resulting from curtailments ..................... – – 11 59
Liabilities extinguished on settlements ........................................ – – 26 29
Exchange differences .................................................................... (1,092) 99 (70) 105
At 31 December ............................................................................ (26,475) (24,367) (11,600) (10,680)
Funded ...................................................................................... (26,475) (24,367) (10,956) (10,074)
Unfunded .................................................................................. – – (644) (606)
Effect of limit on plan surpluses ................................................... – – (19) (18)
Unrecognised past service cost ..................................................... – – 19 21 
Net asset/(liability) ....................................................................... 2,617 2,237 (2,585) (2,445)
Retirement benefit liabilities recognised in the balance sheet ..... – – (2,814) (2,705)
Retirement benefit assets recognised in the balance sheet  
(within ‘Other assets’) .............................................................. 2,617 2,237 229 260
Plan assets of the Group’s pension schemes included US$20m (2011: US$45m) of equities and no bonds (2011: nil) 
issued by HSBC and US$292m (2011: US$1,228m) of other assets placed or transacted with HSBC. The fair value of 
plan assets included derivatives entered into with HSBC Bank plc by the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme with a 
positive fair value of US$5,226m at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$5,560m positive fair value) and US$328m 
positive fair value (2011: US$297m positive fair value) in respect of the HSBC International Staff Retirement 
Benefits Scheme. Further details of these swap arrangements are included in Note 44. 
In December 2011, HSBC Bank plc made a £184m (US$286m) special contribution to the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension 
Scheme. Following the contribution the Scheme purchased asset-backed securities from HSBC at an arm’s length 
value, determined by the Scheme’s independent third-party advisers. 
The special contributions of US$284m to other plans include an additional contribution of US$181m to the HSBC 
North America (US) Retirement Income Plan which was made to maintain a minimum funding level. 
The actual return on plan assets for the year ended 31 December 2012 was a positive return of US$2,784m (2011: 
positive US$5,432m).  
HSBC expects to make US$604m of contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2013. Benefits expected to 
be paid from the plans to retirees over each of the next five years, and in aggregate for the five years thereafter, are as 
follows: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
7 – Employee compensation and benefits 
416
Benefits expected to be paid from plans 
 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017  2018-2022 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme .. 745 776 810 849 899  5,411 
Other plans ......................................... 556 541 557 577 624  3,595 
Total (income)/expense recognised in the income statement in ‘Employee compensation and benefits’ 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme Other plans 
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Current service cost ........................... 236 251 252 310 299 300 
Interest cost ........................................ 1,178 1,233 1,148 404 456 438 
Expected return on plan assets .......... (1,245) (1,325) (1,092) (486) (481) (437)
Past service cost ................................. – (587) – 51 45 12 
Gains on curtailments ........................ – – – (11) (59) (151)
Gains on settlements .......................... – – – (10) (4) (2)
Total (income)/expense ..................... 169 (428) 308 258 256 160 
Summary
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme 
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Present value of defined benefit obligation .................. (26,475) (24,367) (22,858) (21,523) (15,257)
Fair value of plan assets ............................................... 29,092 26,604 22,236 17,701 14,865 
Net surplus/(deficit) ...................................................... 2,617 2,237 (622) (3,822) (392)
Experience gains/(losses) on plan liabilities ................ 880 (383) (327) (234) (49)
Experience gains/(losses) on plan assets ...................... 680 3,426 1,772 871 (2,861)
Gains/(losses) from changes in actuarial  
assumptions .............................................................. (1,352) (1,098) (1,124) (4,329) 3,081 
Total net actuarial gains/(losses) .................................. 208 1,945 321 (3,692) 171 
    
Other plans 
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Present value of defined benefit obligation .................. (11,600) (10,680) (9,785) (9,109) (8,787)
Fair value of plan assets ............................................... 9,015 8,232 7,559 6,822 6,024 
Net deficit ..................................................................... (2,585) (2,448) (2,226) (2,287) (2,763)
Experience gains/(losses) on plan liabilities ................ 56 (78) (73) 20 (52)
Experience gains/(losses) on plan assets ...................... 410 200 394 65 (1,452)
Gains/(losses) from changes in actuarial  
assumptions .............................................................. (906) (764) (596) 94  (306)
Total net actuarial gains/(losses) .................................. (440) (642) (275) 179 (1,810) 417
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Post-employment defined benefit plans’ principal actuarial financial assumptions 
The principal actuarial financial assumptions used to calculate the Group’s obligations for the largest defined benefit 
pension plans at 31 December for each period, and used as the basis for measuring periodic costs under the plans in 
the following periods, were as follows: 
Principal actuarial assumptions 
 Discount 
 rate 
 Inflation
 rate 
 Rate of  
 increase for 
 pensions 
 Rate 
 of pay
 increase 
 %  %  %  % 
At 31 December 2012 
UK
1
 ............................................................................................... 4.50 3.10 2.90 3.60 
Hong Kong ................................................................................... 0.60 n/a n/a 4.00 
US ................................................................................................. 3.95 2.50 n/a 2.75 
     
At 31 December 2011      
UK
1
 ............................................................................................... 4.80 3.20 3.10  3.70 
Hong Kong ................................................................................... 1.47 n/a n/a  5.00 
US ................................................................................................. 4.60 2.50 n/a  2.75 
     
At 31 December 2010      
UK
1
 ...............................................................................................  5.40  3.70  3.50   4.20 
Hong Kong ...................................................................................  2.85  n/a  n/a   5.00 
US .................................................................................................  5.41  2.50  n/a   2.75 
1 Rate of increase for pensions in the UK is for pensions in payment only, capped at 5%. Deferred pensions are projected to increase in 
line with the CPI, capped at 5%. For 2010, deferred pensions were projected to increase in line with the RPI, capped at 5%. 
HSBC determines the discount rates to be applied to its obligations in consultation with the plans’ local actuaries, 
on the basis of current average yields of high quality (AA rated or equivalent) debt instruments, with maturities 
consistent with those of the defined benefit obligations. In countries where there is not a deep market in corporate 
bonds, government bond yields have been used. The yield curve has been extrapolated where the term of the 
liabilities is longer than the duration of available bonds and the discount rate used then takes into account the term 
of the liabilities and the shape of the yield curve. When determining the discount rate with reference to a bond index, 
an appropriate index for the specific region has been used. 
Mortality tables and average life expectancy at age 65 
Mortality table 
Life expectancy at 
age 65 for a male 
member currently: 
Life expectancy at 
age 65 for a female 
member currently: 
Aged 65 Aged 45 Aged 65 Aged 45 
At 31 December 2012 
UK ...................................................................... SAPS S1
1
23.9 25.6 25.4 27.7 
Hong Kong
2
 ....................................................... n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
US ...................................................................... RP 2000 fully generational
3
21.1 23.1 23.2 25.0 
      
At 31 December 2011        
UK ...................................................................... SAPS MC
4
 22.5 24.4  23.5  25.4 
Hong Kong
2
 ....................................................... n/a n/a n/a  n/a  n/a 
US ...................................................................... RP 2000 fully generational
3
 19.4 20.9  21.3  22.2 
1 SAPS S1 with Continuous Mortality Investigation 2011 improvements and a 1.25% long-term allowance improvement. Light table with
1.01 rating for male pensioners and 1.02 rating for female pensioners. 
2 The significant plans in Hong Kong are lump sum plans which do not use a post-retirement mortality table. 
3 The projections scale applied to the mortality rates has changed from AA at 31 December 2011 to BB at 31 December 2012, to better
reflect observed mortality improvements. 
4 SAPS MC projections with 1% minimum improvement beyond 2002. Light table with 1.08 rating for male pensioners and standard table
with 1.06 rating for female pensioners.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
7 – Employee compensation and benefits / 8 – Auditors’ remuneration 
418
Expected rates of return
2012 2011
 Expected
 rates of return
1
 Value 
 Expected 
 rates of return
1
   Value 
 %  US$m  %   US$m 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme    
Fair value of plan assets ............................................................... 29,092 26,604 
Equities ..................................................................................... 7.1 3,899 7.2 3,190
Bonds ........................................................................................ 4.0 22,258 4.1 20,737
Property .................................................................................... 6.7 1,583 6.7 1,524
Other ......................................................................................... 3.1 1,352 2.8 1,153
Other plans 
Fair value of plan assets ............................................................... 9,015 8,232 
Equities ..................................................................................... 7.9 2,688 7.7 2,184
Bonds ........................................................................................ 4.1 4,963 4.7 4,659
Property .................................................................................... 5.0 107 4.6 106
Other ......................................................................................... 3.6 1,257 4.0 1,283
1 The expected rates of return are used to measure the net defined benefit pension costs in each subsequent year, and weighted on the 
basis of the fair value of the plan assets. In 2013 the basis will change as described on page 386. 
The expected return on plan assets represents the best estimate of long-term future asset returns, which takes into 
account historical market returns plus additional factors such as the current rate of inflation and interest rates. 
Actuarial assumption sensitivities 
The discount rate is sensitive to changes in market conditions arising during the reporting period. The mortality rates 
used are sensitive to experience from the plan member profile. The following table shows the effect of changes in 
these and the other key assumptions on the principal defined benefit pension plan:
The effect of changes in key assumptions on the principal plan 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme
 2012   2011 
US$m US$m 
Discount rate 
Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps increase ....................................................... (1,191) (980)
Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps decrease ....................................................... 1,275 1,045 
Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps increase
1
 .......................................................................... (78) 2
Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps decrease
1
 ......................................................................... 76 (2)
Rate of inflation 
Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps increase ....................................................... 881 1,026 
Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps decrease ....................................................... (842) (978)
Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps increase
1
 .......................................................................... 48 57
Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps decrease
1
 ......................................................................... (47) (54)
Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 
Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps increase ....................................................... 719 876
Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps decrease ....................................................... (692) (841)
Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps increase
1
 .......................................................................... 36 43
Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps decrease
1
 ......................................................................... (34) (42)
Rate of pay increase 
Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps increase ....................................................... 175 248
Change in pension obligation at year end from a 25bps decrease ....................................................... (173) (240)
Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps increase
1
 .......................................................................... 15 19
Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps decrease
1
 ......................................................................... (13) (15)
Investment return 
Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps increase
1
 .......................................................................... – (65)
Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps decrease
1
 ......................................................................... – 67
Mortality
Change in pension obligation from each additional year of longevity assumed ................................. 663 619 
1 The change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps increase/decrease was calculated based on the requirements of IAS 19 revised, which
will be adopted from 1 January 2013. The comparative numbers, which show the change in 2012 pension cost from a 25bps 
increase/decrease, were calculated in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2(t).  419
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
The effect of changes in the discount rate and in mortality rates on plans other than the principal plan 
Other plans 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
Change in defined benefit obligation at year end from a 25bps increase in discount rate ...................... (379) (325)
Change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps increase in discount rate
1
 .................................................... (17) –
Increase in defined benefit obligation from each additional year of longevity assumed ........................ 174 144
1 The change in 2013 pension cost from a 25bps increase/decrease was calculated based on the requirements of IAS 19 revised, which
will be adopted from 1 January 2013. The comparative numbers, which show the change in 2012 pension cost from a 25bps 
increase/decrease, were calculated in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2(t). 
HSBC Holdings 
Employee compensation and benefit expense in respect of HSBC Holdings’ employees in 2012 amounted to 
US$439m (2011: US$413m). The average number of persons employed by HSBC Holdings during 2012 was 1,323 
(2011: 1,212). 
Employees of HSBC Holdings who are members of defined benefit pension plans are principally members of either 
the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme or the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme. HSBC 
Holdings pays contributions to such plans for its own employees in accordance with the schedules of contributions 
determined by the Trustees of the plan. 
Directors’ emoluments 
The aggregate emoluments of the Directors of HSBC Holdings, computed in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 were: 
2012 2011 2010 
US$000 US$000 US$000 
Fees ............................................................................................................................. 5,435 5,108 3,597 
Salaries and other emoluments ................................................................................... 10,316 12,906 12,841 
Annual incentives ....................................................................................................... 13,983 12,516 14,294 
Total............................................................................................................................. 29,734 30,530 30,732 
Vesting of long-term incentive awards ...................................................................... 5,733 2,596 8,523 
In addition, there were payments under retirement benefit agreements with former Directors of US$1,171,796 (2011: 
US$1,166,580). The provision at 31 December 2012 in respect of unfunded pension obligations to former Directors 
amounted to US$19,285,971 (2011: US$18,006,894).  
During the year, aggregate contributions to pension schemes in respect of Directors were US$29,078 (2011: 
US$373,310). Discretionary annual incentives for Directors are based on a combination of individual and corporate 
performance and are determined by the Group Remuneration Committee. Details of Directors’ remuneration, share 
options and awards under the HSBC Share Plan and HSBC Share Plan 2011 are included in the ‘Directors’ 
Remuneration Report’ on pages 347 to 367. 
8 Auditors’ remuneration 
 2012  2011  2010 
 US$m  US$m  US$m 
Audit fees payable to KPMG
1
 ....................................................................................  47.2  48.8    49.1 
Audit fees payable to non-KPMG entities .................................................................  1.4  1.9    2.3 
Total auditors’ remuneration ......................................................................................  48.6  50.7    51.4 
1 Fees payable to KPMG for HSBC Holdings’ statutory audit and audit of HSBC’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation. 
The following fees were payable by HSBC to the Group’s principal auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its associates 
(together ‘KPMG’):  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
8 – Auditors’ remuneration / 9 – T ax 
420
Fees payable by HSBC to KPMG 
 2012  2011  2010 
 US$m  US$m  US$m 
Fees for HSBC Holdings’ statutory audit
1
 .................................................................  13.2  12.7   11.8 
– relating to current year .......................................................................................  12.8  12.4   11.8 
– relating to prior year ...........................................................................................  0.4  0.3   – 
Fees for other services provided to HSBC .................................................................  67.3  74.4  66.5 
Audit of HSBC’s subsidiaries
2
 ...............................................................................  34.0  36.1   37.3 
Audit-related assurance services
3
 ...........................................................................  23.6  25.7   20.8 
Taxation-related services: 
– taxation compliance services .........................................................................  2.1  2.8   1.5 
– taxation advisory services ..............................................................................  1.3  1.5   0.9 
Other assurance services ........................................................................................  1.1  1.3   1.4 
Other non-audit services
4
 .......................................................................................  5.2  7.0   4.6 
Total fees payable .......................................................................................................  80.5  87.1   78.3 
1 Fees payable to KPMG for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of 
HSBC Holdings. They include amounts payable for services relating to HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries consolidation returns which are
clearly identifiable as being in support of the Group audit opinion, with effect from 1 January 2012. Previously these fees were included 
in ‘Fees for other services provided to HSBC’. Comparative information has been updated accordingly. The adjustment reduced ‘Fees
for other services provided to HSBC’ and increased ‘Fees for HSBC Holdings’ statutory audit’ by US$11.0m in 2012 (2011: US$10.5m;
2010: US$9.4m). There was no effect on basic or diluted earnings per share following the change. 
2 Fees payable for the statutory audit of HSBC’s subsidiaries financial statements. 
3 Including services for assurance and other services that relate to statutory and regulatory filings, including comfort letters and interim 
reviews.
4 Including valuation and actuarial services, translation services, ad-hoc accounting advice, review of financial models, advice on IT 
security and business continuity, corporate finance transactions and performing agreed-upon IT testing procedures. 
No fees were payable by HSBC to KPMG for the following types of services: internal audit services, services related 
to litigation and recruitment and remuneration. 
Fees payable by HSBC’s associated pension schemes to KPMG 
No fees were payable by HSBC’s associated pension schemes to KPMG for the following types of services: audit 
related assurance services, internal audit services, other assurance services, services related to corporate finance 
transactions, valuation and actuarial services, litigation, recruitment and remuneration, and information technology. 
In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees of US$3.3m (2011: US$8.6m; 2010: US$14.9m) 
by parties other than HSBC but where HSBC is connected with the contracting party and therefore may be involved 
in appointing KPMG. These fees arise from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing 
the financial position of corporate concerns which borrow from HSBC. 
Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are 
disclosed on a consolidated basis for HSBC Group. 
2012 2011  2010 
 US$000  US$000  US$000 
Audit of HSBC’s associated pension schemes ...........................................................  256  248   384 
Taxation-related services ............................................................................................  –  11   – 
– taxation compliance services .............................................................................  – –   – 
– taxation advisory services ..................................................................................  – 11   – 
Total fees payable .......................................................................................................  256  259    384  421
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
9 Tax
Tax charged to the income statement 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m
Current tax 
UK corporation tax ..................................................................................................... 250 820 383 
   – for this year ........................................................................................................... 60 462 404
   – adjustments in respect of prior years .................................................................... 190 358 (21)
Overseas tax
1
 .............................................................................................................. 5,560 4,255 3,328 
   – for this year ........................................................................................................... 5,421 4,155 3,235
   – adjustments in respect of prior years .................................................................... 139 100 93
5,810 5,075 3,711 
Deferred tax ................................................................................................................ (495) (1,147) 1,135 
   Origination and reversal of temporary differences ................................................. (269) (1,178) 1,176
   Effect of changes in tax rates .................................................................................. 66 (3) 31
   Adjustments in respect of prior years ...................................................................... (292) 34 (72)
Total tax charged to the income statement.................................................................. 5,315 3,928 4,846 
1 Overseas tax included Hong Kong profits tax of US$1,049m (2011: US$997m; 2010: US$962m). The Hong Kong tax rate applying to 
the profits of subsidiaries assessable in Hong Kong was 16.5% (2011: 16.5%; 2010: 16.5%). Other overseas subsidiaries and overseas
branches provided for taxation at the appropriate rates in the countries in which they operate.
Tax reconciliation 
The tax charged to the income statement differs to the tax charge that would apply if all profits had been taxed at the 
UK corporation tax rate as follows: 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m  % US$m  % US$m  % 
Profit before tax................................................................ 20,649 21,872  19,037  
Tax at 24.5% (2011: 26.5%; 2010: 28.0%) ..................... 5,057  24.5 5,796  26.5 5,330  28.0 
Impact of differently taxed overseas profits .................... (57) (0.3) (492) (2.2) (744) (3.9)
Adjustments in respect of prior period liabilities ............ 37 0.2 495  2.3 –  – 
Deferred tax temporary differences not recognised/ 
(previously not recognised) ......................................... 374 1.8 (923) (4.2) (6) – 
Effect of profits in associates and joint ventures ............ (872) (4.3) (865) (4.0) (758) (4.0)
Tax impact of intra-group transfer of subsidiary ............ – – –  – 1,216  6.4 
Tax impact of disposal of Ping An .................................. (204) (1.0) –  – –  – 
Non taxable income and gains ......................................... (542) (2.6) (613) (2.8) (700) (3.7)
Permanent disallowables ................................................. 1,092  5.3 467  2.1 355  1.9 
Change in tax rates .......................................................... 78 0.4 (3) – 31  0.2 
Local taxes and overseas withholding taxes ........................ 581 2.8 267  1.2 224  1.2 
Other items........................................................................ (229) (1.1) (201) (0.9) (102) (0.6)
Total tax charged to the income statement ...................... 5,315  25.7 3,928  18.0 4,846  25.5 
The effective tax rate for the year was 25.7% compared with 18.0% for 2011. The higher effective tax rate in 
2012 reflects the non tax deductible effect of fines and penalties as part of the settlement of investigations into past 
inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and sanction laws, together with the non-recognition of the tax 
benefit in respect of the accounting charge associated with negative fair value movements on own debt. The lower 
effective tax rate in 2011 included the benefit of deferred tax of US$0.9bn in respect of foreign tax credits in the US.
The UK corporation tax rate applying to HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries was 24.5% (2011: 26.5%; 2010: 28%).
The UK Government announced that the main rate of corporation tax for the year beginning 1 April 2012 will reduce 
from 26% to 24% to be followed by a 1% reduction to 23% for the year beginning 1 April 2013 and a further 2% 
reduction to 21% for the year beginning 1 April 2014. The reduction in the corporate tax rate to 24% was 
substantively enacted in the first half of 2012 and this results in a weighted average rate of 24.5% for 2012  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
9 – T ax 
422
(2011: 26.5%). The reduction to 23% was enacted through the 2012 Finance Act in July and the reduction to 21% 
announced in the 2012 Autumn Statement is expected to be enacted through the 2013 Finance Act. It is not expected 
that the proposed future rate reductions will have a significant effect on the Group. 
The Group’s legal entities are subject to routine review and audit by tax authorities in the territories in which the 
Group operates. The Group provides for potential tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to 
be paid to the tax authorities. The amounts ultimately paid may differ materially from the amounts provided 
depending on the ultimate resolution of such matters. A substantial proportion of the material open issues related 
to the UK of which the principal matter concerned the application of the UK Controlled Foreign Company (‘CFC’) 
rules. Following further discussion with Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (‘HMRC’), the CFC and certain other 
open UK issues have now been resolved. 
Deferred taxation 
The table overleaf shows the gross deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet and the related 
amounts recognised in the income statement, other comprehensive income and directly in equity. 
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are different from the amounts disclosed in the table overleaf as they are 
presented after offsetting asset and liability balances where HSBC has the legal right to set-off and intends to settle 
on a net basis. 
US
Of the total net deferred tax assets of US$6.5bn at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$6.2bn), the net deferred tax asset 
relating to HSBC’s operations in the US was US$4.6bn (2011: US$5.2bn). The deferred tax assets included in this 
total reflected the carry forward of no tax losses and tax credits (2011: US$1.2bn), deductible temporary differences 
in respect of loan impairment allowances of US$2.0bn (2011: US$2.7bn) and other temporary differences of 
US$2.6bn (2011: US$1.3bn).
Deductions for loan impairments for US tax purposes generally occur when the impaired loan is charged off, often in 
the period subsequent to that in which the impairment is recognised for accounting purposes. As a result, the amount 
of the associated deferred tax asset should generally move in line with the impairment allowance balance. The taxable 
gains on the disposal of the US branch network and Card and Retail Services business has resulted in a reduction in 
the amount of deferred tax assets related to carried forward tax losses and tax credits. This was offset in part by the 
reversal of deferred tax liabilities as a result of these disposals. 
On the evidence available, including historical levels of profitability, management projections of future income and 
HSBC Holdings’ commitment to continue to invest sufficient capital in North America to recover the deferred tax 
asset, it is expected that there will be sufficient taxable income generated by the business to realise these assets. 
Management projections of profits from the US operations are prepared for a 10-year period and include assumptions 
about future house prices and US economic conditions, including unemployment levels. 
The current level of the deferred tax asset in respect of loan impairment allowances is projected to reduce over the 
10-year period in line with the reduction in the Consumer and Mortgage Lending portfolio. 
As there has been a recent history of losses in HSBC’s US operations, management’s analysis of the recognition of 
these deferred tax assets significantly discounts any future expected profits from the US operations and relies to a 
greater extent on capital support from HSBC Holdings, including tax planning strategies in relation to such support. 
The principal strategy involves generating future taxable profits through the retention of capital in the US in excess of 
normal regulatory requirements in order to reduce deductible funding expenses or otherwise deploy such capital to 
increase levels of taxable income. 423
Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
Movement of deferred tax assets and liabilities before offsetting balances within countries
Retirement 
benefits
Loan
impairment
provisions
Unused tax
losses and 
tax credits 
Accelerated
capital
allowances 
Available-
for-sale
investments
Cash flow 
hedges
Share-
based
payments 
Assets
leased to
customers 
Revaluation
of property 
Fee
income Other Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2012
Assets ......................................................... 742 4,448 1,328 117 – 487 286 14 – – 1,709 9,131 
Liabilities ................................................... (107) – – – (557) (137) – (595) (227) (737) (563) (2,923) 
At 1 January .............................................. 635 4,448 1,328 117 (557) 350 286 (581) (227) (737) 1,146 6,208 
Acquisitions and disposals ........................ – – – – – – – – – – 3 3
Income statement ....................................... (313) (590) (692) 168 (270) (9) (52) 569 111 616 957 495
Other comprehensive income .................... 174 – (33) – (395) (90) – – – – – (344) 
Equity ........................................................ – – – – – – 45 – – – – 45
Foreign exchange and other adjustments .. (27) 54 14 (50) 19 (10) 26 24 19 16 (31) 54
At 31 December ....................................... 469 3,912 617 235 (1,203) 241 305 12 (97) (105) 2,075 6,461 
Assets ......................................................... 469 3,912 617 289 – 285 305 184 – – 2,965 9,026 
Liabilities ................................................... – – – (54) (1,203) (44) – (172) (97) (105) (890) (2,565) 
2011             
Assets......................................................... 1,538 4,799 351 109 11 352 241 – – – 957 8,358 
Liabilities................................................... – – (3) (126) (135) (88) – (707) (225) (756) (400) (2,440) 
At 1 January .............................................. 1,538 4,799 348 (17) (124) 264 241 (707) (225) (756) 557 5,918 
Acquisitions and disposals ........................ 3 – 11 – (3) (5) 1 – 22 – (6) 23 
Income statement ....................................... (437) (224) 945 137 10 14 1 93 (36) 17 627 1,147 
Other comprehensive income .................... (322) – – – (533) 53 – – – – – (802) 
Equity ........................................................ – – – – – – 27 – – – – 27 
Foreign exchange and other adjustments .. (147) (127) 24 (3) 93 24 16 33 12 2 (32) (105) 
At 31 December ......................................... 635 4,448 1,328 117 (557) 350 286 (581) (227) (737) 1,146 6,208 
Assets ......................................................... 742 4,448 1,328 117 – 487 286 14 – – 1,709 9,131 
Liabilities................................................... (107) – – – (557) (137) – (595) (227) (737) (563) (2,923)  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
9 – T ax / 10 – Dividends 
424
Brazil 
The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBC’s operations in Brazil was US$0.9bn (2011: US$0.7bn). The deferred tax 
assets included in this total arose primarily in relation to deductible temporary differences in respect of loan 
impairment allowances. Deductions for loan impairments for Brazilian tax purposes generally occur in periods 
subsequent to those in which they are recognised for accounting purposes and, as a result, the amount of the 
associated deferred tax assets move in line with the impairment allowance balance. 
Loan impairment deductions are recognised for tax purposes typically within 24 months of accounting recognition. 
On the evidence available, including historic levels of profitability, management projections of income and the state 
of the Brazilian economy, it is anticipated that there will be sufficient taxable income generated by the business to 
realise these assets when deductible for tax purposes. 
There were no material carried forward tax losses or tax credits recognised within the Group’s deferred tax assets in 
Brazil.
Mexico
The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBC’s operations in Mexico was US$0.6bn (2011: US$0.5bn). The deferred 
tax assets included in this total related primarily to deductible temporary differences in respect of accounting 
provisions for impaired loans, including losses realised on sales of impaired loans. The annual deduction for loan 
impairments is capped under Mexican legislation at 2.5% of the average qualifying loan portfolio. The balance is 
carried forward to future years without expiry but with the annual deduction subject to the 2.5% cap. 
On the evidence available, including historic and projected levels of loan portfolio growth, loan impairment rates 
and profitability, it is anticipated that the business will realise these assets within the next 15 years. The projections 
assume that loan impairment rates will remain at levels consistently below the annual 2.5% cap over the medium 
term. 
There were no material carried forward tax losses or tax credits recognised within the Group’s deferred tax assets in 
Mexico. 
UK
The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBC’s operations in the UK was US$0.3bn (2011: liability US$0.2bn). The 
deferred tax assets included in this total relate primarily to the carry forward of tax losses. 
On the evidence available, including historical levels of profitability and management projections of future income it 
is anticipated that there will be sufficient taxable income generated by the business to recover the deferred tax asset 
over the next 12 months.
Unrecognised deferred tax 
The amount of temporary differences, unused tax losses and tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised 
in the balance sheet was US$16.6bn (2011: US$14.7bn). These amounts included unused state losses arising in our 
US operations of US$12.6bn (2011: US$12.5bn).
Of the total amounts unrecognised, US$3.9bn (2011: US$2.4bn) had no expiry date, US$0.3bn (2011: US$0.1bn) 
was scheduled to expire within 10 years (2011: 10 years) and the remaining will expire after 10 years. 
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the Group’s investments in subsidiaries and branches where remittance or 
other realisation is not probable, and for those associates and interests in joint ventures where it has been determined 
that no additional tax will arise. No amount is disclosed for the unrecognised deferred tax or the 2012 and 2011 
temporary differences associated with such investments as it is impracticable to determine the amount of income 
taxes that would be payable when any temporary differences reverse. Deferred tax of US$0.3bn (2011: US$0.2bn) 
has, however, been provided in respect of distributable reserves of associates that, on distribution, would attract 
withholding tax.  425
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
HSBC Holdings 
Movement of deferred tax assets 
 Accelerated 
 capital 
 allowances 
 Short-term 
 timing 
 differences 
 Available-
 for-sale 
 investments 
 Fair valued 
 assets and 
 liabilities 
 Share-
 based
 payments 
 Unused  
 tax
 losses  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2012
At 1 January ................................ – – (4) 46 9 40 91
Income statement ........................ 2 – – (15) (7) (40) (60)
Other comprehensive income ..... – – (27) – – – (27)
Equity .......................................... – – – – 10 – 10
At 31 December ......................... 2 – (31) 31 12 – 14
2011        
At 1 January ................................ – 1 (21) 61 16 – 57 
Income statement ........................ – (1) – (15) (7) 40 17 
Other comprehensive income ..... –– 17 ––– 17 
At 31 December .......................... –– (4) 46 9 40 91 
The amount of unused tax losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet was US$1,775m 
(2011: US$8m) of which US$9m (2011: US$8m) relate to capital losses. The losses have no expiry date. 
10 Dividends
Dividends to shareholders of the parent company 
2012 2011 2010 
 Per 
 share 
 US$ 
 Total
 US$m 
 Settled
 in scrip
 US$m 
Per
 share 
 US$ 
 Total
 US$m 
 Settled 
 in scrip 
 US$m  
 Per  
 share 
 US$  
 Total 
 US$m 
 Settled
 in scrip
 US$m 
Dividends declared on ordinary shares         
In respect of previous year:        
– fourth interim dividend .......................  0.14 2,535 259 0.12 2,119 1,130   0.10  1,733 838 
In respect of current year:         
– first interim dividend ...........................  0.09 1,633 748 0.09 1,601 204   0.08  1,394 746 
– second interim dividend ......................  0.09 1,646 783 0.09 1,603 178   0.08  1,402 735 
– third interim dividend ..........................  0.09 1,655 639 0.09 1,605 720   0.08  1,408 205 
 0.41 7,469 2,429  0.39 6,928 2,232   0.34  5,937 2,524 
Quarterly dividends on preference
shares classified as equity         
March dividend ...........................................  15.50 22 15.50 22    15.50  22  
June dividend ..............................................  15.50 23 15.50 23    15.50  23  
September dividend ....................................  15.50 22 15.50 22    15.50  22  
December dividend .....................................  15.50 23 15.50 23    15.50  23  
 62.00 90 62.00 90    62.00  90  
Quarterly coupons on capital securities classified as equity
1
2012 2011 2010 
 Per share  Total  Per share  Total  Per share    Total 
 US$  US$m  US$  US$m  US$   US$m 
January coupon ..................................  0.508 44 0.508  44  0.508   44 
March coupon ....................................  0.500 76 0.500  76  –   – 
April coupon ......................................  0.508 45 0.508  45  0.508   45 
June coupon .......................................  0.500 76 0.500  76  –   – 
July coupon ........................................  0.508 45 0.508  45  0.508   45 
September coupon .............................  0.500 76 0.500  76  0.450   68 
October coupon ..................................  0.508 45 0.508  45  0.508   45 
December coupon ..............................  0.500 76 0.500  76  0.500   76 
 4.032 483 4.032  483  2.982   323 
1 HSBC Holdings issued Perpetual Subordinated Capital Securities of US$3,800m in June 2010 and US$2,200m in April 2008, which are
classified as equity under IFRSs.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
11 – Earnings per share / 12 – Segmental analysis 
426
The Directors declared after the end of the year a fourth interim dividend in respect of the financial year ended 
31 December 2012 of US$0.18 per ordinary share, a distribution of approximately US$3,327m. The fourth interim 
dividend will be payable on 8 May 2013 to holders of record on 21 March 2013 on the Hong Kong Overseas Branch 
Register and 22 March 2013 on the Principal Register in the UK or the Bermuda Overseas Branch Register. No 
liability is recorded in the financial statements in respect of the fourth interim dividend for 2012. 
On 15 January 2013, HSBC paid a further coupon on the capital securities of US$0.508 per security, a distribution of 
US$44m. No liability is recorded in the balance sheet at 31 December 2012 in respect of this coupon payment. 
11 Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per ordinary share was calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the 
parent company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held. Diluted 
earnings per ordinary share was calculated by dividing the basic earnings, which require no adjustment for the effects 
of dilutive potential ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own 
shares held, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of dilutive 
potential ordinary shares. 
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company 
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company ......................................... 14,027 16,797 13,159 
Dividend payable on preference shares classified as equity ...................................... (90) (90) (90)
Coupon payable on capital securities classified as equity ......................................... (483) (483) (323)
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company ..................... 13,454 16,224 12,746 
Basic and diluted earnings per share 
2012 2011 2010 
 Profit 
 US$m 
 Number 
of shares 
(millions)
 Per
 share
 US$ 
 Profit 
 US$m 
 Number 
 of shares 
(millions)
 Per 
 share
 US$  
 Profit 
 US$m  
 Number 
 of shares 
(millions) 
 Per 
 share
 US$ 
Basic
1
 .......................................................... 13,454 18,125  0.74 16,224 17,700  0.92  12,746 17,404  0.73 
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares ... 146 222     229  
–  Savings-related Share Option Plan .... 23 45     55  
– Other plans ......................................... 123 177     174  
Diluted
1
 ....................................................... 13,454 18,271  0.74 16,224 17,922  0.91  12,746 17,633  0.72 
1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (basic) or assuming dilution (diluted). 
The weighted average number of dilutive potential ordinary shares excluded 103m employee share options that were 
anti-dilutive (2011: 151m; 2010: 150m). 
12 Segmental analysis 
HSBC’s operating segments are organised into six geographical regions, Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, 
Middle East and North Africa (‘MENA’), North America and Latin America.  
Geographical information is classified by the location of the principal operations of the subsidiary or, for The 
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East and HSBC Bank USA, by 
the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or advancing the funds. 
HSBC’s chief operating decision-maker is the Group Management Board (‘GMB’) which operates as a general 
management committee under the direct authority of the Board. Information provided to GMB to make decisions 
about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, operating segments is measured in accordance with 
IFRSs. The financial information shown below includes the effects of intra-HSBC transactions between operating 
segments which are conducted on an arm’s length basis and are eliminated in arriving at the total. Shared costs are 
included in operating segments on the basis of the actual recharges made.  427
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Products and services 
HSBC provides a comprehensive range of banking and related financial services to its customers in its six 
geographical regions. The products and services offered to customers are organised by global business.  
• Retail Banking and Wealth Management (‘RBWM’) offers a broad range of products and services to meet the 
personal banking and wealth management needs of individual customers. Typically, customer offerings include 
personal banking products (current and savings accounts, mortgages and personal loans, credit cards, debit cards 
and local and international payment services) and wealth management services (insurance and investment 
products, global asset management services and financial planning services). 
• Commercial Banking (‘CMB’) offers a broad range of products and services to serve the needs of our 
commercial customers, including small and medium sized enterprises, mid-market enterprises and corporates. 
These include credit and lending, international trade and receivables finance, treasury management and liquidity 
solutions (payments and cash management and commercial cards), commercial insurance and investments. We 
also offer our customers access to products and services offered by other global businesses, for example Global 
Banking & Markets (‘GB&M’) which include foreign exchange products, raising capital on debt and equity 
markets and advisory services. 
• GB&M provides tailored financial solutions to major government, corporate and institutional clients and private 
investors worldwide. The client-focused business lines deliver a full range of banking capabilities including 
financing, advisory and transaction services, a markets business that provides services in credit, rates, foreign 
exchange, money markets and securities services, and principal investment activities. 
• Global Private Banking (‘GPB’) provides a range of services to high net worth individuals and families with 
complex and international needs. 
Financial information
In the following segmental analysis, the benefit of shareholders’ funds impacts the analysis only to the extent that 
these funds are actually allocated to businesses in the segment by way of intra-HSBC capital and funding structures. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
12 – Segmental analysis 
428
Profit/(loss) for the year 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin 
 America 
 Intra- 
 HSBC 
 items  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2012
Net interest income ............................... 10,394 5,316 5,391 1,470 8,117 6,984 – 37,672 
Net fee income ...................................... 6,169 3,335 2,083 595 2,513 1,735 – 16,430 
Net trading income/(expense) ............... 2,707 1,463 1,053 390 507 971 – 7,091 
Gains on disposal of US branch  
network, US cards business and  
Ping An ............................................. 3,012 – 4,012 – 7,024 
Other income ........................................ (1,662) 2,308 2,045 (25) (456) 1,261 (3,358) 113
Net operating income
1
 .......................... 17,608 12,422 13,584 2,430 14,693 10,951 (3,358) 68,330 
Loan impairment charges and other  
credit risk provisions ........................ (1,921) (74) (436) (286) (3,457) (2,137) – (8,311)
Net operating income ............................ 15,687 12,348 13,148 2,144 11,236 8,814 (3,358) 60,019 
Employee compensation and benefits .. (8,070) (2,572) (3,140) (652) (3,243) (2,814) – (20,491)
General and administrative expenses ... (10,059) (1,860) (2,433) (459) (5,413) (3,117) 3,358 (19,983)
Depreciation and impairment of  
property, plant and equipment .......... (597) (236) (191) (44) (195) (221) – (1,484)
Amortisation and impairment of  
intangible assets ................................ (369) (180) (42) (11) (89) (278) – (969)
Total operating expenses ...................... (19,095) (4,848) (5,806) (1,166) (8,940) (6,430) 3,358 (42,927)
Operating profit .................................... (3,408) 7,500 7,342 978 2,296 2,384 17,092 
Share of profit in associates and joint 
ventures ............................................ (6) 82 3,106 372 3 – – 3,557 
Profit before tax .................................... (3,414) 7,582 10,448 1,350 2,299 2,384 – 20,649 
Tax income/(expense) ........................... (173) (1,095) (1,616) (254) (1,313) (864) – (5,315)
Profit for the year .................................. (3,587) 6,487 8,832 1,096 986 1,520 – 15,334 
         
2011         
Net interest income ............................... 11,001 4,691 5,102 1,432 11,480 6,956 – 40,662 
Net fee income ...................................... 6,236 3,097 2,111 627 3,308 1,781 – 17,160 
Net trading income/(expense)............... 2,161 1,189 1,658 482 (362) 1,378 – 6,506 
Other income ........................................ 4,848 1,705 1,842 66 1,574 1,338 (3,421) 7,952 
Net operating income
1
 .......................... 24,246 10,682 10,713 2,607 16,000 11,453 (3,421) 72,280 
Loan impairment charges and other  
credit risk provisions ........................ (2,512) (156) (267) (293)(7,016)(1,883) – (12,127)
Net operating income ............................ 21,734 10,526 10,446 2,314 8,984 9,570 (3,421) 60,153 
Employee compensation and benefits .. (7,621) (2,610) (3,179) (659) (3,928) (3,169)  –  (21,166)
General and administrative expenses ... (8,473) (1,724) (2,378) (458) (4,404) (3,443)  3,421  (17,459)
Depreciation and impairment of  
property, plant and equipment .......... (581) (245) (198) (36) (261) (249)  –  (1,570)
Amortisation and impairment of  
intangible assets ................................ (394) (179) (51) (6) (326) (394)  –  (1,350)
Total operating expenses ...................... (17,069) (4,758) (5,806) (1,159) (8,919) (7,255) 3,421 (41,545)
Operating profit .................................... 4,665 5,768 4,640 1,155 65 2,315 – 18,608 
Share of profit in associates and joint 
ventures ............................................ 6 55 2,831 337 35 – – 3,264 
Profit before tax .................................... 4,671 5,823 7,471 1,492 100 2,315 – 21,872 
Tax income/(expense) ........................... (1,589) (1,043) (1,315) (266) 958 (673) – (3,928)
Profit for the year .................................. 3,082 4,780 6,156 1,226 1,058 1,642 – 17,944  429
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Profit/(loss) for the year (continued) 
  Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia- 
 Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
 Latin 
 America 
 Intra- 
 HSBC 
 items  Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2010         
Net interest income ............................... 11,250 4,246 3,828 1,367 12,439 6,311 – 39,441 
Net fee income ...................................... 6,371 2,962 1,932 677 3,664 1,749 – 17,355 
Net trading income ............................... 2,863 1,312 1,618 370 314 733 – 7,210 
Other income/(expense) ........................ 2,266 1,682 1,854 (4) 630 938 (3,125) 4,241 
Net operating income
1
 .......................... 22,750 10,202 9,232 2,410 17,047 9,731 (3,125) 68,247 
Loan impairment charges and other  
credit risk provisions ........................ (3,020) (114) (439) (627)(8,295)(1,544) – (14,039)
Net operating income ............................ 19,730 10,088 8,793 1,783 8,752 8,187 (3,125) 54,208 
Employee compensation and benefits .. (7,875) (2,341) (2,719) (579) (3,672) (2,650)  –  (19,836)
General and administrative expenses ... (6,499) (1,686) (2,181) (450) (4,179) (3,286)  3,125  (15,156)
Depreciation and impairment of  
property, plant and equipment .......... (719) (237) (189) (42) (288) (238)  –  (1,713)
Amortisation and impairment of  
intangible assets ................................ (352) (167) (54) (7) (183) (220)  –  (983)
Total operating expenses ...................... (15,445) (4,431) (5,143) (1,078) (8,322) (6,394) 3,125 (37,688)
Operating profit .................................... 4,285 5,657 3,650 705 430 1,793 – 16,520 
Share of profit in associates and  
joint ventures .................................... 17 35 2,252 187 24 2 – 2,517 
Profit before tax .................................... 4,302 5,692 5,902 892 454 1,795 – 19,037 
Tax income/(expense) ........................... (1,006) (987) (962) (138)(1,180) (573) – (4,846)
Profit/(loss) for the year ........................ 3,296 4,705 4,940 754 (726) 1,222 – 14,191 
1 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
12 – Segmental analysis
430
Other information about the profit/(loss) for the year 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin 
 America 
 Intra- 
 HSBC 
 items  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2012
Net operating income ................. 15,687  12,348 13,148 2,144 11,236 8,814  (3,358) 60,019 
External ................................. 14,484  11,233 12,150 2,169 11,109 8,874  – 60,019 
Inter-segment ......................... 1,203  1,115 998 (25) 127 (60) (3,358) –
Profit for the year includes the 
following significant
non-cash items: 
Depreciation, amortisation  
and impairment .................. 966 416 233 55 363 499 – 2,532 
Loan impairment losses gross  
of recoveries and other  
credit risk provisions ......... 2,329 105 586 361 3,587 2,489 – 9,457 
Impairment of financial 
investments ........................ 420 (21) 83 1 32 4 – 519
Changes in fair value of  
long-term debt and related 
derivatives ............................. (3,091) – (4) (13) (1,219) – – (4,327)
Restructuring costs .................... 292 21 107 27 219 94 – 760
      
2011         
Net operating income ................. 21,734  10,526 10,446 2,314 8,984 9,570  (3,421) 60,153 
External ................................. 20,676  9,442 9,396 2,316 8,744 9,579   – 60,153 
Inter-segment ......................... 1,058  1,084 1,050 (2) 240 (9)  (3,421) –
Profit for the year includes the 
following significant
non-cash items:    
Depreciation, amortisation  
and impairment .................. 975 424 249 42 802 643 – 3,135 
Loan impairment losses gross  
of recoveries and other  
credit risk provisions ......... 3,085 202 453 395 7,147 2,271 – 13,553 
Impairment of financial 
investments ........................ 705 55 25 13 9 1 – 808 
Changes in fair value of  
long-term debt and related 
derivatives ............................. 3,180 – 4 10 967 – – 4,161 
Restructuring costs .................... 357 47 34 27 73 259 – 797 
         
2010         
Net operating income ................. 19,730 10,088 8,793 1,783 8,752 8,187 (3,125) 54,208 
External ................................. 18,881  9,170 7,728 1,774 8,504 8,151   – 54,208 
Inter-segment ......................... 849  918 1,065 9 248 36   (3,125) –
Profit for the year includes the 
following significant
non-cash items:    
Depreciation, amortisation  
and impairment .................. 1,071  404 243 49 576 458  – 2,801 
Loan impairment losses gross  
of recoveries and other  
credit risk provisions ......... 3,303  169 615 684 8,476 1,812  – 15,059 
Impairment of financial 
investments ........................ 33  41 4 5 21 1  – 105 
Changes in fair value of  
long-term debt and related 
derivatives ............................. (365) (2) (2) – 111 – – (258)
Restructuring costs .................... 86 15 36 5 13 3 – 158  431
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Balance sheet information 
 Europe 
 Hong
 Kong 
 Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin 
 America 
 Intra- 
 HSBC 
 items  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ...................... 463,440 173,613 138,119 28,086 140,756 53,609 – 997,623 
Interests in associates and
joint ventures ......................... 178 224 15,085 2,262 85 – – 17,834 
Total assets ................................. 1,389,240 518,334 342,269 62,605 490,247 131,277 (241,434) 2,692,538 
Customer accounts ..................... 555,009 346,208 183,621 39,583 149,037 66,556 – 1,340,014 
Total liabilities ........................... 1,327,487 496,640 308,815 53,498 450,480 113,923 (241,434) 2,509,409 
Capital expenditure incurred
1
 .... 925 336 208 102 248 458 – 2,277 
At 31 December 2011         
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ...................... 434,336 157,665 123,868 25,875 142,747 55,938 – 940,429 
Interests in associates and
joint ventures ......................... 150 196 17,916 2,036 101 – – 20,399 
Total assets ................................. 1,281,945 473,024 317,816 57,464 504,302 144,889 (223,861) 2,555,579 
Customer accounts ..................... 493,404 315,345 174,012 36,422 155,982 78,760 – 1,253,925 
Total liabilities ........................... 1,224,386 458,179 288,485 49,005 464,990 128,302 (223,861) 2,389,486 
Capital expenditure incurred
1
 .... 1,177 432 207 29 342 951 – 3,138 
At 31 December 2010         
Loans and advances to  
customers (net) ...................... 435,799 140,691 108,731 24,626 190,532 57,987 – 958,366 
Interests in associates and
joint ventures ......................... 186 207 15,035 1,661 104 5 – 17,198 
Total assets ................................. 1,249,527 429,565 278,062 52,757 492,487 139,938 (187,647) 2,454,689 
Customer accounts ..................... 491,563 297,484 158,155 33,511 158,486 88,526 – 1,227,725 
Total liabilities ........................... 1,189,996 422,101 246,989 45,379 459,301 123,655 (187,647) 2,299,774 
Capital expenditure incurred
1
 .... 865 836 168 46 774 788 – 3,477 
1 Expenditure incurred on property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets. Excludes assets acquired as part of business
combinations and goodwill.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
12 – Segmental analysis / 13 – Analysis of financial assets and liabilities 
432
Other financial information 
Net operating income by global business 
 RBWM
3
 CMB  GB&M
3
 GPB  Other
1
 Intra-
 HSBC 
 items  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
2012
Net operating income
2
 ................ 33,861 16,551 18,273 3,172 2,332 (5,859) 68,330 
External .................................. 31,980 17,295 20,410 2,413 (3,768) – 68,330
Internal .................................... 1,881 (744) (2,137) 759 6,100 (5,859) –
2011        
Net operating income
2
 ................ 33,533 15,611 17,057 3,292 9,145 (6,358) 72,280 
External .................................. 32,024  15,362 19,881 2,207 2,806 – 72,280
Internal .................................... 1,509  249 (2,824) 1,085 6,339 (6,358) –
2010        
Net operating income
2
 ................ 33,611 13,834 18,912 3,093 4,660 (5,863) 68,247 
External .................................. 32,056  13,224 21,812 2,182 (1,027) – 68,247
Internal .................................... 1,555  610 (2,900) 911 5,687 (5,863) –
1 The main items reported in the ‘Other’ category are certain property activities, unallocated investment activities, centrally held
investment companies, movements in fair value of own debt and HSBC’s holding company and financing operations. The ‘Other’ 
category also includes gains and losses on the disposal of certain significant subsidiaries or business units. 
2 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue. The table previously
reported net operating income after loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions. 
3 With effect from 1 March 2011, our Global Asset Management business was moved from Global Banking and Markets to Retail Banking
and Wealth Management. 
Information by country 
2012 2011 2010
External
net
operating
  income
1,3
 Non-
 current
 assets
2
External 
net
operating 
 income
1,3
 Non- 
 current 
 assets
2
External 
net
operating 
 income
1,3
 Non-
 current 
 assets
2
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
UK ....................................................................... 9,149 18,391 16,058 21,414 14,171 19,661 
Hong Kong ......................................................... 11,307 11,657 9,600 6,257 9,282 4,630 
USA .................................................................... 11,779 6,718 12,972 3,830 14,032 6,669 
France ................................................................. 2,881 11,074 2,747 10,790 3,345 10,914 
Brazil ................................................................... 6,395 2,017 6,637 2,149 5,408 2,025 
Other countries ................................................... 26,819 30,078 24,266 31,590 22,009 29,747 
68,330 79,935 72,280 76,030 68,247 73,646 
1 External net operating income is attributed to countries on the basis of the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or 
advancing the funds. 
2 Non-current assets consist of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, other intangible assets, interests in associates and joint ventures 
and certain other assets expected to be recovered more than twelve months after the reporting period. 
3 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue. The table previously
reported net operating income after loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions. 
13 Analysis of financial assets and liabilities by measurement basis 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured on an ongoing basis either at fair value or at amortised cost. The 
summary of significant accounting policies in Note 2 describes how the classes of financial instruments are measured, 
and how income and expenses, including fair value gains and losses, are recognised. The following table analyses the 
carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities by category as defined in IAS 39 and by balance sheet heading.  Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
433
HSBC
At 31 December 2012 
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated 
at fair value 
 Held-to-
 maturity 
 securities 
 Available-
 for-sale 
 securities 
 Financial 
 assets and 
 liabilities at 
 amortised 
 cost 
 Derivatives 
 designated 
as fair value 
 hedging 
 instruments 
 Derivatives 
 designated 
 as cash flow 
 hedging 
 instruments  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Financial assets 
Cash and balances at central banks ................................................................................. – – – – 141,532 – – 141,532 
Items in the course of collection from other banks ......................................................... – – – – 7,303 – – 7,303 
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness .................................................... – – – – 22,743 – – 22,743 
Trading assets .................................................................................................................. 408,811 – – – – – – 408,811 
Financial assets designated at fair value ......................................................................... – 33,582 – – – – – 33,582 
Derivatives ....................................................................................................................... 353,803 – – – – 199 3,448 357,450 
Loans and advances to banks .......................................................................................... – – – – 152,546 – – 152,546 
Loans and advances to customers ................................................................................... – – – – 997,623 – – 997,623 
Financial investments ...................................................................................................... – – 23,413 397,688 – – – 421,101 
Assets held for sale .......................................................................................................... 9 72 – 10,700 7,341 – – 18,122 
Other assets ...................................................................................................................... – – – – 23,584 – – 23,584 
Accrued income ............................................................................................................... – – – – 8,540 – – 8,540 
Total financial assets ....................................................................................................... 762,623 33,654 23,413 408,388 1,361,212 199 3,448 2,592,937 
Financial liabilities 
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation ....................................................................... – – – – 22,742 – – 22,742 
Deposits by banks ............................................................................................................ – – – – 107,429 – – 107,429 
Customer accounts ........................................................................................................... – – – – 1,340,014 – – 1,340,014 
Items in the course of transmission to other banks ......................................................... – – – – 7,138 – – 7,138 
Trading liabilities ............................................................................................................. 304,563 – – – – – – 304,563 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value .................................................................... – 87,720 – – – – – 87,720 
Derivatives ....................................................................................................................... 352,195 – – – – 4,450 2,241 358,886 
Debt securities in issue .................................................................................................... – – – – 119,461 – – 119,461 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale ..................................................................... 8 23 – – 3,772 – – 3,803 
Other liabilities ................................................................................................................ – – – – 32,417 – – 32,417 
Accruals ........................................................................................................................... – – – – 11,663 – – 11,663 
Subordinated liabilities .................................................................................................... – – – – 29,479 – – 29,479 
Total financial liabilities .................................................................................................. 656,766 87,743 – – 1,674,115 4,450 2,241 2,425,315  434
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
13 – Analysis of financial assets and liabilities
At 31 December 2011 
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated 
 at fair value 
 Held-to-
 maturity 
 securities 
 Available-
 for-sale 
 securities 
 Financial 
 assets and 
 liabilities at 
 amortised 
 cost 
 Derivatives 
 designated 
 as fair value 
 hedging 
 instruments 
 Derivatives 
 designated 
 as cash flow 
 hedging 
 instruments  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Financial assets         
Cash and balances at central banks ................................................................................. – – – – 129,902 – – 129,902 
Items in the course of collection from other banks ......................................................... – – – – 8,208 – – 8,208 
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness.................................................... – – – – 20,922 – – 20,922
Trading assets .................................................................................................................. 330,451 – – – – – – 330,451 
Financial assets designated at fair value ......................................................................... – 30,856 – – – – – 30,856 
Derivatives ....................................................................................................................... 342,914 – – – – 446 3,019 346,379 
Loans and advances to banks .......................................................................................... – – – – 180,987 – – 180,987 
Loans and advances to customers ................................................................................... – – – – 940,429 – – 940,429 
Financial investments ...................................................................................................... – – 21,199 378,845 – – – 400,044 
Assets held for sale .......................................................................................................... 308 – – 482 37,018 – – 37,808 
Other assets ...................................................................................................................... – – – – 24,040 – – 24,040 
Accrued income ............................................................................................................... – – – – 8,951 – – 8,951 
Total financial assets ....................................................................................................... 673,673 30,856 21,199 379,327 1,350,457 446 3,019 2,458,977 
        
Financial liabilities         
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation....................................................................... – – – – 20,922 – – 20,922 
Deposits by banks ............................................................................................................ – – – – 112,822 – – 112,822 
Customer accounts........................................................................................................... – – – – 1,253,925 – – 1,253,925 
Items in the course of transmission to other banks ......................................................... – – – – 8,745 – – 8,745 
Trading liabilities ............................................................................................................. 265,192 – – – – – – 265,192 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value .................................................................... – 85,724 – – – – – 85,724 
Derivatives ....................................................................................................................... 338,788 – – – – 4,332 2,260 345,380 
Debt securities in issue .................................................................................................... – – – – 131,013 – – 131,013 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale ..................................................................... 803 16 – – 21,181 – – 22,000 
Other liabilities ................................................................................................................ – – – – 25,911 – – 25,911 
Accruals ........................................................................................................................... – – – – 11,799 – – 11,799 
Subordinated liabilities.................................................................................................... – – – – 30,606 – – 30,606 
Total financial liabilities .................................................................................................. 604,783 85,740 – – 1,616,924 4,332 2,260 2,314,039  435
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
HSBC Holdings 
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated 
at fair value 
 Loans and 
 receivables 
 Available-
 for-sale 
 securities 
 Other 
 financial 
 assets and 
 liabilities at 
 amortised 
 cost  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Financial assets 
Cash at bank and in hand .................................... – – – – 353 353
Derivatives .......................................................... 3,768 – – – – 3,768 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings ...... – – 41,675 – – 41,675 
Financial investments ......................................... – – – 1,208 – 1,208 
Other assets ......................................................... – – – – 4 4
Total financial assets .......................................... 3,768 – 41,675 1,208 357 47,008 
Financial liabilities 
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings .............. – – – – 12,856 12,856 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ....... – 23,195 – – – 23,195 
Derivatives .......................................................... 760 – – – – 760
Debt securities in issue ....................................... – – – – 2,691 2,691 
Other liabilities ................................................... – – – – – –
Accruals .............................................................. – – – – 605 605
Subordinated liabilities ....................................... – – – – 11,907 11,907 
Total financial liabilities ..................................... 760 23,195 – – 28,059 52,014 
       
At 31 December 2011       
Financial assets       
Cash at bank and in hand .................................... – – – – 316 316 
Derivatives .......................................................... 3,568 – – – – 3,568 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings ...... – – 28,048 – – 28,048 
Financial investments ......................................... – – – 1,078 – 1,078 
Other assets ......................................................... – – – – 1 1 
Total financial assets .......................................... 3,568 – 28,048 1,078 317 33,011 
       
Financial liabilities       
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings .............. – – – – 2,479 2,479 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ....... – 21,151 – – – 21,151 
Derivatives .......................................................... 1,067 – – – – 1,067 
Debt securities in issue ....................................... – – – – 2,613 2,613 
Other liabilities ................................................... – – – – 885 885 
Accruals .............................................................. – – – – 575 575 
Subordinated liabilities ....................................... – – – – 12,450 12,450 
Total financial liabilities ..................................... 1,067 21,151 – – 19,002 41,220  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
14 – T rading assets / 15 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
436
14 Trading assets
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
Trading assets: 
–  not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties .......................................................................... 305,312 235,916 
–  which may be repledged or resold by counterparties ...................................................................... 103,499 94,535 
408,811 330,451 
Treasury and other eligible bills ............................................................................................................... 26,282 34,309 
Debt securities .......................................................................................................................................... 144,677 130,487 
Equity securities ....................................................................................................................................... 41,634 21,002 
Trading assets at fair value ....................................................................................................................... 212,593 185,798 
Loans and advances to banks ................................................................................................................... 78,271 75,525 
Loans and advances to customers ............................................................................................................ 117,947 69,128 
408,811 330,451 
Trading assets valued at fair value
1
Fair value 
 2012   2011 
US$m US$m 
US Treasury and US Government agencies
2
 ............................................................................................ 28,405 15,686 
UK Government ........................................................................................................................................ 11,688 12,917 
Hong Kong Government .......................................................................................................................... 6,228 8,844 
Other government ..................................................................................................................................... 91,498 90,816 
Asset-backed securities
3
 ........................................................................................................................... 2,896 2,913 
Corporate debt and other securities .......................................................................................................... 30,244 33,620 
Equity securities ....................................................................................................................................... 41,634 21,002 
212,593 185,798 
1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$20,274m (2011: US$24,956m), of 
which US$3,469m (2011: US$5,269m) are guaranteed by various governments. 
2 Includes securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government. 
3 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Treasury and US Government agencies. 
Trading assets listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted 
 Treasury
 and other
 eligible bills 
 Debt
 securities 
 Equity
 securities  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Fair value at 31 December 2012 
Listed on a recognised exchange
1
 ................................................ 606 82,732 39,945 123,283 
Unlisted
2
 ....................................................................................... 25,676 61,945 1,689 89,310 
26,282 144,677 41,634 212,593 
Fair value at 31 December 2011     
Listed on a recognised exchange
1
 ................................................ 789 78,760 19,994 99,543 
Unlisted
2
 ....................................................................................... 33,520 51,727 1,008 86,255 
 34,309 130,487 21,002 185,798 
1 Included within listed investments are US$2,828m (2011: US$2,836m) of investments listed in Hong Kong. 
2 Unlisted treasury and other eligible bills primarily comprise treasury bills not listed on a recognised exchange but for which there is 
a liquid market. 
Loans and advances to banks held for trading 
 2012   2011 
US$m US$m 
Reverse repos ............................................................................................................................................ 45,015 45,490 
Settlement accounts .................................................................................................................................. 6,324 7,555 
Stock borrowing ....................................................................................................................................... 5,361 5,531 
Other ......................................................................................................................................................... 21,571 16,949 
78,271 75,525  437
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Loans and advances to customers held for trading 
 2012   2011 
US$m US$m 
Reverse repos ......................................................................................................................................... 73,666 34,358 
Settlement accounts ............................................................................................................................... 8,186 5,804 
Stock borrowing .................................................................................................................................... 10,710 3,928 
Other ...................................................................................................................................................... 25,385 25,038 
117,947 69,128 
15 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
The classification of financial instruments is determined in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2. 
The use of assumptions and estimation in valuing financial instruments is described on page 56. 
Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing 
parties in an arm’s length transaction. 
Financial instruments carried at fair value and bases of valuation
1
Valuation techniques 
Quoted
market
price
Level 1 
Using
observable
inputs
Level 2 
With
significant
unobservable
inputs
Level 3 Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Assets
Trading assets ........................................................................ 198,843 205,590 4,378 408,811 
Financial assets designated at fair value ............................... 25,575 7,594 413 33,582 
Derivatives ............................................................................. 1,431 352,960 3,059 357,450 
Financial investments: available for sale .............................. 253,246 135,931 8,511 397,688 
Liabilities
Trading liabilities .................................................................. 116,550 180,543 7,470 304,563 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value .......................... 10,703 77,017 – 87,720 
Derivatives ............................................................................. 1,506 354,375 3,005 358,886 
    
At 31 December 2011     
Assets     
Trading assets ........................................................................ 180,043 145,628 4,780 330,451 
Financial assets designated at fair value ............................... 22,496 7,644 716 30,856 
Derivatives............................................................................. 1,262 340,668 4,449 346,379 
Financial investments: available for sale .............................. 217,788 151,936 9,121 378,845 
    
Liabilities     
Trading liabilities .................................................................. 98,208 159,157 7,827 265,192 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value .......................... 27,461 57,696 567 85,724 
Derivatives............................................................................. 1,991 340,260 3,129 345,380 
1 The above table does not include financial instruments within the Assets held for sale and Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 
categorisations. 
The increase in Level 1 trading assets and liabilities reflects an increase in equity securities and settlement account 
balances, the latter varying considerably in proportion with the level of trading activity. The increase in Level 2 
assets reflects higher reverse repo balances used to cover short positions and an increase in repo balances contributed 
to the growth in Level 2 liabilities. 
As described on page 446, HSBC Holdings transferred financial liabilities designated at fair value from Level 1 to 
Level 2. There were no other material transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 in the year. An analysis of the 
movements of Level 3 financial instruments is provided on page 447.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
15 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
438
Control framework 
Fair values are subject to a control framework designed to ensure that they are either determined or validated by a 
function independent of the risk-taker. 
For all financial instruments where fair values are determined by reference to externally quoted prices or observable 
pricing inputs to models, independent price determination or validation is utilised. In inactive markets, direct 
observation of a traded price may not be possible. In these circumstances, HSBC will source alternative market 
information to validate the financial instrument’s fair value, with greater weight given to information that is 
considered to be more relevant and reliable. The factors that are considered in this regard are, inter alia:
• the extent to which prices may be expected to represent genuine traded or tradeable prices; 
• the degree of similarity between financial instruments; 
• the degree of consistency between different sources; 
• the process followed by the pricing provider to derive the data; 
• the elapsed time between the date to which the market data relates and the balance sheet date; and 
• the manner in which the data was sourced.
For fair values determined using a valuation model, the control framework may include, as applicable, development 
or validation by independent support functions of (i) the logic within valuation models; (ii) the inputs to those 
models; (iii) any adjustments required outside the valuation models; and (iv) where possible, model outputs. 
Valuation models are subject to a process of due diligence and calibration before becoming operational and are 
calibrated against external market data on an ongoing basis. 
The fair value governance structure is as follows:
Group Finance Director
Finance Valuation Committees Valuation Committee
Review Group
Responsible for determining 
fair value:
• Establishing accounting
policies for fair value
• Establishing procedures 
governing valuation
• Ensuring compliance 
with all relevant 
accounting standards
Consist of valuation experts 
from several independent 
support functions
(product control, market risk 
management, quantitative 
risk and valuation group
and finance), in addition
to senior management
Provides
results
Overseen by
and report
all valuations
considered
to have
material
subjectivity
Chaired by Global Head of 
Product Control,
Global Markets
Consists of heads of 
Global Markets, finance
and risk functions
Determination of fair value
Fair values are determined according to the following hierarchy: 
• Level 1 – quoted market price: financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in active 
markets. 
• Level 2 – valuation technique using observable inputs: financial instruments with quoted prices for similar 
instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and 
financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs are observable. 
• Level 3 – valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: financial instruments valued using valuation 
techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable. 
The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price in an actively traded market. The fair values of financial instruments 
that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for liabilities issued. Where a 
financial instrument has a quoted price in an active market and it is part of a portfolio, the fair value of the portfolio is 
calculated as the product of the number of units and quoted price. In the event that the market for a financial 
instrument is not active, a valuation technique is used.  
The judgement as to whether a market is active may include, but is not restricted to, the consideration of factors such 
as the magnitude and frequency of trading activity, the availability of prices and the size of bid/offer spreads. The  439
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
bid/offer spread represents the difference in prices at which a market participant would be willing to buy compared 
with the price at which they would be willing to sell. In inactive markets, obtaining assurance that the transaction 
price provides evidence of fair value or determining the adjustments to transaction prices that are necessary to 
measure the fair value of the instrument requires additional work during the valuation process. 
Valuation techniques incorporate assumptions about factors that other market participants would use in their 
valuations, including interest rate yield curves, exchange rates, volatilities, and prepayment and default rates. For 
swaps with collateralised counterparties and in significant major currencies, HSBC uses a discounting curve that 
reflects the overnight interest rate (‘OIS discounting’). 
The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data. However, certain financial instruments are 
valued on the basis of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable, 
and for them the measurement of fair value is more judgemental. An instrument in its entirety is classified as valued 
using significant unobservable inputs if, in the opinion of management, a significant proportion of the instrument’s 
inception profit (‘day 1 gain or loss’) or greater than 5% of the instrument’s carrying value is driven by unobservable 
inputs. ‘Unobservable’ in this context means that there is little or no current market data available from which to 
determine the price at which an arm’s length transaction would be likely to occur. It generally does not mean that 
there is no data available at all upon which to base a determination of fair value (consensus pricing data may, for 
example, be used).  
In certain circumstances, HSBC records its own debt in issue at fair value, based on quoted prices in an active market 
for the specific instrument concerned, where available. An example of this is where own debt in issue is hedged with 
interest rate derivatives. When quoted market prices are unavailable, the own debt in issue is valued using valuation 
techniques, the inputs for which are either based upon quoted prices in an inactive market for the instrument, or are 
estimated by comparison with quoted prices in an active market for similar instruments. In both cases, the fair value 
includes the effect of applying the credit spread which is appropriate to HSBC’s liabilities. The change in fair value 
of issued debt securities attributable to the Group’s own credit spread is computed as follows: for each security at 
each reporting date, an externally verifiable price is obtained or a price is derived using credit spreads for similar 
securities for the same issuer. Then, using discounted cash flow, each security is valued using a Libor-based discount 
curve. The difference in the valuations is attributable to the Group’s own credit spread. This methodology is applied 
consistently across all securities. 
Structured notes issued and certain other hybrid instrument liabilities are included within trading liabilities and are 
measured at fair value. The credit spread applied to these instruments is derived from the spreads at which HSBC 
issues structured notes.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the credit spread of liabilities issued by HSBC reverse over the contractual 
life of the debt, provided that the debt is not repaid at a premium or a discount. 
Fair value adjustments 
Fair value adjustments are adopted when HSBC considers that there are additional factors that would be considered 
by a market participant that are not incorporated within the valuation model. The magnitude of fair value adjustments 
depends upon many entity-specific factors, and therefore fair value adjustments may not be comparable across the 
banking industry. 
HSBC classifies fair value adjustments as either ‘risk-related’ or ‘model-related’. The majority of these adjustments 
relate to GB&M. 
Movements in the level of fair value adjustments do not necessarily result in the recognition of profits or losses 
within the income statement. For example, as models are enhanced, fair value adjustments may no longer be required. 
Similarly, fair value adjustments will decrease when the related positions are unwound, but this may not result in 
profit or loss.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
15 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
440
Global Banking and Markets fair value adjustments
At 31 December 
2012 2011 
US$m US$m 
Type of adjustment 
Risk-related ............................................................................................................................................... 2,013 1,899 
Bid-offer ............................................................................................................................................... 638 695
Uncertainty ........................................................................................................................................... 142 154
Credit valuation adjustment ................................................................................................................. 1,747 1,050
Debit valuation adjustment .................................................................................................................. (518) –
Other ..................................................................................................................................................... 4 –
Model-related ............................................................................................................................................ 162 567
Model limitation ................................................................................................................................... 161 567
Other ..................................................................................................................................................... 1 –
Inception profit (Day 1 P&L reserves) (Note 19) .................................................................................... 181 200
2,356 2,666 
The increase in credit valuation adjustment and debit valuation adjustment reflects a refinement in methodology, 
described on page 441. The decrease in model limitation adjustments reflects the inclusion of OIS discounting within 
the modelled value of many interest rate derivatives such that an adjustment is no longer required outside the model, 
in addition to market movements and the unwind or maturity of certain legacy credit structures. 
Risk-related adjustments 
Bid-offer
IAS 39 requires that financial instruments are marked at bid or offer, as appropriate. Valuation models will typically 
generate mid-market values. The bid-offer adjustment reflects the cost that would be incurred if substantially all 
residual net portfolio market risks were closed using available hedging instruments or by disposing of or unwinding 
the actual position.
Uncertainty
Certain model inputs may be less readily determinable from market data, and/or the choice of model itself may 
be more subjective. In these circumstances, there exists a range of possible values that the financial instrument or 
market parameter may assume and an adjustment may be necessary to reflect the likelihood that in estimating the 
fair value of the financial instrument, market participants would adopt more conservative values for uncertain 
parameters and/or model assumptions than those used in the valuation model. 
Credit valuation adjustment 
The credit valuation adjustment is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect within fair 
value the possibility that the counterparty may default and that HSBC may not receive the full market value of the 
transactions.
Debit valuation adjustment 
The debit valuation adjustment is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect within fair 
value the possibility that HSBC may default, and that HSBC may not pay full market value of the transactions.  
Model-related adjustments 
Model limitation 
Models used for portfolio valuation purposes may be based upon a simplifying set of assumptions that do not 
capture all material market characteristics. Additionally, markets evolve, and models that were adequate in the 
past may require development to capture all material market characteristics in current market conditions. In these 
circumstances, model limitation adjustments are adopted. As model development progresses, model limitations are 
addressed within the valuation models and a model limitation adjustment is no longer needed.  441
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Inception profit (Day 1 P&L reserves) 
Inception profit adjustments are adopted where the fair value estimated by a valuation model is based on one or more 
significant unobservable inputs. The accounting for inception profit adjustments is discussed on page 388. An 
analysis of the movement in the deferred Day 1 P&L reserve is provided on page 454. 
Credit valuation adjustment/debit valuation adjustment methodology 
HSBC calculates a separate credit valuation adjustment (‘CVA’) and debit valuation adjustment (‘DVA’) for each 
HSBC legal entity, and within each entity for each counterparty to which the entity has exposure. The calculation of 
the monoline CVA is described on page 189.  
HSBC calculates the CVA by applying the probability of default (‘PD’) of the counterparty conditional on the non-
default of HSBC, to the expected positive exposure of HSBC to the counterparty, and multiplying the result by the 
loss expected in the event of default. Conversely, HSBC calculates the DVA by applying the PD of HSBC, 
conditional on the non-default of the counterparty, to the expected positive exposure of the counterparty to HSBC, 
and multiplying by the loss expected in the event of default. Both calculations are performed over the life of the 
potential exposure. 
As set out on page 383, from 31 December 2012 HSBC revised its methodology for estimating the CVA and the 
DVA for derivatives. The CVA calculation maximises the use of PD based on relevant, observable market data, 
such as credit default swap (‘CDS’) spreads. Where CDS spreads are not available, PDs are estimated having regard 
to market practice, considering relevant data including both CDS indices and historical rating transition matrices. 
HSBC aligned its methodology for estimating the DVA to be consistent with that applied for the CVA as at 31 
December 2012. Historically, HSBC considered that a zero spread was appropriate in respect of own credit risk and 
consequently did not adjust derivative liabilities for its own credit risk. 
For most products, to calculate the expected positive exposure to a counterparty, HSBC uses a simulation 
methodology to incorporate the range of potential exposures across the portfolio of transactions with the counterparty 
over the life of an instrument. The simulation methodology includes credit mitigants such as counterparty netting 
agreements and collateral agreements with the counterparty. A standard loss given default assumption of 60% is 
generally adopted for developed market exposures, and 75% for emerging market exposures. Alternative loss given 
default assumptions may be adopted where both the nature of the exposure and the available data support this. 
For certain types of exotic derivatives where the products are not currently supported by the simulation, or for 
derivative exposures in smaller trading locations where the simulation tool is not yet available, HSBC adopts 
alternative methodologies. These may involve mapping to the results for similar products from the simulation tool 
or where such a mapping approach is not appropriate, a simplified methodology is used, generally following the same 
principles as the simulation methodology. The calculation is applied at a trade level, with more limited recognition of 
credit mitigants such as netting or collateral agreements than used in the simulation methodology described 
previously. 
The methodologies do not, in general, account for ‘wrong-way risk’. Wrong-way risk arises where the underlying 
value of the derivative prior to any CVA is positively correlated to the probability of default of the counterparty. 
Where there is significant wrong-way risk, a trade-specific approach is applied to reflect the wrong-way risk within 
the valuation. 
With the exception of certain central clearing parties, HSBC includes all third-party counterparties in the CVA and 
DVA calculations and does not net these calculations across HSBC Group entities.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
15 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
442
Fair value valuation bases 
Financial instruments measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs – 
Level 3 
Assets Liabilities
 Available  
 for sale 
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated
 at fair value 
  through 
 profit or loss Derivatives
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated 
 at fair value 
 through 
 profit or loss Derivatives
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Private equity including strategic 
investments ................................... 3,582 92 377 – – – –
Asset-backed securities .................... 2,288 652 – – – – –
Loans held for securitisation ............ – 547 – – – – –
Structured notes ................................ – 23 – – 6,987 – –
Derivatives with monolines .............. – – – 630 – – –
Other derivatives ............................... – – – 2,429 – – 3,005 
Other portfolios ................................. 2,641 3,064 36 – 483 – –
8,511 4,378 413 3,059 7,470 – 3,005 
        
At 31 December 2011        
Private equity including strategic 
investments ................................... 4,565 88 432 – – – – 
Asset-backed securities .................... 2,584 710 – – – – – 
Loans held for securitisation ............ – 682 – – – – 7 
Structured notes ................................ – 92 – – 7,340 – – 
Derivatives with monolines .............. – – – 940 – – – 
Other derivatives ............................... – – – 3,509 – – 3,122 
Other portfolios ................................. 1,972 3,208 284 – 487 567 – 
9,121 4,780 716 4,449 7,827 567 3,129 
Private equity and strategic investments 
HSBC’s private equity and strategic investments are generally classified as available for sale and are not traded in 
active markets. In the absence of an active market, an investment’s fair value is estimated on the basis of an analysis 
of the investee’s financial position and results, risk profile, prospects and other factors, as well as by reference to 
market valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market, or the price at which similar companies have 
changed ownership. 
Asset-backed securities 
While quoted market prices are generally used to determine the fair value of these securities, valuation models are 
used to substantiate the reliability of the limited market data available and to identify whether any adjustments to 
quoted market prices are required. For ABSs including residential MBSs, the valuation uses an industry standard 
model and the assumptions relating to prepayment speeds, default rates and loss severity based on collateral type, 
and performance, as appropriate. The valuations output is benchmarked for consistency against observable data for 
securities of a similar nature.  
Loans, including leveraged finance and loans held for securitisation 
Loans held at fair value are valued from broker quotes and/or market data consensus providers when available. In the 
absence of an observable market, the fair value is determined using valuation techniques. These techniques include 
discounted cash flow models, which incorporate assumptions regarding an appropriate credit spread for the loan, 
derived from other market instruments issued by the same or comparable entities.  
Structured notes 
The fair value of structured notes valued using a valuation technique is derived from the fair value of the underlying 
debt security, and the fair value of the embedded derivative is determined as described in the paragraph below 
on derivatives.  443
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Trading liabilities valued using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs principally comprised 
equity-linked structured notes, which are issued by HSBC and provide the counterparty with a return that is linked to 
the performance of certain equity securities, and other portfolios. The notes are classified as Level 3 due to the 
unobservability of parameters such as long-dated equity volatilities and correlations between equity prices, between 
equity prices and interest rates and between interest rates and foreign exchange rates.  
Derivatives
OTC (i.e. non-exchange traded) derivatives are valued using valuation models. Valuation models calculate the 
present value of expected future cash flows, based upon ‘no-arbitrage’ principles. For many vanilla derivative 
products, such as interest rate swaps and European options, the modelling approaches used are standard across the 
industry. For more complex derivative products, there may be some differences in market practice. Inputs to 
valuation models are determined from observable market data wherever possible, including prices available from 
exchanges, dealers, brokers or providers of consensus pricing. Certain inputs may not be observable in the market 
directly, but can be determined from observable prices via model calibration procedures or estimated from historical 
data or other sources. Examples of inputs that may be unobservable include volatility surfaces, in whole or in part, for 
less commonly traded option products, and correlations between market factors such as foreign exchange rates, 
interest rates and equity prices. The valuation of derivatives with monolines is discussed on page 189.  
Derivative products valued using valuation techniques with significant unobservable inputs included certain types of 
correlation products, such as foreign exchange basket options, equity basket options, foreign exchange interest rate 
hybrid transactions and long-dated option transactions. Examples of the latter are equity options, interest rate and 
foreign exchange options and certain credit derivatives. Credit derivatives include certain tranched CDS transactions.
Reconciliation of fair value measurements in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy 
The following table provides a reconciliation of the movement between opening and closing balances of Level 3 
financial instruments, measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: 
Movement in Level 3 financial instruments 
Assets Liabilities
 Available  
 for sale 
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated
 at fair value
 through
profit or loss Derivatives
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated  
 at fair value 
 through 
 profit or loss Derivatives
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
2012
At 1 January ...................................... 9,121 4,780 716 4,449 7,827 567 3,129 
Total gains/(losses) recognised in 
profit or loss ................................. (414) 356 10 (974) 319 – 10
Total gains/(losses) recognised in  
other comprehensive income
1
 ...... 472 78 (32) 92 143 – 84
Purchases .......................................... 1,738 942 113 – (368) – –
New issuances ................................... – – – – 2,852 – –
Sales .................................................. (840) (1,408) (69) – – – –
Settlements ........................................ (367) (617) (25) (14) (1,604) – 18
Transfers out ..................................... (2,944) (298) (350) (571) (1,901) (567) (291)
Transfers in ....................................... 1,745 545 50 77 202 – 55
At 31 December ................................ 8,511 4,378 413 3,059 7,470 – 3,005 
Total gains/(losses) recognised in 
profit or loss relating to assets and 
liabilities held on 31 December: 166 339 9 (1,294) 384 – (395)
–  net interest income ................... 44 – – – – – –
–  trading income excluding  
net interest income ................... – 326 – (1,294) 396 – (395)
–  net interest income on 
trading activities ....................... – 13 – – (12) – –
–  net income from other  
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ – – 9 – – – –
–  dividend income ....................... 122 – – – – – – HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
15 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
444
 Assets Liabilities 
 Available  
 for sale 
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated
 at fair value 
 through 
profit or loss  Derivatives 
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated  
 at fair value 
 through 
 profit or loss  Derivatives 
  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
2011        
At 1 January ...................................... 8,237 5,689 587 3,961 11,393 570 3,806 
Total gains/(losses) recognised in  
profit or loss ................................. 222 (330) 11 767 36 8 628 
Total gains/(losses) recognised in  
other comprehensive income
1
 ...... (179) (12) (15) (16) 11 (11) – 
Purchases.......................................... 1,858 1,483 242 – (1,843) – – 
New issuances ................................... – – – – 4,569 – – 
Sales .................................................. (756) (2,578) (69) – – – – 
Settlements ........................................ (1,088) (199) (7) (33) (1,528) – (1,083)
Transfers out ..................................... (1,891) (569) (173) (410) (5,266) – (608)
Transfers in ....................................... 2,718 1,296 140 180 455 – 386 
At 31 December ................................ 9,121 4,780 716 4,449 7,827 567 3,129 
Total gains/(losses) recognised in 
profit or loss relating to assets and 
liabilities held on 31 December: 134 (237) 36 617 101 8 80 
–  net interest income ................... 105 – – – – – –
–  trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income .. – (265) – 617 119 – 80
–  net interest income/(expense) 
on trading activities .................. – 28 – – (18) – –
–  net income from other 
financial instruments  
designated at fair value ............ – – 36 – – 8 –
–  dividend income ....................... 29 – – – – – –
1 Included in ‘Available-for-sale investments: Fair value gains/losses’ and ‘Exchange differences’ in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income. 
Available-for-sale securities: Purchases of Level 3 AFS assets relate principally to Emerging Market corporate 
bonds. Sales of Level 3 AFS assets relate principally to private equity disposals. Transfers in and out of Level 3 relate 
principally to ABS securities, and the excess of transfers out over transfers in reflects some improvement in ABS 
liquidity over the year. 
Derivatives: The reduction in Level 3 derivative assets predominantly reflected  reductions in the fair value of legacy 
structured credit assets as credit spreads narrowed and the unwind or maturity of certain other structured derivatives. 
Trading liabilities: Movements in Level 3 trading liability balances primarily reflect issue and redemption of 
structured notes, particularly equity-linked notes. Transfers out reflect structured notes, particularly equity 
linked notes, becoming observable as their residual maturity decreased.
Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives 
As discussed above, the fair value of financial instruments are, in certain circumstances, measured using valuation 
techniques that incorporate assumptions that are not evidenced by prices from observable current market transactions 
in the same instrument and are not based on observable market data. The following table shows the sensitivity of 
these fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions: 
Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions 
Reflected in profit or loss 
Reflected in other
comprehensive income 
 Favourable
 changes
 Unfavourable
 changes 
 Favourable
 changes 
 Unfavourable
 changes 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities
1
........................ 465 (384) – –
Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value ................ 41 (41) – –
Financial investments: available for sale ..................................... – – 680 (710)
506 (425) 680 (710) 445
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
 Reflected in profit or loss 
Reflected in other  
comprehensive income 
 Favourable 
 changes 
 Unfavourable
 changes 
 Favourable 
 changes  
 Unfavourable 
 changes 
  US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011     
Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities
1
........................ 369 (436) – – 
Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value ................ 72 (72) – – 
Financial investments: available for sale ..................................... – – 814 (818)
 441 (508)814 (818)
1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities are presented as one category to reflect the manner in which these financial
instruments are risk-managed. 
In derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities greater pricing certainty has arisen during the year in respect of 
legacy structured credit assets, as narrowing credit spreads have reduced exposures. This has been offset by greater 
pricing uncertainty in some other areas, most notably in certain interest rate derivative products and the pricing of the 
derivative representing the forward sale of Ping An. 
The reduction in pricing uncertainty in available-for-sale securities reflects greater liquidity in the ABS market. 
Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions by Level 3 instrument type 
Reflected in profit or loss 
Reflected in other 
comprehensive income 
 Favourable
 changes
 Unfavourable
 changes 
 Favourable
 changes 
 Unfavourable
 changes 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Private equity investments ............................................................ 62 (62) 353 (353)
Asset-backed securities ................................................................ 41 (27) 143 (139)
Loans held for securitisation ........................................................ 3 (3) – –
Structured notes ............................................................................ 4 (5) – –
Derivatives with monolines .......................................................... 36 (20) – –
Other derivatives ........................................................................... 320 (267) – –
Other portfolios ............................................................................. 40 (41) 184 (218)
506 (425) 680 (710)
      
At 31 December 2011  
Private equity investments ............................................................ 123 (83) 451 (451)
Asset-backed securities ................................................................ 3 (3) 183 (175)
Loans held for securitisation........................................................ 4 (4) – – 
Structured notes ............................................................................ 6 (6) – – 
Derivatives with monolines .......................................................... 76 (178) – – 
Other derivatives ........................................................................... 145 (154) – – 
Other portfolios ............................................................................. 84 (80) 180 (192)
 441 (508)814 (818)
Favourable and unfavourable changes are determined on the basis of changes in the value of the instrument as a result 
of varying the levels of the unobservable parameters using statistical techniques. When parameters are not amenable 
to statistical analysis, quantification of uncertainty is judgemental. 
When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the above table 
reflects the most favourable or most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually. 
In respect of private equity investments, in many of the methodologies, the principal assumption is the valuation 
multiple to be applied to the main financial indicators. This may be determined with reference to multiples for 
comparable listed companies and includes discounts for marketability. 
For ABSs, the principal assumptions in the models are based on benchmark information about prepayment speeds, 
default rates, loss severities and the historical performance of the underlying assets.  
For leveraged finance, loans held for securitisation and derivatives with monolines, the principal assumption concerns 
the appropriate value to be attributed to the counterparty credit risk. This requires estimation of exposure at default, 
probability of default and recovery in the event of default. For loan transactions, assessment of exposure at default is 
straightforward. For derivative transactions, a future exposure profile is generated on the basis of current market data.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
15 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value / 16 – Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value
446
Probabilities of default and recovery levels are estimated using available evidence, which may include financial 
information, historical experience, CDS spreads and consensus recovery levels. 
For structured notes and other derivatives, principal assumptions concern the value to be attributed to future volatility 
of asset values and the future correlation between asset values. These principal assumptions include credit volatilities 
and correlations used in the valuation of structured credit derivatives (including leveraged credit derivatives). For 
such unobservable assumptions, estimates are based on available market data, which may include the use of a proxy 
method to derive a volatility or a correlation from comparable assets for which market data is more readily available, 
and/or an examination of historical levels.  
HSBC Holdings  
The following table provides an analysis of the basis for valuing financial assets and financial liabilities measured at 
fair value in the financial statements: 
Bases of valuing HSBC Holdings’ financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
Valuation techniques 
Quoted 
market
price
Using
observable
inputs
With
significant
unobservable
inputs
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Assets
Derivatives ................................................................................ – 3,768 – 3,768 
Available for sale ..................................................................... – 1,208 – 1,208 
Liabilities
Designated at fair value ............................................................ – 23,195 – 23,195 
Derivatives ................................................................................ – 760 – 760
    
At 31 December 2011 
Assets
Derivatives ................................................................................ – 3,568 – 3,568 
Available for sale ..................................................................... – – 1,078 1,078 
Liabilities     
Designated at fair value ............................................................ 17,196 3,955 – 21,151 
Derivatives ................................................................................ – 1,067 – 1,067 
Liabilities designated at fair value: Transfers out of Level 1 were to bring these instruments in line with the 
classification methodology adopted for other corporate bonds within the Group. 
Available for sale securities: Transfers out of Level 3 reflect increased observability in prices and improved market 
liquidity for these financial investments. 
Financial instruments measured at fair value – Level 3
Financial investments measured using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) comprise 
fixed-rate preferred securities and senior notes purchased from HSBC undertakings. The unobservable elements of 
the valuation technique include the use of implied credit spreads and simplified bond pricing assumptions.  447
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Movement in Level 3 financial instruments available for sale 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
At 1 January .............................................................................................................................................. 1,078 2,025 
Total gains or losses: 
–  recognised in profit or loss ................................................................................................................... –55
–  recognised in other comprehensive income ......................................................................................... 130 (61)
Settlements ................................................................................................................................................ – (941)
Transfers out ............................................................................................................................................. (1,208) –
At 31 December ........................................................................................................................................ – 1,078 
Total gains or losses recognised in profit or loss relating to those assets and liabilities
held on 31 December ............................................................................................................................ –18
In certain circumstances, the fair value of financial instruments are measured using valuation models that incorporate 
assumptions that are not supported by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument and 
are not based on observable market data. The following table shows the sensitivity of non-derivative financial 
instruments to reasonably possible alternative assumptions: 
Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives 
Reflected in equity 
Favourable 
changes
Unfavourable 
changes
US$m US$m 
Financial investments: available for sale  
At 31 December 2012 .............................................................................................................................. – –
At 31 December 2011 ............................................................................................................................... 69 (77)
16 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value 
The classification of financial instruments is determined in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 2. 
Fair values of financial instruments which are not carried at fair value on the balance sheet 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
Carrying
amount 
Fair
value
Carrying 
amount 
Fair
value
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Assets and liabilities not held for sale    
Assets
Loans and advances to banks ............................................................... 152,546 152,823 180,987 181,302 
Loans and advances to customers ........................................................ 997,623 973,741 940,429 914,485 
Financial investments: debt securities .................................................. 23,413 25,458 21,018 22,500 
Financial investments: treasury and other eligible bills ....................... – – 181 181 
Liabilities
Deposits by banks ................................................................................. 107,429 107,392 112,822 112,848 
Customer accounts ............................................................................... 1,340,014 1,340,521 1,253,925 1,254,313 
Debt securities in issue ......................................................................... 119,461 120,779 131,013 130,914 
Subordinated liabilities ......................................................................... 29,479 32,159 30,606 29,351 
Loans and advances and customer accounts held for sale 
Loans and advances to banks and customers ....................................... 6,632 6,387 35,720 37,832 
Customer accounts ............................................................................... 2,990 2,990 20,138 19,130 
1 Including financial instruments within disposal groups held for sale.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
16 – Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value 
448
The following is a list of financial instruments whose carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value 
because, for example, they are short-term in nature or reprice to current market rates frequently: 
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks 
Items in the course of collection from other banks 
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 
Endorsements and acceptances 
Short-term receivables within ‘Other assets’ 
Accrued income 
Liabilities
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation 
Items in the course of transmission to other banks 
Investment contracts with discretionary participation features within ‘Liabilities under insurance contracts’ 
Endorsements and acceptances 
Short-term payables within ‘Other liabilities’ 
Accruals
Analysis of loans and advances to customers by geographical segment 
At 31 December 2012  At 31 December 2011 
Carrying
amount 
Fair
value
Carrying 
amount 
Fair
value
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Loans and advances to customers 
Europe ....................................................................................................... 463,440 453,382 434,336 426,039 
Hong Kong ............................................................................................... 173,613 171,926 157,665 154,054 
Rest of Asia-Pacific .................................................................................. 138,119 138,015 123,868 123,662 
Middle East and North Africa .................................................................. 28,086 27,954 25,875 25,758 
North America .......................................................................................... 140,756 128,637 142,747 128,608 
Latin America ........................................................................................... 53,609 53,827 55,938 56,364 
997,623 973,741 940,429 914,485 
Valuation
The calculation of fair value incorporates HSBC’s estimate of the amount at which financial assets could be 
exchanged, or financial liabilities settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. It 
does not reflect the economic benefits and costs that HSBC expects to flow from the instruments’ cash flows over 
their expected future lives. Other reporting entities may use different valuation methodologies and assumptions in 
determining fair values for which no observable market prices are available. 
The fair values of loans and advances to customers in the US are substantially lower than their carrying amount, 
reflecting the market conditions at the balance sheet date. The secondary market demand and estimated value for US 
loans and advances has been heavily influenced by the challenging economic conditions during the past number of 
years, including house price depreciation, rising unemployment, changes in consumer behaviour, changes in discount 
rates and the lack of financing options available to support the purchase of loans and advances. Many investors are 
non-bank financial institutions or hedge funds with high equity levels and a high cost of debt. For certain consumer 
loans, investors take a more conservative view of future performance than HSBC. As a result, third parties are likely 
to assume higher charge-off levels and/or slower voluntary prepayment speeds than HSBC believes will ultimately 
be the case. The investor discount rates reflect this difference in the overall cost of capital as well as the potential 
volatility in the underlying cash flow assumptions, the combination of which may yield a significant pricing discount 
from HSBC’s intrinsic value. 
There was a modest decrease year on year in the fair value of loans and advances to customers in Europe relative to 
their carrying amount, largely in the UK mortgage portfolio which is sensitive to changes in market pricing between 
the balance sheet dates given its size and the competitive UK market. We also enhanced fair value estimation 
processes for mortgage and corporate lending in the UK to reflect risk factors, product characteristics and prepayment 
estimates at a more granular level. This overall decrease was mitigated by higher valuations of ABSs classified as 
loans and receivables following improved market appetite for such securities.  449
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
The fair values of loans and advances to customers in Latin America are higher than their carrying amount, primarily 
driven by a decrease in market interest rates, and in particular for the mortgage portfolios. 
Fair values of the assets and liabilities set out below are estimated for the purpose of disclosure as follows: 
Loans and advances to banks and customers 
The fair value of loans and advances is based on observable market transactions, where available. In the absence of 
observable market transactions, fair value is estimated using valuation models that incorporate a range of input 
assumptions. These assumptions may include value estimates from third party brokers which reflect over-the-counter 
trading activity; forward looking discounted cash flow models using assumptions which HSBC believes are 
consistent with those which would be used by market participants in valuing such loans; and trading inputs from 
other market participants which includes observed primary and secondary trades. 
Loans are grouped, as far as possible, into homogeneous groups and stratified by loans with similar characteristics to 
improve the accuracy of estimated valuation outputs. The stratification of a loan book considers all material factors, 
including vintage, origination period, estimates of future interest rates, prepayment speeds, delinquency rates, loan-
to-value ratios, the quality of collateral, default probability, and internal credit risk ratings. 
Valuation techniques are calibrated on a regular basis and tested for validity using prices from observable current 
market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or are based on any available 
observable market data. 
The fair value of a loan reflects both loan impairments at the balance sheet date and estimates of market participants’ 
expectations of credit losses over the life of the loans, and the fair value impact of repricing between origination and 
the balance sheet date. For impaired loans, fair value is estimated by discounting the future cash flows over the time 
period they are expected to be recovered. 
Financial investments 
The fair values of listed financial investments are determined using bid market prices. The fair values of unlisted 
financial investments are determined using valuation techniques that take into consideration the prices and future 
earnings streams of equivalent quoted securities. 
Deposits by banks and customer accounts 
For the purpose of estimating fair value, deposits by banks and customer accounts are grouped by remaining 
contractual maturity. Fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows, applying current rates offered for 
deposits of similar remaining maturities. The fair value of a deposit repayable on demand is assumed to be the 
amount payable on demand at the balance sheet date. 
Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities 
Fair values are determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where available, or by reference to 
quoted market prices for similar instruments. 
The fair values in this note are stated at a specific date and may be significantly different from the amounts which 
will actually be paid on the maturity or settlement dates of the instruments. In many cases, it would not be possible to 
realise immediately the estimated fair values given the size of the portfolios measured. Accordingly, these fair values 
do not represent the value of these financial instruments to HSBC as a going concern. 
HSBC Holdings 
The methods used by HSBC Holdings to determine fair values of financial instruments for the purpose of 
measurement and disclosure are described above. 
The following table provides an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value on the 
balance sheet:  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
17 – Reclassification of financial assets / 18 – Financial assets designated at fair value 
450
Fair values of HSBC Holdings’ financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
Carrying
amount 
Fair
value
Carrying 
amount 
Fair
value
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Assets
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings ................................ 41,675 42,843 28,048 27,562 
Liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings ........................................ 12,856 13,133 2,479 2,485 
Debt securities in issue ................................................................. 2,691 3,188 2,613 2,922 
Subordinated liabilities ................................................................. 11,907 14,865 12,450 13,052 
17 Reclassification of financial assets 
In 2008, HSBC reclassified US$15.3bn and US$2.6bn of financial assets from the held-for-trading category to the 
loans and receivables and available-for-sale classifications, respectively, as permitted by the relevant amendment to 
IAS 39 and explained in Note 2(e) on the Financial Statements. No further reclassifications were undertaken. 
Reclassification of HSBC’s financial assets 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
 Carrying
 amount 
 Fair 
 value 
 Carrying 
 amount  
 Fair 
 value 
 US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
Reclassification to loans and receivables ..................................... 6,378 5,616 7,867 6,651 
Reclassification to available for sale ............................................ 12 12 33 33 
6,390 5,628 7,900 6,684 
The following table shows the fair value gains and losses, income and expense recognised in the income statement in 
respect of reclassified assets and the gains and losses that would have been recognised if no reclassification had taken 
place:
Effect of reclassifying and not reclassifying financial assets 
 2012 2011   2010 
 US$m  US$m   US$m 
Reclassification to loans and receivables 
Recorded in the income statement
1
 .......................................................................... 179 318 610 
Assuming no reclassification
2
 ................................................................................. 653 317 1,260 
Net income statement effect of reclassification ......................................................... (474) 1 (650)
Reclassification to available for sale 
Recorded in the income statement
1
 .......................................................................... – 1 56 
Assuming no reclassification
2
 ................................................................................. 1 (2) 59 
Net income statement effect of reclassification ......................................................... (1) 3 (3)
1 ‘Income and expense’ recorded in the income statement include the accrual of the effective interest rate and, for 2012, includes US$84m 
in respect of impairment (2011: US$69m; 2010: US$6m). 
2 Effect on the income statement during the year had the reclassification not occurred.  451
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
18 Financial assets designated at fair value 
At 31 December 
 2012   2011 
US$m US$m 
Financial assets designated at fair value: 
–  not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties .......................................................................... 33,562 30,738 
–  which may be repledged or resold by counterparties ...................................................................... 20 118
33,582 30,856 
Treasury and other eligible bills ............................................................................................................... 54 123
Debt securities .......................................................................................................................................... 12,551 11,834 
Equity securities ....................................................................................................................................... 20,868 17,930 
Securities designated at fair value ............................................................................................................ 33,473 29,887 
Loans and advances to banks ................................................................................................................... 55 119
Loans and advances to customers ............................................................................................................ 54 850
33,582 30,856 
Securities designated at fair value
1
At 31 December 
 2012   2011 
US$m US$m 
Fair value 
US Treasury and US Government agencies
2
 ........................................................................................... 37 35
UK Government ....................................................................................................................................... 625 812
Hong Kong Government ......................................................................................................................... 135 151
Other government .................................................................................................................................... 4,508 3,964 
Asset-backed securities
3
 .......................................................................................................................... 158 201
Corporate debt and other securities ......................................................................................................... 7,142 6,794 
Equities .................................................................................................................................................... 20,868 17,930 
33,473 29,887 
1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$3,509m (2011: US$3,497m), of 
which US$5m (2011: US$40m) are guaranteed by various governments. 
2 Includes securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government. 
3 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Treasury and US Government agencies. 
Securities listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted 
 Treasury
 and other
 eligible bills 
 Debt
 securities 
 Equity
 securities  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Fair value at 31 December 2012 
Listed on a recognised exchange
1
 ................................................ – 3,007 14,063 17,070 
Unlisted ......................................................................................... 54 9,544 6,805 16,403 
54 12,551 20,868 33,473 
Fair value at 31 December 2011     
Listed on a recognised exchange
1
 ................................................ 4 3,607 11,859 15,470 
Unlisted......................................................................................... 119 8,227 6,071 14,417 
 123 11,834 17,930 29,887 
1 Included within listed investments are US$931m of investments listed in Hong Kong (2011: US$631m).  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
19 – Derivatives 
452
19 Derivatives 
Fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC 
Assets Liabilities
Trading Hedging Total Trading Hedging Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012
Foreign exchange ................................................ 68,277 1,227 69,504 70,944 239 71,183 
Interest rate ......................................................... 628,162 2,417 630,579 618,808 6,491 625,299 
Equity .................................................................. 15,413 – 15,413 19,889 – 19,889 
Credit .................................................................. 12,740 – 12,740 13,508 – 13,508 
Commodity and other ......................................... 1,443 – 1,443 1,236 – 1,236 
Gross total fair values ......................................... 726,035 3,644 729,679 724,385 6,730 731,115 
Netting ................................................................   (372,229)  (372,229)
Total ....................................................................   357,450   358,886 
At 31 December 2011       
Foreign exchange ................................................ 74,958 1,026 75,984 75,077 371 75,448 
Interest rate ......................................................... 510,652 2,439 513,091 502,906 6,221 509,127 
Equity .................................................................. 15,262 – 15,262 19,363 – 19,363 
Credit .................................................................. 25,694 – 25,694 25,800 – 25,800 
Commodity and other ......................................... 2,198 – 2,198 1,492 – 1,492 
Gross total fair values ......................................... 628,764 3,465 632,229 624,638 6,592 631,230 
Netting................................................................   (285,850)  (285,850)
Total ....................................................................   346,379   345,380 
The 3% increase in the fair value of derivative assets during 2012 was driven by increased interest rate derivative fair 
values as major currency yield curves continued to decline, in particular, the euro. This drove both the increase in 
gross fair values and the increase in the netting adjustment. 
Fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC Holdings with subsidiaries 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
Trading Trading Trading Trading 
assets liabilities assets liabilities 
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Foreign exchange .......................................................................... 1,636 760 1,546 1,067 
Interest rate ................................................................................... 2,132 – 2,022 – 
3,768 760 3,568 1,067 
Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value from the price of underlying items such as equities, 
bonds, interest rates, foreign exchange, credit spreads, commodities and equity or other indices. Derivatives enable 
users to increase, reduce or alter exposure to credit or market risks. 
Derivatives are carried at fair value and shown in the balance sheet as separate totals of assets and liabilities. A 
description of how the fair value of derivatives is derived is set out on page 443. Derivative assets and liabilities on 
different transactions are only set off (netted) if the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right of set-
off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a net basis. 
Use of derivatives 
HSBC transacts derivatives for three primary purposes: to create risk management solutions for clients, to manage the 
portfolio risks arising from client business and to manage and hedge HSBC’s own risks. Derivatives (except for 
derivatives which are designated as effective hedging instruments as defined in IAS 39) are held for trading. Within 
the held-for-trading classification are two types of derivatives: those used in sales and trading activities, and those 
used for risk management purposes but which for various reasons do not meet the qualifying criteria for hedge 
accounting. The second category includes derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated 
at fair value. These activities are described more fully below. 
HSBC’s derivative activities give rise to significant open positions in portfolios of derivatives. These positions 
are managed constantly to ensure that they remain within acceptable risk levels. When entering into derivative  453
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
transactions, HSBC employs the same credit risk management framework to assess and approve potential credit 
exposures that is used for traditional lending. 
Trading derivatives 
Most of HSBC’s derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities. Sales activities include the structuring 
and marketing of derivative products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or 
expected risks. Trading activities in derivatives are entered into principally for the purpose of generating profits from 
short-term fluctuations in price or margin and for the risk management of exposure arising from customer activities. 
Positions may be traded actively or be held over a period of time to benefit from expected changes in exchange rates, 
interest rates, equity prices or other market parameters. Trading includes market-making, positioning and arbitrage 
activities. Market-making entails quoting bid and offer prices to other market participants for the purpose of 
generating revenues based on spread and volume; positioning means managing market risk positions in the 
expectation of benefiting from favourable movements in prices, rates or indices; arbitrage involves identifying and 
profiting from price differentials between markets and products. 
As mentioned above, other derivatives classified as held for trading include non-qualifying hedging derivatives, 
ineffective hedging derivatives and the components of hedging derivatives that are excluded from assessing hedge 
effectiveness. Non-qualifying hedging derivatives are entered into for risk management purposes but do not meet the 
criteria for hedge accounting. Trading derivatives also include derivatives managed in conjunction with financial 
instruments designated at fair value. 
Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives, including the contractual interest, that do not qualify 
for hedge accounting are reported in ‘Net trading income’ except for derivatives managed in conjunction with 
financial instruments designated at fair value, where gains and losses are reported in ‘Net income from financial 
instruments designated at fair value’ together with the gains and losses on the economically hedged items. Where the 
derivatives are managed with debt securities in issue, the contractual interest is shown in ‘Interest expense’ together 
with the interest payable on the issued debt. Substantially all of HSBC Holdings’ derivatives entered into with HSBC 
undertakings are managed in conjunction with financial liabilities designated at fair value. 
The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for trading purposes indicate the nominal value of transactions 
outstanding at the balance sheet date; they do not represent amounts at risk. The 9% increase in the notional contract 
amounts of HSBC’s derivatives during 2012 was primarily driven by an increase in the trading volumes of interest 
rate contracts. 
Notional contract amounts of derivatives held for trading purposes by product type 
HSBC HSBC Holdings 
 At
 31 December 
 2012 
 At 
 31 December
 2011 
 At 
 31 December 
 2012 
 At 
 31 December
 2011 
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Foreign exchange .......................................................................... 4,435,729 3,945,774 17,576 18,942 
Interest rate ................................................................................... 21,355,749 19,788,710 11,554 10,954 
Equity ............................................................................................ 495,668 265,577 – –
Credit ............................................................................................ 901,507 1,049,147 – –
Commodity and other ................................................................... 80,219 76,487 – –
27,268,872 25,125,695 29,130 29,896 
Credit derivatives 
HSBC trades credit derivatives through its principal dealing operations and acts as a principal counterparty to a broad 
range of users, structuring transactions to produce risk management products for its customers, or making markets in 
certain products. Risk is typically controlled through entering into offsetting credit derivative contracts with other 
counterparties.
HSBC manages the credit risk arising on buying and selling credit derivative protection by including the related 
credit exposures within its overall credit limit structure for the relevant counterparty. Trading of credit derivatives 
is restricted to a small number of offices within the major centres which have the control infrastructure and market 
skills to manage effectively the credit risk inherent in the products.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
19 – Derivatives 
454
Credit derivatives are also deployed to a limited extent for the risk management of the Group’s loan portfolios. 
The notional contract amount of credit derivatives of US$901,507m (2011: US$1,049,147m) consisted of protection 
bought of US$446,410m (2011: US$517,737m) and protection sold of US$455,097m (2011: US$531,410m). The 
credit derivative business operates within the market risk management framework described on page 265. 
Derivatives valued using models with unobservable inputs 
The difference between the fair value at initial recognition (the transaction price) and the value that would have been 
derived had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less 
subsequent releases, is as follows: 
Unamortised balance of derivatives valued using models with significant unobservable inputs 
 2012  2011 
US$m US$m 
Unamortised balance at 1 January ............................................................................................................ 200 250
Deferral on new transactions .................................................................................................................... 149 234
Recognised in the income statement during the period: 
– amortisation ....................................................................................................................................... (112) (143)
– subsequent to unobservable inputs becoming observable ................................................................ (1) (71)
– maturity, termination or offsetting derivative ................................................................................... (46) (60)
– risk hedged ........................................................................................................................................ (11) (8)
Exchange differences ................................................................................................................................ 2 (2)
Unamortised balance at 31 December
1
 ..................................................................................................... 181 200
1 This amount is yet to be recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
Hedge accounting derivatives 
HSBC uses derivatives (principally interest rate swaps) for hedging purposes in the management of its own asset and 
liability portfolios and structural positions. This enables HSBC to optimise the overall cost to the Group of accessing 
debt capital markets, and to mitigate the market risk which would otherwise arise from structural imbalances in the 
maturity and other profiles of its assets and liabilities.  
The accounting treatment of hedge transactions varies according to the nature of the instrument hedged and the type of 
hedge transactions. Derivatives may qualify as hedges for accounting purposes if they are fair value hedges, cash flow 
hedges, or hedges of net investment in foreign operations. These are described under the relevant headings below. 
The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for hedge accounting purposes indicate the nominal value of 
transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date; they do not represent amounts at risk. 
Notional contract amounts of derivatives held for hedge accounting purposes by product type 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
 Cash flow 
 hedge 
 Fair value
 hedge 
 Cash flow 
 hedge 
 Fair value
 hedge 
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Foreign exchange .......................................................................... 16,716 112 12,078 1,363 
Interest rate ................................................................................... 182,688 75,505 228,052 76,950 
199,404 75,617 240,130 78,313 
Fair value hedges 
HSBC’s fair value hedges principally consist of interest rate swaps that are used to protect against changes in the fair 
value of fixed-rate long-term financial instruments due to movements in market interest rates. For fair value hedges, 
all changes in the fair value of the derivative and in the fair value of the item in relation to the risk being hedged are 
recognised in the income statement. If the hedge relationship is terminated, the fair value adjustment to the hedged 
item continues to be reported as part of the basis of the item and is amortised to the income statement as a yield 
adjustment over the remainder of the hedging period.  455
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
 Assets  Liabilities  Assets  Liabilities 
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Foreign exchange .......................................................................... – – 77 1 
Interest rate ................................................................................... 199 4,450 369 4,331 
199 4,450 446 4,332 
Gains or losses arising from fair value hedges 
 2012  2011  2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Gains/(losses):
–  on hedging instruments .......................................................................................... (898) (4,082) (830)
–  on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk ............................................... 871 3,858 868 
(27) (224) 38 
The gains and losses on ineffective portions of fair value hedges are recognised immediately in ‘Net trading income’. 
Cash flow hedges
HSBC’s cash flow hedges consist principally of interest rate swaps, futures and cross-currency swaps that are used to 
protect against exposures to variability in future interest cash flows on non-trading assets and liabilities which bear 
interest at variable rates or which are expected to be re-funded or reinvested in the future. The amounts and timing of 
future cash flows, representing both principal and interest flows, are projected for each portfolio of financial assets 
and liabilities on the basis of their contractual terms and other relevant factors, including estimates of prepayments 
and defaults. The aggregate principal balances and interest cash flows across all portfolios over time form the basis 
for identifying gains and losses on the effective portions of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges of forecast 
transactions. Gains and losses are initially recognised in other comprehensive income, and accumulated in the cash 
flow hedging reserve, and are transferred to the income statement when the forecast cash flows affect the income 
statement. 
Fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
 Assets  Liabilities  Assets  Liabilities 
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Foreign exchange .......................................................................... 1,230 200 949 370 
Interest rate ................................................................................... 2,218 2,041 2,070 1,890 
3,448 2,241 3,019 2,260 
Forecast principal balances on which interest cash flows are expected to arise 
 3 months
 or less 
 More than 3 
months but less 
 than 1 year 
 5 years or less 
 but more than 
 1 year 
 More than
 5 years 
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Assets ............................................................................................ 112,846 93,072 72,557 5,055 
Liabilities ...................................................................................... (68,534) (43,800) (29,401) (4,777)
Net cash inflows/(outflows) exposure .......................................... 44,312 49,272 43,156 278
    
At 31 December 2011     
Assets ............................................................................................ 139,701 110,960 66,383 4,460
Liabilities...................................................................................... (77,898) (50,480) (36,296) (4,693)
Net cash inflows/(outflows) exposure.......................................... 61,803 60,480 30,087 (233)
This table reflects the interest rate repricing profile of the underlying hedged items.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
20 – Financial investments 
456
The gains and losses on ineffective portions of such derivatives are recognised immediately in ‘Net trading income’. 
During the year to 31 December 2012 a gain of US$35m (2011: gain of US$26m; 2010: loss of US$9m) was 
recognised due to hedge ineffectiveness. 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations 
The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of certain consolidated net investments. Hedging is undertaken using 
forward foreign exchange contracts or by financing with currency borrowings.  
At 31 December 2012, the fair values of outstanding financial instruments designated as hedges of net investments 
in foreign operations were assets of US$3m (2011: US$121m) and liabilities of US$50m (2011: US$36m) and 
notional contract values of US$2,654m (2011: US$3,920m). 
The ineffectiveness recognised in ‘Net trading income’ in the year ended 31 December 2012 that arose from hedges 
in foreign operations was nil (2011 and 2010: nil). 
20 Financial investments 
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
Financial investments: 
–  not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties .......................................................................... 399,613 364,906 
–  which may be repledged or resold by counterparties ...................................................................... 21,488 35,138 
421,101 400,044 
Carrying amount and fair value of financial investments 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011
Carrying
amount 
Fair 
value
Carrying 
amount 
Fair
value
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Treasury and other eligible bills ................................................... 87,550 87,550 65,223 65,223 
– available for sale .................................................................. 87,550 87,550 65,042 65,042
– held to maturity .................................................................... – – 181 181
Debt securities .............................................................................. 327,762 329,807 327,611 329,093 
– available for sale .................................................................. 304,349 304,349 306,593 306,593
– held to maturity .................................................................... 23,413 25,458 21,018 22,500
Equity securities ........................................................................... 5,789 5,789 7,210 7,210 
– available for sale .................................................................. 5,789 5,789 7,210 7,210
Total financial investments ........................................................... 421,101 423,146 400,044 401,526 
Financial investments at amortised cost
1
 and fair value
2
 Amortised
 cost 
Fair
 value
 US$m US$m
At 31 December 2012 
US Treasury .............................................................................................................................................. 60,657 61,925 
US Government agencies
3
 ........................................................................................................................ 22,579 23,500 
US Government sponsored entities
3
 ......................................................................................................... 5,262 5,907 
UK Government ........................................................................................................................................ 17,018 17,940 
Hong Kong Government .......................................................................................................................... 42,687 42,711 
Other government ..................................................................................................................................... 146,507 149,179 
Asset-backed securities
4
 ........................................................................................................................... 29,960 26,418 
Corporate debt and other securities .......................................................................................................... 86,099 89,777 
Equities ..................................................................................................................................................... 4,284 5,789 
415,053 423,146  457
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
 Amortised
 cost  
 Fair 
 value 
 US$m   US$m 
At 31 December 2011 
US Treasury .............................................................................................................................................. 43,848 45,283 
US Government agencies
3
 ........................................................................................................................ 25,079 26,093 
US Government sponsored entities
3
 ......................................................................................................... 4,425 5,056 
UK Government ........................................................................................................................................ 32,165 33,603 
Hong Kong Government .......................................................................................................................... 33,359 33,374 
Other government ..................................................................................................................................... 125,623 127,049 
Asset-backed securities
4
 ........................................................................................................................... 35,096 28,625 
Corporate debt and other securities .......................................................................................................... 94,110 95,233 
Equities ..................................................................................................................................................... 5,122 7,210 
398,827 401,526 
At 31 December 2010 
US Treasury .............................................................................................................................................. 37,380 37,255 
US Government agencies
3
 ........................................................................................................................ 20,895 21,339 
US Government sponsored entities
3
 ......................................................................................................... 5,029 5,267 
UK Government ........................................................................................................................................ 31,069 31,815 
Hong Kong Government .......................................................................................................................... 29,770 29,793 
Other government ..................................................................................................................................... 108,947 109,806 
Asset-backed securities
4
 ........................................................................................................................... 39,845 33,175 
Corporate debt and other securities .......................................................................................................... 124,704 125,311 
Equities ..................................................................................................................................................... 5,605 7,983 
403,244 401,744 
1 Represents the amortised cost or cost basis of the financial investment. 
2 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$59,908m (2011: US$68,334m; 
2010: US$99,733m), of which US$6,916m (2011: US$17,079m; 2010: US$38,862m) are guaranteed by various governments. The fair 
value of the debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions was US$60,616m (2011: US$68,765m; 2010: 
US$100,070m). 
3 Includes securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government. 
4 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Government agencies and sponsored entities. 
Financial investments listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted 
 Treasury
 and other
 eligible bills 
 available
 for sale 
 Treasury
 and other
 eligible bills
 held to 
 maturity 
 Debt
 securities
 available
 for sale 
 Debt 
 securities 
 held to  
 maturity 
 Equity 
 securities 
 available  
 for sale  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Carrying amount at 31 December 2012 
Listed on a recognised exchange
1
 ...................... 3,284 – 113,399 5,599 536 122,818 
Unlisted
2
 ............................................................. 84,266 – 190,950 17,814 5,253 298,283 
87,550 – 304,349 23,413 5,789 421,101 
Carrying amount at 31 December 2011       
Listed on a recognised exchange
1
 ...................... 4,077 – 121,303 4,370 535 130,285 
Unlisted
2
 ............................................................. 60,965 181 185,290 16,648 6,675 269,759 
 65,042 181 306,593 21,018 7,210 400,044 
1 The fair value of listed held-to-maturity debt securities as at 31 December 2012 was US$6,123m (2011: US$4,641m). Included within
listed investments were US$3,512m (2011: US$3,544m) of investments listed in Hong Kong. 
2 Unlisted treasury and other eligible bills available for sale primarily comprise treasury bills not listed on a recognised exchange but for 
which there is a liquid market.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
20 – Financial investments / 21 – Transfers of financial assets 
458
Maturities of investments in debt securities at their carrying amount 
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
Remaining contractual maturity of total debt securities:
1 year or less ......................................................................................................................................... 67,268 87,080 
5 years or less but over 1 year .............................................................................................................. 157,075 128,192 
10 years or less but over 5 years .......................................................................................................... 47,123 52,251 
Over 10 years ........................................................................................................................................ 56,296 60,088 
327,762 327,611 
Remaining contractual maturity of debt securities available for sale:
1 year or less ......................................................................................................................................... 65,500 85,821 
5 years or less but over 1 year .............................................................................................................. 149,195 120,763 
10 years or less but over 5 years .......................................................................................................... 39,498 44,946 
Over 10 years ........................................................................................................................................ 50,156 55,063 
304,349 306,593 
Remaining contractual maturity of debt securities held to maturity: 
1 year or less ......................................................................................................................................... 1,768 1,259 
5 years or less but over 1 year .............................................................................................................. 7,880 7,429 
10 years or less but over 5 years .......................................................................................................... 7,625 7,305 
Over 10 years ........................................................................................................................................ 6,140 5,025 
23,413 21,018 
Contractual maturities and weighted average yields of investment debt securities at 31 December 2012 
Within one year 
After one year but 
within five years 
After five years but 
within ten years After ten years 
 Amount  Yield  Amount  Yield  Amount  Yield  Amount  Yield 
 US$m  %  US$m  %  US$m  %  US$m %
Available for sale
US Treasury ............................................. 12,306 0.4 30,334 0.5 6,113 2.0 2,237 3.5 
US Government agencies ........................ 6 2.6 7 5.3 94 1.9 22,128 2.9 
US Government-sponsored agencies ....... 5 2.0 360 2.6 2,968 3.1 807 3.7 
UK Government ....................................... 162 0.2 13,793 1.5 1,286 5.9 634 5.1 
Hong Kong Government ......................... 946 0.5 686 2.0 – – – –
Other governments .................................. 38,327 2.5 60,048 2.7 10,198 4.4 2,112 3.8 
Asset-backed securities ........................... 336 0.1 2,682 0.4 7,643 0.2 19,181 0.2 
Corporate debt and other securities ......... 13,312 3.2 39,667 2.5 8,123 3.5 3,325 5.1 
Total amortised cost ................................. 65,400 147,577 36,425 50,424 
Total carrying value ................................. 65,500 149,195 39,498 50,156 
Held to maturity 
US Treasury ............................................. 22 4.2 21 4.4 50 4.8 143 4.4 
US Government agencies ........................ – – 1 7.6 3 7.7 338 6.5 
US Government-sponsored agencies ....... 1 8.1 6 7.8 1 7.8 1,113 6.2 
Hong Kong Government ......................... – – 30 0.4 10 4.1 3 1.2 
Other governments .................................. 71 2.8 480 3.8 254 5.2 562 5.1 
Asset-backed securities ........................... – – – – – – 118 6.3 
Corporate debt and other securities ......... 1,674 4.4 7,342 3.8 7,307 4.2 3,863 4.2 
Total amortised cost ................................. 1,768 7,880 7,625 6,140 
Total carrying value ................................. 1,768 7,880 7,625 6,140 
The maturity distributions of asset-backed securities are presented in the above table on the basis of contractual 
maturity dates. The weighted average yield for each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised 
interest income for the year ended 31 December 2012 by the book amount of available-for-sale debt securities at 
that date. The yields do not include the effect of related derivatives. 
21 Transfers of financial assets 
HSBC enters into transactions in the normal course of business by which it transfers financial assets to third parties 
including SPEs. Depending on the circumstances these transfers may either result in these financial assets being 
derecognised or continuing to be recognised.  459
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
– Full derecognition occurs when HSBC transfers its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial 
assets, or retains the right but assumes an obligation to pass on the cash flows from the asset, and transfers 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. The risks include credit, interest rate, foreign currency, 
prepayment and other price risks. 
– Derecognition does not occur when HSBC transfers its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial 
assets, or retains the right but assumes an obligation to pass on the cash flows from the asset, but either: 
i) retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset; or 
ii) neither retains nor transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership but has retained control of 
the financial asset. In this situation the financial assets are recognised on the balance sheet to the extent 
of HSBC’s continuing involvement. 
The majority of transferred financial assets that do not qualify for derecognition are (i) debt securities held by 
counterparties as collateral under repurchase agreements or (ii) equity securities lent under securities lending 
agreements.  
As the substance of these transactions is secured borrowings the asset collateral continues to be recognised in full and 
the related liability reflecting the Group’s obligation to repurchase the transferred assets for a fixed price at a future 
date is recognised in deposits from banks or customers as appropriate. As a result of these transactions, the Group is 
unable to use, sell or pledge the transferred assets for the duration of the transaction. The Group remains exposed to 
interest rate risk and credit risk on these pledged instruments. The counterparty’s recourse is not limited to the 
transferred assets. 
Other transactions where the counterparty’s recourse is only to the transferred asset includes a Canadian government 
sponsored securitisation programme, where HSBC Bank Canada assigns ownership and its right to sell or pledge 
residential mortgages. HSBC Bank Canada remains exposed to credit and interest rate risk on the assigned residential 
mortgages, which continue to be recorded as loans and advances. Third party funds received by HSBC Bank Canada 
under the programme are accounted for as secured borrowings and presented as debt securities in issue on the 
consolidated balance sheet. 
In a small number of securitisation transactions, HSBC has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks 
and rewards of ownership of the transferred assets, and has retained control of the transferred assets. Circumstances 
in which HSBC has continuing involvement in the transferred assets may include retention of servicing rights over 
the transferred assets, entering into a derivative transaction with the securitisation vehicle or retaining an interest in 
the securitisation vehicle. Where HSBC has continuing involvement it continues to recognise the transferred assets 
to the extent of its continuing involvement and recognises an associated liability. The net carrying amount of the 
transferred assets and associated liabilities reflects the rights and obligations that HSBC has retained. 
The following table analyses the carrying amount of financial assets that did not qualify for derecognition and their 
associated financial liabilities, including those that are recognised to the extent of HSBC’s continuing involvement 
and the associated liabilities. 
Financial assets not qualifying for full derecognition and associated financial liabilities
1
 Carrying
 amount of
 assets
 before
 transfer 
 Carrying
 amount of
 transferred
 assets 
 Carrying
 amount of
 associated
 liabilities 
 Fair 
 value of 
 transferred 
 assets 
 Fair 
 value of 
 associated 
 liabilities 
 Net
 position 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Repurchase agreements ...................................... 122,130 121,589
Securities lending agreements ............................ 5,891 5,820
Other sales (recourse to transferred asset only) . 9,727 9,733 9,767 9,856 (89)
Securitisations recognised to the extent of 
continuing involvement .................................. 17,427 12 6 12 6 6
1 The disclosure for 2012 reflects amendments made to IFRS 7 that are effective prospectively for annual reporting periods beginning on 
or after 1 July 2011.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
20 – Financial investments / 21 – Transfers of financial assets 
460
At 31 December 2011, the carrying amount of transferred assets and associated liabilities for repurchase agreements 
were US$124,982m and US$124,413m respectively, and for securities lending agreements were US$7,129m and 
US$7,039m, respectively.  
At 31 December 2011, the carrying amount of transferred assets and associated liabilities for securitisations 
recognised to the extent of continuing involvement were US$22m and US$11m, respectively. The carrying amount of 
these assets before transfer was US$17,427m. 
Financial assets qualifying for full derecognition and associated financial liabilities
1
At 31 December 2012 2012
Carrying amount Gain or Income/ 
of continuing Fair value of loss Income/ (expenses)
involvement in continuing Maximum recognised (expenses) recognised
the balance sheet involvement exposure at transfer recognised cumulat- 
 Assets  Liabilities  Assets  Liabilities to loss date in year ively
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Type of continuing involvement 
Interest in SPEs .......................... 393 – 354 – 393 10 8 58
1 The disclosure for 2012 reflects amendments made to IFRS 7 that are effective prospectively for annual reporting periods beginning on 
or after 1 July 2011. 
The assets in the table above represent our continuing involvement in securitisations where HSBC has transferred 
assets to an unconsolidated SPE, but has retained some of the notes issued by the SPE. These notes are reported in 
loans and advances to customers. The maximum exposure to loss is the carrying amount of the notes. 
22 Interests in associates and joint ventures 
Associates
Principal associates of HSBC 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
 Carrying
 amount 
 Fair 
 value 
 Carrying 
 amount  
 Fair 
 value
 US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m
Listed   
Bank of Communications Co., Limited ........................................   11,770   10,633 8,507  8,234 
Industrial Bank Co., Limited ........................................................   2,851   3,665 2,214  2,743 
Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Limited ............ – – 6,373  8,110 
The Saudi British Bank ................................................................   2,135   3,189 1,886  3,256 
   16,756   17,487 18,980  22,343 
At 31 December 2012 
 Country of
 incorporation 
 HSBC’s 
 interest in 
 equity capital 
 Issued 
 equity 
 capital 
Listed
Bank of Communications Co., Limited ...........................................................  PRC
1
 19.03%  RMB74,263m 
Industrial Bank Co., Limited ...........................................................................  PRC
1
 12.80%  RMB10,786m 
The Saudi British Bank ...................................................................................  Saudi Arabia  40.00%  SR10,000m 
Unlisted
Barrowgate Limited
2
........................................................................................  Hong Kong  24.64%  – 
Vietnam Technological and Commercial Joint Stock Bank ............................  Vietnam  19.48%  VND8,848,079m 
Yantai Bank Co., Limited
3
...............................................................................  PRC
1
 20.00%  RMB2,000m 
1 People’s Republic of China. 
2 Issued equity capital is less than HK$1m. 
3 The investment is held through Hang Seng Bank Limited, a 62.14% owned subsidiary of HSBC. 
All the above investments in associates are owned by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings.  
Details of all HSBC associates and joint ventures, as required under Section 409 Companies Act 2006, will be 
annexed to the next Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK Registrar of Companies. 
HSBC had US$11,770m (2011: US$14,880m) of investments in associates and joint ventures listed in Hong Kong.  461
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
For the year ended 31 December 2012, HSBC’s share of associates and joint ventures’ tax on profit was US$959m 
(2011: US$890m), which is included within ‘Share of profit in associates and joint ventures’ in the income statement. 
Summarised aggregate financial information on associates 
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
HSBC’s share of: 
– assets .................................................................................................................................................. 237,338 249,461 
– liabilities ............................................................................................................................................ 220,455 230,902 
– revenues ............................................................................................................................................. 14,206 12,009 
– profit after tax .................................................................................................................................... 3,521 3,221 
HSBC’s investment in Bank of Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’) was equity accounted with effect from 
August 2004. HSBC’s significant influence in Bank of Communications Co., Limited was established as a result of 
representation on the Board of Directors, and in accordance with the Technical Support and Assistance Agreements, 
HSBC is assisting in the maintenance of financial and operating policies and a number of staff have been seconded to 
assist in this process. During 2012, the market value of the investment in BoCom was below the carrying amount for 
a period of approximately ten months. As a result, we performed impairment tests on the carrying amount of the 
investment in BoCom. The result confirmed that there was no impairment. The impairment test was performed by 
comparing the recoverable amount of BoCom, determined by a value in use (‘VIU’) calculation, with its carrying 
amount. The calculation of VIU used discounted cash flow projections based on management’s estimates. Cash flows 
beyond the next five years were then extrapolated in perpetuity using a long-term growth rate. The discount rate used 
was based on a cost of capital used to evaluate investments in mainland China. Management judgement is required in 
estimating the future cash flows of BoCom which are sensitive to the cash flows projected in the short- and medium-
term, and also to the key assumptions regarding the long term sustainable cash flows thereafter. The key assumptions 
are consistent with external sources of information. 
HSBC’s investment in Industrial Bank Co., Limited was equity accounted with effect from May 2004. HSBC’s 
significant influence has been established as a result of representation on the Board of Directors. In January 2013 
HSBC was no longer in a position to exercise significant influence over Industrial Bank and ceased to account for it 
as an associate. For further details please refer to Note 45. 
HSBC’s investment in Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China Limited (‘Ping An’) was equity accounted with 
effect from August 2005, reflecting HSBC’s significant influence over this associate. HSBC’s significant influence 
was established as a result of representation on the Board of Directors. In June 2011, following a further issue of 
shares by Ping An to a third party, HSBC’s holding was diluted to 15.57% and a dilution gain of US$181m was 
recognised in ‘Other operating income’. 
In July 2011, Ping An increased its ownership interest in Shenzhen Development Bank (‘SDB’) from 29.99% to 
52.38%. As a result, the status of its investment in SDB changed from an interest in an associate to an investment 
in subsidiary. As a result of this transaction, Ping An recognised a re-measurement loss; HSBC’s share of this 
remeasurement loss was US$48m. 
In December 2012 approximately 20.8% of HSBC’s holding in Ping An was disposed of. Following the disposal, 
HSBC no longer has significant influence over Ping An and has ceased to account for Ping An as an associate. For 
further details on investment in Ping An, see Note 26. 
The statutory accounting reference date of Bank of Communications Co., Limited, Ping An Insurance (Group) 
Company of China, Limited and Industrial Bank Co., Limited is 31 December. For the year ended 31 December 
2012, these companies were included on the basis of financial statements made up for the twelve months to 
30 September 2012, taking into account changes in the subsequent period from 1 October 2012 to 31 December 2012 
that would have materially affected their results. 
HSBC acquired 15% of Vietnam Technological & Commercial Joint Stock Bank in October 2007. This investment 
was equity accounted from that date due to HSBC’s representation on the Board of Directors and involvement in the 
Technical Support and Assistance Agreement. In December 2007, as a result of a rights issue in which HSBC did not HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
22 – Interests in associates and joint ventures / 23 – Goodwill and intangible assets
462
participate, HSBC’s equity interest was diluted to 14.44%. In September 2008, HSBC increased its equity interest to 
20%. HSBC’s equity interest has been subsequently diluted to below 20% due to the issue of shares by the associate 
to its own employees. 
Joint ventures 
Principal interests in joint ventures 
At 31 December 2012 
 Country of
 incorporation 
 Principal 
 activity 
 HSBC’s interest
 in equity
 capital 
 Issued 
 equity 
 capital 
HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited ....................................  Saudi Arabia  Investment banking  49.00%  SR500m 
Vaultex UK Limited .................................................  England  Cash management  50.00%  £10m 
Hana HSBC Life Insurance Co., Ltd ........................  South Korea  Insurance manufacturing  49.99%  KR W1 10,201m 
Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce  
Life Insurance Company Limited ........................  India  Insurance manufacturing  26.00%  INR9,500m 
Summarised aggregate financial information on joint ventures 
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
HSBC’s share of: 
– current assets ..................................................................................................................................... 1,964 1,556 
– non-current assets .............................................................................................................................. 202 196
– current liabilities ................................................................................................................................ 924 747
– non-current liabilities ........................................................................................................................ 961 715
– income ............................................................................................................................................... 347 383
– expenses ............................................................................................................................................. 311 339
In December 2011, following the issue of shares by HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited to a third party, HSBC’s holding 
was diluted from 60% to 49% and a dilution gain of US$27m was recognised in ‘Other operating income’. 
Associates and joint ventures 
Movements in investments in associates and joint ventures 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
At 1 January .............................................................................................................................................. 20,399 17,198 
Additions .................................................................................................................................................. 1,804 90
Disposals ................................................................................................................................................... (7,580) (25)
Share of results ......................................................................................................................................... 3,557 3,264 
Dividends .................................................................................................................................................. (489) (304)
Exchange differences ................................................................................................................................ 60 681
Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) of associates and joint ventures ................................. 311 (710)
Other movements ...................................................................................................................................... (228) 205
At 31 December ........................................................................................................................................     17,834  20,399 
Goodwill included in carrying amount of associates and joint ventures 
 2012   2011 
US$m US$m 
Gross amount  
At 1 January .............................................................................................................................................. 1,551 1,518 
Disposals ................................................................................................................................................... (874) 
Exchange differences ................................................................................................................................ 3 57
Other changes ........................................................................................................................................... (10) (24)
At 31 December
1
 ....................................................................................................................................... 670 1,551 
1 Includes the carrying amount of goodwill arising from joint ventures of US$30m (2011: US$31m).  463
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
23 Goodwill and intangible assets 
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
Goodwill ................................................................................................................................................... 21,390 21,338 
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business (‘PVIF’)
1
 .......................................................... 4,847 4,092 
Other intangible assets .............................................................................................................................. 3,616 3,604 
       29,853  29,034 
1 Disclosures on PVIF are provided on page 243. 
Goodwill
Reconciliation of goodwill 
 Europe 
 Hong 
 Kong 
 Rest of 
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North 
 America 
 Latin 
 America  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Gross amount 
At 1 January 2012 ................................. 14,433 124 1,063 63 8,747 3,765 28,195 
Disposals ............................................... (2) (4) (5) – – (21) (32)
Exchange differences ............................ 229 (6) (38) (3) – 23 205
Reclassified to held for sale .................. – – – – (408) (121) (529)
At 31 December 2012 ........................... 14,660 114 1,020 60 8,339 3,646 27,839 
Accumulated impairment losses 
At 1 January 2012 ................................. – – – – (6,857) – (6,857)
Reclassified to held for sale .................. – – – – 408 – 408
At 31 December 2012 ........................... – – – – (6,449) – (6,449)
Net carrying amount at 
31 December 2012 ........................... 14,660 114 1,020 60 1,890 3,646 21,390
        
Gross amount        
At 1 January 2011 ................................. 14,885 124 1,115 65 12,465 4,316 32,970 
Disposals ............................................... (3) – – – – (46) (49)
Exchange differences ............................ (449) – (35) (2) (1) (272) (759)
Reclassified to held for sale .................. – – – – (3,717) (231) (3,948)
Other changes ....................................... – – (17) – – (2) (19)
At 31 December 2011 ........................... 14,433 124 1,063 63 8,747 3,765 28,195 
Accumulated impairment losses        
At 1 January 2011 ................................. – – – – (10,564) – (10,564)
Reclassified to held for sale .................. – – – – 3,707 – 3,707 
At 31 December 2011 ........................... – – – – (6,857) – (6,857)
Net carrying amount at 
31 December 2011........................... 14,433 124 1,063 63 1,890 3,765 21,338 
Impairment testing 
Timing of impairment testing
HSBC’s impairment test in respect of goodwill allocated to each cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) is performed as at 
1 July each year. In line with the accounting policy set out in Note 2(p), goodwill is also retested for impairment 
whenever there is an indication that it may be impaired. For the purpose of impairment testing, the Group’s CGUs are 
based on geographical regions subdivided by global business. The CGUs represent the lowest level at which goodwill 
is monitored for internal management purposes.  The GB&M-Europe CGU experienced significantly reduced 
profitability in the second half of 2012 and was retested for impairment as at 31 December 2012. For other CGUs 
there was no indication of impairment in the period to 31 December 2012 and therefore goodwill has not been 
retested since 1 July 2012.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
23 – Goodwill and intangible assets
464
Basis of the recoverable amount – value in use or fair value less costs to sell 
The recoverable amount of all CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated was equal to its value in use (‘VIU’) at 
each respective testing date for 2011 and 2012. 
For each significant CGU, the VIU is calculated by discounting management’s cash flow projections for the CGU. 
The discount rate used is based on the cost of capital HSBC allocates to investments in the countries within which the 
CGU operates. The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term 
perspective within the Group of the business units making up the CGUs. In 2012, management’s cash flow 
projections until the end of 2014 were used.  
Key assumptions in VIU calculation and management’s approach to determining the values assigned to each key 
assumption
2012 2011
Goodwill at 
1 July 
2012
 Discount
 rate 
 Nominal 
 growth rate 
 beyond 
 initial 
 cash flow 
 projections 
 Goodwill at 
 1 July 
 2011  
 Discount 
 rate  
 Nominal 
 growth rate 
 beyond 
 initial 
 cash flow 
 projections 
US$m  %  %  US$m   %   % 
Cash-generating unit   
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
– Europe ...................................................... 4,054  10.0  3.9 4,794  10.0   4.7 
Commercial Banking – Europe ....................... 2,968  10.2  3.7 3,574  10.1   4.5 
Global Private Banking – Europe .................... 4,139  9.1  3.2 4,456  10.0   4.3 
Global Banking and Markets – Europe ........... 3,016  10.2  3.5 3,139  10.2   4.4 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
– Latin America ........................................... 1,994  15.3  8.7 2,537  16.0   9.3 
Total goodwill in the CGUs listed above ........ 16,171 18,500    
At 1 July 2012, aggregate goodwill of US$4,741m (1 July 2011: US$5,091m) had been allocated to CGUs that were 
not considered individually significant. These CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any significant intangible 
assets with indefinite useful lives, other than goodwill. 
Nominal long-term growth rate: this growth rate reflects GDP and inflation for the countries within which the CGU 
operates. The rates are based on IMF forecast growth rates as these rates are regarded as the most relevant estimate of 
likely future trends. The rates used for 2011 and 2012 do not exceed the long-term growth rate for the countries 
within which the CGU operates. 
Discount rate: the discount rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of capital assigned to each CGU, 
which is derived using a Capital Asset Pricing Model (‘CAPM’). The CAPM depends on inputs reflecting a number 
of financial and economic variables including the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the 
business being evaluated. These variables are based on the market’s assessment of the economic variables and 
management’s judgement. In addition, for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, management supplements 
this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM with cost of capital rates 
produced by external sources. HSBC uses externally-sourced cost of capital rates where, in management’s judgement, 
those rates reflect more accurately the current market and economic conditions. For 2012 and 2011, internal costs of 
capital rates were consistent with externally-sourced rates. 
Management’s judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU: the cash flow projections for each CGU are 
based on plans approved by the Group Management Board. The key assumptions in addition to the discount rate and 
nominal long-term growth rate for each significant CGU are discussed below. 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Europe and Commercial Banking – Europe: the assumptions included in 
the cash flow projections for Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Europe and Commercial Banking – Europe 
reflect the economic environment and financial outlook of the European countries within these two CGUs. 
Key assumptions include the level of interest rates and the level and change in unemployment rates. While current 
economic conditions in Europe continue to be challenging, management’s cash flow projections are based primarily 
on these prevailing conditions. Risks include a further recession in the UK and an uncertain regulatory environment. 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Europe specifically, is sensitive to further customer remediation costs in  465
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
relation to Payment Protection Insurance. Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined 
that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to 
be recognised in respect of Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Europe or Commercial Banking – Europe. 
Global Private Banking – Europe: the revenues in Global Private Banking – Europe are predominately generated 
through HSBC’s client relationships. The cash flow forecast reflects current economic conditions and key 
assumptions include the level of interest rates and client risk appetite. Further economic deterioration could result 
in a decrease in assets under management and a reduction in fee and trading income through increased client risk 
aversion. Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible 
change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect 
of Global Private Banking – Europe. 
Global Banking and Markets – Europe: the key assumption included in the cash flow projection for Global Banking 
and Markets – Europe is that European markets will continue to recover during 2013. Accordingly, European 
revenues are forecast to recover in 2013 and this recovery is assumed to continue over the projection period into 
2014. Our ability to achieve the forecast cash flows for Global Banking and Markets – Europe could be adversely 
impacted by regulatory change during the forecast period including but not limited to the extent that the 
recommendations set out in the Final Report by the Independent Commission on Banking are implemented. 
Based on management’s value in use calculation, Global Banking and Markets – Europe has an excess of recoverable 
amount over carrying amount (‘headroom’) of US$2.3bn as at 1 July 2012. Headroom was US$2.3bn as at 
31 December 2012 based on goodwill at that point of US$3.1bn. The change in carrying value between 1 July 2012 
and 31 December 2012 arises from retranslating goodwill into the presentation currency of the group. The same 
assumptions were used in the impairment tests as at 1 July 2012 and 31 December 2012. The following changes to 
the key assumptions used in the value in use calculation would be necessary in order to reduce headroom to nil: 
Key assumption Change to key assumption to reduce headroom to nil 
Discount rate ......................................................................................................... Increase by 64 basis points 
Nominal growth rate beyond initial cash flow projection .................................... Decrease by 69 basis points 
Revenue compound annual growth rate ............................................................... Decrease from 10.3% to 8.3%
Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Latin America: the assumptions included in the cash flow projections for 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Latin America reflect the economic environment and financial outlook of 
the countries within this segment, with Brazil and Mexico being two of the largest countries included within this 
segment. Key assumptions include the growth in lending and deposit volumes and the credit quality of the loan 
portfolios. Mexico and Panama in particular are sensitive to economic conditions in the US which could constrain 
demand. Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined that a reasonably possible change 
in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of Retail 
Banking and Wealth Management – Latin America. 
Other intangible assets 
Movement of intangible assets excluding goodwill and the PVIF 
 Trade
 names 
 Mortgage
 servicing
 rights 
 Internally
 generated
 software 
 Purchased
 software 
 Customer/ 
 merchant 
 relation- 
 ships  Other  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Cost
At 1 January 2012 ................................. 60 591 5,598 856 1,354 454 8,913 
Additions
1
 ............................................. 1 30 765 78 120 48 1,042 
Disposals ............................................... – (123) (32) (61) (5) – (221)
Amount written off ............................... – – (680) (21) (39) – (740)
Exchange differences ............................ – – 62 – (48) 12 26
Reclassified to held for sale .................. – – (26) (15) (7) (14) (62)
Other changes ....................................... – – 16 78 (8) 4 90
At 31 December 2012 ........................... 61 498 5,703 915 1,367 504 9,048  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
23 – Goodwill and intangible assets / 24 – Property, plant and equipment
466
 Trade
 names 
 Mortgage
 servicing
 rights 
 Internally
 generated
 software 
 Purchased
 software 
 Customer/ 
 merchant 
 relation- 
 ships  Other  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Accumulated amortisation 
At 1 January 2012 ................................. (51) (369) (3,437) (672) (649) (131) (5,309)
Charge for the year
2
 .............................. (5) (78) (645) (103) (127) (21) (979)
Impairment ............................................ – – (63) (3) – (2) (68)
Disposals ............................................... 2 123 28 53 5 – 211
Amount written off ............................... – – 680 21 39 – 740
Exchange differences ............................ – (2) (47) 1 15 (1) (34)
Reclassified to held for sale .................. – – 24 9 5 10 48
Other changes ....................................... (1) – (9) (41) 8 2 (41)
At 31 December 2012 ........................... (55) (326) (3,469) (735) (704) (143) (5,432)
Net carrying amount at  
31 December 2012 ........................... 6 172 2,234 180 663 361 3,616 
          
Cost       
At 1 January 2011................................. 68 636 5,202 1,065 1,987 503 9,461 
Additions
1
 ............................................. – 40 1,129 102 379 6 1,656 
Disposals............................................... – (91) (44) (102) (181) (1) (419)
Amount written off ............................... – – (365) (133) – (2) (500)
Exchange differences ............................ (6) – (109) (40) (79) (14) (248)
Reclassified to held for sale .................. (2) – (197) (22) (746) (46) (1,013)
Other changes ....................................... – 6 (18) (14) (6) 8 (24)
At 31 December 2011........................... 60 591 5,598 856 1,354 454 8,913 
Accumulated amortisation        
At 1 January 2011 ................................. (52) (240) (2,958) (848) (1,143) (144) (5,385)
Charge for the year
2
 .............................. (4) (215) (609) (106) (212) (29) (1,175)
Impairment ............................................ – – (386) (3) – (1) (390)
Disposals............................................... – 91 29 100 111 3 334 
Amount written off............................... – – 365 133 – 2 500 
Exchange differences ............................ 3 – 44 31 29 – 107 
Reclassified to held for sale .................. 2 – 50 18 563 36 669 
Other changes ....................................... – (5) 28 3 3 2 31 
At 31 December 2011........................... (51) (369) (3,437) (672) (649) (131) (5,309)
Net carrying amount at  
31 December 2011 ........................... 9 222 2,161 184 705 323 3,604 
1 At 31 December 2012, HSBC had no contractual commitments (2011: nil) to acquire intangible assets. 
2 The amortisation charge for the year is recognised within the income statement under ‘Amortisation and impairment of intangible
assets’, with the exception of the amortisation of mortgage servicing rights which is recognised in ‘Net fee income’.  467
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
24 Property, plant and equipment 
 Freehold
 land and
 buildings 
 Long
 leasehold
 land and
 buildings 
 Short 
 leasehold 
 land and 
 buildings
1
Equipment, 
 fixtures 
and fittings
2
 Equipment 
 on 
 operating 
 leases  Total
3
 US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m  US$m 
Cost or fair value 
At 1 January 2012 ........................................................ 3,537 1,800 3,872 11,579  71 20,859 
Additions at cost
4
 ......................................................... 135 89 209 1,016  50 1,499 
Fair value adjustments ................................................. (35) 31 76 – – 72
Disposals ...................................................................... (141) – (68) (915) (14) (1,138)
Reclassified to held for sale ......................................... (10) (36) (6) (70) – (122)
Transfers ...................................................................... 59 (7) (55) 3 – –
Exchange differences ................................................... (59) 10 40 195 4 190
Other changes .............................................................. 9 (23) – (148) – (162)
At 31 December 2012 .................................................. 3,495 1,864 4,068 11,660  111 21,198 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment 
At 1 January 2012 ........................................................ (544) (332) (1,181) (7,909) (28) (9,994)
Depreciation charge for the year ................................. (72) (57) (201) (1,055) (12) (1,397)
Disposals ...................................................................... 44 – 53 844 13 954
Reclassified to held for sale ......................................... 13 1 1 27 – 42
Transfers ...................................................................... (26) 1 22 3 – –
Impairment losses recognised ...................................... (9) (4) (11) (63) – (87)
Exchange differences ................................................... (8) (2) (15) (137) (1) (163)
Other changes .............................................................. (67) 3 12 84 3 35
At 31 December 2012 .................................................. (669) (390) (1,320) (8,206) (25) (10,610)
Net carrying amount at 31 December 2012 ................. 2,826 1,474 2,748 3,454  86 10,588 
      
Cost or fair value       
At 1 January 2011 ........................................................ 3,952 1,673 4,004 12,529  53  22,211 
Additions at cost
4
 ......................................................... 353 114 180 1,183  19  1,849 
Fair value adjustments ................................................. (15) 44 89 – – 118 
Disposals...................................................................... (188) (19) (279) (1,400) – (1,886)
Reclassified to held for sale ......................................... (424) (19) (158) (260) – (861)
Transfers ...................................................................... (12) (35) 25 10  – (12)
Exchange differences................................................... (203) 1 15 (395) (1) (583)
Other changes .............................................................. 74 41 (4) (88) – 23 
At 31 December 2011 .................................................. 3,537 1,800 3,872 11,579  71  20,859 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment       
At 1 January 2011........................................................ (586) (307) (1,268) (8,506) (23) (10,690)
Depreciation charge for the year ................................. (88) (51) (211) (1,157) (9) (1,516)
Disposals ...................................................................... 60 2 262 1,319  – 1,643 
Reclassified to held for sale ......................................... 133 13 80 138  – 364 
Transfers ...................................................................... 5 35 (34) (6) – – 
Impairment losses recognised ...................................... (13) – (16) (25) – (54)
Exchange differences ................................................... 18 (1) 8 260  1  286 
Other changes .............................................................. (73) (23) (2) 68  3  (27)
At 31 December 2011.................................................. (544) (332) (1,181) (7,909) (28) (9,994)
Net carrying amount at 31 December 2011 ................. 2,993 1,468 2,691 3,670  43  10,865 
1 Including assets held on finance leases with a net book value of US$5m (2011: US$7m). 
2 Including assets held on finance leases with a net book value of US$182m (2011: US$210m). 
3 Including assets with a net book value of US$39m (2011: US$33m) pledged as security for liabilities. 
4 At 31 December 2012, HSBC had US$412m (2011: US$517m) of contractual commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment. 
Leasehold land and buildings 
Leasehold land and buildings are considered to be held under finance lease contracts where the value of the land 
cannot reliably be separated from the value of the lease and the respective contracts do not meet the criteria for 
classification as operating leases. Included within ‘Short leasehold land and buildings’ are the following amounts 
in respect of assets classed as improvements to buildings, which are carried at depreciated historical cost:  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
24 – Property, plant and equipment / 25 – Investments in subsidiaries 
468
Leasehold land and buildings 
2012 2011
 Cost 
 Accumulated
 depreciation  Cost  
 Accumulated
 depreciation 
 US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
At 1 January .................................................................................. 1,669 (751) 1,944  (933)
Additions ...................................................................................... 119 – 171  – 
Disposals ....................................................................................... (65) 47 (269) 262 
Depreciation charge for the year .................................................. – (133) – (139)
Impairment loss recognised .......................................................... – (6) – (15)
Exchange differences .................................................................... 28 (13) (13) 2 
Reclassified as held for sale ......................................................... (10) (1) (154) 73 
Other changes ............................................................................... (23) (9) (10) (1)
At 31 December ............................................................................ 1,718 (866) 1,669  (751)
Net carrying amount at 31 December ........................................... 852 918   
Investment properties 
Movement on the fair value of investment properties 
 Freehold
 land and
 buildings 
 Long
 leasehold
 land and
 buildings 
 Short 
 leasehold 
 land and 
 buildings  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Fair value 
At 1 January 2012 ......................................................................... 745 192 402 1,339 
Additions at cost ........................................................................... 9 – – 9
Fair value adjustments .................................................................. (35) 31 76 72
Disposals ....................................................................................... – – – –
Reclassified to held for sale .......................................................... – (29) – (29)
Exchange differences .................................................................... (64) – 1 (63)
Other changes ............................................................................... (3) 1 8 6
p
At 31 December 2012 ................................................................... 652 195 487 1,334 
     
Fair value     
At 1 January 2011 ......................................................................... 667 156 310  1,133 
Additions at cost ........................................................................... 242 – – 242 
Fair value adjustments .................................................................. (15) 44 89  118 
Disposals ....................................................................................... (47) (17) – (64)
Exchange differences .................................................................... (22) 1 1  (20)
Other changes ............................................................................... (80) 8 2  (70)
At 31 December 2011 ................................................................... 745 192 402  1,339 
Investment properties are valued on a market value basis as at 31 December each year by independent professional 
valuers who have recent experience in the location and type of properties. Investment properties in Hong Kong, the 
Macau Special Administrative Region and mainland China, which represent more than 51% by value of HSBC’s 
investment properties subject to revaluation, were valued by DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited whose valuers are 
members of the Hong Kong Institute of Surveyors. Properties in other countries, which represent 49% by value of 
HSBC’s investment properties, were valued by different independent professionally qualified valuers. 
HSBC Holdings had no investment properties at 31 December 2012 or 2011. 
HSBC properties leased to customers 
HSBC properties leased to customers included US$694m at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$618m) let under operating 
leases, net of accumulated depreciation of US$16m (2011: US$12m). None was held by HSBC Holdings. 
At 31 December 2012, the classification of land and buildings in Hong Kong in accordance with Hong Kong 
Companies Ordinance requirements was freehold nil (2011: nil), long leasehold US$1,319m (2011: US$1,363m), 
medium leasehold US$1,600m (2011: US$1,484m) and short leasehold US$3m (2011: US$4m).  469
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
25 Investments in subsidiaries 
Principal subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings
At 31 December 2012 
Country of 
incorporation
or registration 
HSBC’s
interest in
equity capital
%
Issued
equity
capital
 Share
 class 
Europe
HSBC Asset Finance (UK) Limited ............................... England 100 £265m  Ordinary £1 
HSBC Bank A.S. ............................................................ Turkey  100 TRL652m  A–Common TRL1
 B–Common TRL1 
HSBC Bank Malta p.l.c. ................................................. Malta  70.03 €88m  Ordinary €0.30 
HSBC Bank plc .............................................................. England 100 £797m  Ordinary £1
 Preferred Ordinary £1
 Series 2 Third Dollar 
 Preference US$0.01
 Third Dollar 
 Preference US$0.01 
HSBC France .................................................................. France 99.99 €337m  Shares €5.00 
HSBC Bank International Limited ................................. Jersey 100 £1m  Ordinary £1 
HSBC Life (UK) Limited ............................................... England 100 £94m  Ordinary £1 
HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA ............... Switzerland  100 CHF1,363m  Ordinary CHF1,000 
HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG .................................. Germany  80.62 €28m  Shares of no par value 
Marks and Spencer Retail Financial Services
Holdings Limited ........................................................ England 100 £67m  Ordinary £1 
Hong Kong 
Hang Seng Bank Limited
1
 .............................................. Hong Kong  62.14 HK$9,559m  Ordinary HK$5.00 
HSBC Insurance (Asia) Limited .................................... Hong Kong  100 HK$2,798m  Ordinary HK$1,000 
HSBC Life (International) Limited ................................ Bermuda  100 HK$2,778m  Ordinary HK$1.00 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited ....................................................................... 
Hong Kong  100 HK$58,969m  Ordinary HK$2.50
 CIP
2
 US$1.00
 CRP
3
 US$1.00
 NIP
4
 US$1.00 
Rest of Asia-Pacific 
HSBC Bank Australia Limited ....................................... Australia 100 A$751m  Ordinary no par value 
A$60m  Pref shares of 
 no par value 
HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited ......................... PRC
5
 100 RMB12,400m  Ordinary CNY1.00 
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad ........................................ Malaysia 100 RM115m  Ordinary RM0.50 
Middle East and North Africa 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited .................................. Jersey 100 US$931m  Ordinary US$1.00
 CRP
3
 US$1.00 
HSBC Bank Egypt S.A.E. .............................................. Egypt  94.53 EGP2,079m  Ordinary EGP84.00 
North America 
HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited ....................................... Bermuda  100 BMD30m  Common BMD1.00 
HSBC Bank Canada ....................................................... Canada 100 C$1,571m  Class 1 Pref of NPV
6
 Class 2 Pref of NPV
6
 Common of NPV 
HSBC Bank USA, N.A. ................................................. United States  100 US$2m  Common US$100 
HSBC Finance Corporation ............................................ United States  100  –
7
 Common US$0.01 
HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. .......................................... United States  100  –
7
 Common US$0.05 
Latin America 
HSBC Bank Argentina S.A. ........................................... Argentina  99.99 ARS1,244m  Ordinary–A ARS1.00
 Ordinary–B ARS1.00 
HSBC Bank Brasil S.A. – Banco Múltiplo .................... Brazil  100 BRL5,994m  Shares of no par value 
HSBC Mexico, S.A., Institución de Banca Múltiple,
Grupo Financiero HSBC ............................................ Mexico 99.99 MXN5,261m  Ordinary MXN2.00 
HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A. ............................................ Panama  100 US$10m  Ordinary PAB 1.00 
1 Listed in Hong Kong.  5 People’s Republic of China. 
2 Cumulative Irredeemable Preference shares. 6 Preference shares of nil par value.
3 Cumulative Redeemable Preference shares.  7 Issued equity capital is less than US$1m.  
4 Non-cumulative Irredeemable Preference shares. 
Details of the debt, subordinated debt and preference shares issued by the principal subsidiaries to parties external to the Group are 
included in the Notes 29 ‘Debt securities in issue’, 33 ‘Subordinated liabilities’ and 37 ‘Non-controlling  interests’, respectively.
All the above subsidiaries are included in the HSBC consolidated financial statements.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
25 – Investments in subsidiaries / 26 – Assets held for sale and other assets 
470
Details of all HSBC subsidiaries will be annexed to the next Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK 
Registrar of Companies. 
All the above make their financial statements up to 31 December except for HSBC Bank Argentina S.A., whose 
financial statements are made up to 30 June annually. 
The principal countries of operation are the same as the countries of incorporation except for HSBC Bank Middle 
East Limited which operates mainly in the Middle East and North Africa and HSBC Life (International) Limited 
which operates mainly in Hong Kong. 
In February 2013, we announced an agreement to sell HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A. to Bancolombia S.A. For further 
details see Note 45. 
During 2012 and 2011, none of the Group’s subsidiaries experienced significant restrictions on paying dividends or 
repaying loans and advances. 
Acquisitions 
In June 2012, HSBC merged its operations in Oman with the Oman International Bank for total consideration of 
US$0.2bn. HSBC owns 51% of the combined entity, HSBC Bank Oman SAOG, which had net assets of US$0.8bn 
immediately following the merger. 
In October 2012, HSBC acquired the onshore retail and commercial banking business of Lloyds Banking Group in 
the United Arab Emirates for a total consideration of US$0.1bn. As a result of the transaction HSBC acquired net 
assets of US$0.2bn. 
SPEs consolidated by HSBC where HSBC owns less than 50% of the voting rights 
 Carrying value of total 
consolidated assets Nature of SPE 
 2012  2011  
 US$bn  US$bn  
Barion Funding Limited ................................................................. 3.9 3.8 Securities investment conduit 
Bryant Park Funding LLC .............................................................. 0.9 2.8 Conduit 
HSBC Home Equity Loan Corporation I ....................................... 2.0 2.1 Securitisation
HSBC Home Equity Loan Corporation II ...................................... 2.2 2.4 Securitisation 
HSBC Receivables Funding, Inc. II ...............................................  – 1.9 Securitisation 
Malachite Funding Limited ............................................................ 3.4 3.6 Securities investment conduit 
Mazarin Funding Limited ............................................................... 8.0 8.0 Securities investment conduit 
Metrix Funding Ltd ........................................................................ – 0.7 Securitisation 
Metrix Securities plc .......................................................................  – 0.4 Securitisation 
Regency Assets Limited ................................................................. 10.1 7.5 Conduit
Solitaire Funding Ltd ...................................................................... 11.3 12.5 Securities investment conduit
In addition to the above, HSBC consolidates a number of individually insignificant SPEs with total assets of 
US$17bn. For further details, see Note 42. 
In each of the above cases, HSBC has less than 50% of the voting rights, but consolidates because it has the majority 
of risks and rewards of ownership of the SPE, or the substance of the relationship with the SPE is such that its 
activities are conducted on behalf of HSBC according to its specific business needs so that HSBC obtains benefit 
from the SPE’s operation. The consolidation of SPEs sponsored by HSBC is discussed on page 384.  471
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
26 Assets held for sale and other assets 
Assets held for sale 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
Disposal groups ........................................................................................................................................ 5,797  38,903 
Non-current assets held for sale: 13,472  655
–  property, plant and equipment .............................................................................................................. 500 589
–  investment in Ping An .......................................................................................................................... 8,168  –
–  loans and advances to customers .......................................................................................................... 3,893  –
–  other ...................................................................................................................................................... 911 66
19,269  39,558 
Disposal groups 
At 31 December 2012, the following businesses represented the majority of disposal groups held for sale: 
• Latin American businesses, which include banking operations in Peru, Colombia and Paraguay. 
• US life insurance businesses. 
The following significant businesses that were held for sale at 31 December 2011 were sold in 2012: 
• The sale of the US Card and Retail Services business that was completed on 1 May 2012 with a gain on disposal 
of US$3.1bn. 
• The sale of 195 US branches were completed in several stages in 2012. 138 branches were sold on 18 May 2012, 
recognising a gain of US$661m. The remaining branches were sold in the third quarter of 2012 with a gain of 
US$203m. 
• Central American businesses, which include banking operations in Costa Rica, El Salvador and Honduras were 
sold in November and December 2012 with a loss on disposal of US$62m. 
The major classes of assets and associated liabilities of disposal groups held for sale were as follows: 
At 31 December 2012 
 South 
 America 
 businesses 
 US life 
 insurance
 businesses  Other  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Assets of disposal groups held for sale 
Trading assets ............................................................................... 4 – – 4
Loans and advances to banks ....................................................... 344 – 164 508
Loans and advances to customers ................................................ 1,929 – 302 2,231 
Financial investments ................................................................... 364 1,396 229 1,989 
Prepayments and accrued income ................................................ 27 15 5 47
Goodwill and intangible assets ..................................................... 33 53 60 146
Other assets of disposal groups .................................................... 622 109 141 872
Total assets .................................................................................... 3,323 1,573 901 5,797 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale (Note 30) 
Deposits by banks ......................................................................... 26 – 10 36
Customer accounts ........................................................................ 2,154 – 836 2,990 
Debt securities in issue ................................................................. 566 – (1) 565
Liabilities under insurance contracts ............................................ – 998 162 1,160 
Other liabilities of disposal groups ............................................... 132 39 96 267
Total liabilities .............................................................................. 2,878 1,037 1,103 5,018 
Net unrealised losses recognised in 
‘other operating income’ as a result 
of reclassification to held for sale ............................................ (96) – – (96)
Expected date of completion ........................................................  Q4 2013  Q1 2013 
Operating segment ........................................................................  Latin America  North America  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
26 – Assets held for sale and other assets / 27 – T rading liabilities / 28 – Financial liabilities at fair value 
472
Property, plant and equipment 
The property, plant and equipment classified as held for sale is the result of repossession of property that had been 
pledged as collateral by customers. Substantially all of these assets are disposed of within 12 months of acquisition. 
The majority arose within the North America operating segment.  
Investment in Ping An 
On 5 December 2012, we entered into an agreement to dispose of our entire 15.57% shareholding in Ping An for 
US$9.4bn. The disposal was carried out in two tranches, an initial tranche of 256,694,218 shares representing 3.24% 
of Ping An’s issued share capital, then the remaining 976,121,395 shares representing 12.33% of Ping An’s issued 
share capital. The selling price for both the tranches was fixed at HK$59 per share. 
The first tranche of shares was disposed on 7 December 2012. Following this disposal, HSBC no longer had 
significant influence over Ping An and ceased to account for it as an associate. The gain from the disposal of the first 
tranche of shares and the gain from the consequent discontinuance of associate accounting for the remaining 12.33% 
shareholding in Ping An totalled US$3bn, and was recognised in the income statement. The remaining 12.33% 
shareholding was recognised as an available-for-sale investment, measured initially at fair value on the date of 
discontinuance of associate accounting, and thereafter carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recorded in 
other comprehensive income. 
The fixing of the sale price gave rise to a contingent forward sale contract, the fair value of which at year end was 
based on the difference between the agreed sale price and the market price for the shares, adjusted for an assessment 
of the probability of the transaction being completed. The adverse fair value of this contract was US$553m at 
31 December 2012, recorded in net trading income. 
At 31 December 2012, the fair value of our 12.33% shareholding in Ping An was US$8.2bn included within Assets 
held for sale above, with US$737m accumulated unrealised gains in other comprehensive income which arose after 
the date of the agreement and represent the difference between Ping An’s share price at the year-end and the share 
price on the date of recognition as an available-for-sale investment. 
The sale of the second tranche was completed on 6 February 2013 where the net impact of the change in fair value of 
the contingent forward sale contract to the point of delivery of the shares and the derecognition of the available-for-
sale investment resulted in an income statement gain before tax in 2013 of US$553m. 
Loans and advances to customers 
Loans and advances to customers held for sale at 31 December 2012 include US personal loan balances of US$3.4bn, 
net of impairment allowances.
Other assets 
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m  US$m 
Bullion ...................................................................................................................................................... 26,508  19,824 
Reinsurers’ share of liabilities under insurance contracts (Note 31) ....................................................... 1,407  1,801 
Endorsements and acceptances ................................................................................................................. 12,032  11,010 
Retirement benefit assets .......................................................................................................................... 2,846  2,497 
Other accounts .......................................................................................................................................... 11,923  13,567 
54,716  48,699  473
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
27 Trading liabilities 
At 31 December 
 2012 
 US$m  
 2011 
 US$m 
Deposits by banks ..................................................................................................................................... 61,686  47,506 
Customer accounts .................................................................................................................................... 150,705  123,344 
Other debt securities in issue (Note 29) ................................................................................................... 31,198  29,987 
Other liabilities – net short positions in securities ................................................................................... 60,974  64,355 
304,563  265,192 
At 31 December 2012, the cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in HSBC credit risk was 
a loss of US$29m (2011: gain of US$599m). 
Deposits by banks held for trading 
At 31 December 
 2012 
 US$m  
 2011 
 US$m 
Repos ........................................................................................................................................................ 26,740  16,687 
Settlement accounts .................................................................................................................................. 7,647  7,221 
Stock lending ............................................................................................................................................ 4,523  2,821 
Other ......................................................................................................................................................... 22,776  20,777 
61,686  47,506 
Customer accounts held for trading 
At 31 December 
 2012 
 US$m  
 2011 
 US$m 
Repos ........................................................................................................................................................ 103,483  70,151 
Settlement accounts .................................................................................................................................. 9,461  6,909 
Stock lending ............................................................................................................................................ 2,295  1,774 
Other ......................................................................................................................................................... 35,466  44,510 
150,705  123,344 
28 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 
HSBC
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
Deposits by banks and customer accounts ............................................................................................... 496 517
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts ................................................................................ 12,456  11,399 
Debt securities in issue (Note 29) ............................................................................................................. 53,209  52,197 
Subordinated liabilities (Note 33) ............................................................................................................ 16,863  17,503 
Preferred securities (Note 33) ................................................................................................................... 4,696  4,108 
87,720  85,724 
The carrying amount at 31 December 2012 of financial liabilities designated at fair value was US$7,032m more than 
the contractual amount at maturity (2011: US$1,377m more). The cumulative amount of the change in fair value 
attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of US$88m (2011: gain of US$5,118m).  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
29 – Debt securities in issue / 30 – Liabilities of disposal groups / 31 – Liabilities under insurance contracts 
474
HSBC Holdings 
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
Debt securities in issue (Note 29): 
– owed to third parties .......................................................................................................................... 8,577 5,753 
Subordinated liabilities (Note 33): 
– owed to third parties .......................................................................................................................... 10,358 11,443 
– owed to HSBC undertakings ............................................................................................................. 4,260 3,955 
23,195 21,151 
The carrying amount at 31 December 2012 of financial liabilities designated at fair value was US$3,199m more than 
the contractual amount at maturity (2011: US$722m more). The cumulative amount of the change in fair value 
attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of US$164m (2011: gain of US$2,096m). 
29 Debt securities in issue 
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m  US$m 
Bonds and medium-term notes ................................................................................................................. 155,661  151,367 
Other debt securities in issue .................................................................................................................... 48,207  61,830 
203,868 213,197 
Of which debt securities in issue reported as: 
– trading liabilities (Note 27) ............................................................................................................... (31,198) (29,987)
– financial liabilities designated at fair value (Note 28) ...................................................................... (53,209) (52,197)
119,461 131,013 
Certain debt securities in issue are managed on a fair value basis as part of HSBC’s interest rate risk management 
policies. The debt securities being hedged are presented within the balance sheet caption ‘Financial liabilities 
designated at fair value’, with the remaining debt securities included within ‘Trading liabilities’. The following table 
analyses the carrying amount of bonds and medium-term notes in issue at 31 December with original maturities 
greater than one year: 
Bonds and medium-term notes 
HSBC
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
Fixed rate 
Secured financing: 
0.01% to 3.99%: until 2056 .................................................................................................................             7,514  8,259 
4.00% to 4.99%: until 2013 .................................................................................................................                231  1,307 
5.00% to 5.99%: until 2019 .................................................................................................................                189  332
8.00% to 9.99%: until 2028 .................................................................................................................                252  276
Other fixed rate senior debt: 
0.01% to 3.99%: until 2078 .................................................................................................................           48,620  38,346 
4.00% to 4.99%: until 2046 .................................................................................................................           18,722  15,515 
5.00% to 5.99%: until 2041 .................................................................................................................           14,766  17,525 
6.00% to 6.99%: until 2046 .................................................................................................................             5,207  7,056 
7.00% to 7.99%: until 2026 .................................................................................................................                713  3,083 
8.00% to 9.99%: until 2036 .................................................................................................................                199  379
10.00% or higher: until 2028 ...............................................................................................................                108  437
          96,521  92,515 
Variable interest rate 
Secured financings – 0.01% to 13.99%: until 2068 .................................................................................             7,897  7,279 
FHLB advances – 0.01% to 0.99%: until 2036 ........................................................................................             1,000  1,000 
Other variable interest rate senior debt – 0.01% to 12.99%: until 2057 ..................................................           43,104  47,393 
          52,001  55,672  475
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
Brought forward ....................................................................................................................................... 153,780 148,187 
Structured notes 
Interest rate, equity, equity index or credit-linked ...................................................................................             7,139  3,180 
        155,661  151,367 
HSBC Holdings 
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
Debt securities ......................................................................................................................................... 11,268 8,366 
Of which debt securities in issue reported as: 
–  financial liabilities designated at fair value (Note 28) ..................................................................... (8,577) (5,753)
2,691 2,613 
Fixed rate senior debt, unsecured 
3.00% to 3.99%: until 2016 ................................................................................................................. 1,258 1,177 
4.00% to 4.99%: until 2022 ................................................................................................................. 4,945 2,573 
5.00% to 5.99%: until 2021 ................................................................................................................. 2,990 2,730 
6.00% to 6.99%: until 2042 ................................................................................................................. 2,075 1,886 
11,268 8,366 
30 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale and other liabilities 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 
HSBC
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
1
 .............................................................................................    5,018  22,200 
1 An analysis of liabilities of disposal groups held for sale is provided on page 471. 
Other liabilities 
HSBC HSBC Holdings 
2012 2011 2012 2011
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Amounts due to investors in funds consolidated by HSBC ......... 564 720 – –
Obligations under finance leases (Note 41) ................................. 304 428 – –
Dividend declared and payable by HSBC Holdings (Note 10) ... – 885 – 885
Endorsements and acceptances ..................................................... 12,031 11,009 – –
Other liabilities ............................................................................. 20,963 14,925 30 26
33,862 27,967 30 911
31 Liabilities under insurance contracts
Gross 
Reinsurers’
share Net
US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Non-life insurance liabilities 
Unearned premium provision ..................................................................................... 34 (6) 28
Notified claims ............................................................................................................ 29 (6) 23
Claims incurred but not reported ................................................................................ 12 – 12
Other ........................................................................................................................... 6 (2) 4
81 (14) 67 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
31 – Liabilities under insurance contracts 
476
Gross 
Reinsurers’
share Net
US$m US$m US$m 
Brought forward ......................................................................................................... 81 (14) 67
Life insurance liabilities to policyholders
Life (non-linked) ......................................................................................................... 30,684 (938) 29,746 
Investment contracts with discretionary participation features
1
................................. 24,374 – 24,374 
Life (linked) ................................................................................................................ 13,056 (455) 12,601 
68,114 (1,393) 66,721 
68,195 (1,407) 66,788 
   
At 31 December 2011    
Non-life insurance liabilities    
Unearned premium provision..................................................................................... 621 (112) 509 
Notified claims ............................................................................................................ 510 (91) 419 
Claims incurred but not reported................................................................................ 449 (51) 398 
Other ........................................................................................................................... 55 4 59 
1,635 (250) 1,385 
Life insurance liabilities to policyholders     
Life (non-linked)......................................................................................................... 26,926 (649) 26,277 
Investment contracts with discretionary participation features
1
................................. 21,488 – 21,488 
Life (linked) ................................................................................................................ 11,210 (903) 10,307 
59,624 (1,552) 58,072 
61,259 (1,802) 59,457 
1 Though investment contracts with discretionary participation features are financial instruments, HSBC treats them as insurance
contracts as permitted by IFRS 4. 
Movement on non-life insurance liabilities 
Gross 
Reinsurers’
share Net
US$m US$m US$m 
2012
Unearned premium reserve (‘UPR’) 
At 1 January ................................................................................................................ 621 (112) 509
Changes in UPR recognised as (income)/expense ..................................................... 44 3 47
Gross written premiums ......................................................................................... 760 (104) 656
Gross earned premiums .......................................................................................... (716) 107 (609)
Disposals...................................................................................................................... (497) 91 (406)
Exchange differences and other movements .............................................................. (134) 12 (122)
At 31 December .......................................................................................................... 34 (6) 28
Notified and incurred but not reported claims  
At 1 January ................................................................................................................ 959 (142) 817
Notified claims ....................................................................................................... 510 (91) 419
Claims incurred but not reported ............................................................................ 449 (51) 398
Claims paid in current year ......................................................................................... (339) 57 (282)
Claims incurred in respect of current year ................................................................. 341 (53) 288
Claims incurred in respect of prior years ................................................................... 1 (5) (4)
Disposals...................................................................................................................... (486) 137 (349)
Exchange differences and other movements .............................................................. (435) – (435)
At 31 December .......................................................................................................... 41 (6) 35
Notified claims ....................................................................................................... 29 (6) 23
Claims incurred but not reported ............................................................................ 12 – 12
Other ........................................................................................................................... 6 (2) 4
Total non-life insurance liabilities .............................................................................. 81 (14) 67 477
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Gross
Reinsurers’ 
share Net 
US$m US$m US$m 
2011   
Unearned premium reserve (‘UPR’)    
At 1 January ................................................................................................................ 727 (129) 598 
Changes in UPR recognised as (income)/expense ..................................................... 31 (2) 29 
Gross written premiums ......................................................................................... 1,175 (182) 993
Gross earned premiums .......................................................................................... (1,144) 180 (964)
Exchange differences and other movements .............................................................. (137) 19 (118)
At 31 December .......................................................................................................... 621 (112) 509 
Notified and incurred but not reported claims     
At 1 January ................................................................................................................ 1,624 (305) 1,319 
Notified claims ....................................................................................................... 879 (230) 649
Claims incurred but not reported ............................................................................ 745 (75) 670
Claims paid in current year ......................................................................................... (631) 81 (550)
Claims incurred in respect of current year ................................................................. 481 (99) 382 
Claims incurred in respect of prior years ................................................................... (46) 14 (32)
Disposals ..................................................................................................................... (317) 129 (188)
Exchange differences and other movements .............................................................. (152) 38 (114)
At 31 December .......................................................................................................... 959 (142) 817 
Notified claims ....................................................................................................... 510 (91) 419
Claims incurred but not reported ............................................................................ 449 (51) 398
Other ........................................................................................................................... 55 4 59 
Total non-life insurance liabilities.............................................................................. 1,635 (250) 1,385 
Life insurance liabilities to policyholders 
Gross 
Reinsurers’
share Net
US$m US$m US$m 
2012
Life (non-linked) 
At 1 January ................................................................................................................ 26,926 (649) 26,277 
Benefits paid ............................................................................................................... (1,566) 160 (1,406)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders ........................................................................ 6,558 (479) 6,079 
Exchange differences and other movements .............................................................. (1,234) 30 (1,204)
At 31 December .......................................................................................................... 30,684 (938) 29,746 
Investment contracts with discretionary participation features
At 1 January ................................................................................................................ 21,488 – 21,488 
Benefits paid ............................................................................................................... (2,525) – (2,525)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders ........................................................................ 3,645 – 3,645 
Exchange differences and other movements
1
 ............................................................. 1,766 – 1,766 
At 31 December .......................................................................................................... 24,374 – 24,374 
Life (linked) 
At 1 January ................................................................................................................ 11,210 (903) 10,307 
Benefits paid ............................................................................................................... (1,810) 681 (1,129)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders ........................................................................ 3,984 223 4,207 
Exchange differences and other movements
2
 ............................................................. (328) (456) (784)
At 31 December .......................................................................................................... 13,056 (455) 12,601 
Total liabilities to policyholders ................................................................................. 68,114 (1,393) 66,721  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
32 – Provisions 
478
Gross
Reinsurers’ 
share Net 
US$m US$m US$m 
2011   
Life (non-linked)    
At 1 January ................................................................................................................ 23,583 (673) 22,910 
Benefits paid ............................................................................................................... (1,793) 164 (1,629)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders ........................................................................ 5,729 (254) 5,475 
Exchange differences and other movements .............................................................. (593) 114 (479)
At 31 December .......................................................................................................... 26,926 (649) 26,277 
Investment contracts with discretionary participation features     
At 1 January ................................................................................................................ 22,074 – 22,074 
Benefits paid ............................................................................................................... (2,628) – (2,628)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders ........................................................................ 3,005 – 3,005
Exchange differences and other movements
1
 ............................................................. (963) – (963)
At 31 December .......................................................................................................... 21,488 – 21,488 
Life (linked)    
At 1 January ................................................................................................................ 10,496 (760) 9,736 
Benefits paid ............................................................................................................... (1,129) 56 (1,073)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders ........................................................................ 2,462 (111) 2,351 
Exchange differences and other movements
2
 ............................................................. (619) (88) (707)
At 31 December .......................................................................................................... 11,210 (903) 10,307 
Total liabilities to policyholders ................................................................................. 59,624 (1,552) 58,072 
1 Includes movement in liabilities relating to discretionary profit participation benefits due to policyholders arising from net unrealised 
investment gains recognised in other comprehensive income.  
2 Includes amounts arising under reinsurance agreements. 
The increase in liabilities to policyholders represents the aggregate of all events giving rise to additional liabilities to 
policyholders in the year. The key factors contributing to the movement in liabilities to policyholders include death 
claims, surrenders, lapses, liabilities to policyholders created at the initial inception of the policies, the declaration of 
bonuses and other amounts attributable to policyholders. 
32 Provisions 
Restruc-
turing
costs
Contingent
liabilities and
contractual
commitments 
Legal
proceedings
and
regulatory
matters 
Customer
remediation 
Other
provisions Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 1 January 2012 .............................. 169 206 1,473 1,067 409 3,324 
Additional provisions/increase  
in provisions .................................. 434 73 2,779 2,473 376 6,135 
Provisions utilised ............................. (320) (2) (2,510) (1,022) (153) (4,007)
Amounts reversed .............................. (89) (58) (104) (137) (63) (451)
Unwinding of discounts ..................... – – 42 1 5 48
Exchange differences and other 
movements ..................................... 57 82 (13) 5 72 203
At 31 December 2012 ....................... 251 301 1,667 2,387 646 5,252 
       
At 1 January 2011 .............................. 21 405 969 442 301  2,138 
Additional provisions/increase  
in provisions .................................. 221 14 896 1,078 184  2,393 
Provisions utilised ............................. (58) (5) (367) (386) (71) (887)
Amounts reversed .............................. (14) (41) (28) (87) (86) (256)
Unwinding of discounts ..................... – 1 56 – 5  62 
Exchange differences and other 
movements ..................................... (1) (168) (53) 20 76  (126)
At 31 December 2011........................ 169 206 1,473 1,067 409  3,324  479
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Further details of legal proceedings and regulatory matters are set out in Note 43. Legal proceedings include 
civil court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings brought against HSBC companies (whether by way of claim or 
counterclaim) or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings. Regulatory 
matters refer to investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response to the actions of, regulators 
or law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC. In December 2012, HSBC made 
payments totalling US$1,921m to US authorities in relation to investigations regarding inadequate compliance with 
anti-money laundering and sanctions laws. Further details of the agreements reached with the US authorities are set 
out on page 510. 
Customer remediation refers to activities carried out by HSBC to compensate customers for losses or damages 
associated with a failure to comply with regulations or to treat customers fairly. Customer remediation is initiated 
by HSBC in response to customer complaints and/or industry developments in sales practices, and not necessarily 
initiated by regulatory action. 
Payment Protection Insurance 
An increase in provisions of US$1,681m was recognised during the year 2012 in respect of the estimated liability for 
redress regarding the mis-selling of payment protection insurance (‘PPI’) policies in previous years. Cumulative 
provisions made since the Judicial Review ruling in 2011 amount to US$2,397m, of which US$957m has been paid in 
2012 (2011: US$325m). At 31 December 2012, the provision amounted to US$1,321m (2011: US$506m). 
The estimated liability for redress is calculated based on the total premiums paid by the customer plus simple interest 
of 8% per annum (or the rate inherent in the related loan product where higher). The basis for calculating the redress 
liability is the same for single premium and regular premium policies. Future estimated redress levels are based on 
historically observed redress per policy. 
A total of 5.4 million PPI policies have been sold by HSBC since 2000, which generated estimated revenues of 
US$4.1bn at 2012 average exchange rates. The gross written premiums on these polices was approximately 
US$5.1bn at 2012 average exchange rates. At 31 December 2012, the estimated total complaints expected to be 
received was 1.4 million, representing 25% of total policies sold. It is estimated that contact will be made with regard 
to 1.8 million policies, representing 33% of total policies sold. This estimate includes inbound complaints as well as 
HSBC’s proactive contact exercise on certain policies (‘outbound contact’). 
During 2012, we increased the estimate of the total number of policies to be ultimately redressed, as the level of 
complaints received was higher in volume and over a more sustained period than previously assumed. This change in 
assumptions contributed approximately US$1.2bn to the increased provision for the year with the balance consisting 
of US$0.2bn attributable to regulatory changes and US$0.3bn other assumption and model changes. 
The following table details the cumulative number of complaints received at 31 December 2012 and the number of 
claims expected in the future: 
 Cumulative to 
 31 December 
 2012 
 Future 
 expected 
Inbound complaints
1
 (000s of policies) ....................................................................................................  801  348 
Outbound contact (000s of policies) .........................................................................................................  43  547 
Response rate to outbound contact ...........................................................................................................  37%  38% 
Average uphold rate per claim
2
 .................................................................................................................  78%  79% 
Average redress per claim .........................................................................................................................  US$2,325  US$2,290 
1 Excludes invalid claims where the complainant has not held a PPI policy. 
2 Claims include inbound and responses to outbound contact. 
The main assumptions involved in calculating the redress liability are the volume of inbound complaints, the 
projected period of inbound complaints, the decay rate of complaint volumes, the population identified as 
systemically mis-sold and the number of policies per customer complaint. The main assumptions are likely to evolve 
over time as root cause analysis continues, more experience is available regarding customer initiated complaint 
volumes received, and we handle responses to our ongoing outbound contact. 
A 100,000 increase/decrease in the total inbound complaints would increase/decrease the redress provision by 
approximately US$180m. Each 1% increase/decrease in the response rate to our outbound contact exercise would 
increase/decrease the redress provision by approximately US$10m.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
33 – Subordinated liabilities 
480
In addition to these factors and assumptions, the extent of the required redress will also depend on the facts and 
circumstances of each individual customer’s case. For these reasons, there is currently a high degree of uncertainty as 
to the eventual costs of redress for this matter. 
Interest rate derivatives 
A provision of US$598m was recognised relating to the estimated liability for redress in respect of the possible mis-
selling of interest rate derivatives in the UK. Of this provision, US$272m related to the estimated redress payable to 
customers in respect of historical payments under derivative contracts, US$254m covered the expected write-off by 
the bank of open derivative contracts balances, and US$72m covers estimated project costs. 
Following an FSA review of the sale of interest rate derivatives, HSBC agreed to pay redress to customers where 
mis-selling of these products has occurred under the FSA’s criteria. On 31 January 2013, the FSA announced the 
findings from their review of pilot cases completed by the banks. Following its review, the FSA clarified the 
eligibility criteria to ensure the programme is focused on those small businesses that were unlikely to understand 
the risks associated with those products. HSBC has also been working with the FSA and an independent ‘skilled 
person’ adviser to clarify the standards against which it should assess sales, and how redress should be calculated (for 
example, when it would be appropriate to assume a customer would have taken an alternative interest rate product). 
The extent to which HSBC is required to pay redress depends on the responses of contacted and other customers 
during the review period and the facts and circumstances of each individual case. For these reasons, there is currently 
a high degree of uncertainty as to the eventual costs of redress related to this programme. 
Brazilian labour, civil and fiscal claims 
Within ‘legal proceedings and regulatory matters’ above are labour, civil and fiscal litigation provisions of US$506m 
(2011: US$481m) which includes provisions in respect of labour and overtime litigation claims brought by past 
employees against HSBC operations in Brazil following their departure from the bank. The main assumptions 
involved in estimating the liability are the expected number of departing employees, individual salary levels and the 
facts and circumstances of each individual case. 
33 Subordinated liabilities 
HSBC
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m  US$m 
Subordinated liabilities 
At amortised cost .............................................................................................................................................. 29,479 30,606 
–  subordinated liabilities ................................................................................................................................. 25,119 25,543 
–  preferred securities ....................................................................................................................................... 4,360 5,063 
Designated at fair value (Note 28) ................................................................................................................... 21,559 21,611 
–  subordinated liabilities ................................................................................................................................. 16,863 17,503 
–  preferred securities ....................................................................................................................................... 4,696 4,108 
51,038 52,217 
Subordinated liabilities 
HSBC Holdings ................................................................................................................................................ 20,569  21,456 
Other HSBC ..................................................................................................................................................... 30,469  30,761 
51,038  52,217 
Subordinated liabilities are capital securities which have been included in the capital base of HSBC and were issued 
in accordance with the rules and guidance in the FSA’s General Prudential Sourcebook (‘GENPRU’). Where 
applicable, these capital securities may be called and redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the FSA and, 
where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator. If not redeemed at the first call date, interest coupons 
payable may step-up or become floating rate related to interbank rates, and in some cases may be subject to a floor. 
Interest rates on the floating rate capital securities are generally related to interbank offered rates. On the remaining 
capital securities, interest is payable at fixed rates of up to 10.176%.  481
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
The balance sheet amounts disclosed below are presented on an IFRS basis and do not reflect the amount that the 
instruments contribute to regulatory capital. The IFRS accounting and regulatory treatments differ due to the 
inclusion of issuance costs and regulatory amortisation.
HSBC’s subordinated liabilities 
Tier 1 capital securities 
Tier 1 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which investors are entitled, subject to certain 
conditions, to receive distributions which are non-cumulative. Such securities do not generally carry voting rights 
but rank above ordinary shares for coupon payments and in the event of a winding-up. 
HSBC has the following qualifying tier 1 capital securities in issue which are accounted for as liabilities: 
 At 31 December 
First call 
date
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
Tier 1 capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings
1
€600m 8.03% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities
2
 ......................... Jun 2012 – 776
US$1,250m 4.61% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities .......................... Jun 2013 1,250 1,163 
€1,400m 5.3687% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities ...................... Mar 2014 1,933 1,693 
£500m 8.208% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities ........................ Jun 2015 806 771
€750m 5.13% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities .......................... Mar 2016 1,033 872
US$900m 10.176% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities, series 2 ........ Jun 2030 891 891
   5,913  6,166 
Tier 1 capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc
1
£300m 5.862% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities ........................ Apr 2020 480 378
£700m 5.844% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities ........................ Nov 2031 1,131 1,084 
1,611  1,462 
1 See paragraph below, ‘Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc’. 
2 In June 2012, HSBC redeemed these securities at par. 
Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc 
The five capital securities guaranteed, on a subordinated basis, by HSBC Holdings and the two capital securities 
guaranteed, on a subordinated basis, by HSBC Bank are non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities issued 
by Jersey limited partnerships. The proceeds of the issues were on-lent to the respective guarantor by the limited 
partnerships in the form of subordinated notes. The above preferred securities qualify as tier 1 capital for HSBC 
Group and the two capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank also qualify as tier 1 capital for HSBC Bank (on a 
solo and consolidated basis).
These preferred securities, together with the guarantee, are intended to provide investors with rights to income and 
capital distributions, and distributions upon liquidation of the relevant issuer that are equivalent to the rights that 
they would have had if they had purchased non-cumulative perpetual preference shares of the relevant issuer. 
There are limitations on the payment of distributions if such payments are prohibited under UK banking regulations 
or other requirements, if a payment would cause a breach of HSBC’s capital adequacy requirements, or if HSBC 
Holdings or HSBC Bank has insufficient distributable reserves (as defined) respectively. 
HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank have individually covenanted that if prevented under certain circumstances from 
paying distributions on the preferred securities in full, they will not pay dividends or other distributions in respect 
of its ordinary shares, or effect repurchases or redemptions of its ordinary shares, until the distribution on preferred 
securities has been paid in full. 
With respect to preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings – if (i) HSBC’s total capital ratio falls below the 
regulatory minimum ratio required, or (ii) the Directors expect that, in view of the deteriorating financial condition 
of HSBC Holdings, that (i) will occur in the near term, then the preferred securities will be substituted by preference 
shares of HSBC Holdings which have economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to those of the 
preferred securities and the guarantee taken together.
With respect to preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank – if (i) any of the two issues of preferred securities are 
outstanding in April 2049 or November 2048, respectively, or (ii) the total capital ratio of HSBC Bank on a solo and  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
33 – Subordinated liabilities 
482
consolidated basis falls below the regulatory minimum ratio required, or (iii) in view of the deteriorating financial 
condition of HSBC Bank, the Directors expect (ii) to occur in the near term, then the preferred securities will be 
substituted by preference shares of HSBC Bank having economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent 
to those of the preferred securities and the guarantee taken together. 
Upper tier 2 capital securities 
Upper tier 2 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which there is an obligation to pay coupons. 
Such securities rank below lower tier 2 securities for coupon payments and in the event of a winding-up. 
HSBC has the following qualifying upper tier 2 securities in issue: 
 At 31 December 
First call 
date
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
HSBC Bank plc
US$750m Undated floating rate primary capital notes ...................................................... Jun 1990 750 750
US$500m Undated floating rate primary capital notes ...................................................... Sep 1990 499 500
US$300m Undated floating rate primary capital notes, series 3 ........................................ Jun 1992 301 300
1,550  1,550 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd
US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes ....................................................... Aug 1990 405 406
US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes (second series) .............................. Dec 1990 402 403
US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes (third series) .................................. Aug 1991 400 400
1,207  1,209 
Other HSBC subsidiaries 
 Other perpetual subordinated loan capital less than US$100m ........................  21 21
Lower tier 2 capital securities 
Lower tier 2 capital securities are dated securities on which there is an obligation to pay coupons. In accordance with 
the FSA’s GENPRU, the capital contribution of lower tier 2 securities is amortised for regulatory purposes on a 
straight-line basis in their final five years before maturity.  
HSBC has the following qualifying lower tier 2 securities in issue: 
 At 31 December 
First call
date
Maturity
date
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
HSBC Bank plc 
£350m Callable subordinated variable coupon notes
1
 ........................... Jun 2012 Jun 2017 – 550
£500m 4.75% callable subordinated notes
2
 ........................................... Sep 2015 Sep 2020 844 759
£350m 5.00% callable subordinated notes
3
 ........................................... Mar 2018 Mar 2023 630 533
£300m 6.50% subordinated notes .......................................................... –Jul 2023 483 463
£350m 5.375% callable subordinated step-up notes
4
 ............................ Nov 2025 Nov 2030 630 493
£500m 5.375% subordinated notes ........................................................ –Aug 2033 925 678
£225m 6.25% subordinated notes .......................................................... –Jan 2041 362 346
£600m 4.75% subordinated notes .......................................................... –Mar 2046 958 917
€500m Callable subordinated floating rate notes
5
 ................................. Sep 2015 Sep 2020 606 550
US$300m 7.65% subordinated notes .......................................................... –May 2025 394 374
5,832  5,663 
Hang Seng Bank Limited 
US$300m Callable subordinated floating rate notes
1
 ................................. Jul 2012 Jul 2017 – 300
– 300
HSBC Bank Australia Limited 
AUD200m Callable subordinated floating rate notes .................................. Nov 2015 Nov 2020 207 203
AUD42m Callable subordinated floating rate notes
6
 ................................. Mar 2013 Mar 2018 44 42
251 245
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad 
MYR500m 4.35% subordinated bonds ......................................................... Jun 2017 ` Jun 2022 164 158
MYR500m 5.05% subordinated bonds ......................................................... Nov 2022 Nov 2027 168 162
332 320 483
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
 At 31 December 
First call
date
Maturity
date
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
HSBC USA Inc.
US$200m 7.808% capital securities ........................................................... Dec 2006 Dec 2026 200 200
US$200m 8.38% capital securities ............................................................. May 2007 May 2027 200 200
US$150m 9.50% subordinated debt ........................................................... –Apr 2014 152 154
US$150m 7.75% Capital Trust pass through securities ............................. Nov 2016 Nov 2026 150 150
US$750m 5.00% subordinated notes .......................................................... –Sep 2020 745 744
US$250m 7.20% subordinated debentures ................................................. –Jul 2097 214 214
 Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$150m ............  302 394
1,963  2,056 
HSBC Bank USA, N.A.
US$1,000m 4.625% subordinated notes ........................................................ – Apr 2014 1,002 1,009 
US$500m 6.00% subordinated notes  ......................................................... – Aug 2017 516 505
US$1,250m 4.875% subordinated notes ........................................................ –Aug 2020 1,263 1,259 
US$1,000m 5.875% subordinated notes  ....................................................... – Nov 2034 1,151 951
US$750m 5.625% subordinated notes  ....................................................... – Aug 2035 864 712
US$700m 7.00% subordinated notes  ......................................................... – Jan 2039 694 681
5,490  5,117 
HSBC Finance Corporation
US$1,000m 5.911% trust preferred securities
7
 .............................................. Nov 2015 Nov 2035 995 994
US$2,939m 6.676% senior subordinated notes
8
 ............................................ – Jan 2021 2,180 2,177 
3,175  3,171 
HSBC Bank Brazil S.A. 
BRL383m Subordinated certificates of deposit .......................................... –Feb 2015 289 206
BRL500m Subordinated floating rate certificates of deposit ...................... –Dec 2016 464 268
 Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$150m
9
 ...........  491 1,156 
1,244 1,630 
HSBC Mexico, S.A. 
MXN1,818m Non-convertible subordinated obligations
10
 .............................. – Sep 2018 139 130
MXN2,273m Non-convertible subordinated obligations
10
 .............................. – Dec 2018 173 162
US$300m Non-convertible subordinated obligations
10,11
 ........................... – Jun 2019 240 232
552 524
HSBC Bank Canada 
CAD400m 4.80% subordinated notes .......................................................... Apr 2017 Apr 2022 438 417
CAD200m 4.94% subordinated debentures ................................................. –Mar 2021 201 195
CAD39m Floating rate debentures ............................................................. –Nov 2083 39 39
678 651
Other HSBC subsidiaries
 Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$200m
9
 ...........  650 676
650 676
Total of subordinated liabilities issued by HSBC subsidiaries ............................................................................ 30,469 30,761 
Amounts owed to third parties by HSBC Holdings (page 43-17) ....................................................................... 20,569 21,456 
51,038 52,217 
  1 In June2012 and July 2012, HSBC redeemed its £350m callable subordinated variable coupon note and its US$300m callable 
subordinated floating rate notes respectively at par. 
  2 The interest rate payable after September 2015 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 0.82%. 
  3 The interest rate payable after March 2018 is the sum of the gross redemption yield of the then prevailing five-year UK gilt plus 1.80%. 
  4 The interest rate payable after November 2025 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 1.50%. 
  5 The interest margin increases by 0.5% from September 2015. 
  6 In February 2013, HSBC gave notice that it will call and redeem the notes at par in March 2013. 
  7 The distributions change in November 2015 to three-month dollar Libor plus 1.926%. 
  8 Approximately 25% of the senior subordinated notes is held by HSBC Holdings. 
  9 Some securities included here are ineligible for inclusion in the capital base of HSBC in accordance with guidance in FSA’s GENPRU.
10 These securities are ineligible for inclusion in the capital base of HSBC in accordance with FSA’s GENPRU. 
11 Approximately US$60m of the subordinated obligations is held by HSBC Holdings.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
33 – Subordinated liabilities / 34 – Maturity analysis 
484
HSBC Holdings 
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m  US$m 
Subordinated liabilities: 
– at amortised cost ........................................................................................................................................... 11,907 12,450 
– designated at fair value (Note 28) ................................................................................................................ 14,618 15,398 
26,525 27,848 
HSBC Holdings’ subordinated liabilities 
 At 31 December 
First call
date
Maturity
date
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
Amounts owed to third parties
1
US$1,400m 5.25% subordinated notes .......................................................... – Dec 2012 – 1,438 
US$488m 7.625% subordinatednotes ........................................................ – May 2032 579 578
US$222m 7.35% subordinated notes .......................................................... –Nov 2032 258 257
US$2,000m 6.5% subordinated notes ............................................................ – May 2036 2,034 2,048 
US$2,500m 6.5% subordinated notes ............................................................ – Sep 2037 3,202 2,634 
US$1,500m 6.8% subordinated notes ............................................................ –Jun 2038 1,486 1,486 
£250m 9.875% subordinated bonds
2
 ..................................................... Apr 2013 Apr 2018 442 445
£900m 6.375% callable subordinated notes
3
 ......................................... Oct 2017 Oct 2022 1,648 1,416 
£650m 5.75% subordinated notes .......................................................... – Dec 2027 1,210 926
£650m 6.75% subordinated notes .......................................................... –Sep 2028 1,041 997
£750m 7.0% subordinated notes ............................................................ –Apr 2038 1,264 1,205 
£900m 6.0% subordinated notes ............................................................ –Mar 2040 1,431 1,369 
€1,000m 5.375% subordinated notes ........................................................ – Dec 2012 – 1,327 
€1,600m 6.25% subordinated notes .......................................................... –Mar 2018 2,118 2,073 
€1,750m 6.0% subordinated notes ............................................................ –Jun 2019 2,882 2,388 
€700m 3.625% callable subordinated notes
4
 ......................................... Jun 2015 Jun 2020 974 869
20,569 21,456 
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings
€600m 8.03% subordinated step-up cumulative notes
5
 ......................... Jun 2012 Jun 2040 – 775
US$1,250m 4.61% fixed/floating subordinated notes ................................... Jun 2013 Jun 2043 1,264 1,223 
€1,400m 5.3687% fixed/floating subordinated notes ............................... Mar 2014 Dec 2043 1,952 1,791 
£500m 8.208% subordinated step-up cumulative notes ........................ Jun 2015 Jun 2040 806 771
€750m 5.13% fixed/floating subordinated notes ................................... Mar 2016 Dec 2044 1,043 941
US$900m 10.176% subordinated step-up cumulative notes ...................... Jun 2030 Jun 2040 891 891
5,956 6,392 
26,525 27,848 
1 Amounts owed to third parties represent securities included in the capital base of HSBC as lower tier 2 securities in accordance with 
guidance in the FSA’s GENPRU.
2 In February 2013, HSBC Holdings gave notice that it will call and redeem the bonds at par in April 2013.
3 The interest rate payable after October 2017 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 1.3%. 
4 The interest rate payable after June 2015 is the sum of the three-month Euribor plus 0.93%. 
5 In June 2012, HSBC Holdings redeemed its €600m 8.03% subordinated step-up cumulative notes at par.  485
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
34 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments 
The table on page 486 provides an analysis of consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments 
by residual contractual maturity at the balance sheet date. Asset and liability balances are included in the maturity 
analysis as follows: 
• except for reverse repos, repos and debt securities in issue, trading assets and liabilities (including trading 
derivatives) are included in the ‘Due less than one month’ time bucket, and not by contractual maturity because 
trading balances are typically held for short periods of time; 
• financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity (such as equity securities) are included in the ‘Due 
over five years’ time bucket. Undated or perpetual instruments are classified based on the contractual notice 
period which the counterparty of the instrument is entitled to give. Where there is no contractual notice period, 
undated or perpetual contracts are included in the ‘Due over five years’ time bucket;  
• non financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity (such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill 
and intangible assets, current and deferred tax assets and liabilities and retirement benefit liabilities) are included 
in the ‘Due over five years’ time bucket; 
• financial instruments included within assets and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale are classified on the 
basis of the contractual maturity of the underlying instruments and not on the basis of the disposal transaction; 
and
• liabilities under insurance contracts are included in the ‘Due over five years’ time bucket. Liabilities under 
investment contracts are classified in accordance with their contractual maturity. Undated investment contracts 
are classified based on the contractual notice period investors are entitled to give. Where there is no contractual 
notice period, undated contracts are included in the ‘Due over five years’ time bucket. 
Loan and other credit-related commitments are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be drawn 
down. HIGHLY RESTRICTED 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
34 - Maturity analysis 
486
HSBC
Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities 
At 31 December 2012 
 Due
 less than
 1 month 
 Due
 between
 1 and 3
 months 
 Due
 between
 3 and 6
 months 
 Due
 between
 6 and 9
 months 
 Due
 between
 9 months
 and 1 year 
 Due
 between
 1 and 2
 years 
 Due
 between
 2 and 5
 years 
 Due
 over 
 5 years  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Financial assets 
Cash and balances at central banks .......................................................... 141,532 – – – – – – – 141,532 
Items in the course of collection from other banks .................................. 7,303 – – – – – – – 7,303 
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness ............................. 22,743 – – – – – – – 22,743 
Trading assets ........................................................................................... 382,654 12,506 9,829 248 3,169 405 – – 408,811 
– Reverse repos .................................................................................... 92,525 12,506 9,829 248 3,169 405 – – 118,682
– Other trading assets ........................................................................... 290,129 – – – – – – – 290,129
Financial assets designated at fair value .................................................. 437 576 425 526 239 2,462 3,545 25,372 33,582 
Derivatives ................................................................................................ 354,222 65 252 22 227 596 1,127 939 357,450 
– Trading .............................................................................................. 353,803 – – – – – – – 353,803
– Non-trading ....................................................................................... 419 65 252 22 227 596 1,127 939 3,647
Loans and advances to banks ................................................................... 104,397 22,683 5,859 2,292 5,032 6,238 2,027 4,018 152,546 
– Reverse repos .................................................................................... 28,833 3,101 2,071 356 963 138 – – 35,462
– Other loans and advances to banks ..................................................: 75,564 19,582 3,788 1,936 4,069 6,100 2,027 4,018 117,084
Loans and advances to customers ............................................................ 221,242 69,709 47,507 29,659 71,928 59,100 194,147 304,331 997,623 
– Personal ............................................................................................. 49,042 8,578 7,242 6,763 9,547 17,696 66,684 241,329 406,881
– Corporate and commercial ................................................................ 138,999 49,166 35,463 19,334 53,766 38,070 119,330 55,910 510,038
– Financial ............................................................................................ 33,201 11,965 4,802 3,562 8,615 3,334 8,133 7,092 80,704
Of which: 
– Reverse repos ................................................................................ 19,847 10,640 2,310 1,050 554 250 – – 34,651
Financial investments ............................................................................... 28,085 51,339 33,996 14,072 26,478 61,443 93,127 112,561 421,101 
Assets held for sale ................................................................................... 4,953 298 515 125 669 519 1,079 9,964 18,122 
Accrued income ........................................................................................ 2,776 2,325 739 493 542 164 217 1,284 8,540 
Other financial assets ................................................................................ 13,383 3,486 1,759 337 745 332 372 3,170 23,584 
Total financial assets .............................................................................. 1,283,727 162,987 100,881 47,774 109,029 131,259 295,641 461,639 2,592,937 
Non financial assets .................................................................................. – – – – – – – 99,601 99,601 
Total assets .............................................................................................. 1,283,727 162,987 100,881 47,774 109,029 131,259 295,641 561,240 2,692,538  HIGHLY RESTRICTED 
Shareholder Information  Financial Statements Corporate Governance  Operating & Financial Review Overview
Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities (continued)
At 31 December 2012 
 Due
 less than
 1 month 
 Due
 between
 1 and 3
 months 
 Due
 between
 3 and 6
 months 
 Due
 between
 6 and 9
 months 
 Due
 between
 9 months
 and 1 year 
 Due
 between
 1 and 2
 years 
 Due
 between
 2 and 5
 years 
 Due
 over 
 5 years  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Financial liabilities 
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation ................................................ 22,742 – – – – – – – 22,742 
Deposits by banks ..................................................................................... 79,100 12,029 1,957 437 2,155 1,695 9,440 616 107,429 
– Repos ................................................................................................. 6,593 4,645 711 – – – – – 11,949
– Other deposits by banks .................................................................... 72,507 7,384 1,246 437 2,155 1,695 9,440 616 95,480
Customer accounts
1
 .................................................................................. 1,193,736 67,638 34,010 11,939 16,019 7,034 8,985 653 1,340,014 
– Personal ............................................................................................. 539,792 35,260 21,939 7,900 11,100 4,687 3,916 307 624,901
– Corporate and commercial ................................................................ 473,370 24,018 9,044 2,925 3,354 1,069 1,193 305 515,278
– Financial ............................................................................................ 180,574 8,360 3,027 1,114 1,565 1,278 3,876 41 199,835
Of which: repos .................................................................................... 22,446 3,869 1,047 345 567 344 – – 28,618
Items in the course of transmission to other banks .................................. 7,131 7 – – – – – – 7,138 
Trading liabilities ...................................................................................... 240,212 29,003 4,707 1,820 5,197 3,867 9,736 10,021 304,563 
– Repos ................................................................................................. 96,690 27,002 3,319 985 2,227 – – – 130,223
– Debt securities in issue ...................................................................... 380 2,001 1,388 835 2,970 3,867 9,736 10,021 31,198
– Other trading liabilities ..................................................................... 143,142 – – – – – – – 143,142
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ............................................. 427 81 2,068 2,163 1,605 2,916 28,902 49,558 87,720 
– Debt securities in issue: covered bonds ............................................ – – – – – – 4,633 – 4,633
– Debt securities in issue: otherwise secured ....................................... – 8 2,023 – 22 2,040 228 221 4,542
– Debt securities in issue: unsecured ................................................... 392 49 1 2,117 1,357 690 23,495 15,933 44,034
– Subordinated liabilities and preferred securities ............................... – – – – – – 21 21,538 21,559
– Other .................................................................................................. 35 24 44 46 226 186 525 11,866 12,952
Derivatives ................................................................................................ 352,696 75 43 29 2,408 628 1,212 1,795 358,886 
– Trading .............................................................................................. 352,195 – – – – – – – 352,195
– Non-trading ....................................................................................... 501 75 43 29 2,408 628 1,212 1,795 6,691
Debt securities in issue ............................................................................. 23,738 12,368 6,355 2,840 27,992 11,992 29,100 5,076 119,461 
– Covered bonds ................................................................................... – – 1,133 422 757 2,328 1,920 486 7,046
– Otherwise secured ............................................................................. 14,598 1,894 – 184 753 1,634 5,779 950 25,792
– Unsecured .......................................................................................... 9,140 10,474 5,222 2,234 26,482 8,030 21,401 3,640 86,623
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale .............................................. 2,475 242 433 254 188 166 45 – 3,803 
Accruals .................................................................................................... 3,369 4,173 907 521 1,200 232 419 842 11,663 
Subordinated liabilities ............................................................................. 32 44 – 10 – 1,481 1,516 26,396 29,479 
Other financial liabilities .......................................................................... 19,837 4,881 2,115 519 867 599 1,409 2,190 32,417 
Total financial liabilities ........................................................................ 1,945,495 130,541 52,595 20,532 57,631 30,610 90,764 97,147 2,425,315 
Non financial liabilities ............................................................................ – – – – – – – 84,094 84,094 
Total liabilities ........................................................................................ 1,945,495 130,541 52,595 20,532 57,631 30,610 90,764 181,241 2,509,409  HIGHLY RESTRICTED 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
34 – Maturity analysis 
488
Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities (continued) 
At 31 December 2011 
 Due 
 less than 
 1 month 
 Due 
 between 
 1 and 3 
 months 
 Due 
 between 
 3 and 6 
 months 
 Due 
 between 
 6 and 9 
 months 
 Due 
 between 
 9 months 
 and 1 year 
 Due 
 between 
 1 and 2 
 years 
 Due 
 between 
 2 and 5 
 years 
 Due 
 over 
 5 years  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Financial assets          
Cash and balances at central banks .......................................................... 129,902 – – – – – – – 129,902 
Items in the course of collection from other banks .................................. 8,208 – – – – – – – 8,208 
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness............................. 20,922 – – – – – – – 20,922 
Trading assets ........................................................................................... 318,031 7,432 1,712 225 3,033 18 – – 330,451 
– Reverse repos .................................................................................... 67,428 7,432 1,712 225 3,033 18 – – 79,848
– Other trading assets ........................................................................... 250,603 – – – – – – – 250,603
Financial assets designated at fair value .................................................. 595 565 687 595 139 2,748 4,145 21,382 30,856 
Derivatives ................................................................................................ 343,980 155 275 136 423 606 605 199 346,379 
– Trading .............................................................................................. 342,914 – – – – – – – 342,914
– Non-trading ....................................................................................... 1,066 155 275 136 423 606 605 199 3,465
Loans and advances to banks ................................................................... 123,370 25,288 5,460 2,573 14,441 3,120 3,346 3,389 180,987 
– Reverse repos .................................................................................... 35,372 3,854 – 1,047 135 1,301 201 – 41,910
– Other loans and advances to banks ................................................... 87,998 21,434 5,460 1,526 14,306 1,819 3,145 3,389 139,077
Loans and advances to customers ............................................................ 211,680 70,941 45,294 28,769 53,251 63,518 186,601 280,375 940,429 
– Personal ............................................................................................. 47,609 8,314 6,912 5,975 7,674 19,005 66,525 221,851 383,865
– Corporate and commercial ................................................................ 123,130 49,856 34,082 17,304 38,875 39,467 112,270 56,061 471,045
– Financial ............................................................................................ 40,941 12,771 4,300 5,490 6,702 5,046 7,806 2,463 85,519
Of which:          
– Reverse repos ................................................................................ 23,704 10,450 2,306 3,710 – 250 1,000 – 41,420
Financial investments ............................................................................... 25,546 50,070 39,698 14,879 21,902 45,266 90,953 111,730 400,044 
Assets held for sale ................................................................................... 4,922 5,767 4,427 3,233 2,934 7,223 7,064 2,238 37,808 
Accrued income ........................................................................................ 2,787 2,479 765 393 361 231 339 1,596 8,951 
Other financial assets ................................................................................ 8,878 3,403 2,084 785 2,771 513 140 5,466 24,040 
Total financial assets ................................................................................ 1,198,821 166,100 100,402 51,588 99,255 123,243 293,193 426,375 2,458,977 
Non financial assets .................................................................................. – – – – – – – 96,602 96,602 
Total assets ............................................................................................... 1,198,821 166,100 100,402 51,588 99,255 123,243 293,193 522,977 2,555,579  HIGHLY RESTRICTED 
489
Shareholder Information  Financial Statements Corporate Governance  Operating & Financial Review Overview
Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities (continued)
At 31 December 2011 
 Due 
 less than 
 1 month 
 Due 
 between 
 1 and 3 
 months 
 Due 
 between 
 3 and 6 
 months 
 Due 
 between 
 6 and 9 
 months 
 Due 
 between 
 9 months 
 and 1 year 
 Due 
 between 
 1 and 2 
 years 
 Due 
 between 
 2 and 5 
 years 
 Due 
 over 
 5 years  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Financial liabilities          
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation ................................................ 20,922 – – – – – – – 20,922 
Deposits by banks ..................................................................................... 84,091 12,056 2,145 1,406 1,673 1,681 8,938 832 112,822 
– Repos ................................................................................................. 16,301 336 – 979 – – – – 17,616
– Other deposits by banks .................................................................... 67,790 11,720 2,145 427 1,673 1,681 8,938 832 95,206
Customer accounts
1
 .................................................................................. 1,054,843 84,853 35,792 16,650 22,052 12,982 25,362 1,391 1,253,925 
– Personal ............................................................................................. 488,966 40,522 19,917 6,433 14,057 6,214 12,260 723 589,092
– Corporate and commercial ................................................................ 405,015 32,088 12,754 9,148 3,933 5,484 8,272 599 477,293
– Financial ............................................................................................ 160,862 12,243 3,121 1,069 4,062 1,284 4,830 69 187,540
Of which: repos .................................................................................... 13,299 6,921 3,444 5,330 1,412 379 – – 30,785
Items in the course of transmission to other banks .................................. 8,745 – – – – – – – 8,745 
Trading liabilities ...................................................................................... 228,365 7,757 1,782 726 6,794 4,185 8,418 7,165 265,192 
– Repos ................................................................................................. 77,900 6,056 716 – 2,160 6 – – 86,838
– Debt securities in issue ...................................................................... 2,098 1,701 1,066 726 4,634 4,179 8,418 7,165 29,987
– Other trading liabilities ..................................................................... 148,367 – – – – – – – 148,367
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ............................................. 39 22 2,846 430 5,923 4,575 24,857 47,032 85,724 
– Debt securities in issue: covered bonds ............................................ – – – – 2 – 2,263 374 2,639
– Debt securities in issue: otherwise secured ....................................... – – – – – 2,164 2,013 109 4,286
– Debt securities in issue: unsecured ................................................... – – 2,802 385 3,115 2,093 20,091 16,786 45,272
– Subordinated liabilities and preferred securities ............................... – – – – 2,765 1 17 18,828 21,611
– Other .................................................................................................. 39 22 44 45 41 317 473 10,935 11,916
Derivatives ................................................................................................ 339,092 103 68 19 144 389 1,202 4,363 345,380 
– Trading .............................................................................................. 338,788 – – – – – – – 338,788
– Non-trading ....................................................................................... 304 103 68 19 144 389 1,202 4,363 6,592
Debt securities in issue ............................................................................. 31,806 15,900 4,920 5,577 15,926 14,438 36,120 6,326 131,013 
– Covered bonds ................................................................................... 4 627 383 52 1,548 2,277 4,133 1,119 10,143
– Otherwise secured ............................................................................. 17,869 5,293 273 387 392 704 3,894 2,171 30,983
– Unsecured .......................................................................................... 13,933 9,980 4,264 5,138 13,986 11,457 28,093 3,036 89,887
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale .............................................. 16,412 1,164 462 225 2,536 343 297 561 22,000 
Accruals .................................................................................................... 3,141 4,921 1,142 443 707 415 384 646 11,799 
Subordinated liabilities ............................................................................. 129 – – 300 381 10 3,026 26,760 30,606 
Other financial liabilities .......................................................................... 12,403 5,415 2,419 835 1,576 814 626 1,823 25,911 
Total financial liabilities ........................................................................... 1,799,988 132,191 51,576 26,611 57,712 39,832 109,230 96,899 2,314,039 
Non financial liabilities............................................................................ – – – – – – – 75,447 75,447
Total liabilities .......................................................................................... 1,799,988 132,191 51,576 26,611 57,712 39,832 109,230 172,346 2,389,486 
1 Includes US$366,203m (2011: US$387,655m) insured by guarantee schemes HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
34 – Maturity analysis
490
Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet commitments received 
 Due
 less than
 1 month 
 Due
 between
 1 and 3
 months 
 Due
 between
 3 and 6
 months 
 Due
 between
 6 and 9
 months 
 Due
 between
 9 months
 and 1 year 
 Due
 between
 1 and 2
 years 
 Due
 between
 2 and 5
 years 
 Due
 over 
 5 years  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Loan and other credit-related commitments ............................................. 2,455 3 8 5 8 25 75 98 2,677  
         
At 31 December 2011          
Loan and other credit-related commitments 5,280 2 36 3 6 19 508 143 5,997  
Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet commitments given 
 Due
 less than
 1 month 
 Due
 between
 1 and 3
 months 
 Due
 between
 3 and 6
 months 
 Due
 between
 6 and 9
 months 
 Due
 between
 9 months
 and 1 year 
 Due
 between
 1 and 2
 years 
 Due
 between
 2 and 5
 years 
 Due
 over 
 5 years  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2012 
Loan and other credit-related commitments ............................................. 408,815 43,394 8,389 5,191 37,751 11,598 45,910 18,421 579,469  
Of which: 
– Personal ............................................................................................. 153,255 6,999 704 185 19,049 1,216 1,616 8,159 191,183  
– Corporate and commercial ................................................................ 225,899 34,368 6,365 4,951 15,412 9,488 37,179 8,593 342,255  
– Financial ............................................................................................ 29,661 2,027 1,320 55 3,290 894 7,115 1,669 46,031  
         
At 31 December 2011          
Loan and other credit-related commitments ............................................. 373,426 47,187 20,076 35,673 38,368 32,230 78,831 29,113 654,904  
Of which:          
– Personal ............................................................................................. 246,570 7,569 2,124 4,848 4,431 7,507 12,262 7,706 293,017  
– Corporate and commercial ................................................................ 114,741 36,866 15,289 19,589 25,890 20,767 57,853 18,281 309,276  
– Financial ............................................................................................ 12,115 2,752 2,663 11,236 8,047 3,956 8,716 3,126 52,611   HIGHLY RESTRICTED 
491
Shareholder Information  Financial Statements Corporate Governance  Operating & Financial Review Overview
HSBC Holdings 
Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments 
At 31 December 2012 
 Due
 less than
 1 month 
 Due
 between
 1 and 3
 months 
 Due
 between
 3 and 6
 months 
 Due
 between
 6 and 9
 months 
 Due
 between
 9 months
 and 1 year 
 Due
 between
 1 and 2
 years 
 Due
 between
 2 and 5
 years 
 Due
 over 
 5 years  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Financial assets 
Cash at bank and in hand: 
– balances with HSBC undertakings ................................................... 353 – – – – – – – 353
Derivatives ................................................................................................ 3,768 – – – – – – – 3,768 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings ............................................ 6,275 2,395 3,992 – 15 35 635 28,328 41,675 
Financial investments ............................................................................... 23 – 8 – – – – 1,177 1,208 
Other financial assets ................................................................................ 4 – – – – – – – 4
Total financial assets .............................................................................. 10,423 2,395 4,000 – 15 35 635 29,505 47,008 
Non financial assets .................................................................................. – – – – – – – 92,476 92,476 
Total assets .............................................................................................. 10,423 2,395 4,000 – 15 35 635 121,981 139,484 
Financial liabilities 
Amounts owing to HSBC undertakings ................................................... 3,576 19 980 – – – 1,333 6,948 12,856 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ............................................. – – – – – 1,258 21,937 23,195 
– Debt securities in issue .......................................................................... – – – – – – 1,258 7,319 8,577
– Subordinated liabilities and preferred securities ................................... – – – – – – – 14,618 14,618
Derivatives ................................................................................................ 760 – – – – – – – 760
Debt securities in issue ............................................................................. – – – – – 1,646 – 1,045 2,691 
Accruals .................................................................................................... 223 171 190 21 – – – – 605
Subordinated liabilities ............................................................................. – – – – – – – 11,907 11,907 
Total financial liabilities ........................................................................ 4,559 190 1,170 21 – 1,646 2,591 41,837 52,014 
Non financial liabilities ............................................................................ – – – – – – – 443 443
Total liabilities ........................................................................................ 4,559 190 1,170 21 – 1,646 2,591 42,280 52,457 
Off-balance sheet commitments given 
Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to 
lend ....................................................................................................... 1,200 – – – – – – – 1,200  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
34 – Maturity analysis / 35 – Foreign exchange exposures / 36 – Assets charged as security and collateral  
492
Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments (continued)
At 31 December 2011 
 Due 
 less than 
 1 month 
 Due 
 between 
 1 and 3 
 months 
 Due 
 between 
 3 and 6 
 months 
 Due 
 between 
 6 and 9 
 months 
 Due 
 between 
 9 months 
 and 1 year 
 Due 
 between 
 1 and 2 
 years 
 Due 
 between 
 2 and 5 
 years 
 Due 
 over 
 5 years  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Financial assets          
Cash at bank and in hand:          
– balances with HSBC undertakings ................................................... 316 – – – – – – – 316 
Derivatives ................................................................................................ 3,568 – – – – – – – 3,568 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings ............................................ 5,518 973 4,028 366 1,312 – 1,994 13,857 28,048 
Financial investments ............................................................................... 22 – 9 – – – – 1,047 1,078
Other financial assets ................................................................................ 1 – – – – – – – 1 
Total financial assets ................................................................................ 9,425 973 4,037 366 1,312 – 1,994 14,904 33,011 
Non financial assets .................................................................................. – – – – – – – 90,851 90,851 
Total assets ............................................................................................... 9,425 973 4,037 366 1,312 – 1,994 105,755 123,862 
         
Financial liabilities          
Amounts owing to HSBC undertakings ................................................... 1,101 – 64 – – – 1,314 – 2,479 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value ............................................. – – – – 2,765 – 1,177 17,209 21,151
– Debt securities in issue .......................................................................... – – – – – – 1,177 4,576 5,753
– Subordinated liabilities and preferred securities ................................... – – – – 2,765 – – 12,633 15,398
Derivatives ................................................................................................ 1,067 – – – – – – – 1,067 
Debt securities in issue ............................................................................. – – – – – – 1,612 1,001 2,613 
Accruals .................................................................................................... 200 167 188 20 – – – – 575 
Subordinated liabilities ............................................................................. – – – – – – – 12,450 12,450
Other financial liabilities .......................................................................... 885 – – – – – – – 885 
Total financial liabilities ........................................................................... 3,253 167 252 20 2,765 – 4,103 30,660 41,220 
Non financial liabilities ............................................................................ – – – – – – – 459 459 
Total liabilities .......................................................................................... 3,253 167 252 20 2,765 – 4,103 31,119 41,679 
         
Off-balance sheet commitments given          
Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to 
lend....................................................................................................... 1,810 – – – – – – – 1,810  493
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
35 Foreign exchange exposures 
Structural foreign exchange exposures 
HSBC’s structural foreign exchange exposures are represented by the net asset value of its foreign exchange equity 
and subordinated debt investments in subsidiaries, branches, joint ventures and associates with non-US dollar 
functional currencies. Gains or losses on structural foreign exchange exposures are recognised in other 
comprehensive income. HSBC’s management of its structural foreign exchange exposures is discussed on page 268. 
In its separate financial statements, HSBC Holdings recognises its foreign exchange gains and losses on structural 
foreign exchange exposures in the income statement. 
Net structural foreign exchange exposures 
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m  US$m 
Currency of structural exposure 
Pound sterling ........................................................................................................................................... 27,305  22,668 
Euro ........................................................................................................................................................... 23,945  22,400 
Chinese renminbi ...................................................................................................................................... 19,060  21,234 
Hong Kong dollars ................................................................................................................................... 14,466  4,828 
Brazilian reais ........................................................................................................................................... 6,279  6,097 
Mexican pesos .......................................................................................................................................... 5,948  5,319 
Canadian dollars ....................................................................................................................................... 5,024  4,848 
Indian rupees ............................................................................................................................................. 3,967  3,967 
Swiss francs .............................................................................................................................................. 2,925  2,133 
UAE dirhams ............................................................................................................................................ 2,807  2,650 
Saudi riyals ............................................................................................................................................... 2,219  1,965 
Malaysian ringgit ...................................................................................................................................... 2,165  1,829 
Turkish lira ................................................................................................................................................ 1,787  1,565 
Australian dollars ...................................................................................................................................... 1,602  1,455 
Korean won ............................................................................................................................................... 1,520  1,411 
Taiwanese dollars ..................................................................................................................................... 1,513  1,457 
Indonesian rupiah ..................................................................................................................................... 1,317  1,235 
Argentine pesos ........................................................................................................................................ 1,054  984
Egyptian pounds ....................................................................................................................................... 699 692
Vietnamese dong ...................................................................................................................................... 762 686
Singapore dollars ...................................................................................................................................... 874 670
Philippine pesos ........................................................................................................................................ 787 663
Thailand Baht ............................................................................................................................................ 653 484
Qatari rial .................................................................................................................................................. 599 608
Others, each less than US$500m .............................................................................................................. 4,169  4,167 
Total .......................................................................................................................................................... 133,446  116,015 
Shareholders’ equity would decrease by US$2,562m (2011: US$2,146m) if euro and sterling foreign currency 
exchange rates weakened by 5% relative to the US dollar. 
36 Assets charged as security for liabilities and collateral accepted as security for assets 
Financial assets pledged to secure liabilities 
Assets pledged at 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m  US$m 
Treasury bills and other eligible securities ............................................................................................... 4,381   5,185 
Loans and advances to banks ................................................................................................................... 22,074   19,247 
Loans and advances to customers ............................................................................................................ 81,333   81,570 
Debt securities .......................................................................................................................................... 198,671   210,255 
Equity shares ............................................................................................................................................. 6,255   6,916 
Other ......................................................................................................................................................... 1,090   1,003 
313,804   324,176 
The table above shows assets over which a legal charge has been granted to secure liabilities. The amount of such 
assets may be greater than the book value of assets utilised as collateral for funding purposes or to cover liabilities. 
This is the case for securitisations and covered bonds where the amount of liabilities issued, plus any mandatory 
over-collateralisation, is less than the book value of financial assets available for funding or collateral purposes in the  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
37 – Non-controlling interests / 38 - Called up share capital 
494
relevant pool of assets. This is also the case where financial assets are placed with a custodian or settlement agent, 
which has a floating charge over all the financial assets placed to secure any liabilities under settlement accounts.  
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to collateralised transactions, including, 
where relevant, standard securities lending and repurchase agreements. 
Collateral accepted as security for assets 
The fair value of assets accepted as collateral that HSBC is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default is 
US$295,709m (2011: US$302,285m). The fair value of any such collateral that has been sold or repledged was 
US$202,662m (2011: US$188,682m). HSBC is obliged to return equivalent securities. 
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard securities borrowing and 
reverse repurchase agreements. 
37 Non-controlling interests 
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m  US$m 
Non-controlling interests attributable to holders of ordinary shares in subsidiaries ............................... 5,159   4,656 
Preferred securities issued by subsidiaries ............................................................................................... 2,728   2,712 
7,887   7,368 
Preferred securities issued by subsidiaries 
Preferred securities are securities for which there is no obligation to pay a dividend and, if not paid, the dividend 
may not be cumulative. Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank higher than ordinary shares for 
dividend payments and in the event of a winding-up. These securities have no stated maturity date but may be called 
and redeemed by the issuer, subject to prior notification to the FSA and, where relevant, the consent of the local 
banking regulator. Dividends on the floating rate preferred securities are generally related to interbank offer rates. 
Included in the capital base of HSBC are non-cumulative preferred securities classified as tier 1 capital and 
cumulative preferred securities classified as tier 2 capital in accordance with the rules and guidance in the FSA’s 
GENPRU.
HSBC’s subsidiaries have the following preferred securities in issue: 
 At 31 December 
First call 
date
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
HSBC USA Inc.
US$150m Depositary shares each representing 25% interest in a share of  
adjustable-rate cumulative preferred stock, series D .................................... Jul 1999 150 150
US$150m Cumulative preferred stock ................................................................................ Oct 2007 150 150
US$518m Floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, series F ..................................... Apr 2010 518 518
US$374m Floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, series G .................................... Jan 2011 374 374
US$374m 6.50% non-cumulative preferred stock, series H .............................................. Jul 2011 374 374
HSBC Finance Corporation 
US$575m 6.36% non-cumulative preferred stock, series B ............................................... Jun 2010 559 559
HSBC Bank Canada 
CAD175m Non-cumulative redeemable class 1 preferred shares, series C ........................ Jun 2010 176 171
CAD175m Non-cumulative class 1 preferred shares, series D ............................................ Dec 2010 176 171
CAD250m Non-cumulative 5 year rate reset class 1 preferred shares, series E .................. Jun 2014 251 245
2,728  2,712  495
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
38 Called up share capital and other equity instruments 
Issued and fully paid 
At 31 December 
2012 2011
US$m US$m 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
1
 ............................................................................................................. 9,238 8,934 
Number US$m 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 each 
At 1 January 2012 ..................................................................................................................................... 17,868,085,646 8,934 
Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans ................................................................................... 238,587,766 119
Shares issued in lieu of dividends ............................................................................................................ 369,335,252 185
At 31 December 2012 ............................................................................................................................... 18,476,008,664 9,238 
At 1 January 2011 ..................................................................................................................................... 17,686,155,902 8,843 
Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans ................................................................................... 11,354,577 6 
Shares issued in lieu of dividends ............................................................................................................ 170,575,167 85 
At 31 December 2011 ............................................................................................................................... 17,868,085,646 8,934 
Number US$m 
HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each 
At 1 January 2012 and 31 December 2012
2
 ............................................................................................. 1,450,000 –
At 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011 .............................................................................................. 1,450,000 – 
1 All HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue confer identical rights in respect of capital, dividends, voting and otherwise. 
2 Included in the capital base of HSBC as tier 1 capital in accordance with the rules and guidance in GENPRU. 
Dividends on the HSBC Holdings non-cumulative dollar preference shares in issue (‘dollar preference shares’) are 
paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors will not declare 
a dividend on the dollar preference shares if payment of the dividend would cause HSBC Holdings not to meet the 
applicable capital adequacy requirements of the FSA or the profit of HSBC Holdings available for distribution as 
dividends is not sufficient to enable HSBC Holdings to pay in full both dividends on the dollar preference shares and 
dividends on any other shares that are scheduled to be paid on the same date and that have an equal right to dividends. 
HSBC Holdings may not declare or pay dividends on any class of its shares ranking lower in the right to dividends 
than the dollar preference shares nor redeem nor purchase in any manner any of its other shares ranking equal with or 
lower than the dollar preference shares unless it has paid in full, or set aside an amount to provide for payment in full, 
the dividends on the dollar preference shares for the then-current dividend period. The dollar preference shares carry 
no rights to conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings. Holders of the dollar preference shares will only be 
entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of shareholders of HSBC Holdings if the dividend payable on the dollar 
preference shares has not been paid in full for four consecutive dividend payment dates. In such circumstances, 
holders of the dollar preference shares will be entitled to vote on all matters put to general meetings until such time 
as HSBC Holdings has paid a full dividend on the dollar preference shares. HSBC Holdings may redeem the dollar 
preference shares in whole at any time on or after 16 December 2010, subject to prior notification to the FSA. 
HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference shares of £0.01 each 
The one non-cumulative sterling preference share of £0.01 in issue (‘sterling preference share’) has been in issue since 
29 December 2010 and is held by a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings. Dividends on the sterling preference share are paid 
quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. The sterling preference share carries no rights of conversion 
into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings and no rights to attend and vote at general meetings of shareholders of HSBC 
Holdings. HSBC Holdings may redeem it in whole at any time at the option of the Company. 
Other equity instruments 
Other equity instruments which have been included in the capital base of HSBC were issued in accordance with the 
rules and guidance in the FSA’s General Prudential Sourcebook (‘GENPRU’). These securities may be called and 
redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the FSA. If not redeemed at the first call date interest coupons 
remain unchanged.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
38 - Called up share capital 
496
Tier 1 capital securities 
Tier 1 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which coupon payments may be deferred at the 
discretion of HSBC Holdings. While any coupon payments are unpaid or deferred, HSBC Holdings will not declare, 
pay dividends or make distributions or similar periodic payments in respect of, or repurchase, redeem or otherwise 
acquire any securities of lower or equal rank. Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank higher than 
ordinary shares for coupon payments and in the event of a winding-up. 
At HSBC Holdings’ discretion, and subject to certain conditions being satisfied, the capital securities may be 
exchanged on any coupon payment date for non-cumulative preference shares to be issued by HSBC Holdings and 
which would rank pari passu with the dollar and sterling preference shares in issue. The preference shares will be 
issued at a nominal value of US$0.01 per share and a premium of US$24.99 per share, with both such amounts being 
subscribed and fully paid. 
HSBC has the following qualifying tier 1 capital securities in issue which are accounted for in equity: 
 At 31 December 
First call 
date
2012
US$m 
2011
US$m 
US$2,200m 8.125% perpetual subordinated capital securities............................................. Apr 2013 2,133 2,133 
US$3,800m 8.00% perpetual subordinated capital securities, Series 2 ................................ Dec 2015 3,718 3,718 
5,851 5,851 
Shares under option 
Details of the options outstanding to subscribe for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings 
Group Share Option Plan, the HSBC Share Plan and HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans are given 
in Note 7. 
Aggregate options outstanding under these plans 
 Number of
 HSBC Holdings
 ordinary shares  Period of exercise  Exercise price 
31 December 2012 ................................................... 159,703,771 2013 to 2018 £3.3116 – 7.9911 
31,637,840 2013 to 2018 HK$37.8797 – 94.5057 
2,180,263 2013 to 2018 €3.6361 – 9.5912 
6,488,894 2013 to 2018 US$4.8876 – 12.0958 
31 December 2011 .................................................... 216,078,250 2012 to 2017  £3.3116 – 7.9911 
 45,422,511 2012 to 2017  HK$37.8797 – 94.5057 
 3,176,265 2012 to 2017  €3.6361 – 9.5912 
 9,752,066 2012 to 2017  US$4.8876 – 12.0958 
31 December 2010 .................................................... 249,242,968  2011 to 2016   £3.3116 – 8.4024 
 47,428,892  2011 to 2016   HK$37.8797 – 94.5057 
 3,128,508  2011 to 2016   €3.6361 – 9.5912 
 10,899,415  2011 to 2016   US$4.8876 – 12.0958 
HSBC France plan 
When it was acquired in 2000, HSBC France and certain of its subsidiary companies, including HSBC Private Bank 
France, operated employee share option plans under which options could be granted over their respective shares.  
There were outstanding options over the shares of HSBC Private Bank France, a subsidiary of HSBC France. On 
exercise of those options, the HSBC Private Bank France shares were exchangeable for HSBC Holdings ordinary 
shares at the ratio of 2.099984 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC Private Bank France share. 
On 31 October 2011, HSBC Private Bank France merged with HSBC France. Options held over shares of HSBC 
Private Bank France were converted into options over shares of HSBC France, at an exchange ratio of 7 HSBC 
France shares for 45 HSBC Private Bank France shares. The options outstanding at 31 October 2011 were adjusted to 
reflect the option exchange ratio. On exercise of these options, HSBC France shares would have been exchanged for 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the ratio of 13.499897 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC France 
share. 497
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
During 2011 and 2012 there were no HSBC Private Bank France shares issued and no shares were exchanged for 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. During 2012, 22,645 options over HSBC France shares lapsed (2011: 141,525). 
At 31 December 2012 no options over HSBC France shares were outstanding. 
At 31 December 2012, The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 (Private Banking France) held 989,502 (2011: 
989,502) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.  
HSBC France options outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
 Number of HSBC
 France shares
 exchangeable for
 HSBC Holdings
 ordinary shares  Period of exercise  Exercise price 
31 December 2012 .......................................................... –  2012  €142.84 
31 December 2011
1
 ..........................................................  22,645  2012   €142.84 
31 December 2010 ...........................................................  287,100  2011 to 2012   €20.80 – 22.22 
1 These options replaced the options over shares in HSBC Private Bank France which were outstanding on 31 October 2011 prior to the
merger taking place. 
HSBC Finance 
Upon the acquisition of HSBC Finance in 2003, all outstanding options over, and rights to receive, HSBC Finance 
common shares were converted into options over, and rights to receive, HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the same 
ratio as the share exchange offer for the acquisition of HSBC Finance (2.675 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for 
each HSBC Finance common share). The exercise price payable for each option was adjusted using the same ratio. 
During 2012, 2,053,838 (2011: nil) options were exercised over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and 2,053,838 
(2011: nil) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares were delivered from The HSBC (Household) Employee Benefit Trust 
2003. During 2012, options over 375,700 (2011: 8,688,288) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares lapsed.  At 
31 December 2012 no options over HSBC Holdings ordinary share were outstanding. 
At 31 December 2012, The HSBC (Household) Employee Benefit Trust 2003 held a total of 281,477 (2011: 
2,335,315) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and 1,455 (2011: 1,455) ADSs.  Each ADS represents five HSBC 
Holdings ordinary shares. 
Options outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Finance share plan 
 Number of
 HSBC Holdings
 ordinary shares  Period of exercise  Exercise price 
31 December 2012 .......................................................... –  2012 US$9.29 
31 December 2011...........................................................  2,429,538  2012   US$9.29 
31 December 2010...........................................................  11,117,826  2011 to 2012   US$9.29 – 18.62 
HSBC Bank Bermuda plans 
Upon the acquisition of HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited (‘HSBC Bank Bermuda’) in 2004, all outstanding options 
over HSBC Bank Bermuda shares were converted into options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares using an 
exchange ratio calculated by dividing US$40 (being the consideration paid for each HSBC Bank Bermuda Share) 
by the average price of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares over the five-day period to the completion of the acquisition. 
The exercise price payable for each option was adjusted using the same exchange ratio. 
During 2011 and 2012 there were no options exercised over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and no shares were 
delivered from the HSBC (Bank of Bermuda) Employee Benefit Trust 2004. During 2012, options over 880,983 
(2011: 2,108,830) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares lapsed. 
At 31 December 2012, the HSBC (Bank of Bermuda) Employee Benefit Trust 2004 held 2,108,830 
(2011: 2,108,830) HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be used to satisfy the exercise of employee options.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
39 – Notes on the statement of cash flows 
498
Options outstanding over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Bank Bermuda share plan 
 Number of 
 HSBC Holdings 
 ordinary shares  Period of exercise  Exercise price 
31 December 2012 .......................................................... 149,924  2013  US$9.32 – 10.33 
31 December 2011...........................................................  1,030,907  2012 to 2013   US$9.32 – 15.99 
31 December 2010............................................................  2,339,033  2011 to 2013   US$9.32 – 15.99 
Maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
At 31 December 2012, the maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under all of the above 
option arrangements, together with GPSP awards and restricted share awards granted under the HSBC Share 
Plan and/or the HSBC Share Plan 2011, was 364,082,766 (2011: 538,265,410). The total number of shares at 
31 December 2012 held by employee benefit trusts that may be used to satisfy such obligations to deliver HSBC 
Holdings ordinary shares was 18,009,459 (2011: 31,840,893). 
39 Notes on the statement of cash flows 
Other non-cash items included in profit before tax 
 HSBC  HSBC Holdings 
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011
US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment .................... 2,531 3,135 2,801 457 1
Gains arising from dilution of interests in associates .......... – (208) (188) – –
Revaluations on investment property .............................. (72) (118) (93) – –
Share-based payment expense ......................................... 988 1,162 812 55 57
Loan impairment losses gross of recoveries and 
other credit risk provisions .......................................... 9,358 13,553 15,059 – –
Provisions ........................................................................ 5,732 2,199 680 – –
Impairment of financial investments ............................... 519 808 105 – –
Charge/(credit) for defined benefit plans ........................ 476 (140) 526 – –
Accretion of discounts and amortisation of premiums ... 246 (513) (815) 23 19
19,778 19,878 18,887 535 77
Change in operating assets 
 HSBC  HSBC Holdings 
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011
US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m 
Change in loans to HSBC undertakings ........................... – – – (3,451) (4,548)
Change in prepayments and accrued income ................... 557 1,907 457 (5) 96
Change in net trading securities and net derivatives ........ (36,829) 27,058 60,337 (507) (1,001)
Change in loans and advances to banks ........................... 1,083 2,618 5,213 – –
Change in loans and advances to customers .................... (72,619) (30,853) (79,283) – –
Change in financial assets designated at fair value .......... (2,698) (583) 154 – –
Change in other assets ...................................................... (6,015) (7,559) (145) (48) (36)
(116,521) (7,412) (13,267) (4,011) (5,489)
Change in operating liabilities 
HSBC  HSBC Holdings 
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011
US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m 
Change in accruals and deferred income .......................... 78 (800) 716 10 258
Change in deposits by banks ............................................ (5,393) 2,238 (14,288) – –
Change in customer accounts ........................................... 90,071 48,401 68,691 – –
Change in debt securities in issue .................................... (11,552) (14,388) (1,495) 86 (45)
Change in financial liabilities designated at fair value .... 2,549 5,468 5,659 2,464 (475)
Change in other liabilities ................................................. 13,317 3,093 (17,011) 391 (152)
89,070 44,012 42,272 2,951 (414) 499
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Cash and cash equivalents 
HSBC  HSBC Holdings 
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011
US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m 
Cash at bank with HSBC undertakings ............................ – – – 353 316
Cash and balances at central banks .................................. 141,532 129,902 57,383 – –
Items in the course of collection from other banks .......... 7,303 8,208 6,072 – –
Loans and advances to banks of one month or less ......... 148,232 169,858 189,197 – –
Treasury bills, other bills and certificates of deposit
less than three months .................................................. 25,379 26,226 28,087 – –
Less: items in the course of transmission to other banks . (7,138) (8,745) (6,663) – –
315,308 325,449 274,076 353 316
Interest and dividends 
HSBC  HSBC Holdings 
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011
US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m 
Interest paid ...................................................................... (18,412) (23,125) (21,405) (2,661) (2,392)
Interest received ................................................................ 61,112 66,734 63,696 1,759 1,559 
Dividends received ........................................................... 766 602 563 13,709 6,874 
The amount of cash and cash equivalents not available for use by HSBC at 31 December 2012 was US$32,368m 
(2011: US$39,345m), of which US$20,464m (2011: US$25,819m) related to mandatory deposits at central banks. 
Disposal of subsidiaries and businesses 
US cards
business
US branch
network 
Other
disposals Total
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Assets
Loans and advances to banks ................................................................... – – 799 799
Loans and advances to customers ............................................................ 26,748 2,091 3,632 32,471 
Financial investments ............................................................................... – – 924 924
Prepayments and accrued income ............................................................ 572 – 53 625
Goodwill and intangible assets ................................................................. 318 7 276 601
Other assets ............................................................................................... 369 68 1,618 2,055 
Total assets excluding cash and cash equivalents .................................... 28,007 2,166 7,302 37,475 
 Liabilities Deposits by banks ..................................................................................... – – 385 385
Customer accounts .................................................................................... – 13,199 5,986 19,185 
Liabilities under insurance contracts ........................................................ – – 1,080 1,080 
Other liabilities ......................................................................................... 161 7 1,012 1,180 
Total liabilities .......................................................................................... 161 13,206 8,463 21,830 
Aggregate net assets at date of disposal, excluding cash and cash 
equivalents ............................................................................................ 27,846 (11,040) (1,161) 15,645 
Non-controlling interests disposed............................................................ – – (81) (81)
Gain on disposal including costs to sell ................................................... 3,148 864 355 4,367 
Add back: costs to sell .............................................................................. 72 15 56 143
Selling price .............................................................................................. 31,066 (10,161) (831) 20,074 
Satisfied by: 
Cash and cash equivalents received/(paid) as consideration ............... 31,066 (10,091) (542) 20,433 
Cash and cash equivalents sold ............................................................ – (70) (321) (391)
Cash consideration received/(paid) up to 31 December 2012 ............. 31,066 (10,161) (863) 20,042 
Cash still to be (paid)/received at 31 December 2012 ......................... – – 32 32
Total cash consideration ....................................................................... 31,066 (10,161) (831) 20,074  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
40 – Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees / 41– Lease commitments 
500
The completed US branch network disposal represents the sale of 195 US branches that were held for sale at 
31 December 2011. HSBC received a total cash consideration of US$20,905m during 2012, which is included in 
the cash flow statement under the line ‘Net cash inflow from disposal of US branch network and US cards business 
on page 375. For further details refer to page 471.
40 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees  
HSBC HSBC Holdings 
2012 2011 2012 2011
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Guarantees and contingent liabilities
Guarantees .................................................................................... 80,364 75,672 49,402 49,402 
Other contingent liabilities ........................................................... 209 259 – –
80,573 75,931 49,402 49,402 
Commitments 
Documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions ... 13,359 13,498 – –
Forward asset purchases and forward forward deposits placed ... 419 87 – –
Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other 
commitments to lend ................................................................ 565,691 641,319 1,200 1,810 
579,469 654,904 1,200 1,810 
The above table discloses the nominal principal amounts of commitments excluding capital commitments, which 
are separately disclosed below, and guarantees and other contingent liabilities, which are mainly credit-related 
instruments including both financial and non-financial guarantees and commitments to extend credit. Contingent 
liabilities arising from legal proceedings and regulatory matters against Group companies are disclosed in Note 43. 
Nominal principal amounts represent the amounts at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default. 
The amount of the loan commitments shown above reflects, where relevant, the expected level of take-up of pre-
approved loan offers made by mailshots to personal customers. As a significant portion of guarantees and 
commitments is expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total of the nominal principal amounts is not 
indicative of future liquidity requirements. 
Guarantees
HSBC provides guarantees and similar undertakings on behalf of both third-party customers and other entities within 
the HSBC Group. These guarantees are generally provided in the normal course of HSBC’s banking business. The 
principal types of guarantees provided, and the maximum potential amount of future payments which HSBC could be 
required to make at 31 December 2012, were as follows: 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
Guarantees
in favour of
third parties 
Guarantees
by HSBC
Holdings
in favour of
other HSBC
Group entities 
Guarantees
in favour of 
third parties 
Guarantees
by HSBC 
Holdings
in favour of 
other HSBC 
Group entities 
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Guarantee type
1
Financial guarantees
2
 .................................................................... 32,036 36,800 26,830  36,800 
Credit-related guarantees
3
 ............................................................. 12,957 12,602 12,494  12,602 
Other guarantees ........................................................................... 35,371 – 36,348  – 
80,364 49,402 75,672  49,402 
1 The balances have been grouped by major category of guarantee, revised from prior periods to present financial guarantees separately.
2 Financial guarantees are contracts that require the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss incurred
because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
3 Credit related guarantees are contracts that have similar features to financial guarantee contracts but fail to meet the definition of a 
financial guarantee contracts under IAS 39. 
The amounts disclosed in the above table are nominal principal amounts and reflect HSBC’s maximum exposure 
under a large number of individual guarantee undertakings. The risks and exposures arising from guarantees are 
captured and managed in accordance with HSBC’s overall credit risk management policies and procedures.  501
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Approximately half of the above guarantees have a term of less than one year. Guarantees with terms of more 
than one year are subject to HSBC’s annual credit review process. 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
At 31 December 2012, HSBC recognised an accrual of US$157m in respect of its share of the estimated Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (‘FSCS’) levy (31 December 2011: US$87m).  
The FSCS confirmed in February 2013 that the first of three annual instalments of approximately £363m (US$587m) 
will be levied in total on participating financial institutions in Scheme Year 2013/14 to repay the balance of the loan 
principal that is not expected to be recovered. The accrual recognised at 31 December 2012 represents HSBC’s share 
of the interest on the borrowings outstanding and also its share of the principal to be levied over each of the next 
three years. The interest rate to be applied on outstanding borrowings increased from 12-month Libor plus 30 basis 
points to 12-month Libor plus 100 basis points from 1 April 2012.  
Commitments
In addition to the commitments disclosed on page 500, at 31 December 2012 HSBC had US$607m (2011: US$715m) 
of capital commitments contracted but not provided for and US$197m (2011: US$272m) of capital commitments 
authorised but not contracted for. 
Associates
HSBC’s share of associates’ contingent liabilities amounted to US$46,148m at 31 December 2012 (2011: 
US$34,311m). No matters arose where HSBC was severally liable. 
41 Lease commitments 
Finance lease commitments 
HSBC leases land and buildings (including branches) and equipment from third parties under finance lease 
arrangements to support its operations. 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
 Total future 
 minimum 
 payments 
 Future 
 interest 
 charges 
 Present value
 of finance
 lease
 commitments
 Total future 
 minimum 
 payments 
 Future 
 interest 
 charges  
 Present value 
 of finance 
 lease 
 commitments 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Lease commitments:    
–  no later than one year ................ 81 (21) 60 98 (26) 72 
–  later than one year and no later 
than five years ........................... 153 (71) 82 216 (99) 117 
–  later than five years ................... 196 (34) 162 362 (92) 270 
430 (126) 304 676 (217) 459 
At 31 December 2012, future minimum sublease payments of US$244m (2011: US$413m) are expected to be 
received under non-cancellable subleases at the balance sheet date. 
Operating lease commitments 
At 31 December 2012, HSBC was obligated under a number of non-cancellable operating leases for properties, plant 
and equipment on which the future minimum lease payments extend over a number of years. 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
Land and
buildings Equipment 
Land and 
buildings Equipment 
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable  
operating leases: 
–  no later than one year ........................................................... 943 23 1,130  18 
–  later than one year and no later than five years ................... 2,495 23 2,656  18 
–  later than five years .............................................................. 2,246 – 2,496  – 
5,684 46 6,282  36  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
41– Lease commitments / 42 – Special purpose entities 
502
At 31 December 2012, future minimum sublease payments of US$14m (2011: US$17m) are expected to be received 
under non-cancellable subleases at the balance sheet date. 
In 2012, US$1,166m (2011: US$973m; 2010: US$888m) was charged to ‘General and administrative expenses’ 
in respect of lease and sublease agreements, of which US$1,149m (2011: US$952m; 2010: US$869m) related to 
minimum lease payments, US$17m (2011: US$20m; 2010: US$18m) to contingent rents, and US$0.4m (2011: 
US$1m; 2010: US$1m) to sublease payments. 
The contingent rent represents escalation payments made to landlords for operating, tax and other escalation expenses.
Finance lease receivables 
HSBC leases a variety of assets to third parties under finance leases, including transport assets (such as aircraft), 
property and general plant and machinery. At the end of lease terms, assets may be sold to third parties or leased for 
further terms. Lessees may participate in any sales proceeds achieved. Lease rentals arising during the lease terms 
will either be fixed in quantum or be varied to reflect changes in, for example, tax or interest rates. Rentals are 
calculated to recover the cost of assets less their residual value, and earn finance income. 
At 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2011 
Total future
minimum
payments 
Unearned
finance
income 
Present
value
Total future
minimum 
payments 
Unearned 
finance
income 
Present
value
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Lease receivables:     
–  no later than one year ................ 3,712 (379) 3,333 3,766 (459) 3,307 
–  later than one year and  
no later than five years .............. 8,414 (966) 7,448 8,618 (1,055) 7,563 
–  later than five years ................... 5,277 (951) 4,326 5,969 (1,204) 4,765 
17,403 (2,296) 15,107 18,353 (2,718) 15,635 
At 31 December 2012, unguaranteed residual values of US$253m (2011: US$267m) had been accrued, and the 
accumulated allowance for uncollectible minimum lease payments receivable amounted to US$(3)m (2011: 
US$25m). No contingent rents were received in 2012 (2011: nil). 
42 Special purpose entities 
HSBC enters into certain transactions with customers in the ordinary course of business which involve the 
establishment of special purpose entities (‘SPE’s) to facilitate or secure customer transactions. HSBC structures that 
utilise SPEs are authorised centrally when they are established, to ensure appropriate purpose and governance. The 
activities of SPEs administered by HSBC are closely monitored by senior management.  
SPEs are assessed for consolidation in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 1e. 
Total consolidated assets held by SPEs by balance sheet classification 
 Conduits 
 Securit-
 isations 
 Money 
 market 
 funds 
 Non-money 
 market 
 investment 
 funds  Total 
 US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn 
At 31 December 2012 
Cash ......................................................................................  0.6  –  –  0.2  0.8 
Trading assets .......................................................................  –  0.5  –  1.5  2.0 
Financial assets designated at fair value ...............................  0.1  –  –  7.4  7.5 
Derivatives ............................................................................  –  –  –  0.2  0.2 
Loans and advances to banks ...............................................  –  1.5  –  –  1.5 
Loans and advances to customers ........................................  11.3  7.0  –  –  18.3 
Financial investments ...........................................................  25.0  –  –  –  25.0 
Other assets ...........................................................................  1.4  –  –  1.6  3.0 
 38.4  9.0  –  10.9  58.3  503
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
  Conduits 
 Securit- 
 isations 
 Money 
 market 
 funds  
 Non-money 
 market 
 investment 
 funds   Total 
  US$bn  US$bn  US$bn   US$bn   US$bn 
At 31 December 2011        
Cash ...................................................................................... 0.8 0.3 – 0.3 1.4
Trading assets ....................................................................... 0.1 0.5 0.2 0.4 1.2
Financial assets designated at fair value .............................. 0.1  –  – 6.5 6.6
Derivatives ............................................................................  – 0.1 –  – 0.1
Loans and advances to banks ...............................................  – 1.2 –  – 1.2
Loans and advances to customers ........................................ 10.5 8.0 –  – 18.5
Financial investments ........................................................... 25.8  –  –  – 25.8
Other assets ........................................................................... 1.6  –  –  – 1.6
 38.9 10.10.2 7.2 56.4
HSBC’s maximum exposure to SPEs 
The following table shows the total assets of the various types of SPEs and the amount of funding provided by HSBC 
to these SPEs. The table also shows HSBC’s maximum exposure to the SPEs and, within that exposure, the liquidity 
and credit enhancements provided by HSBC. The maximum exposures to SPEs represent HSBC’s maximum possible 
risk exposure that could occur as a result of the Group’s arrangements and commitments to SPEs. The maximum 
amounts are contingent in nature, and may arise as a result of drawdowns under liquidity facilities, where these have 
been provided, and any other funding commitments, or as a result of any loss protection provided by HSBC to the 
SPEs. The conditions under which such exposure might arise differ depending on the nature of each SPE and 
HSBC’s involvement with it. 
Total assets of consolidated and unconsolidated SPEs and HSBC’s funding and maximum exposure 
Consolidated SPEs Unconsolidated SPEs 
Total
assets
Funding
provided
by HSBC 
Liquidity
and credit
enchance-
ments 
HSBC’s
maximum
exposure
Total
assets
Funding
provided
by HSBC 
HSBC’s
maximum
exposure
US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn
At 31 December 2012 
Conduits ......................................  38.4  28.9  32.4  43.1  –  –  – 
Securities investment conduits  26.6  28.8 18.1 28.8 –  –  –
Multi-seller conduits ..............  11.8  0.1 14.3 14.3 –  –  –
Securitisations ................................  9.0  2.6  –  4.7  6.8  –  – 
Money market funds ...................  –  –  –  –  64.2  1.7  1.7 
Constant net asset value funds  –  – – – 51.7  0.8  0.8
Other .......................................  –  – – – 12.5  0.9  0.9
Non-money market investment 
funds .......................................  10.9  10.2  –  10.2  303.3  5.9  5.9 
Other ...........................................  –  –  –  –  20.0  5.2  5.3 
 58.3  41.7  32.4  58.0  394.3  12.8  12.9 
At 31 December 2011           
Conduits ...................................... 38.9 27.7 37.1 48.5 –  –  – 
Securities investment conduits 27.9 27.4 22.1 33.5 –  –  –
Multi-seller conduits .............. 11.0 0.3 15.0 15.0 –  –  –
Securitisations................................ 10.1 1.6 0.1 3.8 8.1  –  – 
Money market funds ................... 0.2 0.2 – 0.2 73.9 0.9 0.9
Constant net asset value funds  –  – – – 54.4 0.7 0.7
Other ....................................... 0.2 0.2 – 0.2 19.5 0.2 0.2
Non-money market investment 
funds ....................................... 7.2 6.9 – 6.9 260.8 1.7 1.7
Other ...........................................  –  –  –  – 19.4 3.7 4.6
 56.4 36.4 37.2 59.4 362.2 6.3 7.2 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
42 – Special purpose entities  
504
Conduits 
HSBC sponsors and manages two types of conduits: securities investment conduits (‘SIC’s) and multi-seller conduits. 
Securities investment conduits
Solitaire, HSBC’s principal SIC, holds asset-backed securities (‘ABS’s) on behalf of HSBC. At 31 December 2012, 
Solitaire held US$10.0bn of ABSs (2011: US$10.6bn). These are included within the disclosures of ABS ‘held 
through consolidated SPEs’ on page 187. HSBC’s other SICs, Mazarin, Barion Funding Limited (‘Barion’) and 
Malachite Funding Limited (‘Malachite’), evolved from the restructuring of HSBC’s sponsored structured investment 
vehicles (‘SIV’s) in 2008. 
Solitaire
During the year Solitaire redeemed the commercial paper (‘CP’) held by third parties, and is currently funded entirely 
by CP issued to HSBC. Although HSBC continues to provide a liquidity facility, Solitaire has no need to draw on it 
so long as HSBC purchases the CP issued, which it intends to do for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, there were 
no amounts drawn under the liquidity facility provided by HSBC at 31 December 2012 (2011: US$9.3bn). 
At 31 December 2012, HSBC held US$13.0bn of CP, which represented HSBC’s maximum exposure. At 
31 December 2011, maximum exposure of US$15.6bn was represented by liquidity facility including undrawn 
amounts. 
Mazarin 
HSBC is exposed to the par value of Mazarin’s assets through the provision of a liquidity facility equal to the lower 
of the amortised cost of issued senior debt and the amortised cost of non-defaulted assets. At 31 December 2012, this 
amounted to US$8.4bn (2011: US$9.5bn). First loss protection is provided through the capital notes issued by 
Mazarin, which are substantially all held by third parties. 
At 31 December 2012, HSBC held 1.3% of Mazarin’s capital notes (2011: 1.3%) which have a par value of US$17m 
(2011: US$17m) and a carrying amount of nil (2011: nil). 
Barion and Malachite
HSBC’s primary exposure to these SICs is represented by the amortised cost of the debt required to support the 
non-cash assets of the vehicles. At 31 December 2012, this amounted to US$7.4bn (2011: US$8.4bn). First loss 
protection is provided through the capital notes issued by these vehicles, which are substantially all held by third 
parties.
At 31 December 2012, HSBC held 3.7% of the capital notes issued by these vehicles (2011: 3.7%) which have a par 
value of US$36m (2011: US$35m) and a carrying amount of US$1.7m (2011: US$1.1m). 
Multi-seller conduits
These vehicles were established for the purpose of providing access to flexible market-based sources of finance for 
HSBC’s clients. 
HSBC’s maximum exposure is equal to the transaction-specific liquidity facilities offered to the multi-seller conduits. 
First loss protection is provided by the originator of the assets, and not by HSBC, through transaction-specific credit 
enhancements. A layer of secondary loss protection is provided by HSBC in the form of programme-wide 
enhancement facilities. 
The following table sets out the weighted average life of the asset portfolios for the above mentioned conduits. 
Weighted average life of portfolios 
  Solitaire   Other SICs   Total SICs 
  Total multi-
 seller conduits 
Weighted average life (years) 
At 31 December 2012 ....................................................... 6.1 4.5 5.2 2.8 
At 31 December 2011........................................................ 5.9 4.1 4.9  2.0  505
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Securitisations
HSBC uses SPEs to securitise customer loans and advances that it has originated in order to diversify its sources of 
funding for asset origination and for capital efficiency purposes. The loans and advances are transferred by HSBC to 
the SPEs for cash, and the SPEs issue debt securities to investors to fund the cash purchases. 
HSBC’s maximum exposure is the aggregate of any holdings of notes issued by these vehicles and the reserve 
account positions intended to provide credit support under certain pre-defined circumstances to senior note holders. 
In addition, HSBC uses SPEs to mitigate the capital absorbed by some of the customer loans and advances it has 
originated. Credit derivatives are used to transfer the credit risk associated with these customer loans and advances 
to an SPE, using securitisations commonly known as synthetic securitisations by which the SPE writes credit default 
swap protection to HSBC. The SPE is funded by the issuance of notes with the cash held as collateral against the 
credit default protection. From a UK regulatory perspective, the credit protection issued by the SPE in respect of the 
customer loans allows the risk weight of the loans to be replaced by the risk weight of the collateral in the SPE and as 
a result mitigates the capital absorbed by the customer loans. Any notes issued by the SPE and held by HSBC attract 
the appropriate risk weight under the relevant regulatory regime. These SPEs are consolidated when HSBC is 
exposed to the majority of risks and rewards of ownership. 
Money market funds 
HSBC has established and manages a number of money market funds which provide customers with tailored 
investment opportunities within narrow and well-defined objectives. 
HSBC’s maximum exposure to money market funds is represented by HSBC’s investment in the units of each fund, which 
at 31 December 2012 amounted to US$1.7bn (2011: US$1.1bn). 
Non-money market investment funds 
HSBC has established a large number of non-money market investment funds to enable customers to invest in a range 
of assets, typically equities and debt securities. 
HSBC’s maximum exposure to non-money market investment funds is represented by its investment in the units of 
each fund which at 31 December 2012 amounted to US$16.1bn (2011: US$8.6bn). 
Other
HSBC also establishes SPEs in the normal course of business for a number of purposes, for example, structured 
transactions for customers, to provide finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and for asset and 
structured finance transactions. 
In certain transactions HSBC is exposed to risk often referred to as gap risk. Gap risk typically arises in transactions 
where the aggregate potential claims against the SPE by HSBC pursuant to one or more derivatives could be greater 
than the value of the collateral held by the SPE and securing such derivatives. HSBC often mitigates such gap risk by 
incorporating in the SPE transaction features which allow for deleveraging, a managed liquidation of the portfolio, 
or other mechanisms including trade restructuring or unwinding the trade. Following the inclusion of such risk 
reduction mechanisms, HSBC has, in certain circumstances, retained all or a portion of the underlying exposure in the 
transaction. In these circumstances, HSBC assesses whether the exposure retained causes a requirement under IFRSs 
to consolidate the SPE. When this retained exposure represents ABSs, it has been included in ‘Nature of HSBC’s 
exposures’ on page 259. 
Third-party sponsored SPEs 
Through standby liquidity facility commitments, HSBC has exposure to third-party sponsored SIVs, conduits and 
securitisations under normal banking arrangements on standard market terms. These exposures are not considered 
significant to HSBC’s operations.
Additional off-balance sheet arrangements and commitments 
Additional off-balance sheet commitments such as financial guarantees, letters of credit and commitments to lend are 
disclosed in Note 41. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
43 – Legal proceedings and regulatory matters  
506
Leveraged finance transactions 
Loan commitments in respect of leveraged finance transactions are accounted for as derivatives where it is HSBC’s 
intention to sell the loan after origination. Further information is provided on page 190. 
43 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters
HSBC is party to legal proceedings, investigations and regulatory matters in a number of jurisdictions arising out of 
its normal business operations. Apart from the matters described below, HSBC considers that none of these matters is 
material, either individually or in the aggregate. HSBC recognises a provision for a liability in relation to these 
matters when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle an obligation which has 
arisen as a result of past events, and for which a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. While 
the outcome of these matters is inherently uncertain, management believes that, based on the information available to 
it, appropriate provisions have been made in respect of legal proceedings and regulatory matters as at 31 December 
2012 (see Note 32). 
Securities litigation 
As a result of an August 2002 restatement of previously reported consolidated financial statements and other 
corporate events, including the 2002 settlement with 46 State Attorneys General relating to real estate lending 
practices, Household International (now HSBC Finance) and certain former officers were named as defendants in a 
class action law suit, Jaffe v Household International Inc, et al No 2. C 5893 (N.D.Ill, filed 19 August 2002). The 
complaint asserted claims under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Ultimately, a class was certified on behalf 
of all persons who acquired and disposed of Household International common stock between 30 July 1999 and 
11 October 2002. The claims alleged that the defendants knowingly or recklessly made false and misleading 
statements of material fact relating to Household’s Consumer Lending operations, including collections, sales 
and lending practices, some of which ultimately led to the 2002 State settlement agreement, and facts relating to 
accounting practices evidenced by the restatement. 
A jury trial concluded in April 2009, which was decided partly in favour of the plaintiffs. Following post-trial 
briefing, the District Court ruled that various legal challenges to the verdict, including as to loss causation and other 
matters, would not be considered until after a second phase of the proceedings addressing issues of reliance and the 
submission of claims by class members had been completed. The District Court ruled on 22 November 2010 that 
claim forms should be mailed to class members to ascertain which class members may have claims for damages 
arising from reliance on the misleading statements found by the jury. The District Court also set out a method for 
calculating damages for class members who filed claims. As previously reported, lead plaintiffs, in court filings in 
March 2010, estimated that damages could range ‘somewhere between US$2.4bn to US$3.2bn to class members’, 
before pre-judgement interest. 
In December 2011, the report of the court-appointed claims administrator to the District Court stated that the total 
number of claims that generated an allowed loss was 45,921, and that the aggregate amount of these claims was 
approximately US$2.23bn. Defendants filed legal challenges asserting that the presumption of reliance was defeated 
as to the class and raising various objections with respect to compliance with the claims form requirements as to 
certain claims.  
In September 2012, the District Court rejected defendants’ arguments that the presumption of reliance generally had 
been defeated either as to the class or as to particular institutional claimants. In addition, the District Court has made 
various rulings with respect to the validity of specific categories of claims, and held certain categories of claims valid, 
certain categories of claims invalid, and directed further proceedings before a court-appointed Special Master to 
address objections regarding certain other claim submission issues. In light of those rulings and through various 
agreements of the parties, currently there is approximately US$1.37bn in claims as to which there remain no 
unresolved objections relating to the claims form submissions. In addition, approximately US$800m in claims remain 
to be addressed before the Special Master with respect to various claims form objections, with a small portion of 
those potentially subject to further trial proceedings. Therefore, based upon proceedings to date, the current range of 
a possible final judgement, prior to imposition of pre-judgement interest (if any), is between approximately 
US$1.37bn and US$2.17bn. With the imposition of pre-judgement interest calculated through 31 December 2012, the 
top-end of a possible final judgement is approximately US$2.7bn. The District Court may wait for a resolution of all 
disputes as to all claims before entering final judgement, or the District Court may enter a partial judgement on fewer  507
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
than all claims pending resolution of disputes as to the remaining claims. Post-verdict legal challenges remain to be 
addressed by the District Court.  
Despite the jury verdict and the various rulings of the District Court, HSBC continues to believe that it has 
meritorious grounds for appeal of one or more of the rulings in the case, and intends to appeal the District Court’s 
final judgement, partial or otherwise. Upon final judgement, partial or otherwise, HSBC Finance will be required to 
provide security for the judgement in order to suspend its execution while the appeal is on-going by either depositing 
cash in an interest-bearing escrow account or posting an appeal bond in the amount of the judgement (including any 
pre-judgement interest awarded). 
Given the complexity and uncertainties associated with the actual determination of damages, including the outcome 
of any appeals, there is a wide range of possible damages. HSBC believes it has meritorious grounds for appeal on 
matters of both liability and damages and will argue on appeal that damages should be nil or a relatively insignificant 
amount. If the Appeals Court rejects or only partially accepts HSBC’s arguments, the amount of damages, based 
upon the claims submitted and the potential application of pre-judgement interest may lie in a range from a relatively 
insignificant amount to somewhere in the region of US$2.7bn (or higher should plaintiffs successfully cross-appeal 
certain issues related to the validity of specific claims). 
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC 
In December 2008, Bernard L. Madoff (‘Madoff’) was arrested for running a Ponzi scheme and a trustee was 
appointed for the liquidation of his firm, Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC (‘Madoff Securities’), an 
SEC-registered broker-dealer and investment adviser. Since his appointment, the trustee has been recovering assets 
and processing claims of Madoff Securities customers. Madoff subsequently pleaded guilty to various charges and is 
serving a 150 year prison sentence. He has acknowledged, in essence, that while purporting to invest his customers’ 
money in securities and, upon request, return their profits and principal, he in fact never invested in securities and 
used other customers’ money to fulfil requests for the return of profits and principal. The relevant US authorities are 
continuing their investigations into his fraud, and have brought charges against others, including certain former 
employees and the former auditor of Madoff Securities. 
Various non-US HSBC companies provided custodial, administration and similar services to a number of funds 
incorporated outside the US whose assets were invested with Madoff Securities. Based on information provided by 
Madoff Securities, as at 30 November 2008, the purported aggregate value of these funds was US$8.4bn, an amount 
that includes fictitious profits reported by Madoff. Based on information available to HSBC to date, HSBC estimates 
that the funds’ actual transfers to Madoff Securities minus their actual withdrawals from Madoff Securities during the 
time that HSBC serviced the funds totalled approximately US$4bn. 
Plaintiffs (including funds, fund investors, and the Madoff Securities trustee) have commenced Madoff-related 
proceedings against numerous defendants in a multitude of jurisdictions. Various HSBC companies have been named 
as defendants in suits in the US, Ireland, Luxembourg and other jurisdictions. Certain suits (which included four US 
putative class actions) allege that the HSBC defendants knew or should have known of Madoff’s fraud and breached 
various duties to the funds and fund investors. 
In November 2011, the US District Court Judge overseeing three related putative class actions in the Southern 
District of New York dismissed all claims against the HSBC defendants on forum non conveniens grounds, but 
temporarily stayed this ruling as to one of the actions against the HSBC defendants – the claims of investors in 
Thema International Fund plc – in light of a proposed amended settlement agreement, pursuant to which, subject 
to various conditions, the HSBC defendants had agreed to pay from US$52.5m up to a maximum of US$62.5m. 
In December 2011, the court lifted this temporary stay and dismissed all remaining claims against the HSBC 
defendants, and declined to consider preliminary approval of the settlement. In light of the court’s decisions, HSBC 
terminated the settlement agreement. The Thema plaintiff contests HSBC’s right to terminate. Plaintiffs in all three 
actions have filed notices of appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Briefing in that appeal was 
completed in September 2012; oral argument is expected in early 2013. 
In November and December 2012, HSBC settled two of the individual claims commenced by investors in Thema 
International Fund plc against HSBC in the Irish High Court. 
In December 2010, the Madoff Securities trustee commenced suits against various HSBC companies in the US 
Bankruptcy Court and in the English High Court. The US action (which also names certain funds, investment 
managers, and other entities and individuals) sought US$9bn in damages and additional recoveries from HSBC and  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
43 – Legal proceedings and regulatory matters  
508
the various co-defendants. It sought damages against HSBC for allegedly aiding and abetting Madoff’s fraud and 
breach of fiduciary duty. In July 2011, after withdrawing the case from the Bankruptcy Court in order to decide 
certain threshold issues, the US District Court Judge dismissed the trustee’s various common law claims on the 
grounds that the trustee lacks standing to assert them. In December 2011, the trustee filed a notice of appeal to the US 
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Briefing in that appeal was completed in April 2012, and oral argument was 
held in November 2012. A decision is expected in 2013. 
The District Court returned the remaining claims to the US Bankruptcy Court for further proceedings. Those claims 
seek, pursuant to US bankruptcy law, recovery of unspecified amounts received by HSBC from funds invested with 
Madoff, including amounts that HSBC received when it redeemed units HSBC held in the various funds. HSBC 
acquired those fund units in connection with financing transactions HSBC had entered into with various clients. 
The trustee’s US bankruptcy law claims also seek recovery of fees earned by HSBC for providing custodial, 
administration and similar services to the funds. Between September 2011 and April 2012, the HSBC defendants and 
certain other defendants moved again to withdraw the case from the Bankruptcy Court. The District Court granted 
those withdrawal motions as to certain issues, and briefing and oral arguments on the merits of the withdrawn issues 
are now complete. The District Court has issued rulings on two of the withdrawn issues, but decisions with respect to 
all other issues are still pending and are expected in early 2013. 
The trustee’s English action seeks recovery of unspecified transfers of money from Madoff Securities to or through 
HSBC, on the grounds that the HSBC defendants actually or constructively knew of Madoff’s fraud. HSBC has not 
been served with the trustee’s English action. 
Between October 2009 and April 2012, Fairfield Sentry Limited, Fairfield Sigma Limited and Fairfield Lambda 
Limited (‘Fairfield’), funds whose assets were directly or indirectly invested with Madoff Securities, commenced 
multiple suits in the British Virgin Islands (‘BVI’) and the US against numerous fund shareholders, including various 
HSBC companies that acted as nominees for clients of HSBC’s private banking business and other clients who 
invested in the Fairfield funds. The Fairfield actions seek restitution of amounts paid to the defendants in connection 
with share redemptions, on the ground that such payments were made by mistake, based on inflated values resulting 
from Madoff’s fraud, and some actions also seek recovery of the share redemptions under BVI insolvency law. The 
actions in the US are currently stayed in the Bankruptcy Court pending developments in related appellate litigation in 
the BVI. 
There are many factors which may affect the range of possible outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of 
the various Madoff-related proceedings, including but not limited to the circumstances of the fraud, the multiple 
jurisdictions in which the proceedings have been brought and the number of different plaintiffs and defendants in 
such proceedings. For these reasons, among others, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to estimate reliably 
the aggregate liabilities, or ranges of liabilities, that might arise as a result of all such claims but they could be 
significant. In any event, HSBC considers that it has good defences to these claims and will continue to defend 
them vigorously. 
US mortgage-related investigations
In April 2011, HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease and desist order with the Office of the Comptroller of 
the Currency and HSBC Finance and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. (‘HNAH’) entered into a similar consent 
order with the Federal Reserve Board following completion of a broad horizontal review of industry residential 
mortgage foreclosure practices. These consent orders require prescribed actions to address the deficiencies noted in 
the joint examination and described in the consent orders. HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and HNAH continue to 
work with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board to align their processes with 
the requirements of the consent orders and are implementing operational changes as required. 
These consent orders required an independent review of foreclosures (the ‘Independent Foreclosure Review’) 
pending or completed between January 2009 and December 2010 to determine if any customer was financially 
injured as a result of an error in the foreclosure process. As required by the consent orders, an independent consultant 
was retained to conduct that review. 
On 28 February 2013, HSBC Bank USA entered into an agreement with the Office of the Comptroller of the 
Currency, and HSBC Finance and HNAH entered into an agreement with the Federal Reserve Board, pursuant to 
which the Independent Foreclosure Review will cease and we will make a cash payment of US$96m into a fund that 
will be used to make payments to borrowers that were in active foreclosure during 2009 and 2010, and in addition, 
will provide other assistance (e.g. loan modifications) to help eligible borrowers. These actions form HSBC’s portion  509
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
of a larger agreement announced by the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency in 
January 2013 involving HSBC and twelve other mortgage servicers subject to foreclosure consent orders pursuant to 
which the mortgage servicers would pay, in the aggregate, in excess of US$9.3bn in cash payments and other 
assistance to help eligible borrowers. Pursuant to these agreements, the Independent Foreclosure Reviews will cease 
and be replaced by a broader framework under which all eligible borrowers will receive compensation regardless of 
whether they filed a request for independent review of their foreclosure and regardless of whether the borrower was 
financially injured as a result of an error in the foreclosure process. Borrowers who receive compensation will not be 
required to execute a release or waiver of rights and will not be precluded from pursuing litigation concerning 
foreclosure or other mortgage servicing practices. For participating servicers, including HSBC Bank USA and HSBC 
Finance, fulfilment of the terms of these agreements will satisfy the Independent Foreclosure Review requirements of 
these consent orders. These consent orders do not preclude additional enforcement actions against HSBC Bank USA, 
HSBC Finance or HNAH by bank regulatory, governmental or law enforcement agencies, such as the US Department 
of Justice (‘DoJ’) or State Attorneys General, which could include the imposition of civil money penalties and other 
sanctions relating to the activities that are the subject of the consent orders. Pursuant to the agreement with the Office 
of the Comptroller of the Currency, however, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency has agreed that it will not 
assess civil money penalties or initiate any further enforcement action with respect to past mortgage servicing and 
foreclosure-related practices addressed in the consent orders, provided the terms of the agreement are fulfilled. The 
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency’s agreement not to assess civil money penalties is further conditioned on 
HSBC North America making payments or providing borrower assistance pursuant to any agreement that may be 
entered into with the DoJ in connection with the servicing of residential mortgage loans within two years. The 
Federal Reserve Board has agreed that any assessment of civil money penalties by the Federal Reserve Board will 
reflect a number of adjustments, including amounts expended in consumer relief and payments made pursuant to any 
agreement that may be entered into with the DoJ in connection with the servicing of residential mortgage loans. In 
addition, the agreement does not preclude private litigation concerning these practices. 
Separate from the consent orders and settlement related to the Independent Foreclosure Review discussed above, it 
has been announced that the five largest US mortgage servicers (not including HSBC Group companies) have 
reached a settlement with the DoJ, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development and State Attorneys 
General of 49 states with respect to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices. HNAH, HSBC Bank USA 
and HSBC Finance have had discussions with US bank regulators and other governmental agencies regarding a 
potential resolution, although the timing of any settlement is not presently known. HSBC recognised provisions of 
US$257m in 2011 to reflect the estimated liability associated with a proposed settlement of this matter. Any such 
settlement, however, may not completely preclude other enforcement actions by state or federal agencies, regulators 
or law enforcement bodies related to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices, including, but not limited to 
matters relating to the securitisation of mortgages for investors. In addition, such a settlement would not preclude 
private litigation concerning these practices.
Participants in the US mortgage securitisation market that purchased and repackaged whole loans have been the 
subject of lawsuits and governmental and regulatory investigations and inquiries, which have been directed at groups 
within the US mortgage market, such as servicers, originators, underwriters, trustees or sponsors of securitisations, 
and at particular participants within these groups. As the industry’s residential mortgage foreclosure issues continue, 
HSBC Bank USA has taken title to an increasing number of foreclosed homes as trustee on behalf of various 
securitisation trusts. As nominal record owner of these properties, HSBC Bank USA has been sued by municipalities 
and tenants alleging various violations of law, including laws regarding property upkeep and tenants’ rights. While 
HSBC believes and continues to maintain that the obligations at issue and the related liability are properly those of 
the servicer of each trust, HSBC continues to receive significant and adverse publicity in connection with these and 
similar matters, including foreclosures that are serviced by others in the name of ‘HSBC, as trustee’. 
HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. have been named as defendants in a number of actions in 
connection with residential mortgage-backed securities (‘RMBS’) offerings, which generally allege that the offering 
documents for securities issued by securitisation trusts contained material misstatements and omissions, including 
statements regarding the underwriting standards governing the underlying mortgage loans. These include an action 
filed in September 2011 by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (‘FHFA’). This action is one of a series of similar 
actions filed against 17 financial institutions alleging violations of federal and state securities laws in connection with 
the sale of private-label RMBS purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, primarily from 2005 to 2008. This action, 
along with all of the similar FHFA RMBS actions, was transferred to a single judge, who directed the defendant in 
the first-filed matter to file a motion to dismiss. In May 2012, the District Court filed its decision denying the motion 
to dismiss FHFA’s securities law claims and granting the motion to dismiss FHFA’s negligent misrepresentation  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
43 – Legal proceedings and regulatory matters  
510
claims. The District Court’s ruling will form the basis for rulings on the other matters, including the action filed 
against HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. Subsequently, the defendant in the first-filed matter 
sought leave to appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit on certain issues raised in the motion to 
dismiss. The District Court and the Court of Appeals granted the request for leave to appeal, and this appeal is 
pending before the Court of Appeals. In December 2012, the District Court directed the parties to schedule mediation 
with the Magistrate Judge assigned to this action. However, mediation has not yet been scheduled.  
In 2012, HSBC Finance Corporation received notice of several claims from claimants related to its activities as 
sponsor and the activities of its subsidiaries as originators in connection with RMBSs purchased between 2005 and 
2007. The claims are currently being evaluated and discussions continue to be held with the claimants, but it has not 
been concluded that these claims are procedurally or substantively valid. In December 2010 and February 2011, 
HSBC Bank USA has received subpoenas from the SEC seeking production of documents and information relating to 
its involvement and the involvement of its affiliates in specified private label RMBS transactions as an issuer, 
sponsor, underwriter, depositor, trustee, custodian or servicer. HSBC Bank USA has also had preliminary contacts 
with other government authorities exploring the role of trustees in private label RMBS transactions. In February 
2011, HSBC Bank USA also received a subpoena from the US Attorney’s Office, Southern District of New York 
seeking production of documents and information relating to loss mitigation efforts with respect to residential 
mortgages in the State of New York. In January 2012, HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. was served with a Civil 
Investigative Demand from the Massachusetts State Attorney General seeking documents, information and testimony 
related to the sale of RMBS to public and private customers in the State of Massachusetts from January 2005 to the 
present.
HSBC expects this level of focus will continue and, potentially, intensify, so long as the US real estate markets 
continue to be distressed. As a result, HSBC Group companies may be subject to additional claims, litigation and 
governmental and regulatory scrutiny related to its participation in the US mortgage securitisation market, either 
individually or as a member of a group. HSBC is unable to estimate reliably the financial effect of any action or 
litigation relating to these matters. As situations develop it is possible that any related claims could be significant. 
Anti-money laundering and sanctions-related 
In October 2010, HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease and desist order with the Office of the Comptroller 
of the Currency and the indirect parent of that company, HNAH, entered into a consent cease and desist order with 
the Federal Reserve Board (the ‘Orders’). These Orders required improvements to establish an effective compliance 
risk management programme across the Group’s US businesses, including various issues relating to US Bank Secrecy 
Act (‘BSA’) and anti-money laundering (‘AML’) compliance. Steps continue to be taken to address the requirements 
of the Orders to ensure compliance, and that effective policies and procedures are maintained. 
In addition, in December 2012, HSBC, HNAH and HSBC Bank USA entered into agreements to achieve a resolution 
with US and UK government agencies that have investigated HSBC’s conduct related to inadequate compliance with 
anti-money laundering, BSA and sanctions laws, including the previously reported investigations by the DoJ, the 
Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the US Department of Treasury’s Financial 
Crimes Enforcement Network (‘FinCEN’) in connection with AML/BSA compliance, including cross border 
transactions involving our cash handling business in Mexico and banknotes business in the US, and the DoJ, the New 
York County District Attorney’s Office, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (‘OFAC’), the Federal Reserve and the 
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency regarding historical transactions involving Iranian parties and other parties 
subject to OFAC economic sanctions. As part of the resolution, HSBC entered into a deferred prosecution agreement 
among HSBC, HSBC Bank USA, the DoJ, the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York, 
and the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of West Virginia (the ‘US DPA’), and a deferred 
prosecution agreement with the New York County District Attorney, and consented to a cease and desist order and, 
along with HNAH, consented to a monetary penalty order with the Federal Reserve. In addition, HSBC Bank USA 
entered into the US DPA, an agreement and consent orders with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and 
a consent order with FinCEN. HSBC also entered into an undertaking with the UK Financial Services Authority 
(‘FSA’) to comply with certain forward-looking obligations with respect to anti-money laundering and sanctions 
requirements over a five-year term.  
Under these agreements, HSBC and HSBC Bank USA made payments totalling US$1,921m to US authorities and 
will continue to cooperate fully with US and UK regulatory and law enforcement authorities and take further action 
to strengthen their compliance policies and procedures. Over the five-year term of the agreement with the DoJ and 
FSA, an independent monitor (who will, for FSA purposes, be a ‘skilled person’ under Section 166 of the Financial  511
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Services and Markets Act (‘FSMA’)) will evaluate HSBC’s progress in fully implementing these and other measures 
it recommends, and will produce regular assessments of the effectiveness of HSBC’s compliance function. If HSBC 
fulfils all of the requirements imposed by the US DPA and other agreements, the DOJ’s charges against it will be 
dismissed at the end of the five-year period. The US DPA remains subject to certain proceedings before the United 
States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The DoJ or the New York County District Attorney’s 
Office may prosecute HSBC in relation to the matters which are the subject of the US DPA if HSBC breaches the 
terms of the US DPA. 
Steps continue to be taken to address the requirements of the US DPA and the FSA undertaking to ensure 
compliance, and that effective policies and procedures are maintained. In addition, the settlement with regulators does 
not preclude private litigation relating to, among other things, HSBC’s compliance with applicable anti-money 
laundering, BSA and sanctions laws. 
In July 2012, HSBC Mexico paid a fine imposed by the Mexican National Banking and Securities Commission 
amounting to 379m Mexican pesos (approximately US$28m), in connection with non-compliance with anti-money 
laundering systems and controls.
US tax and broker-dealer investigations 
HSBC continues to cooperate in ongoing investigations by the DoJ and the US Internal Revenue Service regarding 
whether certain Group companies and employees acted appropriately in relation to certain customers who had US tax 
reporting requirements. In connection with these investigations, HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA, with due regard for 
Swiss law, has produced records and other documents to the DoJ and is cooperating with the investigation. Other 
HSBC entities are also cooperating with the relevant US authorities, including with respect to US-based clients of 
an HSBC Group company in India. 
In April 2011, HSBC Bank USA received a summons from the US Internal Revenue Service directing HSBC Bank 
USA to produce records with respect to US-based clients of an HSBC Group company in India. HSBC Bank USA 
has cooperated fully by providing responsive documents in its possession in the US to the US Internal Revenue 
Service.
Also in April 2011, HSBC Bank USA received a subpoena from the SEC directing HSBC Bank USA to produce 
records in the US related to, among other things, HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA’s cross-border policies and 
procedures and adherence to US broker-dealer and investment adviser rules and regulations when dealing with US 
resident clients. HSBC Bank USA continues to cooperate with the SEC. HSBC Private Bank Suisse SA has also 
produced records and other documents to the SEC and is cooperating with the SEC’s investigation. 
Based on the facts currently known in respect of each of these investigations, there is a high degree of uncertainty as 
to the terms on which the ongoing investigations will be resolved and the timing of such resolution, including the 
amounts of any fines and/or penalties. As matters progress, it is possible that any fines and/or penalties could be 
significant.
Investigations and reviews into the setting of London interbank offered rates, European interbank 
offered rates and other benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates 
Various regulators and competition and enforcement authorities around the world including in the UK, the US, 
Canada, the EU, Switzerland and Asia, are conducting investigations and reviews related to certain past submissions 
made by panel banks and the processes for making submissions in connection with the setting of London interbank 
offered rates (‘Libor’), European interbank offered rates (‘Euribor’) and other benchmark interest and foreign 
exchange rates. Several of these panel banks have reached settlements with various regulatory authorities. As certain 
HSBC entities are members of such panels, HSBC and/or its subsidiaries have been the subject of regulatory 
demands for information and are cooperating with those investigations and reviews. Based on the facts currently 
known, there is a high degree of uncertainty as to the resolution of these regulatory investigations and reviews, 
including the timing. The potential impact and size of any fines or penalties that could be imposed on HSBC cannot 
be measured reliably. 
In addition, HSBC and other panel banks have been named as defendants in private lawsuits filed in the US with 
respect to the setting of Libor, including putative class action lawsuits which have been consolidated before the US 
District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaints in those actions assert claims against HSBC 
and other panel banks under various US laws including US antitrust laws, the US Commodities Exchange Act, and  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
44 – Related party transactions  
512
state law. Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of 
these private lawsuits, including the timing and potential impact on HSBC. 
44 Related party transactions 
Related parties of the Group and HSBC Holdings include subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, post-employment 
benefit plans for HSBC employees, Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management 
Personnel and entities which are controlled or jointly controlled by Key Management Personnel or their close family 
members.
Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing 
and controlling the activities of HSBC Holdings, being the Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC 
Holdings.
Compensation of Key Management Personnel
HSBC
2012 2011 2010 
US$m US$m US$m 
Short-term employee benefits ..................................................................................... 37 34 39 
Post-employment benefits .......................................................................................... 1 2 3 
Other long-term employee benefits ............................................................................ 10 7 1 
Share-based payments ................................................................................................ 43 53 49 
91 96 92 
Transactions, arrangements and agreements involving related parties 
Particulars of advances (loans and quasi-loans), credits and guarantees entered into by subsidiaries of HSBC 
Holdings during 2012 with Directors, disclosed pursuant to section 413 of the Companies Act 2006, are shown 
below:
At 31 December 
2012 2011 
 US$m   US$m 
Advances and credits ................................................................................................................................  7   8 
Particulars of transactions with related parties, disclosed pursuant to the requirements of IAS 24, are shown below. 
The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest amounts outstanding during the year in the table below is 
considered to be the most meaningful information to represent the amount of the transactions and the amount of 
outstanding balances during the year. 
2012 2011
 Balance at 
 31 December 
 Highest 
 amounts 
 outstanding
 during year 
 Balance at 
 31 December  
 Highest 
 amounts 
 outstanding 
 during year 
 US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
Key Management Personnel
1
   
Advances and credits ....................................................................  153  242  112   120 
Guarantees ....................................................................................  8  12  12   12 
1 Includes Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management Personnel and entities which are controlled or jointly
controlled by Key Management Personnel or their close family members.
Some of the transactions were connected transactions, as defined by the Rules Governing The Listing of Securities on 
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited but were exempt from any disclosure requirements under the provisions 
of those rules. The above transactions were made in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same 
terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with persons of a similar standing or, 
where applicable, with other employees. The transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or 
present other unfavourable features.  513
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Shareholdings, options and other securities of Key Management Personnel 
At 31 December 
 2012 
 (000s) 
2011
 (000s)
Number of options held over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans ................. 358 545
Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held beneficially and non-beneficially ............................. 14,713 15,384 
Number of HSBC Holdings 6.5% Subordinated Notes 2036 held beneficially and non-beneficially .... 300 300
Number of HSBC Bank 2.875% Notes 2015 held beneficially and non-beneficially ............................ 5 –
15,376 16,229 
Transactions with other related parties of HSBC 
Associates and joint ventures 
The Group provides certain banking and financial services to associates and joint ventures, including loans, 
overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts. Details of the interests in associates and 
joint ventures are given in Note 22. Transactions and balances during the year with associates and joint ventures were 
as follows: 
2012 2011 
 Highest 
 balance during
 the year
1
 Balance at
 31 December
1
 Highest  
 balance during 
 the year
1
 Balance at 
 31 December
1
US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Amounts due from joint ventures: 
– subordinated .......................................................................... 5 1 6  5 
– unsubordinated ...................................................................... 391 210 459  441 
Amounts due from associates:  
– unsubordinated ...................................................................... 3,554 2,736 3,117  2,569 
3,950 2,947 3,582  3,015 
Amounts due to joint ventures ...................................................... 135 1 195  133 
Amounts due to associates ............................................................ 854 264 587  475 
989 265 782  608 
Commitments ................................................................................ 326 45 184 92 
1 The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest balance during the year is considered the most meaningful information to
represent transactions during the year.
The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, 
including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties. 
Post-employment benefit plans 
At 31 December 2012, US$5bn (2011: US$4.6bn) of HSBC post-employment benefit plan assets were under 
management by HSBC companies. Fees of US$20m (2011: US$20m) were earned by HSBC companies for these 
management services provided to its post-employment benefit plans. HSBC’s post-employment benefit plans had 
placed deposits of US$285m (2011: US$1.2bn) with its banking subsidiaries, on which interest payable to the 
schemes amounted to US$1.9m (2011: US$3m). The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course 
of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions 
with third-party counterparties. 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme entered into swap transactions with HSBC as part of the management of the 
inflation and interest rate sensitivity of its liabilities. At 31 December 2012, the gross notional value of the swaps 
was US$31bn (2011: US$25bn), the swaps had a positive fair value of US$5.2bn (2011: positive fair value of 
US$5.6bn) to the scheme and HSBC had delivered collateral of US$7.1bn (2011: US$6.9bn) to the scheme in respect 
of these swaps, on which HSBC earned no interest (2011: nil). All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates 
and within standard market bid/offer spreads. 
In order to satisfy diversification requirements, there are special collateral provisions for the swap transactions 
between HSBC and the scheme. The collateral agreement stipulates that the scheme never posts collateral to HSBC. 
Collateral is posted to the scheme by HSBC at an amount that provides the Trustee with a high level of confidence  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued)
44 – Related party transactions / 45 – Events after the balance sheet date 
514
that would be sufficient to replace the swaps in the event of default by HSBC Bank plc. With the exception of the 
special collateral arrangements detailed above, all other aspects of the swap transactions between HSBC and the 
scheme are on substantially the same terms as comparable transactions with third-party counterparties. 
In December 2011, HSBC Bank plc made a £184m (US$286m) contribution to the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension 
Scheme. Following the contribution the Scheme purchased asset-backed securities from HSBC at an arm’s length 
value, determined by the Scheme’s independent third-party advisers. 
In December 2011 HSBC International Staff Retirements Benefits Scheme (‘ISRBS’) purchased asset-backed 
securities from HSBC at an arm’s length value of US$34m, determined by the Scheme’s independent third party 
advisers. This followed an agreement by HSBC Asia Holdings BV to make a contribution of the same amount to 
ISRBS. No gain or loss arose on the transaction. 
ISRBS entered into swap transactions with HSBC to manage the inflation and interest rate sensitivity of the liabilities 
and selected assets. At 31 December 2012, the gross notional value of the swaps was US$1.8bn (2011: US$1.7bn) 
and the swaps had a net positive fair value of US$328m to the scheme (2011: US$297m). All swaps were executed at 
prevailing market rates and within standard market bid/offer spreads. 
HSBC Holdings 
Details of HSBC Holdings’ principal subsidiaries are shown in Note 25. Transactions and balances during the year 
with subsidiaries were as follows: 
2012 2011
Highest 
 balance during
 the year
1
 Balance at
 31 December
1
 Highest 
 balance during 
 the year
1
 Balance at 
 31 December
1
 US$m  US$m  US$m   US$m 
Assets
Cash at bank .................................................................................. 429 353 471 316 
Derivatives .................................................................................... 4,122 3,768 4,220 3,568 
Loans and advances ...................................................................... 41,675 41,675 28,821 28,048 
Financial investments ................................................................... 1,208 1,208 2,093 1,078 
Investments in subsidiaries ........................................................... 92,234 92,234 93,008 90,621 
Total related party assets .............................................................. 139,668 139,238 128,613 123,631 
Liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings ........................................ 12,856 12,856 3,129 2,479 
Derivatives .................................................................................... 1,536 760 1,181 1,067 
Subordinated liabilities: 
– at amortised cost .................................................................... 2,493 1,696 2,609 2,437 
– designated at fair value .......................................................... 4,271 4,260 4,627 3,955 
Total related party liabilities ......................................................... 21,156 19,572 11,546 9,938 
Guarantees .................................................................................... 49,560 49,402 49,527 49,402 
Commitments ................................................................................ 1,811 1,200 2,753 1,810 
1 The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest month-end balance during the year is considered the most meaningful 
information to represent transactions during the year. The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business 
and were on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party
counterparties. There were no exceptions (2011: US$63m) in respect of loans to HSBC subsidiaries from HSBC Holdings made at 
an agreed zero per cent interest rate. 
Some employees of HSBC Holdings are members of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme, which is sponsored by a 
separate Group company. HSBC Holdings incurs a charge for these employees equal to the contributions paid into 
the scheme on their behalf. Disclosure in relation to the scheme is made in Note 7 to the accounts.  515
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
45 Events after the balance sheet date 
On 7 January 2013, Industrial Bank Co., Ltd. (‘Industrial Bank’), a principal associate, completed a private 
placement of additional share capital to a number of third parties, thereby diluting the Group’s equity holding from 
12.8% to 10.9%. As a result of this and other factors, the Group considers it is no longer in a position to exercise 
significant influence over Industrial Bank and ceased to account for the investment as an associate from that date, 
giving rise to an accounting gain of HKD9.5bn or US$1.2bn. Thereafter, the holding is recognised as an available-
for-sale financial investment. 
The disposal of the second tranche of shares in Ping An was completed on 6 February 2013. A description of this 
disposal is provided in Note 26. 
On 19 February 2013, we announced an agreement to sell HSBC Bank Panama S.A., recorded as part of our Latin 
America segment, to Bancolombia S.A. for a total consideration of US$2.1bn in cash. The transaction is subject to 
regulatory approvals and other conditions and is expected to complete by the third quarter of 2013. The assets and 
liabilities of these operations were not classified as held for sale at 31 December 2012 as the sale was not yet 
considered highly probable at that time.  
On 28 February 2013, HSBC Bank USA entered into an agreement with the Office of the Comptroller of the 
Currency, and HSBC Finance and HNAH entered into an agreement with the Federal Reserve Board in relation to the 
Independent Foreclosure Review. Additional information is provided in Note 43. 
A fourth interim dividend for 2012 of US$0.18 per ordinary share (a distribution of approximately US$3,327m) was 
declared by the Directors after 31 December 2012. 
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2013 and authorised for issue. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Shareholder Information  
Interim dividends / Shareholder profile / 2012 Annual General Meeting 
516
Shareholder Information
Page
Fourth interim dividend for 2012 ................................ 516
Interim dividends for 2013 .......................................... 516
Shareholder profile ...................................................... 517
2012 Annual General Meeting ..................................... 517
Interim Management Statements and Interim Results  518
Shareholder enquiries and communications ................ 518
Stock symbols .............................................................. 519
Investor relations .......................................................... 519
Page
Where more information about HSBC is  
available ................................................................... 520
Simplified structure chart ............................................. 521
Taxation of shares and dividends ................................ 522
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking 
statements ................................................................ 525
Abbreviations .............................................................. 526
Glossary and Index ...................................................... 529
Fourth interim dividend for 2012 
The Directors have declared a fourth interim dividend for 2012 of US$0.18 per ordinary share. Information on the 
scrip dividend scheme and currencies in which shareholders may elect to have the cash dividend paid will be sent to 
shareholders on or about 3 April 2013. The timetable for the dividend is: 
Announcement ................................................................................................................................................................... 4 March 2013
Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong, Paris and Bermuda ......................................................................... 20 March 2013
ADSs quoted ex-dividend in New York ........................................................................................................................... 20 March 2013
Record date in Hong Kong ................................................................................................................................................ 21 March 2013
Record date in London, New York, Paris and Bermuda
1
 ................................................................................................. 22 March 2013
Mailing of Annual Report and Accounts 2012 and/or Annual Review 2012, Notice of Annual General Meeting  
and dividend documentation ......................................................................................................................................... 3 April 2013
Final date for receipt by registrars of forms of election, Investor Centre electronic instructions and revocations  
of standing instructions for scrip dividends .................................................................................................................. 25 April 2013
Exchange rate determined for payment of dividends in sterling and Hong Kong dollars ............................................... 29 April 2013
Payment date: dividend warrants, new share certificates or transaction advices and notional tax vouchers mailed  
and shares credited to stock accounts in CREST .......................................................................................................... 8 May 2013
1 Removals to and from the Overseas Branch register of shareholders in Hong Kong will not be permitted on this date. 
Interim dividends for 2013 
The Board has adopted a policy of paying quarterly interim dividends on the ordinary shares. Under this policy it is 
intended to have a pattern of three equal interim dividends with a variable fourth interim dividend. It is envisaged that 
the first interim dividend in respect of 2013 will be US$0.10 per ordinary share. The proposed timetables for the 
dividends in respect of 2013 are: 
Interim dividends for 2013 
 First  Second  Third   Fourth 
Announcement ................................................... 7 May 2013 5 August 2013 7 October 2013 24 February 2014 
Shares quoted ex-dividend in London,  
Hong Kong, Paris and Bermuda ................... 22 May 2013 21 August 2013 23 October 2013 12 March 2014 
ADSs quoted ex-dividend in New York ........... 22 May 2013 21 August 2013 23 October 2013 12 March 2014 
Record date in Hong Kong ................................ 23 May 2013 22 August 2013 24 October 2013 13 March 2014 
Record date in London, New York, Paris and 
Bermuda
1
 ....................................................... 24 May 2013 23 August 2013 25 October 2013 14 March 2014 
Payment date ...................................................... 11 July 2013 9 October 2013 11 December 2013 30 April 2014 
1 Removals to and from the Overseas Branch Register of shareholders in Hong Kong will not be permitted on these dates. 
Dividends are declared in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a 
combination of, US dollars, sterling and Hong Kong dollars, or, subject to the Board’s determination that a scrip 
dividend is to be offered in respect of that dividend, may be satisfied in whole or in part by the issue of new shares in 
lieu of a cash dividend.  517
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Shareholder profile 
At 31 December 2012 the share register recorded the following details: 
Ordinary shares held 
 Number of  
 shareholders 
 Total
 shares held 
1-100 ........................................................................................................................................................ 35,872 1,075,355 
101-400 .................................................................................................................................................... 30,307 7,425,370 
401-500 .................................................................................................................................................... 7,833 3,538,962 
501-1,000 ................................................................................................................................................. 31,490 23,056,605 
1,001-5,000 .............................................................................................................................................. 72,523 170,851,837 
5,001-10,000 ............................................................................................................................................ 18,840 133,212,606 
10,001-20,000 .......................................................................................................................................... 10,978 153,114,553 
20,001-50,000 .......................................................................................................................................... 6,673 204,789,957 
50,001-200,000 ........................................................................................................................................ 3,271 301,012,906 
200,001-500,000 ...................................................................................................................................... 721 223,700,082 
500,001 and above ................................................................................................................................... 1,050 17,254,230,431 
Total ......................................................................................................................................................... 219,558 18,476,008,664 
2012 Annual General Meeting 
All Directors listed on pages 302 to 307 attended the 2012 Annual General Meeting with the exception of G Morgan 
who was unable to attend and R Fassbind and J Comey who were appointed Directors on 1 January 2013 and 4 
March 2013, respectively. G Morgan ceased to be a Director from the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General 
Meeting. 
All resolutions considered at the 2012 Annual General Meeting held at 11.00am on 25 May 2012 at The Barbican 
Centre, London EC2 were passed on a poll as follows: 
Total votes 
Resolution For
1
 Against  Vote withheld
2
1 To receive the Report and Accounts for 2011 .................................................. 8,674,241,734 135,201,316 7,347,647 
2 To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for 2011 .............................. 7,603,837,582 863,308,512 342,947,482 
3 To elect or re-elect the following as Directors: 
 (a) S A Catz .................................................................................................... 8,804,928,221 9,610,127 5,875,570 
 (b) L M L Cha ................................................................................................ 8,648,658,349 47,870,917 123,714,457 
 (c) M K T Cheung .......................................................................................... 8,802,099,054 12,615,523 5,630,308 
 (d) J D Coombe .............................................................................................. 8,628,180,910 186,062,475 5,852,946 
 (e) J Faber ...................................................................................................... 8,796,984,821 17,580,853 5,861,373 
 (f) R A Fairhead ............................................................................................ 8,743,788,851 118,900,468 5,802,585 
 (g) D J Flint .................................................................................................... 8,619,018,008 168,004,948 33,368,432 
 (h) A A Flockhart ........................................................................................... 8,774,240,102 40,569,601 5,687,412 
 (i) S T Gulliver .............................................................................................. 8,775,424,304 39,522,674 5,558,005 
 (j) J W J Hughes-Hallett ............................................................................... 8,771,227,801 43,514,682 5,732,794 
 (k) W S H Laidlaw ......................................................................................... 8,749,103,878 65,588,171 5,762,796 
 (l) J P Lipsky ................................................................................................. 8,804,822,657 9,552,202 5,949,328 
 (m) J R Lomax ................................................................................................ 8,694,903,617 21,801,654 103,551,962 
 (n) I J Mackay ................................................................................................ 8,780,813,350 33,915,545 5,752,704 
 (o) N R N Murthy .......................................................................................... 8,799,839,273 14,888,406 5,752,109 
 (p) Sir Simon Robertson ................................................................................ 8,637,007,606 48,054,956 123,743,083 
 (q) J L Thornton ............................................................................................. 8,248,542,395 336,922,956 233,310,057 
4 To reappoint the Auditor at remuneration to be determined by the  
Group Audit Committee ............................................................................... 8,658,879,219 145,175,480 16,773,808 
5 To authorise the Directors to allot shares ......................................................... 8,598,678,631 214,223,057 6,232,394 
6 To disapply pre-emption rights (Special Resolution) ...................................... 8,613,126,301 195,480,323 12,092,143 
7 To authorise the Company to purchase its own shares .................................... 8,775,533,630 39,890,867 5,250,428 
8 To authorise the Directors to offer a scrip dividend alternative........................ 8,805,094,483 5,763,369 9,412,655 
9 To approve general meetings (other than annual general meetings) being 
called on 14 clear days’ notice (Special Resolution) ................................... 7,876,386,438 937,298,004 6,966,206 
1 Includes discretionary votes. 
2 A ‘Vote Withheld’ is not a ‘vote’ in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes ‘For’ and ‘Against’ the resolution. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Shareholder Information (continued)
IMS and Interim Results / Shareholder enquiries and communications / Stock symbols / Investor relations  
518
Interim Management Statements and Interim Results 
Interim Management Statements are expected to be issued on or around 7 May 2013 and 4 November 2013. The 
Interim Results for the six months to 30 June 2013 are expected to be issued on 5 August 2013. 
Shareholder enquiries and communications 
Enquiries 
Any enquiries relating to shareholdings on the share register, for example transfers of shares, change of name or 
address, lost share certificates or dividend cheques, should be sent to the Registrars at the address given below. The 
Registrars offer an online facility, Investor Centre, which enables shareholders to manage their shareholding 
electronically. 
Principal Register:  Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register:  Bermuda Overseas Branch Register: 
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: 44 (0) 870 702 0137 
Email via website: 
www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus 
 Computershare Hong Kong Investor 
   Services Limited 
Rooms 1712-1716, 17
th 
Floor 
Hopewell Centre  
183 Queen’s Road East  
Hong Kong 
Telephone: 852 2862 8555 
Email: hsbc.ecom@computershare.com.hk 
 Investors Relations Team 
HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited 
6 Front Street 
Hamilton HM 11 
Bermuda 
Telephone: 1 441 299 6737 
Email: 
hbbm.shareholder.services@hsbc.bm 
Investor Centre: 
www.investorcentre.co.uk 
 Investor Centre: 
www.computershare.com/hk/investors 
 Investor Centre: 
www.computershare.com/investor/bm 
Any enquiries relating to ADSs should be sent to the depositary: 
The Bank of New York Mellon 
Depositary Receipts 
PO Box 43006 
Providence, RI 02940-3006 
USA
Telephone (US): 1 877 283 5786 
Telephone (International): 1 201 680 6825 
Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com 
Website: www.bnymellon.com/shareowner 
Any enquiries relating to shares held through Euroclear France, the settlement and central depositary system for 
NYSE Euronext Paris, should be sent to the paying agent: 
HSBC France 
103, avenue des Champs Elysées 
75419 Paris Cedex 08 
France
Telephone: 33 1 40 70 22 56 
Email: ost-agence-des-titres-hsbc-reims.hbfr-do@hsbc.fr 
Website: www.hsbc.fr 
If you have been nominated to receive general shareholder communications directly from HSBC Holdings, it is 
important to remember that your main contact for all matters relating to your investment remains the registered 
shareholder, or perhaps custodian or broker, who administers the investment on your behalf. Therefore any changes 
or queries relating to your personal details and holding (including any administration thereof) must continue to be 
directed to your existing contact at your investment manager or custodian. HSBC Holdings cannot guarantee dealing 
with matters directed to it in error.  519
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Further copies of this Annual Report and Accounts 2012 may be obtained by writing to the following departments: 
For those in Europe, the Middle East 
and Africa: 
 For those in Asia-Pacific:  For those in the Americas: 
Global Communications 
HSBC Holdings plc 
8 Canada Square 
London E14 5HQ 
United Kingdom 
 Communications (Asia) 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited  
1 Queen’s Road Central 
Hong Kong
 Global Publishing Services 
HSBC – North America 
26525 N Riverwoods Boulevard 
Mettawa, Illinois 60045 
USA
Electronic communications 
Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or to receive a notification 
of their availability on HSBC’s website. To receive future notifications of the availability of a corporate 
communication on HSBC’s website by email, or revoke or amend an instruction to receive such notifications by 
email, go to www.hsbc.com/ecomms. If you provide an email address to receive electronic communications from 
HSBC, we will also send notifications of your dividend entitlements by email. If you received a notification of the 
availability of this document on HSBC’s website and would like to receive a printed copy of it, or if you would like 
to receive future corporate communications in printed form, please write or send an email to the appropriate 
Registrars at the address given above. Printed copies will be provided without charge. 
Chinese translation 
A Chinese translation of this Annual Report and Accounts 2012 is available upon request after 3 April 2013 from the 
Registrars: 
Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited 
Rooms 1712-1716, 17
th
 Floor  
Hopewell Centre  
183 Queen’s Road East 
Hong Kong 
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
United Kingdom  
Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents or if you have 
received a Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive such translations in future. 
Stock symbols 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares trade under the following stock symbols: 
London Stock Exchange HSBA Euronext Paris HSB 
Hong Kong Stock Exchange 5 Bermuda Stock Exchange HSBC 
New York Stock Exchange (ADS) HBC   
Investor relations 
Enquiries relating to HSBC’s strategy or operations may be directed to: 
Manager Investor Relations 
HSBC Holdings plc 
8 Canada Square 
London E14 5HQ 
United Kingdom  
SVP Investor Relations 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 
26525 N Riverwoods Boulevard 
Mettawa, Illinois 60045 
USA
Head of Investor Relations, Asia-Pacific 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited 
1 Queen’s Road Central 
Hong Kong 
Telephone: 44 020 7991 8041  1 224 880 8008  852 2822 4908 
Facsimile:  44 0845 587 0225   1 847 383 3331  852 3418 4469 
Email:  investorrelations@hsbc.com  investor.relations.usa@us.hsbc.com  investorrelations@hsbc.com.hk  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Shareholder Information (continued)
Information / Organisation chart 
520
Where more information about HSBC is available 
This Annual Report and Accounts 2012, and other information on HSBC, may be viewed on HSBC’s website: 
www.hsbc.com. 
Reports, statements and information that HSBC Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
are available at www.sec.gov. Investors can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a 
duplicating fee, by writing to the SEC at the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N.E., 
Washington, DC 20549-0123 or by emailing PublicInfo@sec.gov. Investors should call the Commission at 
(202) 551 8090 if they require further assistance. Investors may also obtain the reports and other information that 
HSBC Holdings files at www.nyse.com (telephone number (1) 212 656 3000).  521
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Shareholder Information (continued)
T axation of shares and dividends  
522
Taxation of shares and dividends 
Taxation – UK residents 
The following is a summary, under current law, of 
certain UK tax considerations that are likely to be 
material to the ownership and disposition of 
shares. The summary does not purport to be 
a comprehensive description of all the tax 
considerations that may be relevant to a holder of 
shares. In particular, the summary deals principally 
with shareholders who are resident solely in the UK 
for UK tax purposes and only with holders who hold 
the shares as investments and who are the beneficial 
owners of the shares, and does not address the tax 
treatment of certain classes of holders such as 
dealers in securities. Holders and prospective 
purchasers should consult their own advisers 
regarding the tax consequences of an investment 
in shares in light of their particular circumstances, 
including the effect of any national, state or local 
laws.
Taxation of dividends 
Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by 
HSBC Holdings. However, dividends are paid with 
an associated tax credit which is available for set-off 
by certain shareholders against any liability they 
may have to UK income tax. Currently, the 
associated tax credit is equivalent to 10% of the 
combined cash dividend and tax credit, i.e. one-ninth 
of the cash dividend. 
For individual shareholders who are resident in the 
UK for taxation purposes and liable to UK income 
tax at the basic rate, no further UK income tax 
liability arises on the receipt of a dividend from 
HSBC Holdings. Individual shareholders who 
are liable to UK income tax at the higher rate or 
additional rate are taxed on the combined amount 
of the dividend and the tax credit at the dividend 
upper rate (currently 32.5%) and the dividend 
additional rate (currently 42.5%), respectively. The 
UK Government has announced that the dividend 
additional rate will be reduced from 42.5% to 37.5%, 
with effect on and after 6 April 2013. The tax credit 
is available for set-off against the dividend upper 
rate and the dividend additional rate liability. 
Individual UK resident shareholders are not entitled 
to any tax credit repayment. 
Although non-UK resident shareholders are 
generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax 
credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some 
such shareholders may be so entitled under the 
provisions of a double taxation agreement between 
their country of residence and the UK. However, in 
most cases no amount of the tax credit is, in practice, 
repayable. 
Information on the taxation consequences of the 
HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the 
2011 fourth interim dividend and the first, second 
and third interim dividends for 2012 was set out in 
the Secretary’s letters to shareholders of 27 March, 
29 May, 29 August and 7 November 2012. In no 
case, was the difference between the cash dividend 
foregone and the market value of the scrip dividend 
in excess of 15% of the market value. Accordingly, 
the amount of the dividend income chargeable to 
tax, and, the acquisition price of HSBC Holdings 
US$0.50 ordinary shares (the ‘shares’) for UK 
capital gains tax purposes, was the cash dividend 
foregone.
Taxation of capital gains 
The computation of the capital gains tax liability 
arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings 
by shareholders subject to UK tax on capital gains 
can be complex, partly depending on whether, for 
example, the shares were purchased since April 
1991, acquired in 1991 in exchange for shares in 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited, or acquired subsequent to 1991 in exchange 
for shares in other companies.  
For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition 
cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account 
of subsequent rights and capitalisation issues. Any 
capital gain arising on a disposal by a UK company 
may also be adjusted to take account of indexation 
allowance. If in doubt, shareholders are 
recommended to consult their professional advisers. 
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax 
Transfers of shares by a written instrument of 
transfer generally will be subject to UK stamp duty 
at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration paid for the 
transfer, and such stamp duty is generally payable 
by the transferee. 
An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest 
therein, normally will give rise to a charge to stamp 
duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the 
consideration. However, provided an instrument 
of transfer of the shares is executed pursuant to the 
agreement and duly stamped before the date on 
which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, 
under the current practice of UK HM Revenue and 
Customs it will not be necessary to pay the stamp 
duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be 
cancelled. Stamp duty reserve tax is generally 
payable by the transferee.  523
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the 
UK’s paperless share transfer system, are liable to 
stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the 
consideration. In CREST transactions, the tax 
is calculated and payment made automatically. 
Deposits of shares into CREST generally will not be 
subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless the transfer 
into CREST is itself for consideration. Following the 
case HSBC pursued before the European Court of 
Justice (Case C-569/07 HSBC Holdings plc and 
Vidacos Nominees Ltd v The Commissioners for 
HM Revenue & Customs) and a subsequent case in 
relation to depositary receipts, HMRC now accepts 
that the charge to stamp duty reserve tax at 1.5% on 
the issue of shares to a depositary receipt issuer or a 
clearance service is prohibited.  
Taxation – US residents 
The following is a summary, under current law, 
of the principal UK tax and US federal income tax 
considerations that are likely to be material to the 
ownership and disposition of shares or American 
Depositary Shares (‘ADS’s) by a holder that is a 
resident of the US for US federal income tax 
purposes (a ‘US holder’) and who is not resident 
(while it remains relevant to the charge to UK capital 
gains tax) ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax 
purposes. Holders and prospective purchasers should 
note that the UK Government has announced that 
ordinary residence will cease to be relevant to the 
charge to UK capital gains tax for the tax year 
2013-14 and subsequent tax years. 
The summary does not purport to be a 
comprehensive description of all of the tax 
considerations that may be relevant to a holder of 
shares or ADSs. In particular, the summary deals 
only with US holders that hold shares or ADSs as 
capital assets, and does not address the tax treatment 
of holders that are subject to special tax rules, such 
as banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, 
dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold 
shares or ADSs as part of an integrated investment 
(including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a share or ADS 
and one or more other positions, and persons that 
own, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the 
voting stock of HSBC Holdings. This discussion 
is based on laws, treaties, judicial decisions and 
regulatory interpretations in effect on the date 
hereof, all of which are subject to change. 
Holders and prospective purchasers should 
consult their own advisers regarding the tax 
consequences of an investment in shares or ADSs 
in light of their particular circumstances, including 
the effect of any national, state or local laws. 
Any US federal tax advice included in this 
Annual Report and Accounts is for informational 
purposes only; it was not intended or written to be 
used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of 
avoiding US federal tax penalties. 
Taxation of dividends 
Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by 
HSBC Holdings. A US holder must include cash 
dividends paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary 
income on the date that such holder or the ADS 
depositary receives them, translating dividends paid 
in UK pounds sterling into US dollars using the 
exchange rate in effect on the date of receipt. A US 
holder that elects to receive shares in lieu of a cash 
dividend must include in ordinary income the fair 
market value of such shares on the dividend payment 
date, and the tax basis of those shares will equal such 
fair market value. 
Subject to certain exceptions for positions that 
are held for less than 61 days or are hedged, and 
subject to a foreign corporation being considered a 
‘qualified foreign corporation’ (which includes not 
being classified for US federal income tax purposes 
as a passive foreign investment company), certain 
dividends (‘qualified dividends’) received by an 
individual US holder generally will be subject to US 
taxation at maximum rates. Based on the company’s 
audited financial statements and relevant market and 
shareholder data, HSBC Holdings does not 
anticipate being classified as a passive foreign 
investment company. Accordingly, dividends paid 
on the shares or ADSs generally should be treated as 
qualified dividends. 
Taxation of capital gains 
Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other 
disposition of shares or ADSs normally will not be 
subject to UK taxation unless at the time of the sale 
or other disposition the holder carries on a trade, 
profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or 
agency or permanent establishment and the shares or 
ADSs are or have been used, held or acquired for the 
purposes of such trade, profession, vocation, branch 
or agency or permanent establishment. Such gains 
will be included in income for US tax purposes, and 
will be long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs 
were held for more than one year. A long-term 
capital gain realised by an individual holder 
generally will be subject to US tax at preferential 
rates.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Shareholder Information (continued)
T axation of shares and dividends > Cautionary statement  
524
Inheritance tax 
Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose 
domicile is determined to be the US for the purposes 
of the United States-United Kingdom Double 
Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes 
(the ‘Estate Tax Treaty’) and who is not for such 
purposes a national of the UK will not, provided 
any US federal estate or gift tax chargeable has 
been paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the 
individual’s death or on a lifetime transfer of shares 
or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares or 
ADSs (i) are comprised in a settlement (unless, at the 
time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in 
the US and was not a national of the UK), (ii) is 
part of the business property of a UK permanent 
establishment of an enterprise, or (iii) pertains to 
a UK fixed base of an individual used for the 
performance of independent personal services. In 
such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally provides 
a credit against US federal tax liability for the 
amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the 
shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance 
tax and to US federal estate or gift tax. 
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax – 
ADSs
If shares are transferred to a clearance service or 
American Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) issuer (which 
will include a transfer of shares to the Depositary) 
under the current HMRC practice UK stamp duty 
and/or stamp duty reserve tax will be payable. The 
stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally 
payable on the consideration for the transfer and is 
payable at the aggregate rate of 1.5%. 
The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable 
on such a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty 
paid in connection with the same transfer. 
No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer 
of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that 
the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or 
written agreement to transfer remain at all times 
outside the UK, and provided further that any such 
transfer or written agreement to transfer is not 
executed in the UK. No stamp duty reserve tax will 
be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, 
an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR. 
US backup withholding tax and information 
reporting 
Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds 
from the sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within 
the US, or through certain financial intermediaries to 
US holders, are subject to information reporting and 
may be subject to a US ‘backup’ withholding tax 
unless, in general, the US holder complies with 
certain certification procedures or is a corporation or 
other person exempt from such withholding. Holders 
that are not US persons generally are not subject to 
information reporting or backup withholding tax, 
but may be required to comply with applicable 
certification procedures to establish that they are not 
US persons in order to avoid the application of such 
information reporting requirements or backup 
withholding tax to payments received within the 
US or through certain financial intermediaries. 525
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Cautionary statement regarding 
forward-looking statements 
The Annual Report and Accounts 2012 contains 
certain forward-looking statements with respect to 
HSBC’s financial condition, results of operations 
and business. 
Statements that are not historical facts, including 
statements about HSBC’s beliefs and expectations, 
are forward-looking statements. Words such as 
‘expects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘believes’, 
‘seeks’, ‘estimates’, ‘potential’ and ‘reasonably 
possible’, variations of these words and similar 
expressions are intended to identify forward-looking 
statements. These statements are based on current 
plans, estimates and projections, and therefore undue 
reliance should not be placed on them. Forward-
looking statements speak only as of the date they are 
made. HSBC makes no commitment to revise or 
update any forward-looking statements to reflect 
events or circumstances occurring or existing after 
the date of any forward-looking statements. 
Written and/or oral forward-looking statements 
may also be made in the periodic reports to the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission, summary 
financial statements to shareholders, proxy statements, 
offering circulars and prospectuses, press releases 
and other written materials, and in oral statements 
made by HSBC’s Directors, officers or employees to 
third parties, including financial analysts. 
Forward-looking statements involve inherent 
risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that a 
number of factors could cause actual results to differ, 
in some instances materially, from those anticipated 
or implied in any forward-looking statement. These 
include, but are not limited to:  
• changes in general economic conditions in the 
markets in which we operate, such as continuing 
or deepening recessions and fluctuations in 
employment beyond those factored into 
consensus forecasts; changes in foreign 
exchange rates and interest rates; volatility in 
equity markets; lack of liquidity in wholesale 
funding markets; illiquidity and downward price 
pressure in national real estate markets; adverse 
changes in central banks’ policies with respect 
to the provision of liquidity support to financial 
markets; heightened market concerns over 
sovereign creditworthiness in over-indebted 
countries; adverse changes in the funding status  
of public or private defined benefit pensions; 
and consumer perception as to the continuing 
availability of credit and price competition in 
the market segments we serve; 
• changes in government policy and regulation, 
including the monetary, interest rate and other 
policies of central banks and other regulatory 
authorities; initiatives to change the size, 
scope of activities and interconnectedness of 
financial institutions in connection with the 
implementation of stricter regulation of financial 
institutions in key markets worldwide; revised 
capital and liquidity benchmarks which could 
serve to deleverage bank balance sheets and 
lower returns available from the current business 
model and portfolio mix; imposition of levies or 
taxes designed to change business mix and risk 
appetite; the practices, pricing or responsibilities 
of financial institutions serving their consumer 
markets; expropriation, nationalisation, 
confiscation of assets and changes in legislation 
relating to foreign ownership; changes in 
bankruptcy legislation in the principal markets 
in which we operate and the consequences 
thereof; general changes in government policy 
that may significantly influence investor 
decisions; extraordinary government actions as a 
result of current market turmoil; other 
unfavourable political or diplomatic 
developments producing social instability or 
legal uncertainty which in turn may affect 
demand for our products and services; the costs, 
effects and outcomes of product regulatory 
reviews, actions or litigation, including any 
additional compliance requirements; and the 
effects of competition in the markets where we 
operate including increased competition from 
non-bank financial services companies, 
including securities firms; and 
• factors specific to HSBC, including our success 
in adequately identifying the risks we face, such 
as the incidence of loan losses or delinquency, 
and managing those risks (through account 
management, hedging and other techniques). 
Effective risk management depends on, among 
other things, our ability through stress testing 
and other techniques to prepare for events that 
cannot be captured by the statistical models it 
uses; and our success in addressing operational, 
legal and regulatory, and litigation challenges, 
notably compliance with the DPA.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Shareholder Information (continued)
Abbreviations  
526
Abbreviations 
Abbreviation Brief description 
A
ABS
1
 Asset-backed security 
ADR American Depositary Receipt 
ADS American Depositary Share 
ALCM Asset and Liability Capital Management 
ALCO Asset and Liability Management Committee 
AML Anti-money laundering 
ARM
1
 Adjustable-rate mortgage 
B
Basel Committee Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
Basel I  1988 Basel Capital Accord 
Basel II
1
 2006 Basel Capital Accord 
Basel III
1
 Basel Committee’s reforms to strengthen global capital and liquidity rules 
BoCom Bank of Communications Co., Limited, mainland China’s fourth largest bank by market capitalisation 
Bps
1
 Basis points. One basis point is equal to one hundredth of a percentage point 
BSA Bank Secrecy Act, US 
BSM Balance Sheet Management 
C
CCP
1
 Central counterparty 
CCR
1
 Counterparty credit risk 
CD Certificate of deposit 
CDO
1
 Collateralised debt obligation 
CDS
1
 Credit default swap 
CDPC Credit derivative product company 
CET1
1
 Common equity tier 1 ratio 
CGU Cash-generating unit 
CMB Commercial Banking, a global business 
CML
1
 Consumer and Mortgage Lending portfolio in the US, comprising Consumer Lending and Mortgage 
Services businesses in run-off 
CP
1
 Commercial paper 
CPI Consumer price index 
CRD
1
 Capital Requirements Directive 
CRR
1
 Customer risk rating 
CVA
1
 Credit valuation adjustment 
D
Dodd-Frank The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform & Consumer Protection Act 
DoJ Department of Justice, US 
DPA The Deferred Prosecution Agreement with DoJ and, if the context so requires, the Deferred Prosecution 
Agreement with the New York County District Attorney’s Office, in each case entered into in December 
2012
DPF Discretionary participation feature of insurance and investment contracts 
DVA
1
 Debit valuation adjustment 
E
EAD
1
 Exposure at default 
EBA European Banking Authority 
ECB European Central Bank 
EDTF Enhanced Disclosure Task Force 
EL
1
 Expected loss 
EU European Union 
Euribor European Interbank Offered Rates 
F
Fannie Mae Federal National Mortgage Association, US 
FCA Financial Conduct Authority, UK 
FHFA Federal Housing Finance Agency 
first direct first direct is a division of HSBC Bank plc 
FPC Financial Policy Committee, UK 
Freddie Mac Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, US 
FSA Financial Services Authority, UK 
FSMA Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, UK 
FTE Full time equivalent staff 
FTSE Financial Times – Stock Exchange index  527
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Abbreviation Brief description 
G
G20 Leaders, Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors of the Group of Twenty 
GAC Group Audit Committee 
GB&M Global Banking and Markets, a global business 
GDP Gross domestic product 
GENPRU The FSA’s General Prudential Sourcebook of rules and guidance 
Ginnie Mae Government National Mortgage Association, US 
Global Markets HSBC’s treasury and capital markets services in Global Banking and Markets 
GMB Group Management Board 
GPB Global Private Banking 
GPSP Group Performance Share Plan 
Group HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings 
G-SIB
1
 Global Systemically Important Bank 
H
Hang Seng Bank Hang Seng Bank Limited, one of Hong Kong’s largest banks 
HNAH HSBC North America Holdings Inc.  
Hong Kong The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China 
HSBC HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings 
HSBC Afore HSBC Afore S.A. de C.V. 
HSBC Bank HSBC Bank plc, formerly Midland Bank plc 
HSBC Bank Argentina HSBC Bank Argentina S.A. 
HSBC Bank Bermuda HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited formerly The Bank of Bermuda Limited 
HSBC Bank Malaysia HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad 
HSBC Bank Middle East HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, formerly The British Bank of the Middle East 
HSBC Bank USA HSBC’s retail bank in the US, HSBC Bank USA, N.A. (formerly HSBC Bank USA, Inc.) 
HSBC Canada The sub-group, HSBC Bank Canada, HSBC Trust Company Canada, HSBC Mortgage Corporation 
Canada, HSBC Securities Canada and HSBC Financial Co. Canada, consolidated for liquidity purposes
HSBC Finance HSBC Finance Corporation, the US consumer finance company (formerly Household International, Inc.) 
HSBC France HSBC’s French banking subsidiary, formerly CCF S.A. 
HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings plc, the parent company of HSBC  
HSBC Mexico HSBC México S.A., the commercial banking subsidiary of Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 
HSBC Premier HSBC’s premium global banking service 
HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA, HSBC’s private bank in Switzerland 
HSBC USA The sub-group, HSBC USA Inc (the holding company of HSBC BankUSA) and HSBC Bank USA, 
consolidated for liquidity purposes 
HTCD HSBC Trust Company (Delaware), N.A. 
I
IAS International Accounting Standard 
IASB International Accounting Standards Board 
ICB Independent Commission on Banking, UK 
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee 
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards 
IMM
1
 Internal model method 
Industrial Bank Industrial Bank Co. Limited, a national joint-stock bank in mainland China in which Hang Seng Bank has 
a shareholding 
IRB
1
 Internal ratings-based 
ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association 
K
KPI Key performance indicator 
KPMG KPMG Audit Plc and its affiliates 
L
LFRF Liquidity and funding risk management framework 
LGD
1
 Loss given default 
Libor London Interbank Offer Rate 
LIC Loan impairment charge and other credit risk provision 
LTV
1
 Loan to value ratio 
M
Mainland China People’s Republic of China excluding Hong Kong 
Mazarin Mazarin Funding Limited, an asset-backed CP conduit 
MBS
1
 Mortgage-backed security 
MENA Middle East and North Africa 
Monoline
1
 Monoline insurance company 
MSCI Morgan Stanley Capital International index  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Shareholder Information (continued)
Abbreviations / Glossary 
528
Abbreviation Brief description 
N
NYSE New York Stock Exchange 
O
OFAC Office of Foreign Asset Control, USA 
OIB Oman International Bank S.A.O.G. 
OIS Overnight index swap 
ORMF Operational risk management framework 
OTC
1
 Over-the-counter 
P
PD
1
 Probability of default 
Performance Shares
1
 Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans that are subject to corporate 
performance conditions 
Ping An Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd, the second-largest life insurer in the PRC 
PPI Payment protection insurance product 
PRC People’s Republic of China 
Premier See HSBC Premier 
PVIF Present value of in-force long-term insurance business 
R
RBWM Retail Banking and Wealth Management, a global business 
Repo
1
 Sale and repurchase transaction 
Restricted Shares Awards of Restricted Shares define the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee 
will become entitled, generally between one and three years from the date of the award, and normally 
subject to the individual remaining in employment  
Reverse repo Security purchased under commitments to sell 
Risk Management Meeting The Risk Management Meeting of the Group Management Board 
RMC Risk Management Committee 
RoRWA Return on average risk-weighted assets 
RPI Retail price index (UK) 
RRP Recovery and resolution plan 
RWA
1
 Risk-weighted asset 
S
S&P Standard and Poor’s rating agency 
SEC Securities and Exchange Commission, US 
SIC Securities investment conduit 
SIV
1
 Structured investment vehicle 
SME Small and medium-sized enterprise 
Solitaire Solitaire Funding Limited, a special purpose entity managed by HSBC 
SPE
1
 Special purpose entity 
T
The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, the founding member of the HSBC Group 
TSR Total shareholder return 
U
UAE United Arab Emirates 
UK United Kingdom 
US United States of America 
US run-off portfolio Includes our CML, vehicle finance and Taxpayer Financial Services businesses and insurance, 
commercial, corporate and treasury activities in HSBC Finance on an IFRSs management basis 
V
VAR
1
 Value at risk 
Visa Visa Inc. 
1 Full definition included in Glossary on page 529.  529
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Glossary
Term Definition 
A
Adjustable-rate mortgages 
(‘ARM’s) 
Mortgage loans in the US on which the interest rate is periodically changed based on a reference price. 
These are included within ‘affordability mortgages’.  
Affordability mortgages Mortgage loans where the customer’s monthly payments are set out at a low initial rate, either variable or 
fixed, before resetting to a higher rate once the introductory period is over. 
Agency exposures Exposures to near or quasi-government agencies including public sector entities fully owned by 
government carrying out non-commercial activities, provincial and local government authorities, 
development banks and funds set up by government. 
Alt-A A US description for loans regarded as lower risk than sub-prime, but with higher risk characteristics than 
lending under normal criteria. 
Arrears Customers are said to be in arrears (or in a state of delinquency) when they are behind in fulfilling their 
obligations, with the result that an outstanding loan is unpaid or overdue. When a customer is in 
arrears, the total outstanding loans on which payments are overdue are described as delinquent. 
Asset-backed securities
(‘ABS’s) 
Securities that represent an interest in an underlying pool of referenced assets. The referenced pool can 
comprise any assets which attract a set of associated cash flows but are commonly pools of residential 
or commercial mortgages.  
B
Back-testing A statistical technique used to monitor and assess the accuracy of a model, and how that model would 
have performed had it been applied in the past. 
Bail-inable debt Bail-in refers to imposition of losses at the point of non viability (but before insolvency) on bank 
liabilities (bail-inable debt) that are not exposed to losses while the institution remains a viable, going 
concern. Whether by way of write-down or conversion into equity, this has the effect of recapitalising 
the bank (although it does not provide any new funding). 
Bank levy A levy that applies to UK banks, building societies and the UK operations of foreign banks from 1 
January 2011. The amount payable is based on a percentage of the group’s consolidated liabilities and 
equity as at 31 December 2011 after deducting certain items the most material of which are those 
related to insured deposit balances, tier 1 capital, insurance liabilities, high quality liquid assets and 
items subject to a legally enforceable net settlement agreement. 
Basel II The capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in June 2006 in 
the form of the ‘International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards’, amended 
by subsequent changes to the capital requirements for market risk and re-securitisations, commonly 
known as Basel 2.5, which took effect 31 December 2011. 
Basel III In December 2010, the Basel Committee issued ‘Basel III rules: A global regulatory framework for more 
resilient banks and banking systems’ and ‘International framework for liquidity risk measurement, 
standards and monitoring’. Together these documents present the Basel Committee’s reforms to 
strengthen global capital and liquidity rules with the goal of promoting a more resilient banking sector. 
In June 2011, the Basel Committee issued a revision to the former document setting out the finalised 
capital treatment for counterparty credit risk in bilateral trades. The Basel III requirements will be 
phased in starting on 1 January 2013 with full implementation by 1 January 2019. 
Basis point (‘Bps’) One hundredth of a per cent (0.01%), so 100 basis points is 1%. Used in quoting movements in interest 
rates or yields on securities. 
C
Capital conservation buffer A capital buffer, prescribed by regulators under Basel III, and designed to ensure banks build up capital
buffers outside periods of stress which can be drawn down as losses are incurred. Should a bank’s 
capital levels fall within the capital conservation buffer range, capital distributions will be constrained 
by the regulators.  
Capital planning buffer A capital buffer, prescribed by the FSA under Basel II, and designed to ensure banks build up capital 
buffers outside periods of stress which can be drawn down as losses are incurred. Should a bank’s 
capital levels fall within the capital planning buffer range, a period of heightened regulatory interaction 
would be triggered.  
Capital requirements directive 
(‘CRD’)
A capital adequacy legislative package issued by the European Commission and adopted by member 
states. The first CRD legislative package gave effect to the Basel II proposals in the EU and came into 
force on 20 July 2006. CRD II, which came into force on 31 December 2010, subsequently updated 
the requirements for capital instruments, large exposure, liquidity risk and securitisation. A further 
amendment, CRD III updated market risk capital and additional securitisation requirements and came 
into force on 31 December 2011. 
CRD IV package comprises a recast Capital Requirements Directive and a new Capital Requirements 
Regulation. The package implements the Basel III capital proposals together with transitional 
arrangements for some of its requirements. CRD IV proposals are in draft and yet to have legal effect. 
Central counterparty (‘CCP’) An intermediary between a buyer and a seller (generally a clearing house). 
Collateralised debt obligation 
(‘CDO’) 
A security issued by a third-party which references ABSs and/or certain other related assets purchased by 
the issuer. CDOs may feature exposure to sub-prime mortgage assets through the underlying assets.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Shareholder Information (continued)
Glossary  
530
Term Definition 
Collectively assessed  
impairment 
Impairment assessment on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered 
individually significant and to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified 
on loans subject to individual assessment. 
Commercial paper (‘CP’) An unsecured, short-term debt instrument issued by a corporation, typically for the financing of accounts
receivable, inventories and meeting short-term liabilities. The debt is usually issued at a discount, 
reflecting prevailing market interest rates. 
Commercial real estate Any real estate investment, comprising buildings or land, intended to generate a profit, either from capital
gain or rental income. 
Common equity tier 1 capital 
(‘CET1’) 
The highest quality form of regulatory capital under Basel III that comprises common shares issued and 
related share premium, retained earnings and other reserves excluding the cash flow hedging reserve, 
less specified regulatory adjustments. 
Common reporting (‘COREP’) Harmonised European reporting framework established in the Capital Requirements Directives, to be 
mandated by the European Banking Authority. 
Compliance risk The risk that the Group fails to observe the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations 
and standards of good market practice, and incurs fines and penalties and suffers damage to its 
business as a consequence. 
Conduits HSBC sponsors and manages multi-seller conduits and securities investment conduits (‘SIC’s). The 
multi-seller conduits hold interests in diversified pools of third-party assets such as vehicle loans, trade 
receivables and credit card receivables funded through the issuance of short-dated commercial paper 
and supported by a liquidity facility. The SICs hold predominantly asset-backed securities referencing 
such items as commercial and residential mortgages, vehicle loans and credit card receivables funded 
through the issuance of both long-term and short-term debt. 
Constant currency A non-GAAP financial measure that adjusts for the year-on-year effects of foreign currency translation 
differences by comparing reported results for the reported period with reported results for comparative 
period retranslated at exchange rates for the reported period. The foreign currency translation 
differences reflect the movements of the US dollar against most major currencies during the reported 
period.  
Constant net asset value fund A fund that prices its assets on an amortised cost basis, subject to the amortised book value of the
portfolio remaining within 50 basis points of its market value. 
Consumer Mortgage and 
Lending (‘CML’) 
In the US, the CML portfolio consists of our Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services businesses, 
which are in run-off. 
The Consumer Lending business offered secured and unsecured loan products, such as first and second 
lien mortgage loans, open-ended home equity loans and personal non-credit card loans through branch 
locations and direct mail. The majority of the mortgage lending products were for refinancing and debt 
consolidation rather than home purchases. In the first quarter of 2009, we discontinued all originations 
by our Consumer Lending business. 
Prior to the first quarter of 2007, when we ceased new purchase activity, the Mortgage Services business 
purchased non-conforming first and second lien real estate secured loans from unaffiliated third parties. 
The business also included the operations of Decision One Mortgage Company (‘Decision One’), 
which historically originated mortgage loans sourced by independent mortgage brokers and sold these 
to secondary market purchasers. Decision One ceased originations in September 2007. 
Contractual maturities The date on which the final payment (principal or interest) of any financial instrument is due to be paid, at 
which point all the remaining outstanding principal and interest have been repaid. 
Core tier 1 capital The highest quality form of regulatory capital, under Basel II, that comprises total shareholders’ equity 
and related non-controlling interests, less goodwill and intangible assets and certain other regulatory 
adjustments. 
Countercyclical capital buffer 
(‘CCB’)
A capital buffer, prescribed by regulators under Basel III, which aims to ensure that capital requirements 
take account of the macro-financial environment in which banks operate. This will provide the banking 
sector with additional capital to protect it against potential future losses, when excess credit growth in 
the financial system as a whole is associated with an increase in system-wide risk. 
Counterparty credit risk  
(‘CCR’)
Counterparty credit risk, in both the trading and non-trading books, is the risk that the counterparty to a 
transaction may default before completing the satisfactory settlement of the transaction. 
Credit default swap A derivative contract whereby a buyer pays a fee to a seller in return for receiving a payment in the event
of a defined credit event (e.g. bankruptcy, payment default on a reference asset or assets, or 
downgrades by a rating agency) on an underlying obligation (which may or may not be held by the 
buyer). 
Credit derivative product 
companies (‘CDPC’s) 
Independent companies that specialise in selling credit default protection on corporate exposures in the 
form of credit derivatives. 
Credit enhancements Facilities used to enhance the creditworthiness of financial obligations and cover losses due to asset default.  
Credit risk Risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a contract. It arises 
mainly from direct lending, trade finance and leasing business, but also from products such as 
guarantees, derivatives and debt securities. 
Credit valuation adjustment 
(‘CVA’) 
An adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect the creditworthiness of OTC 
derivative counterparties. Formerly described as Credit Risk Adjustment.  531
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Term Definition 
Credit risk mitigation A technique to reduce the credit risk associated with an exposure by application of credit risk mitigants
such as collateral, guarantee and credit protection. 
Credit risk spread The premium over the benchmark or risk-free rate required by the market to accept a lower credit quality. 
The yield spread between securities with the same coupon rate and maturity structure but with different 
associated credit risks. The yield spread rises as the credit rating worsens.  
Credit spread risk The risk that movements in credit spreads will affect the value of financial instruments. 
Customer deposits Money deposited by account holders. Such funds are recorded as liabilities. 
Customer remediation Customer remediation refers to activities carried out by HSBC to compensate customers for losses or 
damages associated with a failure to comply with regulations. Customer remediation is initiated by 
HSBC in response to customer complaints, and not specifically initiated by regulatory action. 
Customer risk rating (‘CRR’) A scale of 23 grades measuring internal obligor probability of default. 
D
Debit valuation adjustment 
(‘DVA’) 
An adjustment made by an entity to the valuation of OTC derivative liabilities to reflect within fair value 
the entity’s own credit risk. 
Debt restructuring A restructuring by which the terms and provisions of outstanding debt agreements are changed. This is 
often done in order to improve cash flow and the ability of the borrower to repay the debt. It can 
involve altering the repayment schedule as well as debt or interest charge reduction. 
Debt securities Assets on the Group’s balance sheet representing certificates of indebtedness of credit institutions, public 
bodies or other undertakings, excluding those issued by Central Banks. 
Debt securities in issue Transferable certificates of indebtedness of the Group to the bearer of the certificates. These are liabilities 
of the Group and include certificates of deposits. 
Deed-in-lieu An arrangement in which a borrower surrenders the deed for a property to the lender without going 
through foreclosure proceedings and is subsequently released from any further obligations on the loan.
Defined benefit obligation The present value of expected future payments required to settle the obligations of a defined benefit plan 
resulting from employee service. 
Delinquency See ‘Arrears’. 
Deposits by banks All deposits received from domestic and foreign banks, excluding deposits or liabilities in the form of 
debt securities or for which transferable certificates have been issued. 
E
Economic capital The internally calculated capital requirement which is deemed necessary by HSBC to support the risks to 
which it is exposed. 
Economic profit The difference between the return on financial capital invested by shareholders and the cost of that 
capital. Economic profit may be expressed as a whole number or as a percentage. 
Economic value of equity  
(‘EVE’) sensitivity 
Considers all re-pricing mismatches in the current balance sheet and calculates the change in market value 
that would result from a set of defined interest rate shocks. 
Encumbered assets Assets on our balance sheet which have been pledged as collateral against an existing liability. 
Equity risk The risk arising from positions, either long or short, in equities or equity-based instruments, which create 
exposure to a change in the market price of the equities or equity instruments. 
Eurozone Represents the 17 European Union countries that have adopted the euro as their common currency. The 
17 countries are Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, 
Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain. 
Expected loss (‘EL’) A regulatory calculation of the amount expected to be lost on an exposure using a 12 month time horizon 
and downturn loss estimates. EL is calculated by multiplying the Probability of Default (a percentage) 
by the Exposure at Default (an amount) and Loss Given Default (a percentage). 
Exposure A claim, contingent claim or position which carries a risk of financial loss. 
Exposure at default (‘EAD’) The amount expected to be outstanding after any credit risk mitigation, if and when the counterparty
defaults. EAD reflects drawn balances as well as allowance for undrawn amounts of commitments and 
contingent exposures. 
F
Fair value adjustment An adjustment to the fair value of a financial instrument which is determined using a valuation technique
(level 2 and level 3) to include additional factors that would be considered by a market participant that 
are not incorporated within the valuation model. 
Fiduciary risk The risk to the Group of breaching its fiduciary duties where it acts in a fiduciary capacity as trustee, 
investment manager or as mandated by law or regulation. 
Financial Reporting  
(‘FINREP’) 
Harmonised European financial reporting framework, proposed by the European Union, which will be 
used to obtain a comprehensive view of a firm’s risk profile. 
First lien A security interest granted over an item of property to secure the repayment of a debt that places its 
holder first in line to collect repayment from the sale of the underlying collateral in the event of a 
default on the debt.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Shareholder Information (continued)
Glossary 
532
Term Definition 
Forbearance strategies Strategies that are employed in order to improve the management of customer relationships, maximise 
collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid default, foreclosure or repossession. Such arrangements 
include extended payment terms, a reduction in interest or principal repayments, approved external 
debt management plans, debt consolidations, the deferral of foreclosures, other modifications and 
re-ages. 
FSA standard rules The method prescribed by the FSA for calculating market risk capital requirements in the absence of 
VAR model approval. 
Funded exposures A funded exposure is one where the notional amount of a contract is or has been exchanged. 
Funding risk A form of liquidity risk arising when the liquidity needed to fund illiquid asset positions cannot be 
obtained at the expected terms and when required. 
G
Gap risk The risk of financial loss arising from a significant change in market price with no accompanying trading 
opportunity. 
Global Systemically Important 
Bank (‘G-SIB’) 
A bank that meets the criteria defined in the Basel Committee's final rules set out in their 4 November 
2011 document ‘Global systemically important banks: Assessment methodology and the additional 
loss absorbency requirement’. The latest official list of such banks comprised the 28 names, which 
include HSBC, published by the Financial Stability Board in November 2012. The Financial Stability 
Board is co-ordinating, on behalf of the G20 Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision (‘GHOS’), 
the overall set of measures to reduce the moral hazard and risks to the global financial system posed by 
global systemically important financial institutions (‘G-SIFI’s) of all kinds. 
Government-sponsored 
enterprises (‘GSE’s) 
A group of financial services enterprises created by the US Congress. Their function is to reduce the cost 
of capital for certain borrowing sectors of the economy, and to make them more efficient and 
transparent. Examples in the residential mortgage borrowing segment are Freddie Mac and Fannie 
Mae. GSEs carry the implicit backing, but are not direct obligations, of the US Government. 
GPSP Awards Awards that define the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will become 
entitled, generally five years from the date of the award, and normally subject to individual remaining 
in employment. The shares to which the employee becomes entitled are subject to a retention 
requirement until cessation of employment. 
Guarantee An undertaking by a party to pay a creditor should a debtor fail to do so. 
H
Haircuts A discount applied by management when determining the amount at which an asset can be realised. The 
discount takes into account the method of realisation including the extent to which an active market for 
the asset exists. 
Historical rating transition  
matrices (‘HRTM’) 
HRTMs show the probability of a counterparty with a particular rating moving to a different rating over a 
defined time horizon. 
Home Equity Lines of Credit 
(‘HELoC’s) 
A form of revolving credit facility provided to US customers, which is supported in the majority of cases 
by a second lien or lower ranking charge over residential property. Holdings of HELoCs are classified 
as sub-prime. 
I
Impaired loans Loans where the Group does not expect to collect all the contractual cash flows or expects to collect them 
later than they are contractually due. 
Impairment allowances  Management’s best estimate of losses incurred in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date. 
Individually assessed  
impairment 
Exposure to loss is assessed on all individually significant accounts and all other accounts that do not 
qualify for collective assessment.   
Insurance risk A risk, other than a financial risk, transferred from the holder of a contract to the insurance provider. The 
principal insurance risk is that, over time, the combined cost of claims, administration and acquisition 
of the contract may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums received and investment income. 
Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process  
The Group’s own assessment of the levels of capital that it needs to hold through an examination of its 
risk profile from regulatory and economic capital viewpoints. 
Internal Model Method (‘IMM’) One of three approaches defined by Basel II to determine exposure values for counterparty credit risk.
Internal ratings-based approach 
(‘IRB’) 
A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal, rather than supervisory, estimates 
of risk parameters. 
Invested capital Equity capital invested in HSBC by its shareholders, adjusted for certain reserves and goodwill previously 
amortised or written off. 
Investment grade Represents a risk profile similar to a rating of BBB- or better, as defined by an external rating agency. 
IRB advanced approach A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal PD, LGD and EAD models. 
IRB foundation approach A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal PD models but with supervisory 
estimates of LGD and conversion factors for the calculation of EAD. 
ISDA Master agreement Standardised contract developed by ISDA used as an umbrella under which bilateral derivatives contracts 
are entered into.  533
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Term Definition 
K
Key management personnel Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings. 
L
Legacy credit in GB&M A separately identifiable, discretely managed business comprising Solitaire Funding Limited, the 
securities investment conduits, the asset-backed securities trading portfolios and credit correlation 
portfolios, derivative transactions entered into directly with monoline insurers, and certain other 
structured credit transactions. 
Legal proceedings Legal proceedings include civil court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings brought against HSBC 
companies (whether by way of claim or counterclaim) or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in 
court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings. 
Legal risk The risk of financial loss, sanction and/or reputational damage resulting from contractual risk (the risk 
that the rights and/or obligations of a Group member within a contractual relationship are defective); 
dispute risk (the risk when involved in or managing potential or actual disputes); legislative risk (the risk 
that a Group member fails to adhere to laws of the jurisdiction in which it operates); and non contractual 
rights risk (the risk that a Group member’s assets are not properly owned or are infringed by others or the 
infringement by a Group member of another party’s rights). 
Level 1 – quoted market price Financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. 
Level 2 – valuation technique 
using observable inputs 
Financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for 
identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models 
where all significant inputs are observable. 
Level 3 – valuation technique 
with significant unobservable 
inputs
Financial instruments valued using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are 
unobservable. 
Leveraged finance Funding provided for entities with higher than average indebtedness, which typically arises from sub-
investment grade acquisitions or event-driven financing. 
Leverage ratio A measure, prescribed by regulators under Basel III, which is the ratio of tier 1 capital to total exposures. 
Total exposures include on-balance sheet items, off-balance sheet items and derivatives, and should 
generally follow the accounting measure of exposure. This supplementary measure to the risk-based 
capital requirements is intended to constrain the build-up of excess leverage in the banking sector. 
Liquidity coverage ratio  
(‘LCR’) 
The ratio of the stock of high quality liquid assets to expected net cash outflows over the following 30 
days. High quality liquid assets should be unencumbered, liquid in markets during a time of stress and, 
ideally, be central bank eligible. The Basel III rules require this ratio to be at least 100% with effect 
from 2015. The LCR is still subject to an observation period and review to address any unintended 
consequences. 
Liquidity risk The risk that HSBC does not have sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due, or 
will have to do so at an excessive cost. This risk arises from mismatches in the timing of cash flows. 
Loan modification An account management action that results in a change to the original terms and conditions of a loan 
either temporarily or permanently without resetting its delinquency status, except in case of a 
‘modification re-age’ where delinquency status is also reset to up-to-date. Account modifications may 
include revisions to one or more terms of the loan including, but not limited to, a change in interest rate, 
extension of the amortisation period, reduction in payment amount and partial forgiveness or deferment 
of principal. 
Loan re-age An account management action that results in the resetting of the contractual delinquency status of an 
account to up-to-date upon fulfilment of certain requirements which indicate that payments are 
expected to be made in accordance with the contractual terms. 
Loans past due Loans on which repayments are overdue. 
Loan to value ratio (‘LTV’) A mathematical calculation that expresses the amount of the loan as a percentage of the value of security.
A high LTV indicates that there is less cushion to protect the lender against house price falls or 
increases in the loan if repayments are not made and interest is added to the outstanding loan balance. 
Loss given default (‘LGD’) The estimated ratio (percentage) of the loss on an exposure to the amount outstanding at default (EAD)
upon default of a counterparty. 
Loss severity The realised amount of losses incurred (including ancillary amounts owed) when a loan is foreclosed or 
disposed of through the arrangement with the borrower. The loss severity is represented as a 
percentage of the outstanding loan balance. 
M
Market risk The risk that movements in market risk factors, including foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, 
interest rates, credit spreads and equity prices will reduce income or portfolio values. 
Medium term notes (‘MTN’s) Notes issued by corporates across a range of maturities. MTNs are frequently issued by corporates under 
MTN Programmes whereby notes are offered on a regular and continuous basis to investors. 
Monoline insurers
(‘monolines’) 
Entities which specialise in providing credit protection to the holders of debt instruments in the event of 
default by the debt security counterparty. This protection is typically held in the form of derivatives 
such as CDSs referencing the underlying exposures held.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Shareholder Information (continued)
Glossary 
534
Term Definition 
Mortgage-backed securities 
(‘MBS’s) 
Securities that represent interests in groups of mortgages, which may be on residential or commercial 
properties. Investors in these securities have the right to cash received from future mortgage payments 
(interest and/or principal). When the MBS references mortgages with different risk profiles, the MBS 
is classified according to the highest risk class.  
Mortgage-related assets Assets which are referenced to underlying mortgages. 
Mortgage vintage The year a mortgage was originated. 
N
Negative equity mortgages Equity is the value of the asset less the outstanding balance on the loan. Negative equity arises when the 
value of the property purchased is below the balance outstanding on the loan.  
Net asset value per share Total shareholders’ equity, less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities, divided by the
number of ordinary shares in issue. 
Net interest income The amount of interest received or receivable on assets net of interest paid or payable on liabilities. 
Net interest income sensitivity Considers all re-pricing mismatches in the current balance sheet, with suitable assumptions for balance 
sheet growth in the future, and calculates the change in net interest income that would result from a set 
of defined interest rate shocks. 
Net principal exposure The gross principal amount of a financial asset after taking account of credit protection purchased but 
excluding the effect of any counterparty credit valuation adjustment to that protection. It includes 
assets that benefit from monoline protection, except where this protection is purchased with a CDS. 
Net stable funding ratio 
(‘NSFR’) 
The ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding over a one year time horizon, assuming a 
stressed scenario. Available stable funding would include items such as equity capital, preferred stock 
with a maturity of over one year and liabilities with an assessed maturity of over one year. The Basel 
III rules require this ratio to be over 100% with effect from 2018. The NSFR is still subject to an 
observation period and review to address any unintended consequences. 
Non-conforming mortgages US mortgages that do not meet normal lending criteria. Examples include mortgages where the expected 
level of documentation is not provided (such as with income self-certification), or where poor credit 
history increases the risk and results in pricing at a higher than normal lending rate. 
Non-trading portfolios Portfolios that comprise positions that primarily arise from the interest rate management of our retail and
commercial banking assets and liabilities, financial investments designated as available for sale and 
held to maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance operations. 
Non-trading risk The market risk arising from non-trading portfolios. 
O
Offset mortgages A flexible type of mortgage where a borrower’s savings balance(s) held at the same institution can be 
used to offset the mortgage balance owing. The borrower pays interest on the net balance which is 
calculated by subtracting the credit balance(s) from the debit balance. As part of the offset mortgage a 
total facility limit is agreed and the borrower may redraw past capital repayments up this agreed limit. 
Overnight Index Swap (‘OIS’) 
discounting 
A method of valuing collateralised interest rate derivatives which uses a discount curve that reflects the 
overnight interest rate typically earned or paid in respect of collateral received.  
Operational risk The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from 
external events, including legal risk. 
Over-the-counter (‘OTC’) A bilateral transaction (e.g. derivatives) that is not exchange traded and that is valued using valuation
models. 
P
Pension risk The risk that contributions from Group companies and members fail to generate sufficient funds to meet 
the cost of accruing benefits for the future service of active members, and the risk that the performance 
of assets held in pension funds is insufficient to cover existing pension liabilities. 
Performance Shares Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans that are subject to the 
achievement of corporate performance conditions. 
Personal lending See ‘Retail loans’. 
Prime A US description for mortgages granted to the most creditworthy category of borrowers. 
Private equity investments Equity securities in operating companies not quoted on a public exchange, often involving the investment 
of capital in private companies or the acquisition of a public company that results in its delisting. 
Probability of default (‘PD’) The probability that an obligor will default within a one-year time horizon. 
R
Refi rate The refi (or refinancing) rate is set by the European Central Bank (‘ECB’) and is the price banks pay to 
borrow from ECB. 
Regulatory capital The capital which HSBC holds, determined in accordance with rules established by the FSA for the 
consolidated Group and by local regulators for individual Group companies. 
Regulatory matters Regulatory matters refer to investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response to the 
actions of, regulators or law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC.  535
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Term Definition 
Renegotiated loans Loans for which the contractual terms have been changed because of significant concerns about the 
borrower’s ability to meet the contractual payments when due.  
Repo
(or Sale and repurchase 
agreement) 
A repo is a short-term funding agreement that allows a borrower to create a collateralised loan by selling 
a financial asset to a lender. As part of the agreement the borrower commits to repurchase the security 
at a date in the future repaying the proceeds of the loan. For the party on the other end of the 
transaction (buying the security and agreeing to sell in the future) it is reverse repurchase agreement 
or a reverse repo. 
Reputational risk The risk that illegal, unethical or inappropriate behaviour by the Group itself, members of staff or clients 
or representatives of the Group will damage HSBC’s reputation, leading, potentially, to a loss of 
business, fines or penalties. 
Residential mortgage A loan to purchase a residential property which is then used as collateral to guarantee repayment of the 
loan. The borrower gives the lender a lien against the property, and the lender can foreclose on the 
property if the borrower does not repay the loan per the agreed terms. 
Restricted Shares Awards that define the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will become 
entitled, generally between one and three years from the date of the award, and normally subject to the 
individual remaining in employment. The shares to which the employee becomes entitled may be 
subject to retention requirement. 
Retail loans Money lent to individuals rather than institutions. This includes both secured and unsecured loans such as 
mortgages and credit card balances. 
Return on equity Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company divided by average ordinary shareholders’ 
equity.
Risk appetite An assessment of the types and quantum of risks to which HSBC wishes to be exposed. 
Risk-weighted assets
(‘RWA’s) 
Calculated by assigning a degree of risk expressed as a percentage (risk weight) to an exposure in 
accordance with the applicable Standardised or IRB approach rules. 
Run-off portfolios Legacy credit in GB&M, the US CML portfolio and other US run-off portfolios, including the treasury 
services related to the US CML businesses and commercial operations in run-off. Origination of new 
business in the run-off portfolios has been discontinued and balances are being managed down through 
attrition and sale.
S
Sale and repurchase agreement See repo above. 
Seasoning The emergence of credit loss patterns in portfolios over time. 
Second lien A security interest granted over an item of property to secure the repayment of a debt that is issued 
against the same collateral as a first lien but that is subordinate to it. In the case of default, repayment 
for this debt will only be received after the first lien has been repaid. 
Securitisation A transaction or scheme whereby the credit risk associated with an exposure, or pool of exposures, is 
tranched and where payments to investors in the transaction or scheme are dependent upon the 
performance of the exposure or pool of exposures. A traditional securitisation involves the transfer of 
the exposures being securitised to an SPE which issues securities. In a synthetic securitisation, the 
tranching is achieved by the use of credit derivatives and the exposures are not removed from the 
balance sheet of the originator. 
Short sale In relation to credit risk management, a ‘short sale’ is an arrangement in which a bank permits the 
borrower to sell the property for less than the amount outstanding under a loan agreement. The 
proceeds are used to reduce the outstanding loan balance and the borrower is subsequently released 
from any further obligations on the loan. 
Single-issuer liquidity facility A liquidity or stand-by line provided to a corporate customer which is different from a similar line 
provided to a conduit funding vehicle. 
Six filters An internal measure designed to improve capital deployment across the Group. This examines the 
strategic relevance of each business in each country, in terms of connectivity and economic 
development, and the current returns, in terms of profitability, cost efficiency and liquidity. The 
sixth filter requires adherence to global risk standards. 
Sovereign exposures Exposures to governments, ministries, departments of governments, embassies, consulates and exposures 
on account of cash balances and deposits with central banks.  
Special purpose entities
(‘SPE’s) 
A corporation, trust or other non-bank entity, established for a narrowly defined purpose, including for 
carrying on securitisation activities. The structure of the SPE and its activities are intended to isolate its
obligations from those of the originator and the holders of the beneficial interests in the securitisation. 
Standardised approach In relation to credit risk, a method for calculating credit risk capital requirements using External Credit
Assessment Institutions (‘ECAI’) ratings and supervisory risk weights. In relation to operational risk, a 
method of calculating the operational capital requirement by the application of a supervisory defined 
percentage charge to the gross income of eight specified business lines. 
Stressed VAR A market risk measure based on potential market movements for a continuous one-year period of stress 
for a trading portfolio  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Shareholder Information (continued)
Glossary / Index 
536
Term Definition 
Structured finance/notes An instrument whose return is linked to the level of a specified index or the level of a specified asset. The 
return on a structured note can be linked to equities, interest rates, foreign exchange, commodities or 
credit. Structured notes may or may not offer full or partial capital protection in the event of a decline 
in the underlying index or asset. 
Structured Investment Vehicles 
(‘SIV’s) 
Special purpose entities which invest in diversified portfolios of interest-earning assets, generally funded 
through issues of commercial paper, medium-term notes and other senior debt to take advantage of the 
spread differentials between the assets in the SIV and the funding cost. 
Student loan-related assets Securities with collateral relating to student loans. 
Subordinated liabilities Liabilities which rank after the claims of other creditors of the issuer in the event of insolvency or
liquidation. 
Sub-prime  A US description for customers with high credit risk, for example those who have limited credit histories, 
modest incomes, high debt-to-income ratios, high loan-to-value ratios (for real estate secured products) 
or have experienced credit problems caused by occasional delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy 
or other credit-related problems. 
Sustainability risk The risk that the environmental and social effects of providing financial services outweigh the economic 
benefits. 
Sustainable cost savings Permanent cost reductions at a given level of business activity. Sustainable cost savings exclude cost
avoidance and revenue and loan impairment charge benefits as these do not represent operational 
expense reductions. Cost savings resulting from business disposals are not classified as sustainable. 
Systems risk The risk of failure or other deficiency in the automated platforms that support the Group’s daily execution 
and the systems infrastructure on which they reside, including data centres, networks and distributed 
computers. 
T
Tier 1 capital A component of regulatory capital, comprising core tier 1 and other tier 1 capital. Other tier 1 capital 
includes qualifying capital instruments such as non-cumulative perpetual preference shares and hybrid 
capital securities. 
Tier 2 capital A component of regulatory capital, comprising qualifying subordinated loan capital, related non-
controlling interests, allowable collective impairment allowances and unrealised gains arising on the 
fair valuation of equity instruments held as available-for-sale. Tier 2 capital also includes reserves 
arising from the revaluation of properties. 
Total compensation ratio The total compensation ratio represents the proportion of total employee expenses to operating income 
net of impairment charges. 
Trading portfolios Portfolios that comprise positions arising from market-making and warehousing of customer-derived 
positions. 
Trading risk The market risk arising from trading portfolios.
Troubled debt restructuring A US description for restructuring a debt whereby the creditor for economic or legal reasons related to a 
debtor’s financial difficulties grants a concession to the debtor that it would not otherwise consider. 
U
Unencumbered assets Assets on our balance sheet which have not been pledged as collateral against an existing liability. 
Unfunded exposures An exposure where the notional amount of a contract has not been exchanged. 
US Government agency and 
US Government sponsored 
enterprises mortgage-related 
assets
Securities that are guaranteed by US Government agencies such as Ginnie Mae, or by US Government 
sponsored entities including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
V
Value-at-risk  
(‘VAR’) 
A measure of the loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of adverse movements in market risk 
factors (e.g. rates, prices, volatilities) over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence. 
W
Wholesale loans Money lent to sovereign borrowers, banks, non-bank financial institutions and corporate entities. 
Write-down Reduction in the carrying value of an asset due to impairment or fair value movements. 
Wrong-way risk An adverse correlation between the counterparty’s probability of default and the mark-to-market value of 
the underlying transaction.  537
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Index
A
Abbreviations 526  
Accounting
developments (future) 385 
policies (critical) 54 
policies (significant) 387 
Accounts
approval 515 
basis of preparation 58, 383 
consolidation 372, 384 
presentation of information 383 
use of estimates 384 
Acquisitions and disposals 27, 59, 80 
Actuarial assumptions 417 
Advances to core funding ratio 205 
Annual General Meeting 339, 517 
Anti-money laundering and sanctions 510 
Areas of special interest 128 
Asset-backed securities 185, 268 
Assets 46 
average balance sheet 33 
by country 432 
by geographical region 79 
by global business 58 
charged as security 493 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 48 
deferred tax 422 
encumbered/unencumbered 211 
five years 45 
held for sale 143, 471 
accounting policy 405 
held in custody and under administration 118 
intangible 465 
liquid assets of principal operating entities 263 
maturity analysis 485 
other 472 
risk-weighted 2 
trading 436 
Associates and joint ventures  
interests in 460 
share of profit in 43 
Auditor
arrangements 322 
remuneration 419 
report 369 
B
Balance sheet
average 33 
consolidated 45, 374 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 48 
data 45, 76, 86, 91, 97, 102, 108, 115, 431 
HSBC Holdings 379 
insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 235 
movement in 2012  46 
Balance Sheet Management 185, 222 
Bancassurance 233 
Basel 288 
Board of Directors 309 
balance and independence 311 
changes 6 
committees 318 
information and support 312 
meetings 310 
powers 310 
Brand 24 
Brazilian labour claims 480 
Business model 14, 185 
C
Calendar (dividends) 516 
Capital 287 
future developments 291; generation 294; management 
293; measurement and allocation 294; movement in 
regulatory capital in 2012  285; overview 282; ratio 2, 23; 
regulatory 294; regulatory and accounting 288; resources 
45; return on average invested capital 3; risk 293; structure 
286
Capital and performance ratios 2, 23 
Carbon dioxide emissions 332 
Cash flow
accounting policy 405 
consolidated statement 375 
HSBC Holdings 380 
notes 498 
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking  
statements 525 
Client assets 118 
Collateral and credit enhancements 163, 493 
management 212 
Commercial Banking 60, 65 204, 432 
constant currency/reported profit 26 
Commercial real estate 128 
Committees (Board) 318 
Communication with shareholders 345, 518 
Compliance risk 125, 128, 230 
Concentration of exposure 178, 259 
Conduits 504 
Constant currency 25 
Contents inside front cover
Contingent liabilities and contractual commitments 208, 500 
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities 214 
Core tier 1 capital 2 
Corporate and commercial lending 154, 165 
Corporate governance 301 
codes report 317 
Corporate Sustainability Committee 330 
Cost efficiency ratio 2, 23, 43, 81, 88, 93, 99, 104, 111 
Counterparty credit risk 284 
CRD IV 298 
Credit cards 152 
Credit coverage ratios 2 
Credit exposure 144 
Credit quality 151, 154 
classifications 253 
Credit risk
in 2012  139 
insurance 240, 277 
management thereof 124, 252 
risk-weighted assets 283 
Critical accounting policies 54 
Cross-border exposures 259 
Customer accounts 29, 50 
Customer deposit markets 204 
Customer lending and deposit (combined) 49 
Customer recommendation 24 
D
Daily distribution of revenues 220 
Daily trading/non-trading VAR 219, 220, 221 
Dealings in HSBC Holdings plc shares 346 
Debt securities in issue 474 
accounting policy 404 
Defined terms inside front cover
Deposits 449 
accounting policy 404 
average balances and average rates 33  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Shareholder Information (continued)
Index
538
Derivatives 145, 167, 179, 189, 452 
accounting policy 395 
Directors
annual incentives 355 
appointments and re-election 316 
biographies 302 
Board of Directors 309 
conflicts of interest 316 
emoluments 361, 419 
executive 312 
exit payments 359 
fees 362 
interests 343 
non-executive 313 
other directorships 363 
pensions 365 
performance evaluation 315 
relations with shareholders 316 
remuneration (executive) 354, 361 
responsibilities (statement of) 368 
service contracts 359 
terms of appointment 309 
Disclosure philosophy 12 
Disposal groups 471, 475 
Disposals 18, 27, 52, 78, 117, 499 
Diversity and inclusion 335 
Dividends 344, 425, 516, 523 
payout ratio 29 
per share 2, 24 
E
Earnings per share 2, 23, 29, 426 
Economic background 
Europe 81; Hong Kong 88; Latin America 111;  
Middle East and North Africa 99; 
North America 104; Rest of Asia-Pacific 93 
Economic loss 51 
Efficiency and revenue mix ratios 2 
Employees 335 
compensation and benefits 366, 409 
disabled 336 
diversity and inclusion 335 
engagement 22 
issues 331 
numbers 42, 335, 409 
relations 335 
remuneration policy 336 
reward 335 
Encumbered assets 211 
Enhanced Disclosure Task Force 12, 119 
Enquiries (from shareholders) 518 
Equity 47 
Equity securities 222 
Europe 
balance sheet data 86, 431 
collateral 164-167 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 178 
customer accounts 50 
economic background 81 
lending 140, 141, 142, 147, 149, 153, 157, 158, 163, 167, 
172, 181 
loan impairment charges/allowances 169, 170 
operating expenses 85 
pension plans 248, 279 
principal operations 81 
profit/(loss) 81, 86, 428 
profit/(loss) by country 82 
review of performance 81 
risk-weighted assets 79 
Eurozone 129 
exposures 192 
Events after the balance sheet date 515 
Exposures 185, 186 
F
Fair value 438 
accounting policy 393 
adjustments 439 
control framework 438 
movements 80 
valuation bases 441, 442 
Fee income (net) 35 
Fiduciary risk 126, 231, 273 
Filters (six) 18 
Financial assets
accounting policy 397 
designated at fair value 451 
not qualifying for de-recognition 459 
reclassification 388, 450 
transfers 458 
Financial assets and liabilities  
accounting policy 397 
by measurement basis 432 
Financial guarantee contracts 
accounting policy 402 
Financial highlights 2 
Financial instruments  
accounting policy (fair value) 393 
accounting policy (valuation) 56, 388, 448 
at fair value 37, 437 
credit quality 154, 253 
net income from 406 
not at fair value 447 
Financial investments 49, 145, 179, 456 
accounting policy 394 
gains less losses from 38 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 473 
contractual maturities 214 
Financial risks (insurance) 238, 275 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme 501 
Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 328 
Financial statements 371 
Five-year comparison 29, 45 
Footnotes 120, 249, 382 
Forbearance 158 
Foreclosures 151 
Foreign currencies/exchange  
accounting policy 401 
exposures 493 
rates 29, 45 
Funding sources (diversity) 209 
Funds under management 118 
G
Gains on disposal of US branch network, US cards  
and Ping An 39 
Geographical regions 16, 79 
Global businesses 16, 58 
Global Banking and Markets 18, 60, 68, 204, 432 
constant currency/reported profit 26 
Global functions 16 
Global People Survey 335 
Global Private Banking 19, 60, 72, 204, 432 
constant currency/reported profit 26 
Glossary 529 
Going concern 334 
Goodwill
accounting policy 55, 398 
and intangible assets 463 
Governance codes 316 
Group Audit Committee 319 
Group CEO’s Business Review 8 
Group Chairman’s Statement 4, (letter) 301 
Group Management Board 318 
Group Remuneration Committee 329, 347 
Group Risk Committee 323 
Growing HSBC 19  539
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
H
Health and safety 336 
Held for sale 52, 78, 117, 471 
Highlights 1 
Hong Kong 
balance sheet data 91, 431 
collateral 164-167 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 178 
customer accounts 50 
economic background 88 
lending 140-142, 147, 149, 153, 157, 158, 163-167, 172, 
181
loan impairment charges/allowances 169, 170 
pension plans 248, 279 
principal operations 88 
profit/(loss) 88, 89, 91, 428 
review of performance 88 
risk-weighted assets 79 
HSBC Finance 
foreclosures 151 
funding 211 
loan modifications 158 
share plans 338 
HSBC Holdings plc 
balance sheet 379; cash flow 216, 380; credit risk 184; 
deferred tax 424; dividends 425; employee compensation 
419; financial assets and liabilities 435, 446, 474; financial 
instruments not at fair value 449; liquidity and funding 
224, 265; market risk 270; maturity analysis of assets and 
liabilities 491; net income from financial instruments 406; 
share plans 363; statement of changes in equity 381; 
structural foreign exchange exposures 493; subordinated 
liabilities 484 
I
Impairment  
accounting policy 54, 389 
allowances 168, 172 
assessment 258 
charges 28, 41 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 177 
goodwill 55 
impaired loans and advances 143, 162 
losses as percentage of loans and advances 176 
methodologies 186, 260 
movement by industry and geographical region 163, 172 
Income statement (consolidated) 29, 372 
Information on HSBC (availability thereof) 520 
Insurance 
accounting policy 402 
balance sheet of manufacturing subsidiaries 235 
claims incurred (net) and movements in liabilities to 
policyholders 40, 407 
economic/non-economic assumptions 245 
in 2012  233 
liabilities under contracts issued 242, 475 
net earned premiums 38, 407 
products 233 
PVIF business 243 
risk management 125, 233, 273 
Interest income/expense (net) 33, 406 
accounting policy 387 
average balance sheet 33 
sensitivity 223, 225, 269 
Interest rate derivatives 480 
Interim management statements 518 
Interim results 518 
Internal control 332 
Internet crime 135 
IFRS and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards 
comparison 383 
Investment properties 39, 236, 399, 468 
Investor relations 519 
J
Joint ventures 43, 460 
K
Key performance indicators 22 
L
Latin America 115, 431 
balance sheet data 115, 431 
collateral 164-167 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 178  
customer accounts 50 
economic background 111 
lending 140-142, 147, 149, 153, 157, 158, 163-167, 172, 
181
loan impairment charges/allowances 169, 170 
principal operations 111 
profit/(loss) 111, 115, 428 
profit/(loss) by country 112 
review of performance 111 
risk-weighted assets 79 
Lease commitments 501 
accounting policy 399 
Legal 
proceedings and regulatory matters 506 
risk 271 
Leveraged finance transactions 190 
Liabilities 47 
average balance sheet 33 
by geographical region 431 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 48 
deferred tax 422 
five years 45 
maturity analysis 485 
of disposal groups 475 
other 475 
retirement benefit 413, 485 
subordinated 480 
trading 473 
Life insurance business 234, 273, 477 
Liquidity and funding 203 
assets 206 
in 2012  204 
insurance 242, 277 
management of risk 124, 261 
net contractual cash flows 207 
policies and procedures 261 
primary sources of funding 261 
regulation 216 
Loans and advances 2, 139, 144, 179 
accounting policy 389 
by country 182 
collateral 163 
concentration of exposure 178 
credit quality of 142 
delinquency in the US 152 
impairment 2, 162 
past due but not impaired 156 
renegotiated 158 
to banks by geographical region 167, 182 
to customers by industry sector and geographical  
region 153, 158, 179, 181 
write-off 259 
M
Madoff 507 
Market apitalization 2 
Market risk 125, 217, 265 
in 2012  218 
insurance 239, 275 
sensitivity analysis 266 
Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities 485 
Maximum exposure to credit risk 139, 144, 184 
Middle East and North Africa  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Shareholder Information (continued)
Index
540
balance sheet data 102, 431 
collateral 164-167 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 178 
customer accounts 50 
economic background 99 
lending 140-142, 147, 149, 153, 157, 158, 163-167, 172, 
181
loan impairment charges/allowances 169, 170 
principal operations 99 
profit/(loss) 99, 102, 428 
profit/(loss) by country 100 
review of performance 99 
risk-weighted assets 79 
Model risk 136 
Money market funds 505 
Monoline insurers 189 
Mortgages 
lending 148, 150 
mortgage-backed securities 184, 259 
US mortgage-related investigations 508 
N
Nomination Committee 329 
Non-controlling interests 494 
Non-GAAP measures 25 
Non-interest income  
accounting policy 387 
Non-life insurance business 234, 273, 476 
Non-money market investment funds 505 
Non-trading portfolios 221, 268 
North America 
balance sheet data 108, 431 
collateral 164-167 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 178 
customer accounts 50 
economic background 104 
lending 140-142, 147, 149, 153, 158, 163-167, 172, 181 
loan impairment charges/allowances 169, 170 
mortgage lending 150 
pension plans 249, 280 
personal lending 151 
principal operations 104 
profit/(loss) 104, 108, 428 
profit/(loss) by country 105 
review of performance 105 
risk-weighted assets 79 
Notable items 31, 32 
O
Operating expenses 28, 42, 85 
Operating income 2, 39 
Operating profit 408 
Operating model 15 
Operational risk 125, 227, 270 
in 2012  228 
losses/incidents 229, 230 
Ordinary shares 45 
Organisational structure chart 521 
Other 74, 432 
Outlook 7, 11 
P
Payment protection insurance 479 
Pension plans
accounting policy 400 
defined benefit plans 246, 269, 365, 413, 415 
for directors 365 
risk 126, 224, 246, 279 
Performance 9, 81, 88, 94, 99, 105, 111, 348 
Personal lending 130, 140, 147, 164 
Pillar I, II and III 295 
Ping An 472 
Preference shares 340 
Preferred securities 480 
Principal activities 13 
Products and services 60, 427 
Profit before tax 
by country 82, 88, 94, 100, 105, 112 
by geographical region 79, 81, 88, 97, 99, 104, 111, 428 
by global business 58, 76, 86, 91, 97, 102, 108, 115 
consolidated 29, 372 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 26 
data 2 
underlying 2 
Property plant and equipment 118, 467 
accounting policy 399 
Provisions 478 
accounting policy 57, 402 
PVIF 243 
R
Ratios
advances to core funding 23; capital 2; core tier 1 (CET 1) 
2, 23; cost efficiency 2, 23, 43; credit coverage 2; 
customer accounts 2; dividends payout 29; dividends per 
share 2; earnings per share 2, 23, 29; key performance 
indicators 22; net assets per share 2, 45; performance 2; 
risk adjusted revenue growth 24; return on average 
ordinary shareholders’ equity 2, 23, 29; return on average 
total assets 29; stressed coverage ratios, 205, 262; total 
equity 2  
Reconciliation of reported and underlying items 28 
Reconciliation of RoRWA 52 
Redenomination risk 201 
Regulatory reform 5 
Related party transactions 512 
Remuneration  
clawback 353; committee 329; in 2012  354; key metrics 
348; letter 347; ; members 349; policy 336, 351; report 
347; reward strategy 335, 347 ; structure 347; variable pay 
pool 348, 352 
Renegotiated loans 158, 254 
Representations and warranties 191 
Repricing gap 226 
Reputational risk 126, 246, 278 
Rest of Asia-Pacific 
balance sheet data 97, 431 
collateral 164-167 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 178  
customer accounts 50 
economic background 73 
lending 140-142, 147, 149, 153, 157, 158, 163-167, 172, 
181
loan impairment charges/allowances 169, 170 
principal operations 93 
profit/(loss) 93, 97, 428 
profit/(loss) by country 94 
review of performance 95 
Restructuring HSBC 18 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 60, 62, 204, 432 
constant currency/reported profit 26 
Revenue 28 
Reward 335 
Risk
appetite 126; business activities 20; business operations 
134; capital 293; committee 323; compliance 125, 230, 
271; contingent liquidity 208, 265; counterparty 284; 
credit 124, 137, 240, 252, 283, 296; credit spread 221, 277; 
cross-currency 265; description 124; dispute 134; 
economic 131; eurozone 192; factors 20; fiduciary 126, 
231, 273: financial (insurance) 238, 275; foreign exchange  
225; gap risk 268; geopolitical 131; governance 252; 
information security 136; insurance operations 125, 232, 
233, 273; interest rate 222; internet crime 135; legal 271; 
liquidity and funding 124, 205, 261, 273; management of 
124; market 125, 239, 265, 275; model 136; operational 
125, 227, 270; pension 126, 224, 246, 279; policies and 
practices 252; profile 123, 126; redenomination 201;  541
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
regulatory 132; reputational 126, 246, 278; scenario stress 
testing 127; security and fraud 271; sustainability 126, 
249, 280, 332; systems 272; top and emerging 22, 130, 
325; vendor 272 
Risk-weighted assets 2, 59, 79, 294, 296 
movement in 2012  282 
RoRWA (reconciliation of measures) 52 
Run-off portfolios 52, 78, 117 
S
Sale and repurchase agreements 
accounting policy 295 
Securities litigation 506 
Securitisations 184, 259, 505 
Security and fraud risk 271 
Segmental analysis 426 
accounting policy 388 
Senior management 
biographies 307, 308 
emoluments 366  
Share-based payments 411 
accounting policy 401 
Share capital 340, 495 
accounting policy 404 
in 2012  342 
notifiable interests in 345 
ownership guidelines 359 
rights and obligations 340 
Share information 2, 45 
Share plans 
for directors 363 
for employees 336 
HSBC Bank Bermuda plans 338, 497 
HSBC Finance plans 338, 497 
HSBC France plans 337, 496 
Performance Shares and Restricted Share awards 352 
Share ownership guidelines 359 
Shareholder (communications with) 345 
profile 517 
Simplifying HSBC 17 
Social contribution 7 
Special purpose entities 502 
Staff development 335 
Staff numbers 42, 335 
Statement of changes in equity 376 
Statement of comprehensive income 373 
Stock symbols 519 
Strategic direction 17, 62, 65, 68, 72 
Stressed coverage ratios 205, 262 
Stress testing 127, 266, 293, 326 
Structural banking reform 292 
Structural foreign exchange exposure 222, 268 
Subsidiaries 469 
accounting policy 398 
Supplier payment policy 344 
Sustainability
committee governance risk 330 
risk 126, 249, 280 
Systemically important banks 291 
Systems risk 272 
T
Tax 
accounting policy 57, 400 
deferred tax 422 
expense 44 
of shares and dividends 522 
reconciliation 421 
tax and broker-dealer investigations 511 
Tier 1 capital (core) 282 
Total shareholder return 2, 358 
Trading assets 145, 178, 268, 436 
accounting policy 393 
Trading income (net) 36 
Trading liabilities 473 
accounting policy 393 
Trading portfolios  218, 220 
U
UK regulatory reform 291 
Underlying performance 26 
V
Value at risk 219, 266 
Values (HSBC) 13 
Vendor risk management 272 
Vision (HSBC) 13 
W
Wholesale funding 205, 210, 264 
Wholesale lending 141, 152   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Shareholder Information (continued)
Contacts 
542
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Incorporated in England on 1 January 1959 with limited liability under the UK Companies Act 
Registered in England: number 617987 
REGISTERED OFFICE AND  
GROUP HEAD OFFICE 
8 Canada Square 
London E14 5HQ 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: 44 020 7991 8888 
Facsimile: 44 020 7992 4880 
Web: www.hsbc.com 
REGISTRARS
Principal Register 
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: 44 0870 702 0137 
Email: via website  
Web: www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus  
Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register 
Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services 
   Limited 
Rooms 1712-1716, 17
th
 floor 
Hopewell Centre  
183 Queen’s Road East 
Hong Kong 
Telephone: 852 2862 8555 
Email: hsbc.ecom@computershare.com.hk 
Web: www.computershare.com/hk/investors 
Bermuda Overseas Branch Register 
Investor Relations Team 
HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited 
6 Front Street 
Hamilton HM11 
Bermuda 
Telephone: 1 441 299 6737 
Email: hbbm.shareholder.services@hsbc.bm 
Web: www.computershare.com/investor/bm 
ADR Depositary 
The Bank of New York Mellon  
Depositary Receipts 
P.O. Box 43006 
Providence, RI 02940-3006 
USA
Telephone (US): 1 877 283 5786 
Telephone (International): 1 201 680 6825 
Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com 
Web: www.bnymellon.com/shareowner 
Paying Agent (France) 
HSBC France 
103 avenue des Champs Elysées 
75419 Paris Cedex 08 
France
Telephone: 33 1 40 70 22 56 
Email: ost-agence-des-titres-hsbc-reims.hbfr-
do@hsbc.fr
Web: www.hsbc.fr 
STOCKBROKERS
Goldman Sachs International 
Peterborough Court 
133 Fleet Street 
London EC4A 2BB 
United Kingdom 
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited 
1 Cabot Square 
London E14 4QT 
United Kingdom 
HSBC Bank plc 
8 Canada Square 
London E14 5HQ 
United Kingdom    © Copyright HSBC Holdings plc 2013 
All rights reserved 
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in 
a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any 
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, 
or otherwise, without the prior written permission of 
HSBC Holdings plc. 
Published by Group Finance, HSBC Holdings plc, 
London
Cover designed by Black Sun Plc, London; text pages 
designed by Group Finance, HSBC Holdings plc, 
London, and by Communications (Asia),  
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited, Hong Kong 
Printed by Service Point UK Limited, London 
Photography
 Cover by Matthew Mawson 
 Group Chairman by George Brooks 
 Group Chief Executive by Patrick Leung  HSBC Holdings plc
8 Canada Square
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom
Telephone: 44 020 7991 8888
www.hsbc.com
