 Connecting customers to
opportunities for 150 years
 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
HSBC Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
t
This document comprises the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
for HSBC Holdings plc and its subsidiaries. It contains the 
Strategic Report, the Report of the Directors, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements, together 
with the Independent Auditor’s Report thereon, as required by 
the UK Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ 
Report) Regulations 2013. The Strategic Report on pages 1 
to 39, the Report of the Directors on pages 40 to 299 and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 300 to 327 have each 
been drawn up in accordance with the requirements of English 
law, and liability in respect thereof is also governed by English 
law. 
Additional information, including commentary on 2013 
compared with 2012, may be found in the Form 20-F filed 
with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (‘SEC’) and 
available on www.hsbc.com and www.sec.gov. 
Certain defined terms 
Unless the context requires otherwise, ‘HSBC Holdings’ means 
HSBC Holdings plc and ‘HSBC’, the ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ 
refer to HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiaries. Within this 
document the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
People’s Republic of China is referred to as ‘Hong Kong’. When 
used in the terms ‘shareholders’ equity’ and ‘total shareholders’ 
equity’, ‘shareholders’ means holders of HSBC Holdings ordinary 
shares and those preference shares and capital securities issued 
by HSBC Holdings classified as equity. The abbreviations ‘US$m’ 
and ‘US$bn’ represent millions and billions (thousands of 
millions) of US dollars, respectively. 
Financial statements 
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate 
financial statements of HSBC Holdings have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’) as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (‘IASB’) and as endorsed by the European Union (‘EU’). 
EU endorsed IFRSs could differ from IFRSs as issued by the IASB 
if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs were not to be 
endorsed by the EU. At 31 December 2014, there were no 
unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 
December 2014 affecting these consolidated and separate 
financial statements, and there was no difference between 
IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms 
of their application to HSBC. Accordingly, HSBC’s financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 are prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
We use the US dollar as our presentation currency because the 
US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency 
bloc in which we transact and fund our business. Unless 
otherwise stated, the information presented in this document 
has been prepared in accordance with IFRSs. 
When reference to ‘adjusted’ is made in tables or 
commentaries, the comparative information has been 
expressed at constant currency (see page 40), the impact of fair 
value movements in respect of credit spread charges on HSBC’s 
own debt has been eliminated and the effects of other 
significant items have been adjusted as reconciled on page 44. 
Adjusted return on risk-weighted assets is defined and 
reconciled on page 62. 
Financial Statements 
328 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
329 Independent Auditor’s Report 
334 Financial Statements 
345 Notes on the Financial Statements 
Shareholder Information 
458 Shareholder information 
466 Abbreviations 
470 Glossary 
478 Index 
Strategic Report 
  1 Overview 
  2 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 
  3 Highlights 
  4 Group Chairman’s Statement 
  6 Group Chief Executive’s Review 
  9 Strategic objectives 
12 Business model 
26 Strategic priorities 
28 Outcomes 
Report of the Directors 
Financial Review 
40 Financial summary 
63 Global businesses 
78 Geographical regions 
106 Other information 
111 Risk 
238 Capital  
 
Corporate Governance 
263 Corporate Governance Report 
264 Biographies of Directors and senior management 
270 Board of Directors 
276 Board committees 
288 Internal control 
290 Statement of going concern 
291 Employees 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
300 Directors’ Remuneration Report  Overview 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
1 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Who we are 
HSBC is one of the largest 
banking and financial 
services organisations 
in the world. 
Customers: 
51m 
Served by: 
266,000  
employees (257,600 FTE) 
Through four global businesses: 
– Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
– Commercial Banking 
– Global Banking and Markets 
– Global Private Banking 
Located in: 
73 
countries and territories 
Across five geographical regions: 
– Europe 
– Asia 
– Middle East and North Africa 
– North America 
– Latin America 
Offices: 
Over 6,100 
Global headquarters: 
– London 
Market capitalisation: 
US$182bn 
Listed on stock exchanges in: 
– London 
– Hong Kong 
– New York 
– Paris 
– Bermuda 
Shareholders: 
216,000 in 127 
countries and territories 
Our purpose 
Our purpose is to be where the growth is,  
connecting customers to opportunities, enabling 
businesses to thrive and economies to prosper,  
and ultimately helping people to fulfil their  
hopes and realise their ambitions. 
 
Our strategic priorities 
We aim to be the world’s leading and most respected international 
bank. We will achieve this by focusing on the needs of our 
customers and the societies we serve, thereby delivering long-term 
sustainable value to all our stakeholders. 
In 2013, we announced a set of three interconnected and equally 
weighted priorities for 2014 to 2016 to help us deliver our strategy: 
– grow the business and dividends; 
– implement Global Standards; and 
– streamline processes and procedures. 
Each priority is complementary and underpinned by initiatives being 
undertaken within our day-to-day business. Together they create 
value for our customers and shareholders, and contribute to the 
long-term sustainability of HSBC. 
How we measure performance 
We track our progress in implementing our strategy with a range of 
financial and non-financial measures or key performance indicators. 
From 2015, we have revised our targets to better reflect the 
changing regulatory and operating environment. 
Highlights of 2014 are shown on page 3. 
For further information on our new targets see page 32. 
Rewarding performance 
The remuneration of all staff within the Group, including executive 
Directors, is based on the achievement of financial and non-financial 
objectives. These objectives, which are aligned with the Group’s 
strategy, are detailed in individuals’ annual scorecards. To be 
considered for a variable pay award, an individual must have fully 
complied with HSBC Values. 
For further information on HSBC Values, see page 10. 
  Overview (continued) 
Cautionary statement / Highlights 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
2 
Cautionary statement 
regarding forward-looking 
statements 
The Annual Report and Accounts 2014 contains certain 
forward-looking statements with respect to HSBC’s financial 
condition, results of operations, capital position and business. 
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements 
about HSBC’s beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking 
statements. Words such as ‘expects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘intends’, 
‘plans’, ‘believes’, ‘seeks’, ‘estimates’, ‘potential’ and 
‘reasonably possible’, variations of these words and similar 
expressions are intended to identify forward-looking 
statements. These statements are based on current plans, 
estimates and projections, and therefore undue reliance 
should not be placed on them. Forward-looking statements 
speak only as of the date they are made. HSBC makes no 
commitment to revise or update any forward-looking 
statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring or 
existing after the date of any forward-looking statements. 
Written and/or oral forward-looking statements may also be 
made in the periodic reports to the US Securities and 
Exchange Commission, summary financial statements to 
shareholders, proxy statements, offering circulars and 
prospectuses, press releases and other written materials, and 
in oral statements made by HSBC’s Directors, officers or 
employees to third parties, including financial analysts. 
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and 
uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that a number of factors 
could cause actual results to differ, in some instances 
materially, from those anticipated or implied in any forward-
looking statement. These include, but are not limited to:  
• changes in general economic conditions in the markets 
in which we operate, such as continuing or deepening 
recessions and fluctuations in employment beyond those 
factored into consensus forecasts; changes in foreign 
exchange rates and interest rates; volatility in equity 
markets; lack of liquidity in wholesale funding markets; 
illiquidity and downward price pressure in national real 
estate markets; adverse changes in central banks’ policies 
with respect to the provision of liquidity support to 
financial markets; heightened market concerns over 
sovereign creditworthiness in over-indebted countries; 
adverse changes in the funding status of public or private 
defined benefit pensions; and consumer perception as to 
the continuing availability of credit and price competition in 
the market segments we serve; 
• changes in government policy and regulation, including the 
monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks 
and other regulatory authorities; initiatives to change the 
size, scope of activities and interconnectedness of financial 
institutions in connection with the implementation of 
stricter regulation of financial institutions in key markets 
worldwide; revised capital and liquidity benchmarks which 
could serve to deleverage bank balance sheets and lower 
returns available from the current business model and 
portfolio mix; imposition of levies or taxes designed to 
change business mix and risk appetite; the practices, 
pricing or responsibilities of financial institutions serving 
their consumer markets; expropriation, nationalisation, 
confiscation of assets and changes in legislation relating 
to foreign ownership; changes in bankruptcy legislation 
in the principal markets in which we operate and the 
consequences thereof; general changes in government 
policy that may significantly influence investor decisions; 
extraordinary government actions as a result of current 
market turmoil; other unfavourable political or diplomatic 
developments producing social instability or legal 
uncertainty which in turn may affect demand for our 
products and services; the costs, effects and outcomes of 
product regulatory reviews, actions or litigation, including 
any additional compliance requirements; and the effects of 
competition in the markets where we operate including 
increased competition from non-bank financial services 
companies, including securities firms; and 
• factors specific to HSBC, including discretionary RWA 
growth and our success in adequately identifying the 
risks we face, such as the incidence of loan losses or 
delinquency, and managing those risks (through account 
management, hedging and other techniques). Effective risk 
management depends on, among other things, our ability 
through stress testing and other techniques to prepare for 
events that cannot be captured by the statistical models it 
uses; and our success in addressing operational, legal and 
regulatory, and litigation challenges, notably compliance 
with the DPA.  
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
3 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Highlights 
– Profit before tax was down 17% 
to US$18.7bn on a reported 
basis. Adjusted profit before tax, 
excluding the effect of significant 
items and currency translation, was 
broadly unchanged at US$22.8bn. 
– Reinforced HSBC’s capital 
strength. Our CRD IV transitional 
common equity tier 1 ratio was 10.9% 
compared with 10.8% at the end of 
2013. 
– Dividends to shareholders 
increased to US$9.6bn as capital 
strength created capacity for organic 
growth and allowed us to increase the 
dividends paid. 
 
Profit before taxation 
(reported basis) 
 
Capital strength 
(CRD IV common equity tier 1 ratio 
transitional)
1
 
 
Dividends per ordinary share 
(in respect of year)
3
 
US$18.7bn 
£11.3bn 
HK$145bn 
 
10.9% 
At 31 December 
 
US$0.50 
 
  
     
Cost efficiency ratio 
(reported basis)
2
 
 
Return on average ordinary  
shareholders’ equity
4
 
 
Share price 
(at 31 December) 
67.3% 
  
7.3% 
  
£6.09 
HK$74.00
US$47.23 American  
   Depositary Share
  
     
For a description of the difference between reported and adjusted performance, see page 40. 
For footnotes, see page 39.
19.0
21.9
20.6
22.6
18.7
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
10.8
10.9
2013 2014
0.36
0.41
0.45
0.49
0.50
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
55.2 
57.5 
62.8 
59.6 
67.3 
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
9.5 
10.9 
8.4 
9.2 
7.3 
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
6.51 
4.91 
6.47 
6.62 
6.09 
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Overview (continued) 
Group Chairman’s Statement  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
4 
As economic activity in much of the world 
failed to reach the levels required to 
rebuild sustainable consumer confidence 
and prompt renewed investment 
expenditure, governments most impacted 
expanded their stimulus measures and the 
major central banks maintained interest 
rates at their unprecedented low levels. 
Concerns over deflationary trends, 
particularly in the eurozone, grew. 
Although China delivered growth which 
comfortably surpassed all other major 
economies, expectations of slower growth 
in the future weighed heavily on market 
sentiment and contributed to significant 
commodity price falls and further 
curtailment of global investment spending. 
Unsurprisingly in this environment, revenue 
growth opportunities were strongest in our 
Asian businesses, with expansion in lending 
and debt capital financing. Cost progression 
continued globally in large part to 
implement regulatory change and enhance 
risk controls, notably around financial 
system integrity and conduct. Streamlining 
initiatives could only partly offset this cost 
expansion. Further customer redress costs 
and regulatory penalties around past 
failings reinforced the Board’s continuing 
commitment to prioritise whatever further 
investment in systems and controls is 
necessary to mitigate future repetition.
It is clear now that societal, regulatory and 
public policy expectations of our industry 
are changing its long-term cost structure. 
Technological advancements around data 
analytics, including ‘big data’, are providing 
much more sophisticated tools to enhance 
our capabilities to protect the financial 
system from bad actors. Also, as more and 
more customers choose to transact online 
and through mobile devices, we are making 
the necessary investment to protect 
ourselves and our customers from cyber 
threats. Building the required analytical 
capabilities entails considerable investment 
in systems and in maintaining customer 
data which is accurate and up to date. 
Reconfiguring customer and transactional 
data to the digital age is no small 
endeavour given legacy systems and a 
multiplicity of historical data standards 
globally. The benefits, however, of 
enhanced customer due diligence 
capabilities and greater systems security 
essentially go to the core of our systemic 
role and allow us to be more proactive in 
fulfilling that role as a key gatekeeper to 
the financial system. 
As our industry reshapes in response to 
public policy and regulatory directives, we 
now need to demonstrate, through clarity 
of our business model, the value to society 
of our scale and diversification. We must 
never forget that investors have choices 
where to invest and individuals have 
choices where to make their careers. Thus 
it is essential that we can demonstrate a 
positive contribution to the societies we 
serve in order to bolster the business 
friendly environment that all agree is 
essential for economic growth and 
prosperity. 
For 150 years HSBC has been following 
trade and investment flows to serve 
customers as they fulfil their financial 
ambitions. In a world which has moved 
from being interconnected to being 
interdependent, our business model is 
increasingly relevant to companies of all 
sizes and to individuals whose financial 
future is linked to economic activity in 
multiple countries.   
This can be seen most markedly in our 
Commercial Banking business, which 
delivered a record year buoyed by the 
expansion of supply chain management 
solutions and increasing cross-border 
payment flows. Our network coverage of 
the countries which originate more than 
85% of the world’s payment activity drives 
this key element of our business model. On 
the investment side, throughout our 
network we saw corporate flows continuing 
to target the higher growth emerging 
markets. At the same time, growth in 
outward investment from mainland China 
accelerated as its major companies sought 
diversification and access to both skill bases 
and markets. These trends played to HSBC’s 
scale and presence in the key financial 
centres, allowing us to support customers 
with debt and equity financing solutions, 
offering tailored liquidity and transactional 
banking support and providing risk 
management solutions primarily against 
our clients’ interest rate and foreign 
exchange exposures. Success was 
evidenced by growing recognition in 
industry awards, the most important of 
which are referred to in the Group Chief 
Executive’s Review. Finally, our Retail 
Banking and Wealth Management business 
continued its journey to build a sustainable 
customer focused business model, 
completing the removal of formulaic links 
between product sales and performance-
related pay of our staff, and expanding our 
digital and mobile offerings. 
 
  
Group Chairman’s Statement 
HSBC’s performance in 2014 reflected another year of 
consolidation in the reshaping and strengthening of the Group 
against a backdrop of geopolitical and economic headwinds, many 
of which could not have been foreseen at the outset of the year.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
5 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Performance in 2014 
Profit before tax of US$18.7bn on a 
reported basis was US$3.9bn or 17% 
lower than that achieved in 2013. This 
primarily reflected lower business disposal 
and reclassification gains and the negative 
effect, on both revenue and costs, of 
significant items including fines, settlements, 
UK customer redress and associated 
provisions. On the adjusted basis that is 
one of the key metrics used to assess 
current year management and business 
performance, profit before tax was 
US$22.8bn, broadly in line with 2013 
on a comparable basis.  
Earnings per share were US$0.69, against 
US$0.84 in 2013. The Group’s capital 
position remained strong with the 
transitional common equity tier 1 ratio 
standing at 10.9% at the end of the year, 
compared with 10.8% 12 months earlier, 
and our end point ratio at 11.1% compared 
with 10.9%. Based on this capital strength 
and the Group’s capital generating 
capabilities, the Board approved a fourth 
interim dividend in respect of 2014 of 
US$0.20 per share, taking the total 
dividends in respect of the year to US$0.50 
per share (US$9.6bn, US$0.4bn higher than 
in respect of 2013). 
Taking into account this financial 
performance, together with the further 
progress made in reshaping the Group, 
responding to regulatory change and 
implementing Global Standards, the Board 
considered executive management to 
have made good progress during 2014 
towards strengthening HSBC’s long-term 
competitive position. 
The Group Chief Executive’s Review 
analyses in detail the important 
benchmarks and highlights of 2014. 
Regulatory landscape becomes 
clearer but still much to do 
A great deal of progress was made during 
2014 to finalise the framework under which 
globally systemic banks like HSBC will be 
required to operate when it is fully 
implemented. This clarity is essential if 
we are to be able to position our global 
businesses to meet the return expectations 
of those who invest in us within an 
acceptable risk appetite.  
In particular, major progress was made in 
addressing the challenge of ‘too big to fail’, 
largely through finalising proposals to 
augment existing loss absorbing capacity 
with ‘bail-inable’ debt and through greater 
definition of how resolution frameworks 
would operate in practice. In both cases, 
this involved the critical issue of how to 
address cross-border implications and 
home and host country regulatory 
responsibilities.  
There is, however, still much to complete. 
The regulatory reform agenda for 2015 
is very full with pending public policy 
decisions, regulatory consultations and 
impact studies in areas of far reaching 
influence to the structure of our industry. 
These include the conclusion of structural 
separation deliberations in Europe, further 
work on so called ‘shadow banking’ 
including identifying non-bank systemically 
important institutions, addressing 
the resolution framework for central 
counterparties, finalising the calibration of 
the leverage ratio, calibrating the quantum 
of total loss absorbing capacity to be raised 
and settling the disposition of that capacity 
within global groups. 
Restoration of trust in 
our industry remains a 
significant challenge as 
further misdeeds are 
uncovered but it is a 
challenge we must meet 
successfully. 
In addition, further work will be undertaken 
on utilising standardised risk weights to 
overcome regulatory loss of confidence in 
internally modelled capital measures and a 
‘fundamental review of the trading book’ 
is also underway within the regulatory 
community to look again at capital support 
for this activity. These measures, which 
in aggregate are designed to make the 
industry structurally more stable, will take 
the next five or so years to implement, 
an indication of the scale of the 
transformation to be completed.  
During 2014, the UK government also 
confirmed the permanence of the UK bank 
levy. This was introduced in 2010, in part 
to address the burden borne by taxpayers 
from failures during the global financial 
crisis; in 2014, the cost to HSBC of the levy 
was US$1.1bn, an increase of US$0.2bn 
over 2013. 58% of the levy we pay does 
not relate to our UK banking activity.  
Rebuilding trust 
Restoration of trust in our industry remains 
a significant challenge as further misdeeds 
are uncovered but it is a challenge we must 
meet successfully. We owe this not just to 
society but to our staff to ensure they can 
be rightly proud of the organisation to 
which they have committed their careers. 
When commentators extrapolate instances 
of control failure or individual misconduct 
to question the culture of the firm it strikes 
painfully at the heart of our identity. 
Swiss Private Bank 
The recent disclosures around 
unacceptable historical practices and 
behaviour within the Swiss private bank 
remind us of how much there still is to do 
and how far society’s expectations have 
changed in terms of banks’ responsibilities. 
They are also a reminder of the need for 
constant vigilance over the effectiveness of 
our controls and the imperative to embed a 
robust and ethical compliance culture. 
We deeply regret and apologise for the 
conduct and compliance failures highlighted 
which were in contravention of our own 
policies as well as expectations of us.  
In response to, and in parallel with, the 
tax investigations prompted by the data 
theft more than eight years ago, we have 
been completely overhauling our private 
banking business, putting the entire 
customer base through enhanced due 
diligence and tax transparency filters. Our 
Swiss Private Bank customer base and the 
countries we serve are now both about 
one-third of the size they were in 2007. 
In addition, HSBC is already working to 
implement the OECD’s Common Reporting 
Standard and other measures to foster 
greater transparency. We cannot change 
the past. But, looking to the future, we 
can and must reinforce controls and 
provide demonstrable evidence of their 
effectiveness. This forms part of our 
commitment to Global Standards, to 
ensure that we will never knowingly do 
business with counterparties seeking to 
evade taxes or use the financial system to 
commit financial crime. 
Banking standards 
More broadly, following the publication in 
2013 of the Parliamentary Commission on 
Banking Standards, considerable progress 
has been made in giving effect to its 
recommendations. The Financial Services 
(Banking Reform) Act of 2013 provided 
greater clarity on the accountabilities and 
responsibilities of management and the 
Board. We welcome the appointment of 
Dame Colette Bowe to lead the Banking 
Standards Review Council and have 
committed to support her fully in its work. 
The current Fair and Effective Markets  Overview (continued) 
Group Chairman’s Statement / Group Chief Executive’s Review 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
6 
Review being conducted by the Bank of 
England, Her Majesty’s Treasury and the 
Financial Conduct Authority is an extremely 
timely and important exercise to re-establish 
the integrity of wholesale financial markets. 
In terms of our own governance of these 
areas, the Conduct & Values Committee of 
the Board that we created at the beginning 
of 2014 to focus on behavioural issues 
has established itself firmly as the central 
support to the Board in these important 
areas. 
Board changes 
Since we reported at the interim stage we 
have taken further steps to augment the 
skills and experience within the Board 
and to address succession to key roles. 
On 1 January 2015, Phillip Ameen joined 
the Board and the Group Audit Committee 
as an independent non-executive Director. 
Phil was formerly Vice President, 
Comptroller and Principal Accounting 
Officer of General Electric Corp. He brings 
with him extensive financial and accounting 
experience gained in one of the world’s 
leading international companies as well as 
a depth of technical knowledge from his 
long service in the accounting standard 
setting world. As a serving Director on 
HSBC’s US businesses he also brings further 
detailed insight to Group Board discussions 
and enhances the strong links that already 
exist between the Group Board and its 
major subsidiaries. 
Sir Simon Robertson had previously 
indicated his intention to retire from 
the Board at the upcoming AGM. I am 
delighted to report that Simon has 
agreed to stay on for at least a further 
year as Deputy Chairman. He has been a 
considerable support to me and to Stuart 
Gulliver, in addition to his role leading the 
non-executives, and we are all delighted 
that we shall continue to benefit from his 
wisdom and experience. 
150th anniversary 
2015 marks the 150th anniversary of our 
founding back in Hong Kong and Shanghai 
as a small regional bank focused on trade 
and investment. All of us within HSBC owe 
a huge debt of gratitude and respect to our 
forebears who charted the course that has 
taken HSBC to one of the most important 
institutions serving the financial needs of 
this inter-dependent world. 
Outlook 
It is impossible not to reflect on the very 
broad range of uncertainties and challenges 
to be addressed in 2015 and beyond, 
most of which are outside our control, 
particularly against a backdrop of patchy 
economic recovery and limited policy 
ammunition. Unexpected outcomes 
arising from current geopolitical tensions, 
eurozone membership uncertainties, 
political changes, currency and commodity 
price realignments, interest rate moves 
and the effectiveness of central banks’ 
unconventional policies, to name but a 
few, all could materially affect economic 
conditions and confidence around 
investment and consumption decisions. 
One economic uncertainty stands out for a 
major financial institution headquartered in 
the UK, that of continuing UK membership 
of the EU. Today, we publish a major 
research study which concludes that 
working to complete the Single Market in 
services and reforming the EU to make it 
more competitive are far less risky than 
going it alone, given the importance of 
EU markets to British trade. 
There are also many underlying positive 
trends that shape our thinking about the 
coming year. We are very encouraged 
by the trends in outward investment from 
China, the potential for further liberalisation 
and internationalisation of the renminbi 
and the reshaping of the Chinese economy 
from export dependence to domestic 
consumption. We are positive on the 
opportunities that will arise from Capital 
Markets Union within Europe and the 
declared focus of the incoming Commission 
on growth and jobs. The strength of the 
US economy and the benefits of lower oil 
prices should be positive drivers of growth. 
There is much to be gained from successful 
negotiation of the Transatlantic Trade and 
Investment Partnership and the Trans-
Pacific Partnership. Current attention on 
funding infrastructure investment globally 
is potentially of huge significance. 
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I want again 
to express our thanks and gratitude to our 
266,000 colleagues around the world who 
worked determinedly in 2014 to build an 
HSBC fit for the next 150 years. 
 
 
D J Flint 
Group Chairman 
23 February 2015   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
7 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Profits disappointed, although a tough 
fourth quarter masked some of the 
progress made over the preceding three 
quarters. Many of the challenging aspects 
of the fourth quarter results were common 
to the industry as a whole. In spite of this, 
there were a number of encouraging signs, 
particularly in Commercial Banking, 
Payments & Cash Management and 
renminbi products and services. We were 
also able to continue to grow the dividend. 
Reported profit before tax in 2014 was 
US$18.7bn, US$3.9bn lower than in the 
previous year. This reflected lower gains 
from disposals and reclassifications, and 
the negative effect of other significant 
items, including fines, settlements, UK 
customer redress and associated 
provisions, totalling US$3.7bn.   
Adjusted profit before tax, which excludes 
the year-on-year effects of currency 
translation differences and significant 
items, was US$22.8bn, broadly unchanged 
on 2013. 
Asia continued to provide a strong 
contribution to Group profits. Middle East 
and North Africa reported a record profit 
before tax in 2014. Together, Asia and 
MENA generated more than 70% of 
adjusted Group profit before tax. 
Commercial Banking also delivered a record 
reported profit, which is evidence of the 
successful execution of our strategy. 
Revenue in CMB continued to grow, 
notably in our two home markets of Hong 
Kong and the UK. 
Global Banking and Markets performed 
relatively well for the first three quarters of 
the year, but, like much of the rest of the 
industry, suffered a poor fourth quarter. 
Revenue was lower in 2014, particularly in 
our Markets businesses, but all other client-
facing businesses delivered year-on-year 
growth.  
Revenue was also lower in Retail Banking 
and Wealth Management, due primarily to 
the continuing repositioning of the 
business. However, in our Global Asset 
Management business we continued our 
strategy of strengthening collaboration 
across our global businesses, which helped 
to attract net new money of US$29bn. 
Global Private Banking continues to undergo 
a comprehensive overhaul which was 
accelerated from 2011. As part of this 
overhaul, we are implementing tough 
financial crime, regulatory compliance and 
tax transparency measures. In order to 
achieve our desired business model and 
informed by our six filters process, we have 
also sold a number of businesses and 
customer portfolios, including assets in 
Japan, Panama and Luxembourg. The 
number of customer accounts in our Swiss 
Private Bank is now nearly 70% lower than at 
its peak. We continued to remodel the 
Private Bank in 2014, which included the sale 
of a customer portfolio in Switzerland to LGT 
Bank. One consequence of this remodelling 
was a reduction in revenue. We have also 
grown the parts of the business that fit our 
new model, attracting US$14bn of net new 
money in 2014, mostly through clients of 
Global Banking & Markets and Commercial 
Banking. 
Loan impairment charges were lower, 
reflecting the current economic 
environment and the changes we have 
made to our portfolio since 2011. 
Operating expenses were higher due to 
increased regulatory and compliance costs, 
inflationary pressures and investment in 
strategic initiatives to support growth, 
primarily in Commercial Banking in Asia and 
Europe. Significant items, which include 
restructuring costs, were also higher than 
last year. 
We agreed settlements in respect of 
inquiries by the UK Financial Conduct 
Authority and the US Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission into the foreign 
exchange market in 2014. HSBC was badly 
let down by a few individuals whose 
actions do not reflect the vast majority 
of employees who uphold the values and 
standards expected of the bank. This 
matter is now rightly in the hands of the 
Serious Fraud Office. 
Our balance sheet remained strong, with 
a ratio of customer advances to customer 
accounts of 72%. Excluding the effects of 
currency translation, customer loans 
and advances grew by US$28bn during 
2014. 
The common equity tier 1 ratio on a 
transitional basis was 10.9% and on a CRD 
IV end point basis was 11.1% at 
31 December 2014.  
Connecting customers to 
opportunities 
2015 is HSBC’s 150th anniversary. Founded 
in Hong Kong in 1865 to finance local and 
international trade, the bank expanded 
rapidly to capture the increasing flow of 
commerce between Asia, Europe and North 
America. Our ability to connect customers 
across the world remains central to the 
bank’s strategy today and in 2014 we 
continued to develop and grow the product 
areas that rely on international 
connectivity. 
Our market-leading Global Trade and 
Receivables Finance business remains 
strong and we were voted best global trade 
finance bank and best trade finance bank in 
MENA in the Global Trade Review ‘Leaders 
In Trade’ Awards. 
Group Chief Executive’s Review
2014 was a challenging year in which we continued to work hard 
to improve business performance while managing the impact of a 
higher operating cost environment.  Overview (continued) 
Group Chief Executive’s Review / Strategic objectives 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
8 
In Payments and Cash Management, 
we increased customer mandates and 
improved client coverage. We were 
recognised as the best global cash 
management bank for the third successive 
year in the 2014 Euromoney Cash 
Management Survey.  
Our share of the capital financing market 
continued to improve and we were ranked 
number one for debt capital markets in our 
home markets of the UK and Hong Kong, 
and number one for Equity Capital Markets 
in Hong Kong by Dealogic. HSBC was also 
named global bond house of the year, 
global derivatives house of the year and 
Asian bond house of the year in the 
International Financing Review Awards 
2014. 
We consolidated our leadership of the 
rapidly growing renminbi market in 2014. 
According to SWIFT, the renminbi is now 
the fifth most widely used payment 
currency in the world, up from 13th just 
two years ago. We increased revenue from 
renminbi products and retained our ranking 
as number one issuer of offshore renminbi 
bonds worldwide over the last twelve 
months. HSBC was also recognised as the 
best overall provider for products and 
services in Asiamoney’s Offshore Renminbi 
Services Survey in 2014, and renminbi house 
of the year in the 2014 Asia Risk Awards.     
Operating a global business 
It is already clear that the regulatory costs 
of operating a global business model have 
increased since we announced our strategy 
for HSBC in 2011.  
As the Group Chairman’s Statement 
explains, the regulatory environment 
continues to evolve.   
Our commitment to be the world’s leading 
international bank means that improving 
our regulatory and compliance abilities 
and implementing Global Standards must 
remain priorities for HSBC. Our Compliance 
staff headcount has more than doubled 
since 2011 and there is more work still to 
do to strengthen the Group’s compliance 
capability.  
At the same time, the level of capital that 
we hold has increased by over 60% since 
before the financial crisis. Specifically, we 
have further strengthened our capital 
levels in response to increasing capital 
requirements from the UK Prudential 
Regulation Authority.  
Whilst we expected an increase in the 
amount of capital we were required to 
hold when setting targets for the Group in 
2011, we could not have foreseen the full 
extent of the additional costs and capital 
commitment that would subsequently be 
asked of us. The pace of change has been 
exceptional. As a consequence, some of the 
targets that we set for the Group in 2011 
are no longer realistic.   
In recognition of that fact, we have set new 
medium-term targets that better reflect 
the ongoing operating environment.   
We are setting a revised return on equity 
target of more than 10%. This target is 
modelled using a common equity tier 1 
capital ratio on a CRD IV end point basis 
in the range of 12% to 13%.  
Our cost target will be to grow our revenue 
faster than costs (‘positive jaws’) on an 
adjusted basis.  
We are also restating our commitment 
to grow the dividend. To be clear, the 
progression of dividends should be 
consistent with the growth of the overall 
profitability of the Group and is predicated 
on our ability to meet regulatory capital 
requirements in a timely manner.  
These targets offer a realistic reflection of 
the capabilities of HSBC in the prevailing 
operating environment. 
Our employees 
I am grateful for the hard work, dedication 
and professionalism of all of our employees 
in 2014. 
Extensive work was required to prepare 
HSBC for stress tests in a number of 
jurisdictions throughout the year, the 
results of which confirmed the capital 
strength of the Group. HSBC will face 
additional stress testing in 2015.  
We all have to work continuously to make 
sure that the Group remains compliant 
with anti-money laundering and sanctions 
legislation and this effort continued in 
2014.  
Management and staff across the Group 
continued to work very closely with the 
Monitor to deliver our commitments under 
the terms of our December 2012
settlement agreements with the US 
authorities and the UK Financial Conduct 
Authority. We have now received the 
second annual report from the Monitor. 
Whilst it confirmed that we continue to 
comply with the obligations we undertook 
in the Deferred Prosecution Agreement 
with the US Department of Justice, as we 
expected we still have substantial work to 
do.  
Summary and outlook 
The business remains in a good position 
structurally to capitalise on broader market 
trends and the macroeconomic backdrop 
remains favourable, notwithstanding the 
continuing low interest rate environment.  
There are still a number of historical issues 
left to resolve and we will make further 
progress on these in 2015. We will also 
continue the work we started in 2011 to 
simplify the Group to make it easier to 
manage and control. 
Our 2014 results show a business powered 
by our continued strength in Hong Kong, 
with significant additional contributions 
from the rest of Asia and the Middle East 
and North Africa.  The continuing success of 
Commercial Banking and the resilience of 
our differentiated Global Banking & 
Markets business illustrate the 
effectiveness of our strategy to bridge 
global trade and capital flows. Retail 
Banking & Wealth Management remains a 
work in progress, but we took considerable 
further steps to de-risk the business in 
2014. Global Private Banking continues to 
attract net new money from clients in our 
other global businesses. We maintain a 
sharp focus on generating net savings to 
offset increased costs arising from inflation, 
and the cost of implementing global 
standards.  
Our early 2015 performance has been 
satisfactory. 
We continue to focus on the execution of 
our strategy and on delivering value to 
shareholders. 
 
S T Gulliver 
Group Chief Executive 
23 February 2015 
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
9 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Strategic objectives 
Value creation  
and long-term 
sustainability  
We continue to follow the vision 
for HSBC we first outlined in 2011 
along with the clear strategy 
that will help us achieve it. Our 
strategy guides where and 
how we seek to compete. We 
constantly assess our progress 
against this strategy and provide 
regular updates to stakeholders. 
Through our principal activities – making 
payments, holding savings, enabling trade, 
providing finance and managing risks – we 
play a central role in society and in the 
economic system. Our target is to build and 
maintain a business which is sustainable in 
the long term. 
How we create value 
Banks, and the individuals within them, play 
a crucial role in the economic and social 
system, creating value for many parties in 
different ways.  
We provide a facility for customers to 
securely and conveniently deposit their 
savings. We allow funds to flow from savers 
and investors to borrowers, either directly or 
through the capital markets. The borrowers 
use these loans or other forms of credit to 
buy goods or invest in businesses. By these 
means, we help the economy to convert 
savings which may be individually short-term 
into financing which is, in aggregate, longer 
term. We bring together investors and 
people looking for investment funding. We 
develop new financial products. We also 
facilitate personal and commercial 
transactions by acting as payment agent both 
within countries and internationally. Through 
these activities, we take on risks which we 
then manage and reflect in our prices.  
Our direct lending includes residential and 
commercial mortgages and overdrafts, and 
term loan facilities. We finance importers and 
exporters engaged in international trade and 
provide advances to companies secured on 
amounts owed to them by their customers.  
 
We also offer additional financial products 
and services including broking, asset 
management, financial advisory services, 
life insurance, corporate finance, securities 
services and alternative investments. We 
make markets in financial assets so that 
investors have confidence in efficient pricing 
and the availability of buyers and sellers. We 
provide these products for clients ranging 
from governments to large and mid-market 
corporates, small and medium-sized 
enterprises, high net worth individuals and 
retail customers. We help customers raise 
financing from external investors in debt and 
equity capital markets. We create liquidity 
and price transparency in these securities 
allowing investors to buy and sell them on 
the secondary market. We exchange national 
currencies, helping international trade. 
We offer products that help a wide range 
of customers to manage their risks and 
exposures through, for example, life 
insurance and pension products for retail 
customers and receivables finance or 
documentary trade instruments for 
companies. Corporate customers also ask 
us to help with managing the financial risks 
arising in their businesses by employing our 
expertise and market access. 
An important way of managing risks arising 
from changes in asset and liability values and 
movements in rates is provided by derivative 
products such as forwards, futures, swaps 
and options. In this connection, we are an 
active market-maker and derivative 
counterparty. Customers use derivatives 
to manage their risks, for example, by: 
– using forward foreign currency contracts 
to hedge their income from export sales 
or costs of imported materials; 
– using an inflation swap to hedge future 
inflation-linked liabilities, for example, 
for pension payments; 
– transforming variable payments of debt 
interest into fixed rate payments, or 
vice versa; or 
– providing investors with hedges against 
movements in markets or particular stocks. 
  
Value creation
 
Risk
and
Capital
Employees
Third parties
Governments
Shareholders
Customers
Branches and offices Networks Markets
Personal, corporate, governmental, institutional and high net worth customers 
and counterparties
Products and Income
Loans/credit Deposits + investments Financial services
Interest and fee income
Trading and 
other income
Costs
Loan losses
Salaries and other payments
Infrastructure and other costs
Taxes
Dividends
Retained profit
Allocation
Variable pay Employees Strategic objectives 
Value creation and long-term sustainability / HSBC Values / Our strategy 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
10 
We charge customers a spread, representing 
the difference between the price charged 
to the customer and the theoretical cost of 
executing an offsetting hedge in the market. 
We retain that spread at maturity of the 
transaction if the risk management of the 
position has been effective. 
We then use derivatives along with other 
financial instruments to constrain the risks 
arising from customer business within risk 
limits. Normally, our customers both buy 
and sell relevant instruments, in which case 
our focus is on managing any residual risks 
through transactions with other dealers or 
professional counterparties. Where we do 
not fully hedge the residual risks we may gain 
or lose money as market movements affect 
the net value of the portfolio. 
Stress tests and other risk management 
techniques are also used to ensure that 
potential losses remain within our risk 
appetite under a wide range of potential 
market scenarios. 
In addition, we manage risks within HSBC, 
including those which arise from the business 
we do with customers. 
For further information on our risks, see page 21, 
and on how we manage them, see page 24. 
Long-term sustainability 
At HSBC, we understand that the 
continuing financial success of our business 
is closely connected to the economic, 
environmental and social landscape in 
which we operate. For us, sustainability 
means building our business for the long 
term by balancing social, environmental 
and economic considerations in the 
decisions we make. This enables us to help 
businesses thrive, reward shareholders 
and employees, pay taxes and duties in 
the countries in which we operate and 
contribute to the health and growth of 
communities. Achieving a sustainable 
return on equity and long-term profit 
growth is built on this foundation. 
How we do business is as important as what 
we do: our responsibilities to our customers, 
employees and shareholders as well as to 
wider society go far beyond simply being 
profitable. These include our consistent 
implementation of the highest standards 
everywhere we operate to detect, deter 
and protect against financial crime. 
Sustainability underpins our strategic 
priorities and enables us to fulfil our 
purpose. Our ability to identify and 
address environmental, social and ethical 
developments which present risks or 
opportunities for the business contributes to 
our financial success. Sustainable decision-
making shapes our reputation, drives 
employee engagement and affects the risk 
profile of the business – and can help reduce 
costs and secure new revenue streams. 
Our international presence and the long-
established position of many of our 
businesses in HSBC’s home and priority 
growth markets, when combined with our 
wide-ranging portfolio of products and 
services, differentiate HSBC from our 
competitors and give our business and 
operating models an inherent resilience. This 
has enabled the Group to remain profitable 
through the most turbulent of times for our 
industry, and we are confident that the 
models will continue to stand us in good 
stead in the future and will underpin the 
achievement of our strategic priorities. 
Our business and operating models are described 
in more detail on page 12. For further information 
about sustainability at HSBC, see page 36. 
 
HSBC Values 
Embedding HSBC Values in every 
decision and every interaction 
with customers and with each 
other is a top priority for the 
Group and is shaping the way 
we do business. 
The role of HSBC Values in daily operating 
practice is fundamental to our culture, 
and is particularly important in light of 
developments in regulatory policy, investor 
confidence and society’s expectations of 
banks. HSBC Values are integral to the 
selection, assessment, recognition, 
remuneration and training of our employees. 
We expect our executives and employees 
to act with courageous integrity in the 
execution of their duties in the following 
ways: 
HSBC Values 
Be dependable and do the right thing 
– stand firm for what is right, deliver on 
commitments, be resilient and 
trustworthy;  
– take personal accountability, be 
decisive, use judgement and common 
sense, empower others. 
Be open to different ideas and cultures  
– communicate openly, honestly and 
transparently, value challenge, learn 
from mistakes; 
– listen, treat people fairly, be inclusive, 
value different perspectives. 
Be connected with our customers, 
communities, regulators and each other 
– build connections, be externally 
focused, collaborate across boundaries; 
– care about individuals and their 
progress, show respect, be supportive 
and responsive. 
   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
11 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Our strategy 
 
Long-term trends 
Our strategy is aligned to two long-term 
trends: 
– The world economy is becoming ever 
more interconnected, with growth in 
world trade and cross-border capital 
flows continuing to outstrip growth in 
average gross domestic product. Over 
the next decade we expect growth in 
trade and capital flows to outstrip GDP 
growth and 35 markets to generate 85% 
of world trade growth with a similar 
degree of concentration in cross-border 
capital flows. 
– Of the world’s top 30 economies, we 
expect those of Asia, Latin America, 
the Middle East and Africa to have 
increased by around four-fold in size 
by 2050, benefiting from demographics 
and urbanisation. By this time they will 
be larger than those of Europe and 
North America combined. By 2050, we 
expect 18 of the 30 largest economies 
will be from Asia, Latin America or the 
Middle East and Africa. 
 
 
Competitive advantages 
What matters in this environment is:
– having an international network and 
global product capabilities to capture 
international trade and movements in 
capital; and 
– being able to take advantage of organic 
investment opportunities in the most 
attractive growth markets and 
maintaining the capacity to invest. 
HSBC’s competitive advantages come 
from: 
– our meaningful presence in and long-
term commitment to our key strategic 
markets; 
– our business network, which covers 
over 85% of global trade and capital 
flows;  
– our balanced business portfolio centred 
on our global client franchise; 
– our strong ability to add to our capital 
base while also providing competitive 
rewards to our staff and good returns 
to our shareholders; 
– our stable funding base, with about 
US$1.4 trillion of customer accounts of 
which 72% has been advanced to 
customers; and  
– our local balance sheet strength and 
trading capabilities in the most relevant 
financial hubs. 
 
A two-part approach 
Responding to these long-term trends, 
we have developed a two-pronged 
approach that reflects our competitive 
advantages: 
– A network of businesses connecting 
the world. HSBC is well positioned to 
capture growing international trade 
and capital flows. Our global reach and 
range of services place us in a strong 
position to serve clients as they grow 
from small enterprises into large multi-
nationals through our Commercial 
Banking and Global Banking & Markets 
businesses. 
– Wealth management and retail with 
local scale. We aim to capture 
opportunities arising from social 
mobility and wealth creation in our 
priority growth markets across Asia, 
Latin America and the Middle East, 
through our Premier proposition and 
Global Private Banking business. We 
expect to invest in full scale retail 
businesses only in markets where we 
can achieve profitable scale. 
  Business model  
Market presence / Organisation 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
12 
 
Business model 
Market presence 
Our business model is based on 
an international network 
connecting and serving a cohesive 
portfolio of markets. 
Our comprehensive range of banking and 
related financial services is provided by 
operating subsidiaries and associates. 
Services are primarily delivered by domestic 
banks, typically with local deposit bases. 
The UK and Hong Kong are our home 
markets, and a further 19 countries form our 
priority growth markets (see below). These 
21 markets accounted for over 90% of our 
profit before tax in 2014, and are the primary 
focus of capital deployment. Network 
markets are markets with strong 
international relevance which serve to 
complement our international presence, 
operating mainly through Commercial 
Banking and Global Banking and Markets. 
Our combination of home, priority growth 
and network markets covers around 85% of 
all international trade and financial flows. 
The final category, small markets, includes 
those where our operations are of sufficient 
scale to operate profitably, or markets where 
we maintain representative offices. 
Our legal entities are regulated by their local 
regulators and on a Group-wide basis we are 
regulated from the UK by the Prudential 
Regulation Authority (‘PRA’) for prudential 
matters (safety and soundness) and by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) for 
conduct (consumer and market protection). 
HSBC’s markets 
 
 
Investment criteria 
We use six filters to guide our decisions 
about when and where to invest. The first 
two – international connectivity and 
economic development – determine whether 
the business is strategically relevant. The next 
three – profitability, efficiency and liquidity – 
determine whether the financial position of 
the business is attractive. The sixth filter – the 
risk of financial crime – governs our activities 
in high risk jurisdictions, and is applied to 
protect us by restricting the scope of our 
business where appropriate. 
Decisions over where to invest additional 
resources have three components: 
– Strategic: we will only invest in businesses 
aligned to our strategy, mostly in our 
home and priority growth markets and 
in target businesses and clients;  
– Financial: the investment must be value 
accretive for the Group, and must meet 
minimum returns, revenue and cost 
hurdles; and 
– Risk: the investment must be consistent 
with our risk appetite. 
We conduct an annual geographic and 
business portfolio review following the six 
filter approach to update our market and 
business priorities. 
 
Using the six filters in decision-making 
 
Home
markets
Asia
− Hong Kong
Europe Middle East and
North Africa
North
America
Latin
America
Priority
growth
markets
Network
markets
Small
markets
− UK
− Australia
− Mainland China
− India            
− Indonesia
− Malaysia
− Singapore
− Taiwan
− Operations primarily focused on international clients and businesses of Commercial Banking and Global Banking and Markets
− Together with home and priority growth markets these cover around 85% of international trade and capital flows
− Markets where HSBC has profitable scale and focused operations
− Representative Offices
− France
− Germany
− Switzerland  
− Turkey
− Egypt
− Saudi Arabia
− UAE
− Canada
− USA
− Argentina
− Brazil
− Mexico
What is the
strategic relevance?
Are the current
returns attractive?
What is the financial crime risk?
1. Connectivity
2. Economic development
3. Profitability
4. Efficiency
5.  Liquidity
6.  Financial crime risk
Low High
Yes Invest
Turnaround/improve
Continue as is
No
Yes
No
High
Medium/low
Discontinue/dispose
Risk mitigation
Risk mitigation
Risk mitigation  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
13 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Organisation 
Our operating model is based on 
a matrix management structure 
comprising global businesses, 
geographical regions and global 
functions. 
The matrix is overlaid on a legal entity 
structure headed by HSBC Holdings plc. 
Holding company 
HSBC Holdings, the holding company of the 
Group, is the primary source of equity capital 
for its subsidiaries and provides non-equity 
capital to them when necessary. 
Under authority delegated by the Board of 
HSBC Holdings, the Group Management 
Board (‘GMB’) is responsible for the 
management and day-to-day running of 
the Group, within the risk appetite set by 
the Board. GMB works to ensure that there 
are sufficient cash resources to pay dividends 
to shareholders, interest to bondholders, 
expenses and taxes. 
HSBC Holdings does not provide core funding 
to any banking subsidiary, nor is it a lender 
of last resort and does not carry out any 
banking business in its own right. Subsidiaries 
operate as separately capitalised entities 
implementing the Group strategy. 
Global management structure 
The following table lists our four global 
businesses, five geographical regions and 
11 global functions, and summarises their 
responsibilities under HSBC’s management 
structure. 
For details of our principal subsidiaries see Note 22 
on the Financial Statements. A simplified Group 
structure chart is provided on page 462.
Global management structure 
 
  
− Retail Banking and Wealth Management
− Commercial Banking
− Global Banking and Markets
− Global Private Banking
Global businesses Global functions
− Communications
− Company Secretaries
− Corporate Sustainability
− Finance
− HSBC Technology and Services
− Human Resources
− Internal Audit
− Legal
− Marketing
− Risk (including Compliance)
− Strategy and Planning
Establish and manage all policies, processes 
and delivery platforms relevant to their 
activities, are fully accountable for their costs 
globally and are responsible for managing 
their headcount.
Responsible for setting globally consistent 
business strategies and operating models 
and issuing planning guidance regarding their 
businesses, and are accountable for their 
profit and loss performance and for 
managing their headcount.
Legal entities
Operate under their own boards of directors as separately capitalised entities, implementing Group strategy and delivering Group products and 
services. They are required to consider risk and maintain a capital buffer consistent with the Group’s risk appetite for their relevant country or region. 
They manage their own funding and liquidity within parameters set centrally.
HSBC Holdings plc
Geographical regions
− Europe
− Asia
− Middle East and North Africa
− North America
− Latin America
Share responsibility for executing business 
strategies set by the global businesses. They 
represent the Group to customers, regulators, 
employee groups and other stakeholders; 
allocate capital; manage risk appetite, liquidity 
and funding by legal entity; and are 
accountable for profit and loss performance 
in line with global business plans.  Business model (continued) 
Organisation / Governance 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
14 
Structural Reform 
Banking structural reform and 
recovery and resolution planning 
Globally there have been a number of 
developments relating to banking structural 
reform and the introduction of recovery and 
resolution regimes.  
As recovery and resolution planning has 
developed, some regulators and national 
authorities have also required changes to the 
corporate structures of banks. These include 
requiring the local incorporation of banks or 
ring-fencing of certain businesses. In the UK, 
ring-fencing legislation has been enacted 
requiring the separation of retail and small 
and medium-sized enterprise (‘SME’) 
deposits from trading activity (see below). 
Similar requirements have been introduced 
or are in the process of being introduced in 
other jurisdictions.  
Policy background to recovery and 
resolution 
Following the financial crisis, G20 leaders 
requested that the Financial Stability Board 
(‘FSB’) establish more effective arrangements 
for the recovery and resolution of 28 (now 
30) designated Global Systemically Important 
Banks (‘G-SIBs’), resulting in a series of policy 
recommendations in relation to recovery 
and resolution planning, cross-border 
co-operation agreements and measures 
to mitigate obstacles to resolution.  
In December 2013, the PRA set out rules for 
the recovery and resolution of UK banks 
and international banks operating in the UK. 
These rules were modified as part of the 
implementation of the EU Bank Recovery and 
Resolution Directive from January 2015.  
HSBC resolution strategy and 
corporate structure changes 
We have been working with the Bank of 
England, the PRA and our other primary 
regulators to develop and agree a resolution 
strategy for HSBC. It is our view that a 
resolution strategy whereby the Group 
breaks up at a subsidiary bank level at the 
point of resolution (referred to as a Multiple 
Point of Entry strategy) rather than being 
kept together as a Group at the point of 
resolution (referred to as a Single Point of 
Entry strategy) is the optimal approach as it 
is aligned to our existing legal and business 
structure.  
In common with all G-SIBs, we are working 
with our regulators to understand inter-
dependencies between different businesses 
and subsidiary banking entities in the Group 
in order to enhance resolvability. 
We have initiated plans to mitigate or 
remove critical inter-dependencies to further 
facilitate the resolution of the Group. In 
particular, in order to remove operational 
dependencies (where one subsidiary bank 
provides critical services to another), we have 
determined to transfer such critical services 
from the subsidiary banks to a separately 
incorporated group of service companies 
(‘ServCo group’). The ServCo group will be 
separately capitalised and funded to ensure 
continuity of services in resolution. A 
significant portion of the ServCo group 
already exists and therefore this initiative 
involves transferring the remaining critical 
services still held by subsidiary banks into 
the ServCo group. The services will then be 
provided to the subsidiary banks by the 
ServCo group.  
UK ring-fencing  
In December 2013, the UK’s Financial 
Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 (‘Banking 
Reform Act’) received Royal Assent. It 
implements most of the recommendations 
of the Independent Commission on Banking 
(‘ICB’),  which inter alia require large banking 
groups to ‘ring-fence’ UK retail banking 
activity in a separately incorporated banking 
subsidiary (a ‘ring-fenced bank’) that is 
prohibited from engaging in significant 
trading activity. For these purposes, the 
UK excludes the Crown Dependencies. 
Ring-fencing is to be completed by 1 January 
2019. 
In July 2014, secondary legislation was 
finalised. This included provisions further 
detailing the applicable individual customers 
to be transferred to the ring-fenced bank by 
reference to gross worth and enterprises to 
be transferred based on turnover, assets 
and number of employees. In addition, the 
secondary legislation places restrictions on 
the activities and geographical scope of ring-
fenced banks. 
In October 2014, the PRA published a 
consultation paper on ring-fencing rules in 
relation to legal structure, governance, and 
continuity of services and facilities. The PRA 
intends to undertake further consultations 
and finalise ring-fencing rules in due course. 
The PRA also published a discussion paper 
concerning operational continuity in 
resolution. 
As required by the PRA’s consultation paper, 
a provisional ring-fencing project plan was 
presented to the UK regulators in November 
2014. This plan provided for ring-fencing of 
the activities prescribed in the legislation, 
broadly the retail and SME services that are 
currently part of HSBC Bank plc (‘HSBC 
Bank’), in a separate subsidiary.  
In addition, the plan reflected the operational 
continuity expectations of each of the PRA’s 
consultation and discussion papers by 
providing for the proposed enhancement of 
the ServCo group. The plan remains subject 
to further planning and approvals internally 
and is ultimately subject to the approval of 
the PRA, FCA and other applicable regulators.  
European banking structural reform  
In January 2014, the European Commission 
published legislative proposals on the 
structural reform of the European banking 
sector which would prohibit proprietary 
trading in financial instruments and 
commodities, and enable supervisors, at their 
discretion, to require certain trading activities 
to be undertaken in a separate subsidiary 
from deposit taking activities. 
The ring-fenced deposit taking entity would 
be subject to separation from the trading 
entity including requirements for separate 
capital and management structures, issuance 
of own debt and arms-length transactions 
between entities. 
The draft proposals contain a provision which 
would permit derogation by member states 
that have implemented their own structural 
reform legislation, subject to meeting certain 
conditions. This derogation may benefit the 
UK in view of the Banking Reform Act. 
The proposals are currently subject to 
discussion in the European Parliament and 
the Council. The implementation date for 
any separation under the final rules would 
depend upon the date on which the final 
legislation (if any) is agreed.
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
15 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Governance 
The Board is committed to 
establishing and maintaining the 
highest standards of corporate 
governance wherever we operate. 
Good corporate governance is 
critical to HSBC’s long-term 
success and sustainability. 
We believe that a robust and transparent 
corporate governance framework is vital 
to the sustainable success of HSBC. 
Strengthening our corporate governance 
framework to support the successful 
implementation of our Global Standards 
programme is a continuing focus for the 
Board. 
Role of the Board and Committees 
The strategy and risk appetite for HSBC is set 
by the Board, which delegates the day-to-day
running of the business to the GMB. Risk 
Management Meetings of the GMB are held 
in addition to regular GMB meetings. 
The key roles of the non-executive 
committees established by the Board are 
described in the chart below. The terms of 
reference of the principal non-executive 
Board committees are available at 
www.hsbc.com/boardcommittees. 
For further details on Group corporate governance, 
see page 263. 
 
The committee structure and governance framework of the HSBC Holdings Board 
 
For footnote, see page 39. 
GMB executive committees 
 
 
Executive management 
committee which is
responsible for management 
and day-to-day running of 
HSBC under the direct 
authority of the Board.
Group Management
Board
Financial System
Vulnerabilities
Committee
Chairman’s
Committee
Conduct & Values
Committee
Non-executive responsibility 
for oversight of (i) controls 
and procedures to identify 
areas where HSBC and 
the financial system more 
broadly may become 
exposed to financial crime 
or system abuse, and
(ii) HSBC policies and 
procedures sufficient to 
ensure the continuing 
obligations to regulatory
and law enforcement 
agencies are met.
Acts on behalf of the Board 
between scheduled Board 
meetings to facilitate 
ad hoc unforeseen business 
requiring urgent Board 
approval.
Non-executive responsibility 
for oversight of, and advice 
to the Board on, HSBC 
policies, procedures and 
standards to ensure that the 
Group conducts business 
responsibly and consistently 
adheres to HSBC Values.
HSBC Holdings plc
Board of Directors
Group Audit
Committee
Group Remuneration 
Committee
Group Risk
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Non-executive responsibility 
for leading the process for 
Board appointments and for
identifying and nominating,
for approval by the Board, 
candidates for appointment 
to the Board.
Non-executive responsibility
for oversight of, and advice
to the Board on, matters 
relating to financial 
reporting and of internal 
controls over financial 
reporting.
Non-executive responsibility
for oversight of, and advice 
to the Board on, high level
risk-related matters and
risk governance.
Non-executive responsibility
for setting the overarching 
principles, parameters and 
governance framework of 
the Group’s remuneration 
policy and the remuneration 
of senior executives.
Philanthropic and 
Community Investment
Oversight Committee
5
Non-executive responsibility 
for the oversight of HSBC’s 
philanthropic and 
community investment 
activities in support of 
the Group’s corporate 
sustainability objectives.
Group Management Board
Risk Management Meeting
Provide strategic direction and oversight of enterprise-wide management of all risks through a strong risk governance framework, with particular focus 
on defining risk appetite and monitoring the risk profile, including assessments of current and emerging risks.
Recommend and/or approve key risk limits, policies and methodologies for the management of risks. 
Develop and implement Global Standards reflecting best practices for adoption across the Group. Business model (continued) 
Global businesses 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
16 
Global businesses 
Our four global businesses are Retail Banking 
and Wealth Management (‘RBWM’), 
Commercial Banking (‘CMB’), Global Banking 
and Markets (‘GB&M’) and Global Private 
Banking (‘GPB’). They are responsible for 
developing, implementing and managing 
their business propositions consistently 
across the Group, focusing on profitability 
and efficiency. They set their strategies 
within the parameters of the Group strategy 
in liaison with the geographical regions; are 
responsible for issuing planning guidance 
regarding their businesses; are accountable 
for their profit and loss performance; and 
manage their headcount. 
The main business activities of our global business 
and their products and services are summarised 
below. 
 
Main business activities by global business in 2014 
 
For footnotes, see page 39. 
Retail Banking and Wealth 
Management 
Products and services 
RBWM takes deposits and provides 
transactional banking services to enable 
customers to manage their day-to-day 
finances and save for the future. We offer 
credit facilities to assist them in their short or 
longer-term borrowing requirements and we 
provide financial advisory, broking, insurance 
and investment services to help them to 
manage and protect their financial futures. 
We develop products designed to meet the 
needs of specific customer segments, which 
may include a range of different services and 
delivery channels. 
RBWM offers four main types of 
service: 
– HSBC Premier: we provide a dedicated 
relationship manager to our mass affluent 
customers and their immediate families, 
offering specialist and tailored advice. 
Customers can access emergency travel 
assistance, priority telephone banking and an 
online ‘global view’ of their Premier accounts 
around the world. 
 
– HSBC Advance: we offer our emerging 
affluent customers control over their day-to-
day finances and access to a range of 
preferential products, rates and terms. HSBC 
Advance is also the start of a relationship 
where we give customers support and 
guidance to help them to realise their 
ambitions. 
– Wealth Solutions & Financial Planning: a 
financial planning process designed around 
individual customer needs to help our clients 
to protect, grow and manage their wealth. 
We offer investment and wealth insurance 
products manufactured by Global Asset 
Management, Markets and HSBC Insurance 
and by selected third-party providers. 
– Personal Banking: we provide globally 
standardised but locally delivered, reliable, 
easy to understand, good-value banking 
products and services using global product 
platforms and globally set service standards. 
RBWM delivers services through four principal 
channels: branches, self-service terminals, 
telephone service centres and digital (internet 
and mobile). 
Customers 
RBWM serves nearly 50 million customers. 
We are committed to building lifelong 
relationships with our customers as they 
move from one stage of their lives to the 
next, offering tailored products and services 
appropriate to their diverse goals, aspirations 
and ambitions. We recognise that some of 
our customers face financial challenges and, 
in these cases, we aim to be tolerant, fair and 
understanding and to support them during 
difficult times. 
We put the customer at the heart of 
everything we do. We constantly carry out 
research and invest resources to make sure 
that customers can access our services 
conveniently, securely and reliably. We have 
conducted work to ensure that we sell 
products that meet their needs and at a price 
that represents a fair exchange of value 
between customers and shareholders, and 
have introduced new incentive programmes 
that have no formulaic links to sales volumes 
but are focused on assessing how well we are 
meeting our customers’ needs. 
We measure customer satisfaction through 
an independent market research survey 
of retail banking customers in selected 
countries and calculate a Customer 
Recommendation Index to measure 
performance. This is benchmarked against 
average scores of a peer group of banks in 
each market and we set targets for our 
business relative to our competitor set of 
banks. We expect continuous improvements 
across markets in which we operate. We aim 
RBWM CMB GB&M GPB
− Deposits
− Account services
− Deposits
− Payments and cash
management
− Deposits
− Payments and cash
management
− Balance sheet management
− Deposits
− Account services
Global
businesses
Liability
driven
− Credit and lending − Credit and lending
− International trade and
receivables finance
− Credit and lending
− Asset and trade finance
− Credit and lending Asset
driven
− Asset management
− Wealth solutions and
financial planning
− Broking
6
− Insurance (distribution;
life manufacturing)
− Commercial insurance
and investments
− Corporate finance
7
− Markets
8
− Securities services
− Investment management
9
− Financial advisory
10
− Broking
6
− Corporate finance 
(via GB&M)
7
− Alternative investments
11
– Trusts and estate planning
Fee driven
and other  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
17 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
to handle customer complaints promptly and 
fairly, monitoring trends to further improve 
our services. 
Commercial Banking 
Products and services 
CMB provides a broad range of banking 
and financial services to enable customers 
to manage and grow their businesses 
domestically and internationally. We aim to 
be recognised as the leading international 
trade and business bank by connecting 
customers to markets and by enhancing 
collaboration within the Group, both 
geographically and between global 
businesses. A global operating model 
increases transparency, enables consistency, 
improves efficiency and ensures the right 
outcomes for our customers. 
CMB customer offerings  
typically include: 
– Credit and Lending: we offer a broad range 
of domestic and cross-border financing, 
including overdrafts, corporate cards, term 
loans and syndicated, leveraged, acquisition 
and project finance. Asset finance is also 
offered in selected countries. 
– Global Trade and Receivables Finance: we 
support customers’ access to the world’s 
trade flows and provide unrivalled 
experience in addressing today’s most 
complex trade challenges. Our 
comprehensive suite of products and 
services, letters of credit, collections, 
guarantees, receivables finance, supply 
chain solutions, commodity and structured 
finance and risk distribution, can be 
combined into global solutions that make it 
easier for businesses to manage risk, process 
transactions and fund activities throughout 
the trade cycle. 
– Payments and Cash Management: we are 
strategically located where most of 
the world’s payments and capital flows 
originate. We provide local, regional and 
global transaction banking services including 
payments, collections, account services, 
e-commerce and liquidity management via 
e-enabled platforms to address the needs of 
our customers. 
– Insurance and Investments: we offer 
business and financial protection, trade 
insurance, employee benefits, corporate 
wealth management and a variety of other 
commercial risk insurance products in 
selected countries. 
– Collaboration: our CMB franchise represents 
a key client base for products and services 
provided by GB&M, RBWM and GPB, 
including foreign exchange, interest rate, 
capital markets and advisory services, payroll 
and personal accounts services and wealth 
management and wealth transition services. 
HSBC is leading the development of the 
renminbi as a trade currency, with renminbi 
capabilities in more than 50 markets. 
Our range of products, services and delivery 
channels is tailored to meet the needs of 
specific customer segments. 
Customers 
We have organised ourselves around our 
customers’ needs and their degree of 
complexity by developing three distinct 
segments within CMB: Business Banking, 
Mid-Market and Large Corporates. 
– Business Banking now has two distinct 
needs-based servicing models: 
relationship managers focused on 
customers with more complex needs; 
and portfolio management for customers 
requiring simpler, more routine products 
and services. 
– We have brought increased focus to 
our Mid-Market customers and are 
re-configuring our organisation and 
resources across our home and priority 
growth markets to provide enhanced 
relationship management. 
– For our Large Corporate customers, who 
typically have complex and multi-country 
needs, we provide globally managed 
senior coverage teams, who are also 
able to coordinate with other global 
businesses. 
To ensure that our customers remain at the 
heart of our business, we continue to place 
the utmost value on customer feedback 
and customer engagement. We are now 
in the 6th year of our Client Engagement 
Programme, a global survey of 15 markets 
designed to deepen our understanding of 
our customers and reinforce our relationship 
with them. This initiative, combined with 
other insight programmes, helps us to 
identify customers’ critical business issues 
so that we can tailor solutions and services 
offered to better meet their needs. 
Building long-term relationships with 
reputable customers is core to our growth 
strategy and organisational values. 
Global Banking and Markets 
Products and services 
GB&M provides wholesale capital markets 
and transaction banking services organised 
across eight client-facing businesses. 
GB&M products and services 
include: 
– Sales and trading services in the secondary 
market are provided in Markets, which 
includes four businesses organised by asset 
class: 
– Credit and Rates sell, trade and distribute 
fixed income securities to clients including 
corporates, financial institutions, 
sovereigns, agencies and public sector 
issuers. They assist clients in managing risk 
via interest rate and credit derivatives, 
and facilitate client financing via 
repurchase (‘repo’) agreements. 
– Foreign Exchange provides spot and 
derivative products to meet the 
investment demands of institutional 
investors, the hedging needs of small 
and medium-sized enterprises (‘SME’s), 
middle-market enterprises (‘MME’s) and 
large corporates in GB&M and CMB, and 
the needs of RBWM and GPB customers 
in our branches. Foreign Exchange trades 
on behalf of clients in over 90 currencies. 
– Equities provides sales and trading 
services for clients, including direct 
market access and financing and hedging 
solutions. 
– Capital Financing offers strategic financing 
and advisory services focusing on a client’s 
capital structure. Products include debt and 
equity capital raising in the primary market, 
transformative merger and acquisition 
advisory and execution, and corporate 
lending and specialised structured financing 
solutions such as leveraged and acquisition 
finance, asset and structured finance, real 
estate, infrastructure and project finance, 
and export credit. 
– Payments and Cash Management helps 
clients move, control, access and invest their 
cash. Products include non-retail deposit 
taking and international, regional and 
domestic payments and cash management 
services. 
– Securities Services provides custody and 
clearing services to corporate and 
institutional clients and funds administration 
to both domestic and cross-border investors. 
– Global Trade and Receivables Finance 
provides trade services on behalf of GB&M 
clients to support them throughout their 
trade cycle. 
In addition to the above, Balance Sheet 
Management is responsible for the 
management of liquidity and funding for the 
Group. It also manages structural interest 
rate positions within the Markets limit 
structure.  Business model (continued) 
Global businesses / Employees  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
18 
Customers 
GB&M provides tailored financial solutions 
to major governmental, corporate and 
institutional clients worldwide. Managed as 
a global business with regional oversight, 
GB&M operates a long-term relationship 
management approach to build a full 
understanding of clients’ financial 
requirements and strategic goals. 
Client coverage is centralised in Banking, 
which contains relationship managers 
organised by sector, region and country who 
work to understand client needs and provide 
holistic solutions by bringing together our 
broad array of product capabilities and 
utilising our extensive global network. 
Our goal is to be a ‘Top 5’ bank to our priority 
clients. We strive to achieve this goal by 
assembling client coverage teams across our 
geographical network who work alongside 
product specialists in developing individually 
tailored solutions to meet client needs. 
Our client coverage and product teams are 
supported by a unique customer relationship 
management platform and comprehensive 
client planning process. Our teams utilise 
these platforms to better serve global client 
relationships, which facilitates our ability 
to connect clients to international growth 
opportunities. 
Global Private Banking 
Products and services 
Drawing on the strength of HSBC and the 
most suitable products from the 
marketplace, we work with our clients to 
provide solutions to grow, manage and 
preserve wealth for today and for the future. 
Our products and services include Private 
Banking, Investment Management and 
Private Wealth Solutions. 
GPB products and services include: 
– Private Banking services comprise 
multicurrency and fiduciary deposits, 
account services, and credit and specialist 
lending. GPB also accesses HSBC’s universal 
banking capabilities to offer products and 
services such as credit cards, internet 
banking and corporate and investment 
banking solutions. 
– Investment Management comprises 
advisory and discretionary investment 
services and brokerage across asset classes. 
This includes a complete range of investment 
vehicles, portfolio management, securities 
services and alternatives. 
– Private Wealth Solutions comprise trusts 
and estate planning, designed to protect 
wealth and preserve it for future 
generations. 
Customers 
GPB serves the needs of high net worth and 
ultra-high net worth individuals and their 
families in our home and priority growth 
markets.  
Within these broad segments, GPB has teams 
dedicated to serving HSBC’s global priority 
clients, which include our most significant 
Group relationships, and other clients who 
benefit from our private banking proposition 
and services offered by CMB and GB&M. Our 
aim is to build and grow connectivity with 
these customers Group-wide, establishing 
strong relationships across all global 
businesses to meet clients’ needs. We aim to 
build on HSBC’s commercial banking heritage 
to be the leading private bank for high net 
worth business owners. 
Relationship managers are the dedicated 
points of contact for our clients, tailoring 
services to meet their individual needs. They 
develop a thorough understanding of their 
clients – including their family, business, 
lifestyle and ambitions – and introduce them 
to specialists equipped to help build the best 
financial strategy. Specialists include:  
– investment advisers, who discuss 
investment ideas in line with a client’s 
investment and risk profile;  
– credit advisers, who provide expertise in 
complex liquidity and lending 
requirements; and 
– wealth planners, who have the 
knowledge and expertise to manage 
wealth now and for future generations.  
The use of digital platforms continues to 
grow in line with strong demand from self-
directed clients. These platforms enable 
clients to access account information, 
investment research and online transactional 
capabilities directly. We continue to invest in 
digital systems to better meet clients’ 
evolving expectations and needs. 
Employees 
Successfully enhancing a values-
led high performance culture in 
HSBC is critical to implementing 
Global Standards sustainably. We 
continue to focus on embedding 
HSBC Values in every decision 
and interaction between 
colleagues and with customers. 
– We aim to attract, retain and motivate 
the very best people, and our 
remuneration policy supports this 
endeavour. 
– We actively manage succession planning 
by defining the capabilities we need and 
complement this by identifying talented 
individuals and ensuring they are 
provided with appropriate career and 
development opportunities to fulfil their 
potential in HSBC. 
– We provide training and development 
opportunities to enable employees to 
acquire the technical and leadership 
skills needed to enhance their careers. 
– We are committed to a diverse and 
inclusive culture reflective of our 
customer base. 
– We encourage employees to engage in 
the local communities in which they 
work.  
At the end of 2014 we had a total workforce 
of 266,000 full-time and part-time employees 
compared with 263,000 at the end of 2013 
and 270,000 at the end of 2012. Our main 
centres of employment were as follows 
(approximate numbers): 
 
 
UK
48,000
India
32,000
Hong Kong
30,000
Brazil
21,000
Mainland
China
21,000
Mexico
17,000
US
15,000
France
9,000
Other
73,000  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
19 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Profile of leadership 
At the date of this Report, the Executive 
Management of HSBC consists of four 
Executive Directors, 11 Group Managing 
Directors and 60 Group General Managers. 
Of these, 13 (17%) are female. This 
leadership team is based in 17 different 
countries and comprises 13 different 
nationalities. 71% have served with HSBC 
for more than 10 years and the total 
average tenure is 20 years. 
HSBC has 13 non-executive Directors. 
Employment proposition 
HSBC Values 
In 2014, education on HSBC Values 
continued for all levels of employees 
through induction and other training 
programmes that covered relevant 
technical, management and leadership 
skills. We require a high behavioural 
standard from all our employees, and our 
focus on values and courageous integrity 
continues to be instilled at every level in 
the Group. For example, our employee 
induction programme has been refreshed 
to further reinforce courageous integrity 
and meeting the needs of our customers. 
Also, an assessment of adherence to our 
values and supporting behaviours has been 
formalised as part of our performance 
appraisal process for all employees. In 
2014, some 145,000 employees received 
values training in addition to 135,000 
employees in 2013. A further 100,000 
employees are expected to receive this 
training in 2015. A number of employees 
left the Group for breaching our values. 
Employee development 
The development of employees is essential 
if our businesses and operations are 
to strengthen and prosper. We take 
a systematic approach to identifying, 
developing and deploying talented 
employees to ensure we have a robust 
supply of high calibre individuals with the 
values, skills and experience for current 
and future senior management positions. 
We keep our approach to training current 
and under constant review in order to 
improve the quality of our curricula and 
ensure employees are equipped with the 
technical and leadership skills to operate in 
a global organisation. We are standardising 
our training to help employees provide a 
consistently high quality experience for 
customers in all our markets and support 
the mitigation of current and emerging 
risks and the Global Standards programme. 
Employee engagement 
Strong employee engagement leads 
to positive commercial outcomes and 
underpins improved business performance, 
increased customer satisfaction, higher 
productivity, talent retention and reduced 
absenteeism. 
We assess our employees’ engagement 
through our Global People Surveys, which 
were held annually from 2007 to 2011 and 
biennially thereafter. The latest Survey, in 
2013, focused on supporting a values-led 
high performance culture by assessing 
if our employees were engaged in the 
Group’s purpose and felt able to deliver 
on our ambition to become the world’s 
leading international bank. 
Our employees’ engagement continues 
to be positive when compared with the 
financial services industry and sector 
best-in-class benchmark. The overall 
engagement score in 2013 was 68%, which 
was four percentage points ahead of the 
financial services industry norm and eight 
points behind the best-in-class benchmark. 
Strong scores were registered in risk 
awareness (81% and nine points above 
best-in-class benchmark), leadership 
capability (67%) and living the HSBC Values 
(77%). Employee development significantly 
improved from six points below best-in-
class in 2011 to three points above in 2013. 
Aspects that required attention included 
pride and advocacy, which were 12 and 13 
points, respectively, below best in class 
norms and had fallen from 2011 levels. 
The next Global People Survey will be 
conducted in 2015. 
HSBC also conducts a regular survey, 
Snapshot, which is sent to one quarter 
of our employees every three months. 
Insights from Snapshot provide a timely 
indication of employee sentiment towards 
the organisation, including signifiers of 
engagement. As at the end of September 
2014, the favourable responses to selected 
questions were: support for HSBC’s 
strategy, 81%; intend to still be working 
at HSBC in three years’ time, 74%; pride 
in working for HSBC, 79%; and willingness 
to recommend HSBC to other senior 
professionals as a great place to further 
their career, 68%. Aspects for further 
attention include helping employees see 
the positive effects of HSBC’s strategic 
priorities, 62%.  
Succession planning  
Our talent strategy aims to ensure that 
high-quality candidates are available to fill 
key positions and meet business needs 
across all areas of the Group. We directly 
align succession planning with talent 
management, individual development 
and career planning. The succession plan 
defines the number, distribution, types 
of roles and capabilities needed by HSBC, 
and talented individuals are then aligned 
to these roles. This approach in turn 
defines the individual’s career path and 
development plan. In 2014, we assessed 
104 senior employees with the potential 
to become leaders and determined their 
career development needs. Potential 
successors must demonstrate an 
understanding of our Global Standards 
and exemplify HSBC Values. 
Our talent strategy supports our aspirations 
in emerging markets, where in 2014 the 
representation of those defined as talent 
was 34%. We closely monitor local 
nationals identified as short-term and 
medium-term successors to key leadership 
roles so as to improve the proportion of 
local nationals in senior management over 
the medium term. 
Diversity and inclusion 
HSBC is committed to a diverse and 
inclusive culture where employees can be 
confident their views are encouraged, their 
concerns are attended to, they work in an 
environment where bias, discrimination 
and harassment on any matter (including 
gender, age, ethnicity, religion, sexuality 
and disability) are not tolerated, and 
advancement is based on merit. Our 
diversity helps us support our increasingly 
diverse customer base and acquire, 
develop and retain a secure supply of 
skilled and committed employees. 
Oversight of our diversity and inclusion 
agenda resides with senior executives 
on the Group Diversity Committee, 
complemented by a number of subsidiary 
People/Diversity Committees. We have 
over 55 employee network groups 
representing gender, ethnicity, age, 
sexuality, disability, religion, culture, 
working parents, health and community 
volunteering. These groups are 
instrumental in driving an inclusive 
culture and maintaining effective dialogue 
between management and employees. 
   Business model (continued) 
Employees / Risk overview 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
20 
Gender balance 
An area of continued focus is gender 
representation, particularly at senior levels of 
our organisation. We are addressing bias in 
hiring, promotions and talent identification, 
expanding mentoring and sponsorship, 
introducing better support for returning 
parents and increasing flexible working 
opportunities. 
The gender balance for HSBC Directors and 
employees at 31 December 2014 was as 
follows: 
Gender balance  
  Headcount 
  Male  Female  Total 
Executive Directors  4  –  4 
Non-executive 
Directors  6  6  12 
Directors  10  6  16 
Senior employees  6,719  2,076  8,795 
Other employees  120,496  136,966  257,462 
Total  127,225  139,048  266,273 
 
  % 
  Male  Female  Total 
Executive Directors  100  –  100 
Non-executive 
Directors  50.0  50.0  100 
Directors  62.5  37.5  100 
Senior employees  76.4  23.6  100 
Other employees  46.8  53.2  100 
Total  47.8  52.2  100 
Overall, Group-wide female representation 
was 52.2% at 31 December 2014, largely 
unchanged on 2013. Female representation 
at senior levels rose from 22.7% in 2013 to 
23.6% in 2014, and our target is to improve 
this to 25% by 2015. The proportion of 
females in our talent pipeline improved from 
32.2% in 2013 to 34.0% in December 2014 
and female representation on the GMB was 
20% (three out of fifteen) in December 2014. 
The average age of our employees was 36.2 
years and average tenure was 8.5 years. 
Unconscious bias 
It is recognised that social behaviour may 
be driven by stereotypes that operate 
automatically and therefore unconsciously. 
These stereotypes can lead to a less inclusive 
environment. We are addressing this by 
incorporating inclusive behaviours in 
our processes and continue to deliver 
‘unconscious bias’ training to 8,700 managers 
and 18,500 employees in 2014 (8,300 
managers and 50,000 employees in 2013). 
In 2015, our diversity and inclusion priorities 
will continue to address unconscious bias 
through targeted education, encourage the 
career development of diverse talent with 
a continued emphasis on gender and local 
nationals and extend inclusion to cover wider 
aspects of diversity, for example, sexual 
orientation, ethnicity and disability. We 
continue to enhance a bias-free approach 
to performance management and improve 
internal and external candidate lists, 
connecting and utilising our Employee 
Resource Network Groups globally and 
maintaining a consistent global framework 
of governance and sponsorship to drive a 
diverse and inclusive culture throughout 
the Group. 
Health, welfare and safety 
We regard the physical and psychological 
health, welfare and safety of our people as 
being of the utmost importance. We recently 
introduced a global occupational health 
framework which requires the proactive 
management of employee welfare and 
encourages the sharing of best practice 
across the Group. Between August 2012 
and the end of 2014, 96% of assigned HSBC 
employees carried out our bi-annual online 
health and safety training. 
We run a number of employee assistance 
programmes tailored to local requirements. 
Skilled professional counsellors are available 
on free phone lines 24 hours a day and seven 
days a week to help employees manage 
personal or work-related problems that 
create stress and affect their work. Free 
face-to-face counselling is also provided, 
as is support for partners and dependents. 
Programmes are offered in the UK, Hong 
Kong, North America and India. 
Whistleblowing 
HSBC operates a global Compliance 
disclosure line (telephone and email) which 
is available to allow employees to make 
disclosures when the normal channels for 
airing grievances or concerns are unavailable 
or inappropriate. The Compliance disclosure 
line is available to capture employee 
concerns on a number of matters, including 
breaches of law or regulation, allegations of 
bribery and corruption, failure to comply 
with Group policies, suspicions of money 
laundering, breaches of internal controls 
and fraud or deliberate error in the financial 
records of any Group company. Global 
Regulatory Compliance is responsible for the 
operation of the Compliance disclosure line 
and the handling of disclosure cases. Cases 
are reviewed and referred for appropriate 
investigation. Whistleblowing cases may also 
be raised directly with senior executives, line 
managers, Human Resources and Security 
and Fraud. 
Additional local whistleblowing lines are 
in place in several countries, operated by 
Security and Fraud, Human Resources and 
Regulatory Compliance. Disclosures made on 
the local whistleblowing lines are escalated 
to Global Regulatory Compliance or Financial 
Crime Compliance. Global Regulatory 
Compliance also monitors an external email 
address for complaints regarding accounting 
and internal financial controls or auditing 
matters (accountingdisclosures@hsbc.com 
highlighted under Investor Relations and 
Governance on www.hsbc.com). Cases 
received are escalated to the Group Chief 
Accounting Officer, Group Finance Director 
or Group Chief Executive as appropriate. 
HSBC’s policies and procedures for capturing 
and responding to whistleblowing disclosures 
relating to accounting or auditing matters are 
overseen by the Group Audit Committee. 
Those relating to other whistleblowing 
disclosures are overseen by the Conduct & 
Values Committee. 
Disclosures and actions taken are reported 
on a periodic basis to the Conduct & Values 
Committee, Group Audit Committee and the 
Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 
in respect of matters relating to financial 
crime compliance. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
21 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Risk overview 
All our activities involve, 
to varying degrees, the 
measurement, evaluation, 
acceptance and management of 
risk or combinations of risks. 
As a provider of banking and financial 
services, we actively manage risk as a 
core part of our day-to-day activities. We 
employ a risk management framework at 
all levels of the organisation, underpinned 
by a strong risk culture and reinforced by 
HSBC Values and our Global Standards. It 
ensures that our risk profile remains 
conservative and aligned to our risk 
appetite, which describes the type and 
quantum of risk we are willing to accept 
in achieving our strategic objectives. 
Risk and our strategic priorities  
The Group’s three strategic priorities are 
reflected in our management of risk. 
Grow the business and dividends – we 
ensure risk is maintained at an acceptable 
and appropriate level while creating value 
and generating profits. 
Implement Global Standards – we are 
transforming how we detect, deter and 
protect against financial crime through the 
deployment of Global Standards, which 
govern how we do business and with whom. 
Streamline processes and procedures – our 
disposal programme has made HSBC easier 
to manage and control. By focusing on 
streamlining our processes and procedures, 
we are making HSBC less complex and 
complicated to operate, creating capacity 
for growth. 
Our business and operating models are described 
on page 12. For further information on Global 
Standards, see page 26. 
Risk in 2014 
Concerns remained during 2014 over the 
sustainability of economic growth in both 
developed and emerging markets, while 
geopolitical tensions rose or remained high in 
many parts of the world. 
We continued to sustain a conservative 
risk profile based on our core philosophy 
of maintaining balance sheet, liquidity and 
capital strength by reducing exposure to 
the most likely areas of stress: 
– we managed selectively our exposures to 
sovereign debt and bank counterparties 
to ensure that the overall quality of the 
portfolio remained strong;  
– we regularly assessed higher risk 
countries and sectors and adjusted our 
risk appetite, limits and exposures 
accordingly; 
– we use stress testing, both internal and 
regulatory programmes, to assess 
vulnerabilities and proactively adjust our 
portfolios, where required; 
– we continued to reposition and exit 
certain portfolios through our six filters 
process (see page 12) and our focus on 
certain products or customer segments;  
– we made our client selection filters more 
robust in managing the risk of financial 
crime; and 
– we mitigated risks, for example 
reputational and operational, when they 
were forecast to exceed our risk appetite.  
The diversification of our lending portfolio 
across global businesses and geographical 
regions, together with our broad range of 
products, ensured that we were not overly 
dependent on a limited number of countries 
or markets to generate income and growth. 
We monitored a range of key risk metrics in 
2014 as part of our risk appetite process, 
supported by a limit and control framework.  
Risk appetite is discussed on page 25. 
Our approach to stress testing is discussed on 
page 117 and regulatory stress testing programmes 
on page 125. 
Risks incurred in our business 
activities 
Our principal banking risks are credit risk, 
liquidity and funding risks, market risk, 
operational risk, compliance risk, fiduciary 
risk, reputational risk, pension risk and 
sustainability risk. We also incur insurance 
risk. 
The chart overleaf provides a high level guide 
to how our business activities are reflected in 
our risk measures and in the Group’s balance 
sheet. The third-party assets and liabilities 
indicate the contribution each business 
makes to the balance sheet, while RWAs 
illustrate the relative size of the risks incurred 
in respect of each business. 
For a description of our principal risks, see 
page 114. 
   Business model (continued) 
Risk overview 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
22 
Exposure to risks arising from the business activities of global businesses 
 
For footnote, see page 39.  
For further information on credit risk, see page 127; capital and risk-weighted assets, see page 238; market risk, including value at risk, see page 175; and 
operational risk see page 186. 
Top and emerging risks 
Identifying and monitoring top and emerging 
risks are integral to our approach to risk 
management.  
We define a ‘top risk’ as being a current, 
emerged risk which has arisen across any 
of our risk categories, global businesses 
or regions and has the potential to have a 
material impact on our financial results or 
our reputation and the sustainability of our 
long-term business model, and which may 
form and crystallise within a one-year time 
horizon. We consider an ‘emerging risk’ to be 
one with potentially significant but uncertain 
outcomes which may form and crystallise 
beyond a year, in the event of which it could 
have a material effect on our ability to 
achieve our long-term strategy. 
Our top and emerging risk framework 
enables us to identify and manage current 
and forward-looking risks to ensure our risk 
appetite remains appropriate. The ongoing 
assessment of our top and emerging risks is 
informed by a comprehensive suite of risk 
factors which may result in our risk appetite 
being revised. 
During 2014, senior management paid 
particular attention to a number of top 
and emerging risks. Our current ones are 
summarised overleaf. 
We made a number of changes to our top 
and emerging risks during 2014 to reflect 
our assessment of their effect on HSBC. 
‘Macroeconomic risks arising from an 
emerging market slowdown’ was replaced 
by ‘Economic outlook and government 
intervention’ as developed economies 
demonstrated signs of stress in the second 
half of 2014. ‘Third party risk management’ 
was identified as an emerging risk due to the 
risks associated with the use of third-party 
service providers, which may be less 
transparent and more challenging to manage 
or influence. While ‘People risk’ is inherent 
within a number of our top and emerging 
risks, it has now been disclosed as a 
standalone risk, as the risks in this area 
continue to heighten. 
When the top and emerging risks listed 
below resulted in our risk appetite being 
exceeded, or had the potential to exceed our 
risk appetite, we took steps to mitigate them, 
including reducing our exposure to areas of 
stress. Given the impact on the Group of 
breaching the US Deferred Prosecution 
Agreement (‘US DPA’), significant senior 
management attention was given to tracking 
and monitoring our compliance with its 
requirements and improving policies, 
processes and controls to help minimise 
the risk of a breach. 
For a detailed account of these risks see page 118 
and for a summary of our risk factors, see 
page 113.   
RBWM CMB GB&M GPB
HSBC
− HSBC holding 
company and
central operations
− Deposits
− Accounts services
− Credit and lending
− Asset management
− Wealth solutions and
financial planning
− Broking
− Insurance 
(distribution; life 
manufacturing)
− Deposits
− Payments and cash 
management
− Credit and lending
− International trade 
and receivables 
finance
− Commercial 
insurance and 
investments
− Deposits
− Payments and cash
management
− Balance sheet
management
− Credit and lending
− Asset and trade
finance
− Corporate finance
− Markets
− Securities services
− Deposits
− Account services
− Credit and lending
− Investment 
management
− Financial advisory
− Broking
− Corporate finance 
(via GB&M)
− Alternative 
investments
− Trusts and estate
planning
Global   
business   
Business   
activities   
Risk   
profile   
Balance   
sheet 
12
Liquidity and funding risk (page 163), Pension risk (page 200), Fiduciary risk (page 200), Reputational risk (page 199),
Compliance risk (page 189), Sustainability risk (page 201) and Insurance risk (page 190). The latter is predominantly in RBWM and CMB.
Other
(including Holding Company)
RWAs   
US$bn
−Assets 373
− Customer 
accounts 364
US$bn
−Assets 1,840
− Customer 
accounts 319
US$bn
−Assets 88
− Customer 
accounts 85
US$bn
−Assets 165
− Customer 
accounts 1
US$bn
−Assets 499
− Customer 
accounts 581
US$bn
− Credit risk 168
− Operational risk 37
US$bn
− Credit risk 399
− Operational risk 33
US$bn
− Credit risk 326
− Counterparty
credit risk 90
− Operational risk 44
− Market risk 56
US$bn
− Credit risk 17
− Operational risk 4
US$bn
− Credit risk 45
− Operational risk –  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
23 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Top and emerging risks – 
/ 
 
 
Risk  Description  Mitigants 
Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk 
 
Economic outlook and government 
intervention  
 Weak economic growth in both developed and 
emerging market countries could adversely affect 
global trade and capital flows and our profits from 
operations in those countries. 
 We closely monitor economic developments in 
key markets and appropriate action is taken as 
circumstances evolve. 
 
Increased geopolitical risk  Our operations are exposed to risks arising from 
political instability and civil unrest in a number of 
countries, which may have a wider effect on 
regional stability and regional and global 
economies. 
 We monitor the geopolitical and economic 
outlook, particularly in countries where we have 
material exposures and/or a physical presence. 
Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our business model 
 
Regulatory developments affecting our 
business model and Group profitability 
 Governments and regulators continue to develop 
policies which may impose new requirements, 
particularly in the areas of capital and liquidity 
management and business structure. 
 We engage closely with governments and 
regulators in the countries in which we operate 
to help ensure that the new requirements are 
considered properly. 
 
Regulatory investigations, fines, 
sanctions, commitments and consent 
orders and requirements relating to 
conduct of business and financial crime 
negatively affecting our results and brand 
 Financial service providers are at risk of regulatory 
sanctions or fines related to conduct of business 
and financial crime.  
Breach of the US DPA may allow the US 
authorities to prosecute HSBC with respect to 
matters covered thereunder. 
 Programmes to enhance the management of 
conduct are progressing in all global businesses 
and functions. 
We continue to take steps to address the 
requirements of the US DPA and other consent 
orders in consultation with the relevant regulatory 
agencies. 
 
Dispute risk  HSBC is party to legal proceedings arising out of its 
normal business operations which could give rise 
to potential financial loss and significant 
reputational damage. 
 We identify and monitor emerging regulatory and 
judicial trends. 
We are enhancing our financial crime and 
regulatory compliance controls and resources. 
Risks related to our business operations, governance and internal control systems 
 
Heightened execution risk  The complexity of projects to meet regulatory 
demands and risks arising from business and 
portfolio disposals may affect our ability to 
execute our strategy. 
 We have strengthened our prioritisation and 
governance processes for significant projects. 
 
People risk  Significant demands are being placed on the 
human capital of the Group due to the extent of 
the regulatory reform agenda. 
 We have reviewed our remuneration policy to 
ensure we can remain competitive and retain our 
key talent and continue to increase the level of 
specialist resources in key areas. 
 
Third-party risk management  Risks arising from the use of third-party service 
providers may be less transparent and more 
challenging to manage or influence. 
 We are strengthening our risk management 
processes and procedures in relation to the use 
and monitoring of third-party service providers. 
 
Internet crime and fraud  HSBC is increasingly exposed to fraudulent and 
criminal activities as a result of increased usage of 
internet and mobile channels. 
 We continually assess these threats as they evolve 
and adapt our controls and defences to mitigate 
them. 
 
Information security risk  HSBC and other multinational organisations 
continue to be the targets of cyber attacks. 
 We have invested significantly in staff training and 
enhanced multi-layered controls to protect our 
information and technical infrastructure. 
 
Data management  New regulatory requirements necessitate more 
frequent and granular data submissions, which 
must be produced on a consistent, accurate and 
timely basis. 
 Our Data Strategy Board is driving consistent data 
aggregation, reporting and management across 
the Group. 
 
Model risk  Adverse consequences could result from decisions 
based on incorrect model outputs or from models 
that are poorly developed, implemented or used.  
 Model development, usage and validation are 
subject to governance and independent review. 
 
T E
E
E
T
T
T
T
T
E
T
T
T
T Business model (continued) 
Risk overview 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
24 
How we manage risk  
Managing risk effectively is fundamental 
to the delivery of our strategic priorities.  
Our enterprise-wide risk management 
framework fosters the continuous 
monitoring of the risk environment and 
an integrated evaluation of risks and their 
interactions. It also ensures that we have 
a robust and consistent approach to risk 
management at all levels of the organisation 
and across all risk types. 
This framework is underpinned by a strong 
risk culture, which is instrumental in aligning 
the behaviours of individuals with the 
Group’s attitude to assuming and managing 
risk and ensuring that our risk profile remains 
in line with our risk appetite and strategy. It is 
reinforced by the HSBC Values and our Global 
Standards. 
Our approach to managing risk is 
summarised below. 
 
Driving our risk culture 
 
 
  
Risk Management Framework
Approves risk appetite, plans and performance targets (page 270). Role of HSBC Board
Formulate and implement strategy within risk appetite.
Responsible for risk governance and controls.
Role of senior management
Risks arising from our business activities that are measured, 
monitored and managed (page 114).
Principal banking and insurance risks
Our risk governance framework ensures appropriate oversight of and 
accountability for management of risk (page 204).
Our risk culture empowers our people to do the right thing for our 
customers, reinforced by our approach to remuneration (page 34).
Our ‘Three lines of defence’ model defines roles and responsibilities 
for risk management (page 186).
An independent Risk function ensures the necessary balance in 
risk/return decisions (page 204).
Risk governance framework Three lines of defence model
Independent Risk function People
Describes the risks we are prepared to accept based on our long-term 
strategy, core risk principles, HSBC Values and risk management 
competencies (page 205).
Risk appetite
Processes to identify, monitor and mitigate risks that exceed our 
risk appetite (page 117).
Top and
emerging risks
Risk map Stress testing
Risk management processes and procedures
GRC advises on risk appetite, risk governance and other high-level risk 
related matters (page 280).
FSVC advises on financial crime and financial systems abuse (page 282).
CVC advises on polices and procedures to ensure we adhere to HSBC 
Values (page 286).
Other sub-committees of the Board are described on page 276.
Group Risk 
Committee
(‘GRC’)
Financial System
Vulnerabilities Committee 
(‘FSVC’)
Conduct & Values 
Committee 
(‘CVC’)
Role of Board Committees
Controls Process
Underpinned by HSBC Values  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
25 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Risk appetite 
The Group’s risk appetite statement (‘RAS’) is 
a key component in the management of risk. 
It describes the types and quantum of risks 
that we are willing to accept in achieving our 
medium and long-term strategic objectives. 
The RAS is approved by the Board on the 
advice of the Group Risk Committee.  
Our risk appetite is established and 
monitored via the Group risk appetite 
framework, which provides a globally 
consistent and structured approach to the 
management, measurement and control 
of risk in accordance with our core risk 
principles. The framework outlines the 
processes, policies, metrics and governance 
bodies and how to address risk appetite 
as part of day-to-day business and risk 
management activities. 
The RAS guides the annual planning process 
by defining the desired forward-looking risk 
profile of the Group in achieving our strategic 
objectives and plays an important role in our 
six filters process. Our risk appetite may be 
revised in response to our assessment of the 
top and emerging risks we have identified. 
Quantitative and qualitative metrics are 
assigned to a number of key categories 
including returns, capital, liquidity and 
funding, securitisations, cost of risk and 
intra-Group lending, risk categories such 
as credit, market and operational risk, 
risk diversification and concentration, and 
financial crime compliance. These measures 
are reviewed annually for continued 
relevance. 
Measurement against the metrics: 
– guides underlying business activity, 
ensuring it is aligned to risk appetite 
statements; 
– enables the key underlying assumptions 
to be monitored and, where necessary, 
adjusted through subsequent business 
planning cycles;  
– allows the business decisions needed to 
mitigate risk to be promptly identified; and 
– informs risk-adjusted remuneration. 
Risk appetite is embedded in day-to-day risk 
management decisions through the use of 
risk tolerances and limits for material risk 
types. This ensures that our risk profile 
remains aligned with our risk appetite, 
balancing risk and returns.  
Global businesses and geographical regions 
are required to align their risk appetite 
statements with the Group’s. 
Some of the core metrics that were 
measured, monitored and presented 
monthly to the Risk Management Meeting of 
the GMB during 2014 are tabulated below: 
Key risk appetite metrics 
2014
target actual
Common equity 
tier 1 ratio
1
 ≥ 10%  11.1%
Return on equity Trending
upwards to
12-15%
by 2016 7.3%
RoRWA
13
 2.2-2.6% 1.5%
Cost efficiency ratio Mid-50s 67.3% 
Advances to customer 
accounts ratio Below 90%  72.2%
Cost of risk 
(loan impairment 
charges) 
Below 15%
of operating 
income 5.4%
For footnotes, see page 39. 
In the early part of 2014, we undertook our 
annual review of our risk appetite statement. 
It was approved by the Risk Managament 
Meeting of the GMB in January 2014 and the 
HSBC Holdings Board in February 2014. The 
core aspects of the RAS were incorporated 
into the 2014 scorecards for the Executive 
Directors, as set out on page 405 of the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013. 
We also strengthened the Group’s RAS in 
2014 by incorporating into it measures 
related to the core financial crime 
compliance principles of deterrence, 
detection and protection. 
Targets for 2015 are discussed on page 32. 
For details of requirements under CRD IV, see 
page 239. 
How risk affects our performance 
The management of risk is an integral part of 
all our activities. Risk measures our exposure 
to uncertainty and the consequent variability 
of return. 
Credit metrics in our retail portfolio benefited 
from the continued sale of non-strategic 
portfolios, an improved economic 
environment across many markets and 
growth in Asia and in the core business 
in the US, while our wholesale portfolios 
remained broadly stable with an overall 
favourable change in key impairment 
metrics. Loan impairment charges fell 
for reasons outlined on page 29. 
Operational losses rose, driven by UK 
customer redress programme charges and 
settlements relating to legal and regulatory 
matters. There are many factors which could 
affect estimated liabilities with respect to 
legal and regulatory matters and there 
remains a high degree of uncertainty as to 
the eventual cost of fines, penalties and 
redress for these matters. 
HSBC is party to legal proceedings, 
investigations and regulatory matters in a 
number of jurisdictions arising out of our 
normal business operations. Our provisions 
for legal proceedings and regulatory 
matters and for customer remediation 
at 31 December 2014 totalled US$4.0bn. 
The reported results of HSBC reflect the 
choice of accounting policies, assumptions 
and estimates that underlie the preparation 
of our consolidated financial statements and 
reflect our assessment of the financial impact 
of risks affecting the Group.  
For a description of material legal proceedings and 
regulatory matters, see Note 40 on the Financial 
Statements on page 446. 
Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory 
matters and for customer remediation are disclosed 
in Note 29 on the Financial Statements on 
page 420. 
For details of operational losses, see page 188. 
For details of our critical accounting estimates and 
judgements, see page 62.  Strategic priorities  
Grow the business/Implement Global Standards 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
26 
Strategic priorities 
We previously defined three 
interconnected and equally 
weighted priorities for 2014 
to 2016 to help us deliver our 
strategy: 
− grow the business and dividends; 
− implement Global Standards; and 
− streamline processes and 
procedures. 
Each priority is complementary and 
underpinned by initiatives within our day-
to-day business. Together, they create 
value for our customers and shareholders 
and contribute to the long-term 
sustainability of HSBC. 
In the process, we shall maintain a robust, 
resilient and environmentally sustainable 
business in which our customers can have 
confidence, our employees can take pride 
and our communities can trust. 
Grow the business 
and dividends 
In growing the business and 
dividends, our targets are to 
grow risk-weighted assets in line 
with our organic investment 
criteria, progressively grow 
dividends, while reducing the 
effect of legacy and non-strategic 
activities on our profit and RWAs. 
Our strategy is to take advantage of the 
continuing growth of international trade 
and capital flows, and wealth creation, 
particularly in Asia, the Middle East and 
Latin America. We aim to achieve growth 
by leveraging our international network 
and client franchise to improve HSBC’s 
market position in products aligned to 
our strategy. 
To facilitate this growth, we recycle RWAs 
from low into high performing businesses 
within our risk appetite. 
In 2014, we launched a number of 
investment priorities to capitalise on our 
global network and accelerate organic 
growth: 
− Global Trade and Receivables Finance: 
We are investing in our sales and 
product capabilities, particularly for high 
growth products and trade corridors, 
and expanding in trade hubs as a means 
of reinforcing HSBC’s leading position 
in trade. 
− Payments and Cash Management: 
We aim to deliver improved client 
coverage and products via investments 
in better sales coverage and customer 
proposition and mobile enhancements. 
− Foreign Exchange: We aim to improve 
our services to clients and efficiency 
by improving our electronic trading 
platforms and capabilities. 
− Renminbi: Building on our market-
leading position, we are investing to roll 
out our renminbi servicing capabilities 
internationally, with the aim of 
capturing a larger share of offshore 
renminbi foreign exchange and capital 
markets opportunities. 
Industry awards and market share gains 
have validated our strategy. Our market 
shares in core international connectivity 
products such as Payments and Cash 
Management, Global Trade and 
Receivables Finance and Foreign Exchange 
have all improved consistently over the 
past three years. For three consecutive 
years, including 2014, HSBC has been 
voted the top global cash manager for 
corporate and financial institutions in the 
Euromoney Cash Management survey. 
In the same survey, HSBC was voted best 
global cash manager for non-financial 
institutions for a second consecutive year 
in 2014. We have also been voted the 
‘Best Overall for Products and Services’ 
by Asiamoney in its Offshore Renminbi 
Services survey every year since the 
survey’s inception in 2012. 
We aim to continue investing in key growth 
markets and align global resources to city 
clusters with fast-growing international 
revenue pools: 
− UK and Hong Kong as our home 
markets: Our goal is to strengthen and 
develop our home market position in 
key products, such as mortgages and 
personal lending. 
− China: Mainland China continues to be 
of strategic significance for HSBC and 
presents a structural long-term growth 
opportunity. We therefore continue to 
invest in organic growth, particularly 
in Guangdong and other economically 
important regions. We strive to invest 
and be the first to capture opportunities 
that may arise from regulatory changes 
such as the introduction of the Shanghai 
Free-Trade Zone. 
− US and Germany: We continue to 
improve our position in the world’s 
largest economy and in Europe’s leading 
trade nation through the expansion of 
our corporate franchise. In 2014, we 
broadened our customer base by 
enhancing our products, widening our 
geographical coverage and adjusting our 
risk appetite. International revenues 
increased through deeper relationships 
with customers and developing cross-
business opportunities. 
Our universal banking model enables 
us to generate revenues across global 
businesses. In 2014, cross-business 
collaboration revenues grew in all of our 
identified opportunities, except for Markets 
revenue from CMB customers primarily 
due to lower foreign exchange volatility. 
Approximately half of the total collaboration 
revenues for the year came from Markets 
and Capital Financing products provided to 
CMB customers. In GPB, net new money 
resulting from cross-business client 
referrals doubled from 2013. 
Implement Global 
Standards 
At HSBC, we are adopting 
the highest or most effective 
financial crime controls and 
deploying them everywhere 
we operate. 
Two new global policies set out these 
controls for anti-money laundering (‘AML’) 
and sanctions. They are our Global 
Standards. 
In line with our ambition to be recognised 
as the world’s leading international bank, 
we aspire to set the industry standard for 
knowing our customers and detecting, 
deterring and protecting against financial 
crime. Delivering on this means introducing 
a more consistent, comprehensive approach 
to managing financial crime risk – from 
understanding more about our customers, 
what they do and where and why they 
do it, to ensuring their banking activity 
matches what we would expect it to be. 
We aim to apply our financial crime risk 
standards throughout the lifetime of our 
customer relationships: from selecting and 
onboarding customers to managing our 
ongoing relationships and monitoring and 
assessing the changing risk landscape in 
the bank.  
Our new global AML policy is designed to 
stop criminals laundering money through 
HSBC. It sets out global requirements for 
carrying out customer due diligence, 
monitoring transactions and escalating 
concerns about suspicious activity.    
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
27 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Our new global sanctions policy aims 
to ensure that we comply with local 
sanctions-related laws and regulations 
in countries where we operate, as well 
as with global sanctions imposed by the 
UN Security Council, European Union, US, 
UK and Hong Kong governments.  
In many cases, our policy extends beyond 
what we are legally required to do, 
reflecting the fact that HSBC has no 
appetite for business with illicit actors.  
We expect our Global Standards to 
underpin our business practices now and 
in the future, and to provide a source of 
competitive advantage. Global Standards 
are expected to allow us to: 
– strengthen our response to the ongoing 
threat of financial crime; 
– make consistent – and therefore 
simplify – the ways by which we monitor 
and enforce high standards at HSBC; 
– strengthen policies and processes that 
govern how we do business and with 
whom; and 
– ensure that we consistently apply our 
HSBC Values. 
Implementing Global Standards  
Each global business and Financial Crime 
Compliance have identified where and how 
they need to enhance existing procedures 
to meet the Global Standards. They are 
now in the process of deploying the 
systems, processes, training and support 
to put the enhanced procedures into 
practice in each country of operation. 
This is being done in two stages: 
– delivering policy components with 
limited infrastructure dependency 
according to an accelerated timeline; 
and 
– implementing, in parallel, long-term 
strategic control enhancements and 
associated enhancements to 
infrastructure. 
During 2014, we made material progress 
in a number of areas, including: 
– global implementation of customer 
selection policies and governance; 
– first deployment of enhanced customer 
due diligence procedures for gathering 
and verifying customer information; 
– integration of global sanctions screening 
lists into our customer and transaction 
screening tools; 
– targeted training for the highest risk 
roles and all-employee campaigns to 
raise awareness of financial crime risk 
and encourage escalation; 
– global roll out of financial intelligence 
and investigations units to follow up 
on escalations and alerts, and identify 
emerging trends and issues; and 
– the establishment of global procedures 
and governance to exit business that is 
outside our financial crime risk appetite. 
Governance framework 
The global businesses and Financial 
Crime Compliance, supported by HSBC 
Technology and Services, are formally 
accountable for delivering business 
procedures, controls and the associated 
operating environment to implement our 
new policies within each global business 
and jurisdiction. This accountability is 
overseen by the Global Standards 
Execution Committee, which is under 
the chairmanship of the Group Chief Risk 
Officer and consists of the Chief Executive 
Officers of each global business and the 
Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance. 
Correspondingly, and to promote closer 
integration with business as usual, a report 
on the implementation of Global Standards 
is a standing item at the Group’s Risk 
Management Meeting. The Financial 
System Vulnerabilities Committee and 
the Board continue to receive regular 
reports on the Global Standards 
programme as part of their continued 
role in providing oversight.  
Risk appetite  
Financial crime risk controls are a part 
of our everyday business and they are 
governed according to our global financial 
crime risk appetite statement. This aims 
to ensure sustainability in the long term. 
Our overarching appetite and approach 
to financial crime risk is that we will not 
tolerate operating without the systems 
and controls in place designed to detect 
and prevent financial crime and will not 
conduct business with individuals or 
entities we believe are engaged in illicit 
behaviour. 
Enterprise-wide risk assessment 
We have conducted our second annual 
enterprise-wide assessment of our risks 
and controls related to sanctions and 
AML compliance. The outcome of this 
assessment has formed the basis for risk 
management planning, prioritisation and 
resource allocation for 2015. 
The Monitor 
Under the agreements entered into with 
the US Department of Justice (‘DoJ’), the 
UK FCA (formerly the Financial Services 
Authority (‘FSA’)) and the US Federal 
Reserve Board (‘FRB’) in 2012, including the 
five-year Deferred Prosecution Agreement 
(‘US DPA’), an independent compliance 
monitor (‘the Monitor’) was appointed to 
evaluate our progress in fully implementing 
our obligations and produce regular 
assessments of the effectiveness of our 
Compliance function. 
Michael Cherkasky began his work as 
the Monitor in July 2013, charged with 
evaluating and reporting upon the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
controls, policies and procedures as 
they relate to ongoing compliance with 
applicable AML, sanctions, terrorist 
financing and proliferation financing 
obligations, over a five-year period. 
HSBC is continuing to take concerted action 
to remedy AML and sanctions compliance 
deficiencies and to implement Global 
Standards. HSBC is also working to 
implement the agreed recommendations 
flowing from the Monitor’s 2013 review. 
We recognise we are only part way through 
a journey, being two years into our five-year 
US DPA. We look forward to maintaining a 
strong, collaborative relationship with the 
Monitor and his team. 
   Strategic priorities/Outcomes 
Streamline processes/Financial performance  
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
28 
Streamline 
processes and 
procedures 
We continue to refine our 
operational processes, develop 
our global functions, implement 
consistent business models and 
streamline IT.  
Since 2011, we have changed how HSBC is 
managed by introducing a leaner reporting 
structure and establishing an operating 
model with global businesses and 
functions. These changes – together with 
improvements in software development 
productivity, process optimisation and our 
property portfolio – realised US$5.7bn in 
sustainable savings, equivalent to US$6.1bn 
on an annualised (run rate) basis. This 
exceeded our commitment to deliver 
US$2.5–3.5bn of sustainable savings at the 
outset of the organisational effectiveness 
programme included in the first phase of 
our strategy.  
Sustainable savings arise from the 
reduction or elimination of complexity, 
inefficiencies or unnecessary activities, and 
release capital that can be reinvested in 
growing our business as well as increase 
returns to shareholders. 
The reorganisation of the Group into 
four global businesses and eleven global 
functions further allows us to run 
globally consistent operating models. 
This establishes the foundation for our 
next stage of streamlining.  
Going forward, we aim to fund investments 
into growth and compliance and offset 
inflation through efficiency gains. This 
requires net cost reductions. This 
programme will be applied to: 
– improving the end-to-end optimisation 
of processes and servicing channels; 
– technology simplification, reducing the 
number of applications used across the 
Group; and 
– enhancing infrastructure, including 
optimising our real estate utilisation and 
the location where certain activities are 
carried out.  
Streamlining is expected to be achieved 
through a combination of simplifying 
and globalising our processes, products, 
systems and operations. ‘Simplifying’ 
involves identifying inefficiencies or 
excessive complexity and redesigning or 
rationalising processes to make them 
easier to understand and manage and 
more efficient. ‘Globalising’ involves 
developing standard global processes and 
implementing them around the Group. 
Cost efficiency ratio 
Our cost efficiency ratio for 2014 was 
67.3%, up from 59.6% in 2013. This change 
was driven by higher legal, regulatory and 
conduct settlement costs; inflationary 
pressures; continued investment in 
strategic initiatives; and a rise in the bank 
levy. Cost increases were partly offset by 
realised sustainable savings of US$1.3bn. 
 
Outcomes 
Financial 
performance 
Performance reflected lower 
gains on disposals and the 
negative effect of other 
significant items. 
Reported results 
  
2014 
US$m  
2013
US$m
2012
US$m
Net interest income   34,705   35,539 37,672
Net fee income   15,957   16,434 16,430
Other income  
10,586  
 
12,672 14,228
Net operating 
income
14
  61,248   64,645 68,330
LICs
15
  
(3,851) 
 
(5,849) (8,311)
Net operating 
income  57,397   58,796 60,019
Total operating 
expenses  
(41,249) 
 
(38,556) (42,927)
Operating profit   16,148   20,240 17,092
Income from 
associates
16
  
2,532  
 
2,325 3,557
Profit before tax   
18,680  
 
22,565 20,649
For footnotes, see page 39. 
Profit before tax of US$18.7bn on a reported 
basis was US$3.9bn or 17% lower than that 
achieved in 2013. This primarily reflected 
lower business disposal and reclassification 
gains and the negative effect, on both 
revenue and costs, of other significant items 
including fines, settlements, UK customer 
redress and associated provisions. 
Reported net operating income before loan 
impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions (‘revenue’) of US$61bn was 
US$3.4bn or 5% lower than in 2013. In 2014 
there were lower gains (net of losses) from 
disposals and reclassifications (2013 
included a US$1.1bn accounting gain arising 
from the reclassification of Industrial Bank 
Co. Limited (‘Industrial Bank’) as a financial 
investment following its issue of additional 
share capital to third parties, and a US$1.1bn 
gain on the sale of our operations in 
Panama). In addition, other significant items 
included adverse fair value movements 
on non-qualifying hedges of US$0.5bn 
compared with favourable movements of 
US$0.5bn in 2013, a US$0.6bn provision 
arising from the ongoing review of 
compliance with the Consumer Credit Act in 
the UK as well as a net adverse movement 
on debit valuation adjustments on derivative 
contracts of US$0.4bn. These factors were 
partially offset by favourable fair value   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
29 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
movements of US$0.4bn on our own debt 
designated at fair value, which resulted from 
changes in credit spreads, compared with 
adverse movements of US$1.2bn in 2013 
together with a US$0.4bn gain on the sale 
of our shareholding in Bank of Shanghai in 
2014.  
Loan impairment charges and other credit 
risk provisions (‘LICs’) of US$3.9bn were 
US$2.0bn or 34% lower than in 2013, 
notably in North America, Europe and 
Latin America. 
Operating expenses of US$41bn were 
US$2.7bn or 7% higher than in 2013, 
primarily as a result of significant items 
which were US$0.9bn higher than in 2013. 
These included settlements and provisions 
in connection with foreign exchange 
investigations of US$1.2bn and a charge of 
US$0.6bn in the US relating to a settlement 
agreement with the Federal Housing Finance 
Agency. 
Income from associates of US$2.5bn 
was US$0.2bn or 9% higher than 2013, 
primarily reflecting the non-recurrence of 
an impairment charge of US$106m on the 
investment in our banking associate in 
Vietnam in 2013. 
The Board approved a 5% increase in the 
fourth interim dividend in respect of 2014 
to US$0.20 per share, US$0.01 higher than 
the fourth interim dividend in respect of 
2013. Total dividends in respect of 2014 
were US$9.6bn (US$0.50 per share), 
US$0.4bn higher than in 2013. 
The transitional CET1 ratio of 10.9% was 
up from 10.8% at the end of 2013 and our 
end point basis of 11.1% was up from 10.9% 
at the end of 2013, as a result of continued 
capital generation and management actions 
offset by RWA growth, foreign exchange 
movements and regulatory changes. 
Adjusted performance 
For further information on non-GAAP financial 
measures, see page 40 for adjusted and 
www.hsbc.com for return on tangible equity. 
From reported results to adjusted performance 
To arrive at adjusted performance: 
– we adjust for the year-on-year effects of 
foreign currency translation; and 
– we adjust for the effect of significant items. 
Reconciliations of our reported results to an 
adjusted basis are set out on page 44. 
On an adjusted basis, profit before tax 
of US$23bn was broadly unchanged 
compared with 2013. Lower LICs, notably 
in North America, Europe and Latin 
America, together with a marginal rise 
in revenue was largely offset by higher 
operating expenses. 
The following commentary is on an 
adjusted basis. 
Revenue was broadly unchanged. 
Growth in CMB, notably in our home 
markets of Hong Kong and the UK, 
was offset by decreased revenue in 
RBWM, GB&M and GPB 
Revenue rose by US$0.1bn to US$62bn. 
Revenue increased in CMB following growth 
in average lending and deposit balances in 
Hong Kong, together with rising average 
deposit balances and wider lending spreads 
in the UK. Revenue also benefited from 
higher term lending fees in the UK.  
These factors were mostly offset by lower 
revenue in RBWM, GB&M and GPB. In 
RBWM, it was primarily driven by the run-off 
of our US Consumer and Mortgage Lending 
(‘CML’) portfolio with revenue in Principal 
RBWM broadly unchanged. In GB&M, 
revenue was lower due to the introduction of 
the funding fair value adjustment (‘FFVA’) on 
certain derivative contracts which resulted 
in a charge of US$263m, together with a 
decrease from our Foreign Exchange 
business, partly offset by an increase in 
Capital Financing. In GPB, revenue was down 
reflecting a managed reduction in client 
assets as we continued to reposition the 
business, and reduced market volatility. 
LICs fell in the majority of our regions, 
notably in North America, Europe and 
Latin America 
LICs were US$1.8bn or 31% lower than 
in 2013, primarily in North America and 
mainly in RBWM, reflecting reduced levels 
of delinquency and new impaired loans in 
the CML portfolio, together with decreased 
lending balances from the continued 
portfolio run-off and loan sales. LICs were 
also lower in Europe, mainly reflecting a fall 
in individually assessed charges in the UK in 
CMB and GB&M, and higher net releases of 
credit risk provisions on available-for-sale 
asset-backed securities (‘ABS’s) in GB&M in 
the UK. LICs were lower in Latin America too, 
primarily in Mexico and, to a lesser extent, in 
Brazil. In Mexico, the decrease in LICs mainly 
reflected lower individually assessed charges 
in CMB, while in Brazil LICs were lower in 
both RBWM and CMB, partly offset by an 
increase in GB&M. 
  
Adjusted profit before tax 
(US$bn) 
Reported profit attributable to ordinary 
shareholders 
(US$m) 
Reported earnings per share 
(US$) 
Return on tangible equity 
(%)
22.6
18.7
0.4 23.0 4.1 22.8
2013 2014
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted profit
13,454
15,631
13,115
2012 2013 2014
0.74
0.84
0.69
2012 2013 2014
9.8
11.0
8.5
2012 2013 2014 Outcomes (continued) 
Financial performance 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
30 
Operating expenses were higher, 
in part reflecting increases in 
Regulatory Programmes and 
Compliance costs and inflation, 
partly offset by further sustainable 
cost savings 
Operating expenses were US$38bn, 
US2.2bn or 6% higher than in 2013. 
Regulatory Programmes and Compliance 
costs increased as a result of continued 
focus on Global Standards and the broader 
regulatory reform programme being 
implemented by the industry to build the 
necessary infrastructure to meet today’s 
enhanced compliance standards. 
Operating expenses also increased due 
to inflationary pressures, including wage 
inflation, primarily in Asia and Latin 
America, and an increase in the UK bank 
levy charge compared with 2013. We 
continued to invest in strategic initiatives 
in support of organically growing our 
business, primarily in CMB. We also 
increased expenditure on marketing and 
advertising to support revenue generating 
initiatives, primarily in RBWM. 
These factors were partially offset by 
further sustainable cost savings in the year 
of US$1.3bn, primarily by re-engineering 
certain of our back office processes.  
The number of employees expressed in full-
time equivalent numbers (‘FTE’s) at the end 
of 2014 increased by 3,500 or 1%. The 
average number of FTEs was broadly 
unchanged as reductions through 
sustainable savings programmes were 
offset by the initiatives related to the 
Regulatory Programmes and Compliance 
and business growth. 
Income from associates rose, mainly 
in Asia and the Middle East and 
North Africa 
Income from associates increased, 
primarily reflecting higher contributions 
from Bank of Communications Co, Limited 
(‘BoCom’) and The Saudi British Bank, 
principally reflecting balance sheet growth. 
The effective tax rate was 21.3% compared 
with 21.1% in 2013. 
For more details of the Group’s financial 
performance, see page 46. 
Balance sheet strength 
Total reported assets were US$2.6 trillion, 
1% lower than at 31 December 2013. On a 
constant currency basis, total assets were 
US$85bn or 3% higher. Our balance sheet 
remained strong with a ratio of customer 
advances to customer accounts of 72%. 
This was a consequence of our business 
model and of our conservative risk 
appetite, which is based on funding the 
growth in customer loans with growth in 
customer accounts. 
On a constant currency basis, loans and 
advances grew by US$28bn and customer 
accounts increased by US$47bn.  
For further information on the Balance Sheet, 
see page 57, and on the Group’s liquidity and 
funding, see page 163. 
 
Total assets 
(US$bn)
Post-tax return on average total assets 
(%)
Loans and advances to customers
17
 
(US$bn)
 
Customer accounts
17
 
(US$bn)
 
Ratio of customer advances to customer 
deposits
17
 
(%)
 
For footnote, see page 39. 
2,693
2,671
2,634
2012 2013 2014
0.6
0.7
0.5
2012 2013 2014
963
992
975
2012 2013 2014
1,311
1,361
1,351
2012 2013 2014
73.4
72.9
72.2
2012 2013 2014  
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
31 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Capital strength 
Our approach to managing Group capital is 
designed to ensure that we exceed current 
regulatory requirements and are well placed 
to meet those expected in the future. 
We monitor capital adequacy, inter alia, by 
using capital ratios, which measure capital 
relative to a regulatory assessment of 
risks taken, and the leverage ratio, which 
measures capital relative to exposure. 
In June 2013, the European Commission 
published the final Regulation and Directive, 
known collectively as CRD IV, to give effect 
to the Basel III framework in the EU. This 
came into effect on 1 January 2014. 
Under the new regime, common equity 
tier 1 (‘CET1’) represents the highest form of 
eligible regulatory capital against which 
the capital strength of banks is measured. 
In 2014 we managed our capital position to 
meet an internal target ratio on a CET1 end 
point basis of greater than 10%. This has 
since been reviewed and, in 2015, we expect 
to manage Group capital to meet a medium-
term target for return on equity of more than 
10%. This is modelled on a CET1 ratio on an 
end point basis in the range of 12% to 13%. 
Leverage ratio 
The following table presents our estimated 
leverage ratio in accordance with PRA 
instructions. The numerator is calculated 
using the CRD IV end point tier 1 capital 
definition and the exposure measure is 
calculated using the EU delegated act 
published in January 2015 (which is based 
on the Basel III 2014 revised definition). 
Estimated leverage ratio 
2014
 US$bn 
At 31 December 
Tier 1 capital under CRD IV (end point) 142
Exposures after regulatory adjustment 2,953
Estimated leverage ratio (end point) 4.8%
For further details of the leverage ratio, see 
page 251. 
For further information on the Group’s capital 
and our risk-weighted assets, see page 239. 
 
Capital ratios and risk-weighted assets 
CRD IV
1
 
Common equity tier 1 ratio 
(transitional)  
Total capital ratio 
(transitional)  
Common equity tier 1 ratio 
(end point)  
Risk-weighted assets  
(‘RWA’s) 
(%)  (%)  (%)  (US$bn) 
 
  
 
 
       
Basel 2.5
1
    
Core tier 1 ratio  Total capital ratio  Risk-weighted assets    
(%)  (%)  (US$bn)   
 
  
 
  
For footnote, see page 39. 
10.8
10.9
2013 2014
14.9
15.6
2013 2014
10.9
11.1
2013 2014
1,215
1,220
2013 2014
12.3
13.6
2012 2013
16.1
17.8
2012 2013
1,124
1,093
2012 2013 Outcomes (continued) 
Financial performance  
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
32 
Meeting our targets 
We set financial targets against 
which we measure our performance. 
In 2011, we articulated our ambition to 
be the leading international bank and 
specified financial metrics against which we 
would measure performance through 2013. 
Targets were set under our understanding 
at the time of capital requirements and 
included a CET1 ratio of 9.5-10.5% under 
Basel III; return on equity (‘ROE’) of 12-
15%; and a cost efficiency ratio (‘CER’) 
of 48-52% supported by US$2.5-3.5bn in 
sustainable cost savings over three years. 
Over the period to 2013, we strengthened 
our capital position, realised US$4.9bn in 
sustainable savings and increased dividend 
pay-outs to shareholders in line with 
targets. 
In May 2013, we defined our strategic 
priorities for the period from 2014 to 2016 
and revisited the financial metrics used to 
track performance. We continued to target 
an ROE of 12-15% and added a further 
target of US$2-3bn in sustainable savings. 
To allow for investment in growth 
initiatives and to reflect the increasing 
requirements involved in operating as a 
global bank, we revised the CER target to 
the mid-50s, adding that revenues must 
grow faster than costs (‘positive jaws’). 
We defined a target CET1 ratio, on an 
end point basis, as greater than 10% and 
continued to seek progressive dividends 
for shareholders. We also set a cap on 
our loans to deposits ratio of 90%. 
During 2014, we achieved a CET1 ratio on 
an end point basis of 11.1% and declared 
US$9.6bn of total dividends in respect 
of the year. We realised incremental 
sustainable savings of US$1.3bn and 
maintained a loans-to-deposits ratio of 
72%. The ROE of 7.3% and the CER of 
67.3% fell short of our target. 
Changing regulatory and operating 
environment 
When we set our targets in 2011, we did so 
based on a CET1 ratio on an end point basis 
of greater than 10%. Whilst this factored in 
foreseeable capital requirements, it did not 
anticipate, and could not have anticipated, 
the full extent of capital commitments and 
additional costs asked of us in the years to 
come. These factors have included: 
• Progressively strengthening our capital 
levels in response to increasing capital 
requirements; 
• The stepped increase in costs due to the 
implementation of regulatory change 
and enhancing risk controls, notably 
around financial system integrity and 
conduct; 
• An increase in the bank levy;  
• The continuing low interest rate 
environment; and 
• The impact of significant items, notably 
the high level of fines, settlements, 
UK customer redress and associated 
provisions. 
As a consequence, we are setting new 
targets that better reflect the present 
and ongoing operating environment. 
From 2015, our return on equity target 
will therefore be replaced with a medium-
term target of more than 10%. This is 
modelled on a CET1 ratio on an end point 
basis in the range of 12% to 13%.  
At the same time, we are reaffirming our 
target of growing business revenues faster 
than operating expenses (on an adjusted 
basis). 
We also remain committed to delivering 
a progressive dividend. The progression 
of dividends will be consistent with the 
growth of the overall profitability of the 
Group and is predicated on our continued 
ability to meet regulatory capital 
requirements.  
We remain strongly capitalised, providing 
capacity for both organic growth and 
dividend return to shareholders. 
Brand value 
Maintenance of the HSBC brand 
and our overall reputation remains 
a priority for the Group. 
This is our fourth year of using the Brand 
Finance valuation method reported 
in The Banker magazine as our brand 
value benchmark. The Brand Finance 
methodology provides a comprehensive 
measure of the strength of the brand 
and its impact across all business lines 
and customer segments. It is wholly 
independent and is publicly reported. 
Our target is a top three position in the 
banking peer group and we have achieved 
this target with an overall value of US$27.3bn 
 
Pre-tax return on risk-weighted assets
13
 
(%) 
Dividend payout ratio 
(%) 
Brand value 
(US$bn) 
For footnote, see page 39. 
(up 2% from 2014), placing us third. We 
maintain an AAA rating for our brand in 
this year’s report. 
In addition to the Brand Finance measure, 
we have reviewed our performance in the 
Interbrand Annual Best Global Brands report, 
published in September 2014. This showed 
HSBC as the top ranked banking brand with 
a valuation of US$13.1bn (up from US$12bn 
in 2013) and in second place when all 
financial services brands are considered. 
  
1.8
2.0
1.5
2012 2013 2014
55.4
57.1
71.0
2012 2013 2014
22.9
26.9
27.3
Feb-2013 Feb-2014 Feb-2015
3rd
place
2nd
place
3rd
place  
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
33 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
We believe this performance is driven by an 
underlying strong brand equity established 
in recent years and a consistent and active 
programme of activities in support of the 
brand throughout 2014. 
Economic contribution 
By running a sustainable business, HSBC 
is able to make a valuable contribution to 
the economy by paying dividends to our 
shareholders, salaries to our employees, 
payments to suppliers, and tax revenues 
to governments in the countries and 
territories where we operate. We also 
finance companies so that they, in turn, 
can create employment. 
HSBC’s net tax paid
18
 
2014
US$bn 
2013
US$bn 
Tax on profits 3.6 4.7
Employer taxes 1.6 1.6
UK bank levy
19
1.0 0.7
Irrecoverable value-added 
tax 0.9 0.8 
Other duties and levies 0.8 0.8
Year ended 31 December 7.9 8.6
For footnotes, see page 39. 
Taxes collected for government
20
 
 
2014
US$bn 
2013
US$bn 
Region 
UK 1.7 1.5
Rest of Europe 1.1 1.3
Asia 2.0 1.5
North America 1.0 1.0
Latin America 3.3 3.5
91
Year ended 31 December 9.1 8.8
For footnote, see page 39. 
Distribution of economic benefits 
  
2014 
US$bn 
2013
US$bn 
2012
US$bn 
Net cash tax 
outflow 7.9 8.6 9.3
Distributions to 
shareholders 
and non-
controlling 
interests 10.6 10.2 8.7
Employee 
compensation  
and benefits   20.4 19.2 20.5
General 
administrative 
expenses 
including 
premises and 
procurement   18.6 17.1 20.0
Pro-forma post-tax profit allocation
21
 
  
2014
% 
2013
% 
Retained earnings/capital   32 53
Dividends 53 35
Variable pay   15 12
Year ended 31 December  100 100
For footnote, see page 39. 
 
Market capitalisation and total shareholder return 
   Closing market price 
US$0.50 ordinary shares  
in issue 
Market  
capitalisation  London Hong Kong 
American 
Depositary Share
22
 
19,218m US$182bn  £6.09 HK$74.0 US$47.23
2013: 18,830m 
2012: 18,476m 
2013: US$207bn 
2012: US$194bn  
2013: £6.62
2012: £6.47 
2013: HK$84.15
2012: HK$81.30 
2013: US$55.13
2012: US$53.07 
    
   Total shareholder return
23
 
   Over 1 year Over 3 years Over 5 years 
To 31 December 2014  
 97 144 109 
Benchmarks:    
– MSCI Banks
24
   100 160 132 
For footnotes, see page 39. 
  Outcomes (continued) 
Remuneration 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
34 
Remuneration 
Our remuneration strategy 
rewards commercial success 
and compliance with our risk 
management framework. 
The quality of our people and their 
commitment to the Group are fundamental 
to our success. We therefore aim to attract, 
retain and motivate the very best people 
who are committed to a long-term career 
with HSBC in the long-term interests of 
shareholders.  
Employee remuneration  
Our remuneration strategy is designed to 
reward competitively the achievement of 
long-term sustainable performance. HSBC’s 
reward package comprises four key elements 
of remuneration: 
– fixed pay; 
– benefits; 
– annual incentive; and 
– the Group Performance Share Plan 
(‘GPSP’). 
The governance of our remuneration 
principles and oversight of their 
implementation by the Group Remuneration 
Committee ensures what we pay our people 
is aligned to our business strategy and 
performance is judged not only on what is 
achieved over the short- and long-term but 
also, importantly, on how it is achieved, as 
we believe the latter contributes to the 
long-term sustainability of the business.  
Full details of our remuneration policy may be 
found under Remuneration Policy on our website 
(http://www.hsbc.com/investor-
relations/governance). 
Industry changes and key challenges 
New regulatory requirements such as the 
bonus cap have influenced how we pay 
our senior executives and those of our 
employees identified by the PRA as having 
a material impact on the institution’s risk 
profile, being what are termed ‘material 
risk takers’ (‘MRTs’). This year, a new 
requirement has been introduced for firms 
to ensure that clawback (i.e. a firm’s ability 
to recoup paid and/or vested awards) 
can be applied to all variable pay awards 
granted on or after 1 January 2015 for a 
period of at least seven years from the 
date of award. These requirements present 
challenges for HSBC in ensuring that the 
total compensation package for our 
employees in all of the markets in which 
we operate around the world remains 
competitive, in particular, relative to other 
banks not subject to these requirements.  
Looking ahead to 2015/2016, further 
significant regulatory changes to executive 
remuneration are expected and it is 
possible that we will need to make changes 
to our remuneration policy in 2016. The 
number and volume of changes that have 
been and are being proposed hinders our 
ability to communicate with any certainty 
to our current and potential employees the 
remuneration policies and structures that 
would apply to them. It also contributes to 
a general misunderstanding about how our 
policies work and the effect of those policies 
on employee performance. 
For full details of industry changes and key 
challenges, see page 300.  
Variable pay pool 
The total variable pay pool for 2014 was 
US$3.7bn, down from US$3.9bn in 2013: 
Group
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Variable pay pool
25
– total  3,660 3,920
– as a percentage of pre-tax 
profit (pre-variable pay) 16% 15%
– percentage of pool deferred 14% 18%
For footnote, see page 39. 
The Group Remuneration Committee 
considers many factors in determining 
HSBC’s variable pay pool, including the 
performance of the Group considered in 
the context of our risk appetite statement.  
This ensures that the variable pay pool is 
shaped by risk considerations and by an 
integrated approach to business, risk and 
capital management which supports 
achievement of our strategic objectives. 
The Group Remuneration Committee also 
takes into account Group profitability, 
capital strength, shareholder returns, the 
distribution of profits between capital, 
dividends and variable pay, the commercial 
requirement to remain market competitive 
and overall affordability. 
For full details of variable pay pool determination, 
see pages 309. 
Relative importance of expenditure on 
pay 
The following chart provides a breakdown of 
total staff pay relative to the amount paid out 
in dividends. 
Relative importance of expenditure on 
pay 
(US$m)
For footnotes, see page 39. 
Directors’ remuneration 
The remuneration policy for our executive 
and non-executive Directors was approved 
at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 
2014. The full policy is available in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report in the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013, a copy 
of which can be obtained by visiting the 
following website: http://www.hsbc.com/ 
investor-relations/financial-and-regulatory-
reports. 
The single total figure for Directors’ 
remuneration required by Schedule 8 of 
the Large and Medium-Sized Companies 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 
is as follows:  
4%
Ordinary
dividends
26
Employee compensation
and benefits
27
2014 2013
4%
9,600 
20,366 
9,200 
19,626 
(430)
19,196   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
35 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Executive Directors 
 Douglas Flint Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay  Marc Moses
 
2014 
£000  
2013
£000 
2014
£000 
2013
£000 
2014
£000 
2013 
£000  
2014
£000 
2013
£000 
Fixed pay      
Base salary 1,500  1,500 1,250 1,250 700 700  700 –
Fixed pay allowance –  – 1,700 – 950 –  950 –
Pension 750  750 625 625 350 350  350 –
  2,250  2,250 3,575 1,875 2,000 1,050  2,000 –
  
Variable pay      
Annual incentive –  – 1,290 1,833 867 1,074  1,033 –
GPSP –  – 2,112 3,667 1,131 2,148  1,131 –
  –  – 3,402 5,500 1,998 3,222  2,164 –
      
Total fixed and variable pay  2,250  2,250 6,977 7,375 3,998 4,272  4,164 –
Benefits  136  48 589 591 43 33  6 –
Non-taxable benefits  105  102 53 67 28 53  33 –
Notional return on deferred cash  41  27 – – 11 7  36 –
Total single figure of remuneration  2,532  2,427 7,619 8,033 4,080 4,365  4,239 –
 
Douglas Flint, as Group Chairman, is not 
eligible for an annual incentive but was 
eligible under the policy to receive a 
one-time GPSP award for 2014. 
Marc Moses, the Group Chief Risk Officer, 
was appointed an executive Director with 
effect from 1 January 2014, reflecting the 
criticality of the Risk function to HSBC and 
his leadership of the function, and recognises 
his personal contribution to the Group. His 
2013 figures have not been disclosed. 
For full details of Directors’ remuneration, see 
page 307. 
Remuneration policy going 
forward 
Our remuneration policy was approved by 
shareholders at the 2014 Annual General 
Meeting and will apply for performance year 
2015. The table below summarises how each 
element of pay will be implemented in 2015. 
External reporting 
The required remuneration disclosures for 
Directors, MRTs and highest paid employees 
in the Group are made in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 300 to 323. 
 
Purpose and link to strategy Operation and planned changes to policy 
Fixed pay  
Base salary Base salary levels will remain unchanged from their 2014 levels as follows:
• Douglas Flint: £1,500,000 
• Stuart Gulliver: £1,250,000 
• Iain Mackay: £700,000 
• Marc Moses: £700,000 
Fixed pay allowance
28
 Fixed pay allowances will remain unchanged from their 2014 levels as follows: 
• Douglas Flint: Nil 
• Stuart Gulliver: £1,700,000 
• Iain Mackay: £950,000 
• Marc Moses: £950,000 
Pension Pension allowances to apply in 2015 as a percentage of base salary will remain unchanged as follows:
• Douglas Flint: 50% 
• Stuart Gulliver: 50% 
• Iain Mackay: 50% 
• Marc Moses: 50% 
Benefits  
Benefits No changes are proposed to the benefits package for 2015.
Variable pay  
Annual incentive
28
 No changes are proposed to the annual incentive.
GPSP No changes are proposed to the GPSP. 
For footnote, see page 39. 
  Outcomes (continued) 
Sustainability 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
36 
Sustainability 
Sustainability underpins our 
strategic priorities and enables 
us to fulfil our purpose as an 
international bank. 
At HSBC, how we do business is as 
important as what we do. For us, 
sustainability means building our business 
for the long term by balancing social, 
environmental and economic 
considerations in the decisions we make. 
This enables us to help businesses thrive 
and contribute to the health and growth 
of communities. 
Approach to corporate 
sustainability 
Corporate sustainability is governed by 
the Conduct & Values Committee, a sub-
committee of the Board which oversees 
and advises on a range of issues including 
adherence to HSBC’s values and ensuring 
we respond to the changing expectations 
of society and key stakeholders. 
Sustainability priorities are set and 
programmes are led by the Global 
Corporate Sustainability function. HSBC’s 
country operations, global functions and 
global businesses work together to ensure 
sustainability is embedded into the Group’s 
business and operations and properly 
implemented. Executives within the Risk 
and the HSBC Technology and Services 
functions hold a specific remit to deliver 
aspects of the sustainability programme 
for the Group. 
Our sustainability programme focuses 
on three areas: sustainable finance; 
sustainable operations, and sustainable 
communities. 
Sustainable finance 
We anticipate and manage the risks and 
opportunities associated with a changing 
climate, environment and economy. In a 
rapidly changing world, we must ensure our 
business anticipates and prepares for shifts 
in environmental priorities and societal 
expectations. 
Sustainability risk framework 
We manage the risk that the financial 
services which we provide to customers may 
have unacceptable effects on people or the 
environment. Sustainability risk can also lead 
to commercial risk for customers, credit risk 
for HSBC and significant reputational risk. 
For over 10 years we have been working 
with our business customers to help them 
understand and manage their environmental 
and social impact in relation to sensitive 
sectors and themes. We assess and support 
customers using our own policies which we 
regularly review and refine. We have policies 
covering agricultural commodities, chemicals, 
defence, energy, forestry, freshwater 
infrastructure, mining and metals, World 
Heritage Sites and Ramsar Wetlands. We 
also apply the Equator Principles. 
We welcome constructive feedback from 
non-governmental organisations and 
campaign groups and regularly discuss 
matters of shared interest with them.  
Our sustainability risk framework is based 
on robust policies, formal processes and 
well-trained, empowered people. 
In 2014, we trained risk and relationship 
managers in sustainability risk, focusing 
on the recent policy updates and revised 
processes. Our designated Sustainability Risk 
Managers provided training to executives 
from Risk, GB&M and CMB in every 
geographical region. 
We have used the Equator Principles since 
2003. A new version of the Equator Principles 
– EP3 – was launched in 2013, and HSBC 
introduced these changes on 1 January 2014 
following training and the development of 
clear templates to ensure the transition was 
smooth. 
Data and the independent assurance of our 
application of the Equator Principles will be 
available at hsbc.com in April 2015. 
Policy reviews and updates in 2014 
In 2014, we published the reports of two 
independent reviews into the content and 
implementation of our Forest Land and 
Forest Products Sector Policy, by Proforest 
and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, 
respectively. We also issued new policies 
on forestry, agricultural commodities and 
World Heritage Sites and Ramsar Wetlands, 
reflecting the recommendations. These 
documents can be found online at 
hsbc.com/sus-risk. 
Forestry policy 
The new forestry policy, issued in March 
2014, requires forestry customers to gain 
100% certification by the Forest Stewardship 
Council (‘FSC’) or the Programme for the 
Endorsement of Forest Certification (‘PEFC’) 
in high risk countries by 31 December 2014. 
Certification requires that customers are 
operating legally and sustainably.  
Feedback from stakeholders on the new 
policy was positive. Timber customers from 
affected countries such as Turkey and Mexico 
were receptive to the new standards, 
gained certification as a result of the new 
requirement and benefited from advice. 
Other customer relationships will end as 
soon as contractual terms allow, in cases 
where customers have been unable or 
unwilling to meet the new standards. 
Agricultural commodities policy 
The new agricultural commodities policy 
requires palm oil customers to become 
members of the Roundtable on Sustainable 
Palm Oil (‘RSPO’) by 30 June 2014, to have at 
least one operation certified by the end of 
2014 and all operations by the end of 2018.  
A number of customer relationships will be 
closed where the deadline has not been met. 
Other customers have succeeded in joining 
the RSPO and having at least one operation 
certified by the end of 2014. One example is 
an Indonesian processing, refining and export 
company. HSBC started to engage with this 
and other companies in January 2014 on the 
changes and continued to offer advice. The 
management of the company sought expert 
advice from third parties to understand more 
about RSPO certification, which they found 
was less complex than they had imagined. 
Two units of the company obtained RSPO 
certification in June 2014, and one further is 
planned.  
In order to encourage the shift towards 
sustainable palm oil we have introduced 
a discounted prepayment export finance 
product for trade flows of certified 
sustainable palm oil. This structured, bespoke 
financing was launched in Singapore and 
Indonesia in 2014 and in Malaysia in early 
2015.  
The inaugural financing using this product 
was for a major palm oil exporter which has 
been a member of the RSPO for ten years 
and is now fully certified. The product is 
available to both existing and future clients 
and is hoped to encourage an expansion in 
the proportion of palm oil that is certified 
sustainable. 
Customers in Malaysia, Indonesia, mainland 
China, Taiwan, South Korea, Thailand, Turkey 
and Mexico have decided to certify their 
operations as a result of HSBC’s new policies 
and deadlines. A number of others were 
already certified. Fuller reporting on the 
effect of these new policies will be available 
in April 2015 at hsbc.com. 
    
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
37 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The World Heritage Sites and Ramsar 
Wetlands policy  
This is designed to protect unique sites of 
outstanding international significance as 
listed by the UN and wetlands of 
international importance. The policy relates 
to all business customers involved in major 
projects, particularly in sectors such as 
forestry, agriculture, mining, energy, 
property and infrastructure development. 
The policy helps HSBC to make balanced and 
clear decisions on whether or not to finance 
projects which could have an effect on these 
sites or wetlands. HSBC has avoided financing 
projects in light of the policy.  
Our approach to managing sustainability risk is 
described on page 237. 
Climate business 
We understand that in response to climate 
change there is a shift required towards a 
lower-carbon economy. We are committed 
to accelerating that shift by supporting 
customers involved in ‘climate business’ by 
seeking long-term low-carbon commercial 
business opportunities. Our climate business 
includes clients in the solar, wind, biomass, 
energy efficiency, low-carbon transport and 
water sectors. In 2014, our Climate Change 
Research team was recognised as the top 
team in the industry. We were also a leader 
in public markets equity-related wind 
financings for international companies, 
including the largest wind turbine equity 
raising since 2010 as part of the €1.4bn 
Vestas refinancing. 
‘Green bonds’ are any type of bond 
instruments where the proceeds will be 
exclusively applied to finance climate or 
environmental projects. In April 2014, HSBC 
became a member of the International 
Capital Market Association Executive 
Committee for the Green Bond Principles. 
The Green Bond Principles are voluntary 
process guidelines that recommend 
transparency and disclosure and promote 
integrity in the development of the green 
bond market by clarifying the approach for 
issuance of a green bond.  
In 2014, we commissioned a report, ‘Bonds 
and Climate Change: the state of the market 
in 2014’ from the Climate Bonds Initiative to 
help raise awareness of climate financing.  
 
HSBC has been at the forefront of this fast-
developing area. In 2014, we were the sole 
global coordinator and joint leader, manager 
and bookrunner for the first green bond issue 
by an Asian corporate issuer, Advanced 
Semiconductor Engineering Inc. We also 
acted as sole global coordinator on the first 
green bond issued by Abengoa, the first high-
yield green bond to be issued in Europe as 
well as the being a joint lead manager and 
bookrunner for the first government issuer 
in the Canadian market for the Province of 
Ontario. 
UN Environment Programme Finance 
Initiative Principles for Sustainable 
Insurance 
As a signatory to the Principles for 
Sustainable Insurance (‘PSI’), a global 
sustainability framework, HSBC’s Insurance 
business has committed to integrating 
environmental, social and governance issues 
across its processes, and to publicly disclosing 
its progress in doing so on an annual basis. 
A global programme manager has been 
appointed to provide leadership, co-
ordination and control of Insurance 
sustainability initiatives world-wide and 
ensure alignment with the Group’s approach 
and the requirements of the PSI initiative. 
This includes driving appropriate activities 
both within the Insurance business and with 
partners, regulators and other industry 
players; disseminating industry best practice, 
and developing global insurance 
sustainability initiatives. 
Sustainable operations 
Managing our own environmental footprint 
supports business efficiency and is part of our 
long-term contribution to society. We work 
together and with our suppliers to find new 
ways to reduce the impact of our operations 
on the environment. We are purchasing 
renewable energy, designing and operating 
our buildings and data centres more 
efficiently and reducing waste. We have 
committed to cut our annual per employee 
carbon emissions from 3.5 to 2.5 tonnes by 
2020.  
Sustainability Leadership Programme 
To deliver our ten sustainability goals we 
have trained 847 senior managers through 
HSBC’s Sustainability Leadership 
Programme since 2009. The programme is 
a mix of hands-on learning and leadership 
development sessions and is aligned to 
the HSBC Values agenda. The programme 
participants are expected to embed 
sustainability into decision-making and 
project delivery in the businesses and 
functions where they work. 
Renewable energy procurement 
In 2014, we signed three power purchase 
agreements with renewable energy 
generators in the UK and India. This is 
expected to provide 9% of HSBC’s energy. In 
August, a 10-megawatt solar power plant in 
Hyderabad, India came online to provide 
the Group with clean energy. This is 
expected to power three Global Service 
Centres and a Technology Centre in India. 
HSBC played a key role in facilitating the 
project by agreeing to purchase the plant’s 
energy at a government backed fixed price 
for the next ten years. The plant will provide 
a clean and reliable source of energy. In 
addition, we have redefined our renewables 
target only to count energy from newly 
constructed renewable energy sources 
which have been commissioned by HSBC. 
Paper use 
Our paper goal is being achieved in three 
ways: ensuring that the paper we buy is from 
a sustainable source in accordance with our 
paper sourcing policy, reducing the volume of 
paper consumed by our offices and branches 
and providing paperless banking for all retail 
and commercial customers. We have 
continued to reduce the total amount of 
paper purchased and to increase the 
proportion of paper we use that is certified 
as sustainably sourced by the FSC and PEFC. 
Since 2011, we have achieved a 53% 
reduction in paper purchased. Certified 
sustainably sourced paper reached 92% of 
all paper used by the end of 2014.  Outcomes (continued) 
Sustainability / Footnotes 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
38 
Our 10-point sustainable operations 
strategy 
  1. Sustainability engagement: encourage 
employees to deliver improved 
efficiency by 2020 
  2. Supply chain collaboration: sustainable 
savings through efficiency and 
innovation 
  3. HSBC Eco-efficiency fund: US$50m 
annually to develop new ways of 
working, based on employee 
innovations 
  4. Energy: reduce annual energy 
consumption per employee by 1MWh 
by 2020, compared to 6.2MWh in 
2011 
  5. Waste: use less, and recycle 100% of 
our office waste and electronic waste 
  6. Renewables: aim to increase energy 
consumption from renewables to 25% 
by 2020 from zero 
  7. Green buildings: design, build and run 
energy efficient, sustainable buildings 
to the highest international standards 
  8. Data centres: achieve an energy 
efficiency (power usage effectiveness) 
rating of 1.5 by 2020 
  9. Travel: reduce travel emissions per 
employee 
10. Paper: paperless banking available for 
all retail and commercial customers 
and 100% sustainably sourced paper 
by 2020 
 
Carbon emissions 
HSBC’s carbon dioxide emissions are 
calculated on the basis of the energy used in 
our buildings and employee business travel 
from over 28 countries (covering about 93% 
of our operations by FTE). The data gathered 
on energy consumption and distance 
travelled are converted to carbon dioxide 
emissions using conversion factors from the 
following sources, if available, in order of 
preference:  
1. factors provided by the data/service 
providers; 
2. factors provided by the local public 
environmental authorities. For 
electricity, if specific factors cannot be 
obtained from the above two sources 
we use the latest available carbon 
emission factors for national grid 
electricity from the International Energy 
Agency as recommended for use by the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol; and 
3. for other types of energy and travel, if 
no specific factors can be obtained from 
the first two sources, we use the latest 
available factors provided by the UK 
Department for Environment, Food and 
Rural Affairs and/or the Department of 
Energy and Climate Change in the UK. 
To incorporate all of the operations over 
which we have financial (management) 
control, the calculated carbon dioxide 
emissions are scaled up on the basis of the 
FTE coverage rate to account for any missing 
data (typically less than 10% of FTEs). In 
addition, emission uplift rates are applied 
to allow for uncertainty on the quality and 
coverage of emission measurement and 
estimation. The rates are 4% for electricity, 
10% for other energy and 6% for business 
travel, based on the Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change Good Practice Guidance 
and Uncertainty Management in National 
Greenhouse Gas Inventories, and our internal 
analysis of data coverage and quality. 
Carbon dioxide emissions in tonnes 
2014 2013
Total  752,000 889,000
From energy 633,000 755,000
From travel 119,000 134,000
Carbon dioxide emissions in tonnes per FTE 
2014 2013
Total  2.92 3.43
From energy 2.46 2.91
From travel 0.46 0.52
Our greenhouse gas reporting year runs from 
October to September. For the year ended 
30 September 2014, carbon dioxide 
emissions from our global operations were 
752,000 tonnes. 
Sustainable communities 
We believe that education and resources 
such as safe water and sanitation are 
essential to resilient communities which are, 
in turn, the basis of thriving economies and 
businesses. 
We provide financial contributions to 
community projects, and thousands of 
employees across the world get involved 
by volunteering their time and sharing 
their skills.  
Volunteering and donations 
Thousands of HSBC employees globally are 
involved every year in volunteering for our 
Community Investment programmes. Further 
details on our programmes are available at 
hsbc.com and will be updated with 
information for 2014 in April 2015. 
In 2014, we donated a total of US$114m to 
community projects (2013: US$117m). Of 
this, US$66m was donated in Europe (2013: 
US$64m); US$28m was donated in Asia-
Pacific (2013: US$24m); US$3m was 
donated in the Middle East (2013: US$5m); 
US$10m was donated in North America 
(2013: US$11m); and US$7m was donated 
in Latin America (2013: US$12m). 
Employees gave 303,922 hours of their 
time to volunteer during the working day 
(2013: 255,925 hours). 
Human rights 
We apply human rights considerations 
directly as they affect our employees 
and indirectly through our suppliers and 
customers, in the latter case in particular 
through our project finance lending and 
sustainability risk policies. Human rights 
issues most directly relevant for HSBC 
are those relating to the right to just 
and favourable conditions of work and 
remuneration, the right to equal pay for 
equal work, the right to form and join trade 
unions, the right to rest and leisure and the 
prohibition of slavery and child labour. 
Alongside our own commitments, such as 
our HSBC Code of Conduct for Suppliers (in 
place since 2005), the HSBC Global Standards 
Manual and HSBC Values, we have signed up 
to global commitments and standards, 
including the UN Global Compact, the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and 
the Global Sullivan Principles. 
Further detail on our 2014 performance will be 
available from the end of April 2015 on our 
website, along with independent assurance of 
our application of the Equator Principles and 
carbon emissions. 
On behalf of the Board  
D J Flint 
Group Chairman 
HSBC Holdings plc 
23 February 2015 
    
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
39 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Footnotes to Strategic Report 
  1 On 1 January 2014, CRD IV came into force and capital and RWAs at 31 December 2014 are calculated and presented on this basis. Prior to this, capital and 
RWAs were calculated and presented on a Basel 2.5 basis. In addition, capital and RWAs at 31 December 2013 were also estimated based on the Group’s 
interpretation of final CRD IV legislation and final rules issued by the PRA. At 31 December 2012, the CRD IV estimated capital and RWAs were based on the July 
2011 draft CRD IV text. 
  2 Dividends recorded in the financial statements are dividends per ordinary share declared in a year and are not dividends in respect of, or for, that year. The third 
interim dividend for 2013 of US$0.10 was paid on 11 December 2013. The fourth interim dividend for 2013 of US$0.19 was paid on 30 April 2014. First, second 
and third interim dividends for 2014, each of US$0.10 per ordinary share, were paid on 10 July 2014, 9 October 2014 and 10 December 2014, respectively. 
Note 9 on the Financial Statements provides more information on the dividends declared in 2014. On 23 February 2015, the Directors declared a fourth interim 
dividend for 2014 of US$0.20 per ordinary share in lieu of a final dividend, which will be payable to ordinary shareholders on 30 April 2015 in cash in US dollars, 
or in pounds sterling or Hong Kong dollars at exchange rates to be determined on 20 April 2015, with a scrip dividend alternative. The reserves available for 
distribution at 31 December 2014 were US$48,883m. 
 Quarterly dividends of US$15.5 per 6.20% non-cumulative Series A US dollar preference share, equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A American 
Depositary Share, each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A US dollar preference share, were paid on 17 March 2014, 16 June 2014, 15 September 
2014 and 15 December 2014. 
 Quarterly coupons of US$0.508 per security were paid with respect to 8.125% capital securities on 15 January 2014, 15 April 2014, 15 July 2014 and 15 October 
2014. 
 Quarterly coupons of US$0.50 per security were paid with respect to 8% capital securities on 17 March 2014, 16 June 2014, 15 September 2014 and 
15 December 2014. 
  3 The cost efficiency ratio is defined as total operating expenses divided by net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions. 
  4 The return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity is defined as profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company divided by average 
ordinary shareholders’ equity. 
  5 Established on 5 December 2014. 
  6 Intermediation of securities, funds and insurance products, including Securities Services in GB&M. 
  7 Merger and acquisition, event and project financing, and co-investments in GPB. 
  8 Including Foreign Exchange, Rates, Credit and Equities. 
  9 Including portfolio management. 
10 Including private trust and estate planning (for financial and non-financial assets). 
11 Including hedge funds, real estate and private equity. 
12 The sum of balances presented does not agree to consolidated amounts because inter-company eliminations are not presented here. 
13 Pre-tax return on average risk-weighted assets is calculated using average RWAs based on a Basel 2.5 basis for all periods up to and including 31 December 
2013 and on a CRD IV end point basis for all periods from 1 January 2014. 
14 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as ‘revenue’. 
15 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions. 
16 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures. 
17 From 1 January 2014, non-trading reverse repos and repos are presented as separate lines in the balance sheet. Previously, non-trading reverse repos were 
included within ‘Loans and advances to banks’ and ‘Loans and advances to customers’ and non-trading repos were included within ‘Deposits by banks’ and 
‘Customer accounts’. Comparative data have been re-presented accordingly. Non-trading reverse repos and repos have been presented as separate lines in the 
balance sheet to align disclosure with market practice and provide more meaningful information in relation to loans and advances. The extent to which reverse 
repos and repos represent loans to/from customers and banks is set out in Note 17 on the Financial Statements. 
18 Taxes paid by HSBC relate to HSBC’s own tax liabilities and is reported on a cash flow basis. 
19 UK bank levy paid reflects the payments made to the tax authorities during the calendar year and may differ from the recognition of liabilities charged to the 
income statement. 
20 Taxes collected relate to those taxes which HSBC is liable to pay as agent for taxation authorities across the world and include all employee-related taxes, 
together with taxes withheld from payments of interest and charged on the provision of goods and services to its customers. Taxes collected are reported on a 
cash flow basis. 
21 Excludes movements in the fair value of own debt and before variable pay distributions.  
22 Each American Depositary Share represents five ordinary shares. 
23 Total shareholder return is defined as the growth in share value and declared dividend income during the relevant period.  
24 The Morgan Stanley Capital International World Bank Index. 
25 The 2014 Group pre-tax pre-variable pay profit calculation as described in Directors’ Remuneration Report page 309 .The percentage of variable pay deferred 
for the Code Staff population was 50%. 
26 Dividends per ordinary share in respect of that year. For 2014, this includes the first, second and third interim dividends paid in 2014 of US$5.8bn (gross of scrip) 
and a fourth interim dividend of US$3.8bn. 
27 Employee compensation and benefits in 2013 totalled US$19,196m which included an accounting gain arising from a change in the basis of delivering ill-health 
benefits in the UK of US$430m. Excluding this accounting gain, 2013 employee compensation and benefits totalled US$19,626m. 
28 This approach applies to all executive Directors with the exception of the Group Chairman, Douglas Flint, who is not eligible for a fixed pay allowance or variable 
pay awards. 
  Report of the Directors: Financial summary 
Use of non-GAAP financial measures 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
40 
Financial summary 
Use of non-GAAP financial measures  
40
Consolidated income statement  
45
Group performance by income and expense item  
46
Net interest income  
46
Net fee income  
48
Net trading income  
49
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments 
designated at fair value   
50
Gains less losses from financial investments  
51
Net insurance premium income  
51
Other operating income  
52
Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement 
in liabilities to policyholders  
53
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions  
53
Operating expenses  
54
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures  
55
Tax expense  
56
Consolidated balance sheet  
57
Movement in 2014  
58
Reconciliation of RoRWA measures  
62
Critical accounting estimates and judgements  
62
The management commentary included in the Report of the 
Directors: ‘Financial Review’, together with the ‘Employees’ and 
‘Corporate sustainability’ sections of ‘Corporate Governance’ 
and the ‘Directors’ Remuneration Report’ is presented in 
compliance with the IFRSs Practice Statement ‘Management 
Commentary’ issued by the IASB.  
Use of non-GAAP financial 
measures 
Our reported results are prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as detailed in the Financial Statements on 
page 334. In measuring our performance, the financial 
measures that we use include those which have been 
derived from our reported results in order to eliminate 
factors which distort year-on-year comparisons. These 
are considered non-GAAP financial measures. The 
primary non-GAAP financial measure we use is ‘adjusted 
performance’. Other non-GAAP financial measures are 
described and reconciled to the most relevant reported 
financial measure when used. 
Adjusted performance 
Adjusted performance is computed by adjusting 
reported results for the year-on-year effects of foreign 
currency translation differences and significant items 
which distort year-on-year comparisons. 
Previously we used the non-GAAP financial measure 
of ‘underlying performance’, which was calculated by 
adjusting reported results for the year-on-year effects 
of currency translation differences, own credit spread 
and acquisitions, disposals and dilutions. In 2014, we 
modified our approach to better align it with the way 
we view our performance internally and with feedback 
received from investors. Adjusted performance builds on 
underlying performance by maintaining the adjustment 
for currency translation differences and incorporating 
the adjustments for own credit spread and acquisitions, 
disposals and dilutions into the definition of significant 
items. We use the term ‘significant items’ to collectively 
describe the group of individual adjustments which are 
excluded from reported results when arriving at adjusted 
performance. Significant items, which are detailed 
below, are those items which management and investors 
would ordinarily identify and consider separately when 
assessing performance in order to better understand the 
underlying trends in the business. 
We believe adjusted performance provides useful 
information for investors by aligning internal and 
external reporting, identifying and quantifying items 
management believe to be significant and providing 
insight into how management assesses year-on-year 
performance. 
We arrive at adjusted performance by excluding from 
our reported results: 
• the year-on-year effects of foreign currency 
translation differences. This is done by comparing 
reported results for 2014 with reported results for 
2013 retranslated at 2014 exchange rates. The 
foreign currency translation differences reflect the 
movements of the US dollar against most major 
currencies; and  
• significant items which distort the year-on-year 
comparison of reported results by obscuring the 
underlying factors and trends which affect operations. 
Significant items include adjustments for own credit 
spread and acquisitions, disposals and dilutions which 
were previously part of our underlying measure. The 
following pages provide further details, including a 
reconciliation from reported to adjusted results.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
41 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
For acquisitions, disposals and changes of ownership 
levels of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and 
businesses, we eliminate the gain or loss on disposal 
or dilution and any associated gain or loss on 
reclassification or impairment recognised in the year 
incurred, and remove the operating profit or loss of the 
acquired, disposed of or diluted subsidiaries, associates, 
joint ventures and businesses from all the years 
presented so we can view results on a like-for-like basis. 
Disposal of strategic investments other than those 
included in the above definition would be included in 
other significant items if material. 
The following acquisitions, disposals and changes to 
ownership levels affected adjusted performance: 
 
Disposal gains/(losses) affecting adjusted performance 
  Date   
 Disposal 
 gain/(loss) 
   US$m
Reclassification gain in respect of our holding in Industrial Bank Co., Limited following the issue of additional 
share capital to third parties
1
  Jan 2013 1,089 
HSBC Insurance (Asia-Pacific) Holdings Limited’s disposal of its shareholding in Bao Viet Holdings
1
Mar 2013 104
Household Insurance Group Holding company’s disposal of its insurance manufacturing business
1
Mar 2013 (99)
HSBC Seguros, S.A. de C.V., Grupo Financiero HSBC’s disposal of its property and Casualty Insurance business 
in Mexico
1
   Apr 2013 20 
HSBC Bank plc’s disposal of its shareholding in HSBC (Hellas) Mutual Funds Management SA
2
Apr 2013 (7)
HSBC Insurance (Asia-Pacific) Holdings Limited disposal of its shareholding in Hana HSBC Life Insurance 
Company Limited
1
   May 2013 28 
HSBC Bank plc’s disposal of HSBC Assurances IARD
2
  May 2013 (4)
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited’s disposal of  HSBC Life (International) Limited’s 
Taiwan branch operations
2
   June 2013 (36)
HSBC Markets (USA) Inc.’s disposal of its subsidiary, Rutland Plastic Technologies
2
Aug 2013 17
HSBC Insurance (Singapore) Pte Ltd’s disposal of its Employee Benefits Insurance business in Singapore
2
Aug 2013 (8)
HSBC Investment Bank Holdings plc’s disposal of its investment in associate FIP Colorado
2
Aug 2013 (5)
HSBC Investment Bank Holdings plc group’s disposal of its investment in subsidiary, Viking Sea Tech
1
Aug 2013 54
HSBC Latin America Holdings UK Limited’s disposal of HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A.
2
Oct 2013 1,107
HSBC Latin America Holdings UK Limited’s disposal of HSBC Bank (Peru) S.A.
2
Nov 2013 (18)
HSBC Latin America Holdings UK Limited’s disposal of HSBC Bank (Paraguay) S.A.
2
Nov 2013 (21)
Reclassification loss in respect of our holding in Yantai Bank Co., Limited following an increase in its 
registered share capital
1
   Dec 2013 (38)
HSBC Latin America Holdings UK Limited’s disposal of HSBC Bank (Colombia) S.A.
1
Feb 2014 18
Reclassification loss in respect of our holding in Vietnam Technological & Commercial Joint Stock Bank 
following the loss of significant influence
1
  Jun 2014 (32)
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited’s disposal of its operations in Pakistan
1
Oct 2014 (27)
For footnotes, see page 109. 
Foreign currency translation differences 
(‘constant currency’) 
Foreign currency translation differences reflect the 
movements of the US dollar against most major 
currencies during 2014. We exclude the translation 
differences when using constant currency because it 
allows us to assess balance sheet and income statement 
performance on a like-for-like basis to better understand 
the underlying trends in the business. 
 
Foreign currency translation differences  
Foreign currency translation differences for 2013 are computed 
by retranslating into US dollars for non-US dollar branches, 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates: 
• the income statements for 2013 at the average rates of 
exchange for 2014; and 
• the balance sheet at 31 December 2013 at the prevailing 
rates of exchange on 31 December 2014. 
No adjustment has been made to the exchange rates used to 
translate foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities 
into the functional currencies of any HSBC branches, 
subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates. When reference is 
made to foreign currency translation differences in tables or 
commentaries, comparative data reported in the functional 
currencies of HSBC’s operations have been translated at the 
appropriate exchange rates applied in the current year on the 
basis described above.
  Report of the Directors: Financial summary (continued) 
Use of non-GAAP financial measures 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
42 
Other significant items 
The following tables detail the effect of other significant items in 2014 and 2013 on each of our geographical segments 
and global businesses. 
Other significant items affecting adjusted performance – Losses/(gains) 
 2014
  Europe  Asia  MENA 
 
North 
 America  
 Latin 
 America 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Revenue   
Debit valuation adjustment on derivative contracts 234 69 5 16 8 332
Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges
3
 235 4 − 302 − 541
Gain on sale of several tranches of real estate secured accounts 
in the US − − − (168) − (168)
Gain on sale of shareholding in Bank of Shanghai − (428) − − − (428)
Impairment of our investment in Industrial Bank − 271 − − − 271
Provisions arising from the ongoing review of compliance with the 
Consumer Credit Act in the UK 632 − − − − 632 
 1,101 (84) 5 150 8 1,180
Operating expenses   
Charge in relation to the settlement agreement with Federal 
Housing Finance Authority − − − 550 − 550 
 Settlements and provisions in connection with foreign exchange 
investigations 1,187 − − − − 1,187 
Restructuring and other related costs 123 9 2 28 116 278
Regulatory provisions in GPB 16 49 − − − 65
UK customer redress programmes 1,275 − − − − 1,275
 2,601 58 2 578 116 3,355
 
 
 RBWM CMB GB&M GPB   Other   Total
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Revenue    
Debit valuation adjustment on derivative contracts − − 332 − −  332
Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges
3
 493 (1) 8 1 40  541
Gain on sale of several tranches of real estate secured accounts 
in the US (168) − − − −  (168)
Gain on sale of shareholding in Bank of Shanghai − − − − (428)  (428)
Impairment of our investment in Industrial Bank − − − − 271  271
Provisions arising from the ongoing review of compliance with the 
Consumer Credit Act in the UK 568 24 − 40 −  632 
 893 23 340 41 (117)  1,180
Operating expenses    
Charge in relation to the settlement agreement with Federal 
Housing Finance Authority 17 − 533 − −  550 
Settlements and provisions in connection with foreign exchange 
investigations − − 1,187 − −  1,187 
Restructuring and other related costs 88 37 27 6 120  278
Regulatory provisions in GPB − − − 65 −  65
UK customer redress programmes 992 138 145 − −  1,275
 1,097 175 1,892 71 120  3,355
   
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
43 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 2013
  Europe  Asia  MENA 
North 
 America  
 Latin 
 America 
 
 Total 
 US$mUS$mUS$mUS$m US$m  US$m
Revenue    
Net gain on completion of Ping An disposal − (553) − − −  (553)
Debit valuation adjustment on derivative contracts (65) (40) (2) 14 (13)  (106)
Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges
3
 (297)32 − (246) −  (511)
FX gains relating to sterling debt issued by HSBC Holdings (442) − − − −  (442)
Write-off of allocated goodwill relating to the GPB Monaco business 279 − − − −  279
Loss on sale of several tranches of real estate secured accounts in 
the US − − − 123 −  123 
Loss on sale of non-real estate secured accounts in the US − − − 271 −  271
Loss on early termination of cash flow hedges in the US run-off 
portfolio − − − 199 −  199 
Loss on sale of an HFC Bank UK secured loan portfolio 146 − − − −  146
 (379)(561)(2)361 (13)  (594)
Operating expenses    
Restructuring and other related costs 217 86 4 101 75  483 
UK customer redress programmes 1,235 − − − −  1,235 
Madoff-related litigation costs 298 − − − −  298
Regulatory provisions in GPB 317 35 − − −  352
US customer remediation provisions relating to CRS − − − 100 −  100
Accounting gain arising from change in basis of delivering ill-health 
benefits in the UK (430) − − − −  (430)
 1,6371214201 75  2,038
 
 RBWM CMB GB&M GPB   Other   Total
 US$mUS$mUS$mUS$m US$m US$m
Revenue   
Net gain on completion of Ping An disposal − − − − (553) (553)
Debit valuation adjustment on derivative contracts − − (106) − − (106)
Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges
3
 (262) − 18 − (267) (511)
FX gains relating to sterling debt issued by HSBC Holdings − − − − (442) (442)
Write-off of allocated goodwill relating to the GPB Monaco business − − − 279 − 279
Loss on sale of several tranches of real estate secured accounts in 
the US 123 − − − − 123
Loss on sale of non-real estate secured accounts in the US 271 − − − − 271
Loss on early termination of cash flow hedges in the US run-off 
portfolio 199 − − − − 199
Loss on sale of an HFC Bank UK secured loan portfolio 146 − − − − 146
 477 − (88) 279 (1,262) (594)
Operating expenses   
Restructuring and other related costs 167 31 13 73 199 483
UK customer redress programmes 953 148 134 − − 1,235
Madoff-related litigation costs − − 298 − − 298
Regulatory provisions in GPB − − − 352 − 352
US customer remediation provisions relating to CRS 100 − − − − 100
Accounting gain arising from change in basis of delivering ill-health 
benefits in the UK (189) (160) (81) − − (430)
 1,03119364425 199 2,038
For footnote, see page 109  Report of the Directors: Financial summary (continued) 
Use of non-GAAP financial measures / Consolidated income statement 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
44 
The following table reconciles selected reported items 
for 2014 and 2013 to adjusted items. Equivalent tables 
are provided for each of our global businesses and 
geographical segments on www.hsbc.com. 
 
Reconciliation of reported and adjusted items 
 2014  2013   Change
5
 US$m  US$m  %
Revenue
4
  
Reported  61,248 64,645 (5)
Currency translation adjustment
6
 (686) 
Own credit spread
7
  (417) 1,246 
Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions  (9) (2,757) 
Other significant items 1,180 (594) 
Adjusted  62,002 61,854 −
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 
Reported  (3,851) (5,849) 34
Currency translation adjustment
6
 168 
Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions  − 67 
Other significant items − − 
Adjusted  (3,851) (5,614) 31
Total operating expenses  
Reported  (41,249) (38,556) (7)
Currency translation adjustment
6
  348 
Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions  40 488 
Other significant items 3,355 2,038 
Adjusted  (37,854) (35,682) (6)
Adjusted cost efficiency ratio 61.1%  57.7%   
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures   
Reported  2,532 2,325 9
Currency translation adjustment
6
  11 
Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions  − 87 
Other significant items − − 
Adjusted  2,532 2,423 4
Profit before tax  
Reported  18,680 22,565 (17)
Currency translation adjustment
6
  (159) 
Own credit spread
7
  (417) 1,246 
Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions  31 (2,115) 
Other significant items 4,535 1,444 
Adjusted  22,829 22,981 (1)
For footnotes, see page 109. 
Adjusted profit before tax
 
 2014   2013   Change
5
 US$m   US$m  %
By global business   
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 7,648 7,959  (4)
Commercial Banking 8,940 7,910  13 
Global Banking and Markets 8,114 9,208  (12)
Global Private Banking 738 900  (18)
Other (2,611) (2,996) 13 
Year ended 31 December 22,829 22,981  (1)
By geographical region  
Europe 3,905 4,301  (9)
Asia
8
 14,635 14,309  2 
Middle East and North Africa 1,854 1,673  11 
North America 2,111 2,048  3 
Latin America 324 650  (50)
Year ended 31 December  22,829 22,981  (1)
For footnotes, see page 109. 
 
   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
45 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Consolidated income statement  
Five-year summary consolidated income statement 
 
2014
US$m 
2013
US$m 
2012 
US$m 
2011 
US$m 
2010
US$m 
Net interest income  34,705 35,539 37,672 40,662 39,441
Net fee income  15,957 16,434 16,430 17,160 17,355
Net trading income  6,760 8,690 7,091 6,506 7,210
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated 
at fair value  2,473 768 (2,226) 3,439 1,220 
Gains less losses from financial investments  1,335 2,012 1,189 907 968
Dividend income  311 322 221 149 112
Net insurance premium income 11,921 11,940 13,044 12,872 11,146
Gains on disposal of US branch network, US cards business and 
Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd  – – 7,024 – – 
Other operating income  1,131 2,632 2,100 1,766 2,562
Total operating income  74,593 78,337 82,545 83,461 80,014
Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in 
liabilities to policyholders  (13,345) (13,692) (14,215) (11,181) (11,767)
Net operating income before loan impairment charges 
and other credit risk provisions  61,248 64,645 68,330 72,280 68,247 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (3,851) (5,849) (8,311) (12,127) (14,039)
Net operating income  57,397 58,796 60,019 60,153 54,208
Total operating expenses  (41,249) (38,556) (42,927) (41,545) (37,688)
Operating profit  16,148 20,240 17,092 18,608 16,520
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures  2,532 2,325 3,557 3,264 2,517
Profit before tax  18,680 22,565 20,649 21,872 19,037
Tax expense  (3,975) (4,765) (5,315) (3,928) (4,846)
Profit for the year  14,705 17,800 15,334 17,944 14,191
Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company 13,688 16,204 14,027 16,797 13,159
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests  1,017 1,596 1,307 1,147 1,032
 
Five-year financial information 
 
2014
US$ 
2013
US$ 
2012 
US$ 
 2011 
US$ 
 2010
US$ 
Basic earnings per share
 
 0.69 0.84 0.74  0.92  0.73
Diluted earnings per share
 
 0.69 0.84 0.74  0.91  0.72
Dividends per ordinary share
9
  0.49 0.48 0.41  0.39  0.34
 % % %  %  %
Dividend payout ratio
10
  71.0 57.1 55.4  42.4  46.6
Post-tax return on average total assets  0.5 0.7 0.6   0.6  0.6
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity  7.3 9.2 8.4   10.9  9.5
Average foreign exchange translation rates to US$:      
US$1: £  0.607 0.639 0.631  0.624  0.648
US$1: €  0.754 0.753 0.778  0.719  0.755
For footnotes, see page 109. 
Unless stated otherwise, all tables in the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 are presented on a reported basis. 
For a summary of our financial performance in 2014, see page 28. 
 
   Report of the Directors: Financial summary (continued) 
Group performance by income and expense item 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
46 
Group performance by income and expense item 
Net interest income 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$m US$m US$m
Interest income  50,955 51,192 56,702
Interest expense  (16,250) (15,653) (19,030)
Net interest income
11
  34,705 35,539 37,672
Average interest-earning assets  1,786,536 1,669,368 1,625,068
Gross interest yield
12
  2.85% 3.07%  3.49%
Less: cost of funds  (1.05%) (1.10%)  (1.36%)
Net interest spread
13
  1.80% 1.97%  2.13%
Net interest margin
14
  1.94% 2.13%  2.32%
For footnotes, see page 109. 
Summary of interest income by type of asset 
  2014 2013  2012 
 
Average
balance 
Interest
income Yield 
Average
balance 
Interest
income Yield 
 Average 
balance 
 Interest
income Yield 
 US$m US$m % US$m US$m %  US$m  US$m %
Short-term funds and loans and 
advances to banks
27
  237,148 3,068 1.29 236,377 2,851 1.21 
 
235,831 
 
3,505 1.49 
Loans and advances to customers
27
 931,311 37,429 4.02 897,322 38,529 4.29  891,699  40,870 4.58
Reverse repurchase agreements – 
non-trading
26,27
 198,273 1,800 0.91 114,324 995 0.87 
 
83,105 
 
975 1.17 
Financial investments  399,816 8,323 2.08 393,309 8,002 2.03  387,329  9,078 2.34
Other interest-earning assets  19,988 335 1.68 28,036 815 2.91  27,104  2,274 8.39
Total interest-earning assets  1,786,536 50,955 2.85 1,669,368 51,192 3.07  1,625,068  56,702 3.49
Trading assets and financial assets  
designated at fair value
15,16,26
   238,958 5,596 2.34 354,817 5,763 1.62 
 
368,406 
 
6,931 1.88 
Impairment provisions  (14,015) (15,954)  (17,421)  
Non-interest-earning assets  668,564 683,785  730,901  
Year ended 31 December 2,680,043 56,551 2.11 2,692,016 56,955 2.12  2,706,954  63,633 2.35
For footnotes, see page 109. 
Summary of interest expense by type of liability and equity 
 2014 2013 2012 
 
Average
balance 
Interest
expense Cost 
Average
balance 
Interest
expense Cost 
 
Average 
balance 
 
Interest
expense Cost 
 US$m US$m % US$m US$m %  US$m  US$m % 
Deposits by banks
17,27
 61,217 481 0.79 61,616 555 0.90  78,023  1,001 1.28
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  
– own debt issued
18
  66,374 837 1.26 72,333 967 1.34 
 
75,016 
 
1,325 1.77 
Customer accounts
19,27
  1,088,493 9,131 0.84 1,035,500 8,794 0.85  1,012,056  10,650 1.05 
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
26,27
 190,705 652 0.34 94,410 405 0.43  
55,536 
 
387 0.70 
Debt securities in issue  129,724 4,554 3.51 150,976 4,182 2.77  161,348 
 
4,755 2.95 
Other interest-bearing liabilities  10,120 595 5.88 11,345 750 6.61  19,275  912 4.73 
Total interest-bearing liabilities  1,546,633 16,250 1.05 1,426,180 15,653 1.10  1,401,254  19,030 1.36 
Trading liabilities and financial liabilities 
designated at fair value (excluding own  
debt issued)
26
   178,518 2,856 1.60 301,353 3,027 1.00 
 
318,883 
 
3,445 1.08 
Non-interest bearing current accounts  185,990 184,370  177,085   
Total equity and other non-interest bearing 
liabilities  768,902   780,113    809,732 
 
  
Year ended 31 December 2,680,043 19,106 0.71 2,692,016 18,680 0.69  2,706,954   22,475 0.83
For footnotes, see page 109. 
    
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
47 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Reported net interest income of US$35bn decreased by 
US$834m or 2% compared with 2013. This included the 
significant items and currency translation summarised 
in the table below. 
 
Significant items and currency translation 
 2014 2013
 US$m US$m
Significant items  
Provisions arising from the ongoing review of compliance with the Consumer Credit Act in the UK (632)  –
Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 38  386
 (594)  386
Currency translation  –  518
Year ended 31 December (594)  904
 
On a reported basis, net interest spread and margin both 
fell, reflecting lower yields on customer lending in North 
America and Europe. In North America, this was due to 
changes in the composition of the lending portfolios 
towards lower yielding secured assets and to the run-off 
of the CML portfolio. In Europe, it was principally due 
to a significant item, namely provisions arising from the 
ongoing review of compliance with the Consumer Credit 
Act (‘CCA’) in the UK. These factors were partially offset 
by a lower cost of funds. 
Excluding the significant items and currency translation 
tabulated above, net interest income rose by US$664m 
or 2% from 2013, driven by increases in Asia, partly 
reflecting growth in customer lending volumes. 
Interest income 
Reported interest income was broadly unchanged, as 
decreases in interest income from customer lending 
(which included  the effect of the CCA provisions) were 
offset by increases in income from short-term funds, as 
well as a rise due to the change in the management of 
reverse repo transactions (see page 48). 
Interest income on loans and advances to customers 
decreased, principally in North America and Latin 
America, partially offset by increases in Asia. In North 
America, this was a consequence of the disposal of the 
higher yielding non-real estate loan portfolio and the 
reduction in the CML portfolio from run-off and sales. In 
addition, new lending to customers in RBWM and CMB 
was at lower yields, reflecting a shift in the portfolio 
towards higher levels of lower yielding first lien real 
estate secured loans. In Latin America, interest income 
on customer lending also decreased, reflecting a fall in 
yields in both Brazil and Mexico, despite the rise in 
average balances in term lending in both countries. In 
Brazil, the falling yield reflected the shift in product and 
client mix to more secured, relationship-led lending 
while, in Mexico, it was driven by reductions in Central 
Bank interest rates. The region was also affected by the 
disposal of non-strategic businesses. 
By contrast, we recorded increased interest income 
on customer lending in Asia, driven by growth in term 
lending volumes and, to a lesser extent, residential 
mortgages during the year. This increase in balances 
was partially offset by compressed yields. In Europe, 
excluding the effect of the CCA provisions noted above, 
interest income on customer lending rose due to 
increases in mortgage and term lending balances.  
Interest income on short-term funds and financial 
investments increased both in Latin America and Asia, as 
interest rates rose in certain countries in these regions 
(notably in Brazil, Argentina and mainland China) and 
average balances grew. However, in Europe, interest 
income on short-term funds and financial investments 
fell as maturing positions were replaced by longer-term 
but lower-yielding bonds. 
Interest expense 
Reported interest expense increased in the year. 
We recorded increased interest expense on customer 
accounts in Asia and Latin America, partly offset by a 
reduction in North America. In Asia, the growth was 
principally from an increase in the average balances 
of customer accounts. In Latin America, interest expense 
on customer accounts rose as reductions in average 
balances were more than offset by the increase in the 
cost of funds due to interest rate rises, notably in Brazil. 
However, the effects of this were partly offset by a fall in 
the cost of funds in Mexico as Central Bank rates fell, and 
the disposal of non-strategic businesses. Conversely, in 
North America, interest expense on customer deposits 
declined as a result of a strategic decision to re-price 
deposits downwards. In addition, other interest expense 
decreased due to a release of accrued interest 
associated with an uncertain tax position. 
Interest expense on debt issued rose. We recorded an 
increase in the cost of funds which was partly offset by 
decreased overall balances. Interest expense rose in 
Latin America, notably in Brazil, in line with interest rate 
rises and increased medium-term loan note balances. 
By contrast, in North America the business disposals led 
to a decline in our funding requirements. The cost of 
funds also fell as higher coupon debt matured and was 
repaid. In Europe, interest expense on debt also 
decreased, as average outstanding balances fell as a 
result of net redemptions and the cost of funds reduced. Report of the Directors: Financial summary (continued) 
Group performance by income and expense item 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
48 
Repos and reverse repos 
During the final quarter of 2013, GB&M changed the way 
it managed reverse repurchase (‘reverse repo’) and 
repurchase (‘repo’) activities. This had the effect of 
reducing the net interest margin as average interest 
earning assets and interest bearing liabilities increased 
significantly. These reverse repo and repo agreements 
have a lower gross yield and cost of funds, respectively, 
than the remainder of our portfolio. 
‘Net interest income’ includes the expense of internally 
funded trading assets, while related revenue is reported 
in ‘Net trading income’. The internal cost of funding 
these assets decreased, as average trading asset 
balances fell to a greater extent than trading liabilities. In 
reporting our global business results, this cost is included 
within ‘Net trading income’. 
 
Net fee income 
 2014
US$m
2013 
US$m 
2012
US$m
Account services  3,407 3,581 3,563
Funds under management  2,658 2,673 2,561
Cards  2,460 2,455 3,030
Credit facilities  1,890 1,907 1,761
Broking income  1,371 1,388 1,350
Imports/exports  1,115 1,157 1,196
Unit trusts  1,005 891 739
Underwriting  872 866 739
Remittances  833 849 819
Global custody  726 698 737
Insurance  516 551 696
Other  2,692 2,957 2,958
Fee income  19,545 19,973 20,149
Less: fee expense  (3,588) (3,539) (3,719)
Year ended 31 December 15,957 16,434 16,430
 
Reported net fee income fell by US$477m, primarily in 
Latin America and North America. In Latin America, the 
decrease included the effect of currency translation and 
the continued repositioning and disposal of businesses, 
notably the sale of our Panama operations in 2013. In 
North America, net fee income was lower following 
the expiry of the Transition Servicing Agreements we 
entered into with the buyer of the Card and Retail 
Services (‘CRS’) business, and adverse adjustments to 
mortgage servicing rights valuations.  
Account services fee income decreased, notably in Latin 
America and Europe. In Latin America, the fall was due 
to a reduction in customer numbers in Mexico, as we 
continued to reposition the business, and in Brazil, due 
to strong market competition. In Europe, account 
services fees were lower, primarily in Switzerland due 
to the repositioning of our GPB business, and in the UK, 
in part reflecting the implementation of the Retail 
Distribution Review in 2013. 
By contrast, unit trust fees rose, primarily in Asia, due 
to increased sales of equity funds in Hong Kong. 
Other fee income declined in North America due to the 
expiry of the Transition Servicing Agreements and 
in Latin America following the sale of our operations in 
Panama in 2013 and the continued repositioning of the 
business in Mexico. 
In addition, fee expenses were higher due to adverse 
adjustments to mortgage servicing rights valuations 
in North America, reflecting mortgage interest rate 
decreases in 2014 which compared with increases in 
2013.   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
49 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Net trading income 
 2014
US$m
2013 
US$m 
2012
US$m
Trading activities
20
  5,419 6,921 5,249
Ping An contingent forward sale contract  – (682) (553)
Net interest income on trading activities  1,907 2,047 2,683
Gain/(loss) on termination of hedges  1 (194) –
Other trading income – hedge ineffectiveness:  
–  on cash flow hedges  34 22 35
–  on fair value hedges  19 65 (27)
Fair value movement on non-qualifying hedges
21
   (620) 511 (296)
Year ended 31 December 6,760 8,690 7,091
For footnotes, see page 109.  
Reported net trading income of US$6.8bn was US$1.9bn 
lower, predominantly in Europe. The reduction in net 
trading income was partly driven by the significant items 
summarised in the table below. 
 
Significant items and currency translation 
 
 
2014 
US$m 
 2013
US$m
Significant items   
Included within trading activities: (332)  548
–  Debit valuation adjustment on derivative contracts (332)  106
–  FX gains relating to sterling debt issued by HSBC Holdings −   442
Included in other net trading income: (539)  (346)
–  Ping An contingent forward sale contract
22
  −   (682)
–  Loss on early termination of cash flow hedges in the US run-off portfolio −   (199)
–  Fair value movement on non-qualifying hedges (541)  511
–  Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 2  24
 (871)  202
Currency translation  –  (11)
Year ended 31 December (871)  191
For footnote, see page 109.  
 
Excluding the significant items and currency translation 
tabulated above, net trading income from trading 
activities decreased by US$0.6bn, notably in Markets 
within GB&M. This was predominantly driven by our 
Foreign Exchange business, which was affected by lower 
volatility and reduced client flows. In Equities, revenue 
decreased, as 2013 benefited from higher revaluation 
gains which more than offset a rise in 2014 in revenue 
from increased client flows and higher derivatives 
income. 
In 2014, we revised our estimation methodology 
for valuing uncollateralised derivative portfolios by 
introducing the funding fair value adjustment (‘FFVA’), 
resulting in a reduction in net trading income of 
US$263m, primarily in Rates (US$164m) and Credit 
(US$97m). Excluding the FFVA, Credit was also affected 
by adverse movements on credit spreads and a reduction 
in revenue in Legacy Credit. By contrast, Rates was 
affected by favourable market movements, notably in 
Asia, along with minimal fair value movements on our 
own credit spread on structured liabilities compared 
with adverse movements in 2013. These factors were 
partly offset by a fall in Rates in Europe. 
Included within net trading income from trading 
activities, there were favourable foreign exchange 
movements on assets held as economic hedges of 
foreign currency debt designated at fair value, compared 
with adverse movements in 2013. These movements 
offset fair value movements on the foreign currency 
debt which are reported in ‘Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments designated at fair value’. 
In addition, net interest income from trading activities 
fell due to lower average balances, notably relating to 
reverse repo and repo agreements, in line with the 
change in the way GB&M manages these agreements. 
The net interest income from these activities is now 
recorded in ‘Net interest income’. 
  Report of the Directors: Financial summary (continued) 
Group performance by income and expense item 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
50 
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 
 2014
US$m
2013 
US$m 
2012
US$m
Net income/(expense) arising from:  
–  financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance and investment contracts 2,300 3,170 2,980 
–  liabilities to customers under investment contracts (435) (1,237) (996)
–  HSBC’s long-term debt issued and related derivatives 508 (1,228) (4,327)
–  change in own credit spread on long-term debt (significant item) 417 (1,246) (5,215)
–  other changes in fair value
22
   91 18 888 
–  other instruments designated at fair value and related derivatives 100 63  117 
Year ended 31 December 2,473 768 (2,226)
For footnote, see page 109. 
Assets and liabilities from which net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value arose  
 2014
US$m
2013 
US$m 
2012
US$m
Financial assets designated at fair value at 31 December 29,037 38,430 33,582 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value at 31 December 76,153 89,084 87,720 
Including:  
Financial assets held to meet liabilities under:  
– insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF 10,650 10,717 8,376 
– unit-linked insurance and other insurance and investment contracts 16,333 25,423 23,655 
Long-term debt issues designated at fair value  69,681 75,278 74,768 
 
The accounting policies for the designation of financial 
instruments at fair value and the treatment of the 
associated income and expenses are described in Note 2 
on the Financial Statements. 
The majority of the financial liabilities designated at fair 
value are fixed-rate long-term debt issues, the interest 
rate profile of which has been changed to floating 
through swaps as part of a documented interest rate 
management strategy. The movement in fair value of 
these long-term debt issues and the related hedges 
includes the effect of our credit spread changes and any 
ineffectiveness in the economic relationship between 
the related swaps and own debt. The size and direction 
of the changes in the credit spread on our debt and 
ineffectiveness, which are recognised in the income 
statement, can be volatile from year to year, but do not 
alter the cash flows expected as part of the documented 
interest rate management strategy. As a consequence, 
fair value movements arising from changes in our own 
credit spread on long-term debt and other fair value 
movements on the debt and related derivatives are not 
regarded internally as part of managed performance and 
are therefore not allocated to global businesses, but are 
reported in ‘Other’. Credit spread movements on own 
debt designated at fair value are excluded from adjusted 
results, and related fair value movements are not 
included in the calculation of regulatory capital.  
Reported net income from financial instruments 
designated at fair value was US$2.5bn in 2014, compared 
with US$768m in 2013. The former included favourable 
movements in the fair value of our own long-term debt 
of US$417m due to changes in credit spread, compared 
with adverse movements of US$1.2bn in 2013. Excluding 
this significant item, net income from financial 
instruments designated at fair value increased by 
US$42m. 
Net income arising from financial assets held to meet 
liabilities under insurance and investment contracts of 
US$2.3bn was US$870m lower than in 2013. This was 
driven by weaker equity market performance in the UK 
and France, partly offset by improved equity market 
performance in Hong Kong and higher net income on 
the bonds portfolio in Brazil. 
Investment gains or losses arising from equity markets 
result in a corresponding movement in liabilities to 
customers, reflecting the extent to which unit-linked 
policyholders, in particular, participate in the investment 
performance of the associated asset portfolio. Where 
these relate to assets held to back investment contracts, 
the corresponding movement in liabilities to customers 
is also recorded under ‘Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments designated at fair value’. This is 
in contrast to gains or losses related to assets held to 
back insurance contracts or investment contracts with 
discretionary participation features (‘DPF’), where the 
corresponding movement in liabilities to customers is 
recorded under ‘Net insurance claims and benefits paid 
and movement in liabilities to policyholders’. 
Other changes in fair value reflected a net favourable 
movement due to interest and exchange rate hedging 
ineffectiveness. This was partly offset by net adverse 
foreign exchange movements on foreign currency debt 
designated at fair value and issued as part of our overall 
funding strategy (offset from assets held as economic 
hedges in ‘Net trading income’). 
   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
51 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Gains less losses from financial investments 
 2014
US$m 
2013 
US$m 
2012
US$m 
Net gains/(losses) from disposal of:  
–  debt securities  665 491  781
–  equity securities  1,037 1,697   823
–  other financial investments 6 (1) 5
 1,708 2,187  1,609
Impairment of available-for-sale equity securities  (373) (175) (420)
Year ended 31 December 1,335 2,012  1,189
 
Reported gains less losses from financial investments 
were US$1.3bn, a decrease of US$677m from 2013. The 
decrease primarily reflected the significant items 
summarised below. 
 
Significant items and currency translation 
 2014 2013
 US$m US$m
Significant items  
Gain on sale of shareholding in Bank of Shanghai 428 –
Impairment on our investment in Industrial Bank (271) –
Net gain on completion of Ping An disposal
22
 − 1,235
Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions − 5
 157 1,240
Currency translation − (10)
Year ended 31 December 157 1,230
For footnote, see page 109.  
Excluding the significant items and currency translation 
noted above, gains less losses from financial investments 
increased by US$396m, primarily driven by higher net 
gains on the disposal of debt securities as we actively 
managed the Legacy Credit portfolio. In addition, we 
reported higher gains on sale of available-for-sale equity 
securities and lower impairments on available-for-sale 
equity securities from improved market conditions and 
business performance of the underlying portfolio. 
 
Net insurance premium income 
 2014
US$m
2013 
US$m 
2012
US$m
Gross insurance premium income 12,370 12,398 13,602
Reinsurance premiums  (449) (458) (558)
Year ended 31 December 11,921 11,940 13,044
 
Reported net insurance premium income was broadly 
unchanged, with reductions in Europe and Latin America 
largely offset by higher premium income in Asia. 
In Asia, premium income rose, primarily in Hong Kong, 
due to increased new business from deferred annuity, 
universal life and endowment contracts. This was partly 
offset by lower new business from unit-linked contracts. 
In Europe, premium income decreased, mainly in the UK, 
reflecting lower sales following the withdrawal of 
external independent financial adviser distribution 
channels for certain linked insurance contracts in the 
second half of 2013. This was partly offset by increases 
in France, mainly reflecting higher sales of investment 
contracts with DPF. 
Net insurance premium income also fell in Latin America, 
primarily in Brazil, reflecting lower sales, in part due to 
changes in our distribution channel. 
  Report of the Directors: Financial summary (continued) 
Group performance by income and expense item 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
52 
Other operating income 
 2014
US$m 
2013 
US$m 
2012
US$m 
Rent received  162 155 210 
Gains/(losses) recognised on assets held for sale   220 (729) 485 
Gains on investment properties  120 113  72 
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and 
non-financial investments  32 178  187 
Gains/(losses) arising from dilution of interest in Industrial Bank and other associates
and joint ventures (32) 1,051  – 
Gain on disposal of HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A.  – 1,107  –
Change in present value of in-force long-term insurance business  261 525  737 
Other  368 232  409 
Year ended 31 December 1,131 2,632  2,100 
Change in present value of in-force long-term insurance business 
 2014
US$m 
2013 
US$m 
2012
US$m 
Value of new business  870 924 1,027
Expected return  (545) (505) (420)
Assumption changes and experience variances  (116) 88 69
Other adjustments  52 18 61
Year ended 31 December 261 525 737
Reported other operating income of US$1.1bn decreased 
by US$1.5bn from 2013. This was largely due to the 
significant items summarised in the table below. 
 
Significant items and currency translation 
 2014 
US$m 
2013
US$m 
Significant items 
Included within gains/(losses) recognised on assets held for sale: 168  (772)
–  write-off of allocated goodwill relating to the GPB Monaco business –  (279)
–  gain/(loss) on sale of the non-real estate portfolio in the US –  (271)
–  gain/(loss) on sale of several tranches of real estate secured accounts in the US 168  (123) 
–  Household Insurance Group Holding company’s disposal of its insurance manufacturing business
2
–  (99) 
Included within the remaining line items: (41)  2,193
–  reclassification gain in respect of our holding in Industrial Bank Co., Limited following the issue of 
additional share capital to third parties
2
 –  1,089 
–  HSBC Latin America Holdings UK Limited’s disposal of HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A.
3
–  1,107
–  HSBC Insurance (Asia-Pacific) Holdings Limited’s disposal of its shareholding in Bao Viet Holdings
2 
–  104
–  loss on sale of an HFC Bank UK secured loan portfolio –  (146)
–  acquisitions, disposals and dilutions (41)  39
Currency translation –  (18)
Year ended 31 December 127  1,403 
 
Excluding the significant items and currency translation 
tabulated above, other operating income decreased by 
US$0.2bn compared with 2013. This was primarily from 
lower favourable movements in 2014 in present value of 
in-force (‘PVIF’) long-term insurance business, and lower 
disposal and revaluation gains on investment properties, 
mainly in Hong Kong. The decrease was partly offset by 
gains reported in Legacy Credit in GB&M in the UK as 
we actively managed the portfolio. 
Lower favourable movements in the PVIF long-term 
insurance business asset in 2014 were mainly due to the 
following factors: 
• a reduction in the value of new business, mainly in 
Brazil, due to higher interest rates and lower volumes; 
and 
• adverse assumption changes and experience 
variances in 2014 compared with favourable 
movements in 2013. This was mainly driven by falling 
interest rates in France and adverse actuarial 
assumption updates in Hong Kong, partly offset by 
the favourable effects of interest rate fluctuations, 
mainly in Asia and Brazil.
   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
53 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders  
 2014
US$m 
2013 
US$m 
 2012
US$m 
Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders:  
–  gross  13,723 13,948 14,529
–  less reinsurers’ share  (378) (256) (314)
Year ended 31 December
24
 13,345 13,692 14,215
For footnote, see page 109. 
Reported net insurance claims and benefits paid and 
movement in liabilities to policyholders were US$347m 
lower than in 2013. 
Movements in claims resulting from investment returns 
on the assets held to support policyholder contracts, 
where the policyholder bears investment risk, decreased. 
This reflected weaker equity market performance in the 
UK and France, partly offset by improved equity market 
performance in Hong Kong and higher net income on the 
bonds portfolio in Brazil. The gains or losses recognised 
on the financial assets designated at fair value held to 
support these insurance and investment contract 
liabilities are reported in ‘Net income from financial 
instruments designated at fair value’. 
Reductions in claims resulting from a decrease in new 
business written in Europe and Latin America were 
mostly offset by increases in Hong Kong as explained 
under ‘Net earned insurance premiums’. 
 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 
2014
US$m 
2013 
US$m 
 2012
US$m 
Loan impairment charges: 
–  new allowances net of allowance releases  5,010 7,344 9,306
–  recoveries of amounts previously written off  (955) (1,296) (1,146)
 4,055 6,048 8,160
Individually assessed allowances  1,780 2,320 2,139
Collectively assessed allowances  2,275 3,728 6,021
Impairment/(releases of impairment) on available-for-sale 
debt securities  (319) (211) 99 
Other credit risk provisions 115 12 52
Year ended 31 December 3,851 5,849 8,311
Impairment charges on loans and advances to customers as a percentage of 
average gross loans and advances to customers
27
 0.4% 0.7%  0.9% 
For footnote, see page 109.
Reported loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions (‘LICs’) of US$3.9bn were US$2.0bn lower 
than in 2013, primarily in North America, Europe and 
Latin America. The percentage of impairment charges 
to average gross loans and advances fell to 0.4% at 
31 December 2014 from 0.7% at 31 December 2013. 
Individually assessed charges decreased by US$540m, 
primarily in Europe, partly offset by an increase in Asia 
and the Middle East and North Africa. In Europe, 
they were lower, mainly in CMB in the UK, reflecting 
improved quality in the portfolio and the economic 
environment, as well as in GB&M. In Asia, the increase 
was on a small number of exposures in Hong Kong and 
in mainland China, primarily in CMB and GB&M, while 
in the Middle East and North Africa we recorded net 
charges compared with net releases in 2013, mainly due 
to lower releases on a particular UAE-related exposure 
in GB&M. 
Collectively assessed charges declined by US$1.5bn, 
primarily due to decreases in North America and Latin 
America. In North America, the reduction was mainly 
in RBWM, reflecting reduced levels of delinquency and 
new impaired loans in the CML portfolio. A decrease in 
lending balances from continued portfolio run-off and 
loan sales was partly offset by an increase relating to 
less favourable market value adjustments of underlying 
properties as improvements in housing market 
conditions were less pronounced in 2014 than in 2013. 
In Latin America, the reduction in collectively assessed 
charges was driven by the adverse effect of changes to 
the impairment model and assumption revisions for 
restructured loan portfolios in Brazil which occurred in 
2013, both in RBWM and CMB. Charges were also lower 
due to reduced Business Banking provisions reflecting 
improved delinquency rates and the effect of the 
disposal of non-strategic businesses. 
Net releases of credit risk provisions of US$204m were 
broadly unchanged, as higher releases on available-for-
sale ABSs in GB&M in Europe were offset by provisions 
in Latin America and North America. In Latin America, 
a provision was made in Brazil against a guarantee in 
GB&M. In North America we recorded provisions in 
Canada, compared with releases in 2013, and in the US 
reflecting a deterioration in the underlying asset values 
of a specific GB&M exposure. 
   Report of the Directors: Financial summary (continued) 
Group performance by income and expense item 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
54 
Operating expenses 
2014 2013  2012
US$m US$m  US$m
By expense category 
Employee compensation and benefits   20,366 19,196 20,491 
Premises and equipment (excluding depreciation and impairment)  4,204 4,183 4,326
General and administrative expenses  14,361 12,882 15,657
Administrative expenses  38,931 36,261 40,474
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment  1,382 1,364 1,484
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets  936 931 969
Year ended 31 December 41,249 38,556 42,927
Staff numbers (full-time equivalents) 
 2014 2013  2012
Geographical regions  
Europe  69,363 68,334 70,061 
Asia
8
  118,322 113,701 112,766
Middle East and North Africa  8,305 8,618 8,765 
North America  20,412 20,871 22,443 
Latin America  41,201 42,542 46,556 
At 31 December 257,603 254,066 260,591 
For footnote, see page 109. 
Reported operating expenses of US$41bn were 
US$2.7bn or 7% higher than in 2013. The increase in 
operating expenses was partly driven by the significant 
items noted in the table below, including settlements 
and provisions in connection with foreign exchange 
investigations, of which US$809m was recorded in the 
fourth quarter of 2014 (see Note 40 on the Financial 
Statements for further details). 
 
Significant items and currency translation 
 2014 2013
 US$m US$m
Significant items  
Accounting gain arising from change in basis of delivering ill-health benefits in the UK – (430)
Charge in relation to settlement agreement with Federal Housing Finance Authority 550 –
Madoff-related litigation costs – 298
Settlements and provisions in connection with foreign exchange investigations 1,187 –
Regulatory provisions in GPB 65 352
UK customer redress programmes 1,275 1,235
US customer remediation provision relating to CRS – 100
Restructuring and other related costs 278 483
Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions 40 488
 3,395 2,526
Currency translation – 348
Year ended 31 December 3,395 2,874
 
Excluding significant items and currency translation, 
operating expenses were US$2.2bn or 6% higher than in 
2013. 
Regulatory Programmes and Compliance costs increased 
as a result of the continued focus on Global Standards 
and the broader regulatory reform programme being 
implemented by the industry to build the necessary 
infrastructure to meet today’s enhanced compliance 
standards, along with implementation costs to meet 
obligations such as stress tests in different jurisdictions 
and structural reform. 
During 2014, we accelerated the deployment of Global 
Standards throughout the Group. Our global businesses 
and Compliance function have developed operating 
procedures to meet our new global AML and sanctions 
policies and these are now being implemented in every 
country, encompassing local requirements as necessary. 
During 2014, we invested in developing our financial 
crime compliance expertise and building strategic 
infrastructure solutions for customer due diligence, 
transaction monitoring and sanctions screening. 
We continued to invest in strategic initiatives in support 
of organically growing our business, primarily in CMB 
in both Asia, in Business Banking and Global Trade and 
Receivables Finance and, to a lesser extent, in Europe. 
We also increased expenditure on marketing and 
advertising to support revenue generating initiatives, 
primarily in RBWM's core propositions of Premier and 
Advance and personal lending products.   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
55 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The increase in costs also reflected: 
• inflationary pressures, including wage inflation, 
primarily in Asia and Latin America;  
• the UK bank levy charge, which increased to 
US$1.1bn in 2014 from US$904m in 2013, mainly 
due to an increase in the rate of the levy. Both years 
also included adjustments relating to the previous 
year’s bank levy charge (2014: US$45m favourable 
adjustment; 2013: US$12m adverse adjustment); and 
• the Financial Services Compensation Scheme levy in 
the UK, as a result of the timing of the recognition.  
During 2014, we generated further sustainable savings of 
US$1.3bn, primarily driven by re-engineering our back 
office processes, which in part offset the investments 
and inflation noted above.  
The average number of FTEs was broadly unchanged as 
reductions through sustainable savings programmes 
were broadly offset by the initiatives related to 
Regulatory Programmes and Compliance and business 
growth.  
 
Reported cost efficiency ratios
25
 
 
2014
% 
2013 
%  
2012
% 
HSBC  67.3 59.6    62.8 
Geographical regions     
Europe  93.7 84.0    108.4 
Asia
8
  44.0 40.7   39.4
Middle East and North Africa  47.7 51.5    48.0 
North America  78.9 72.9    60.8 
Latin America  71.7 56.1    58.7 
Global businesses     
Retail Banking and Wealth Management  71.2 64.5    58.4 
Commercial Banking  45.9 43.1    45.9 
Global Banking and Markets   67.7 51.9    54.2 
Global Private Banking  74.8 91.4    67.6 
For footnotes, see page 109. 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures 
 2014
US$m 
2013 
US$m 
 2012
US$m 
Associates  
Bank of Communications Co., Limited  1,974 1,878 1,670
Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd  – – 763
Industrial Bank Co., Limited  – – 670
The Saudi British Bank  455 403 346
Other  64 5 72
Share of profit in associates  2,493 2,286 3,521 
Share of profit in joint ventures  39 39 36 
Year ended 31 December 2,532 2,325 3,557 
 
HSBC’s reported share of profit in associates and joint 
ventures was US$2.5bn, an increase of US$207m or 9%, 
in part due to the non-recurrence of an impairment 
charge of US$106m on our banking associate in Vietnam 
in 2013. Excluding this, our share of profit in associates 
and joint ventures increased, driven by higher 
contributions from BoCom and The Saudi British Bank. 
Our share of profit from BoCom rose as a result of 
balance sheet growth and increased trading income, 
partly offset by higher operating expenses and a rise in 
loan impairment charges.  
At 31 December 2014, we performed an impairment 
review of our investment in BoCom and concluded that it 
was not impaired, based on our value in use calculation 
(see Note 20 on the Financial Statements for further 
details). 
In future periods, the value in use may increase or 
decrease depending on the effect of changes to model 
inputs. It is expected that the carrying amount will 
increase in 2015 due to retained profits earned by 
BoCom. At the point where the carrying amount exceeds 
the value in use, HSBC would continue to recognise its 
share of BoCom’s profit or loss, but the carrying amount 
would be reduced to equal the value in use, with a 
corresponding reduction in income, unless the market 
value has increased to a level above the carrying 
amount. 
Profits from The Saudi British Bank rose, reflecting strong 
balance sheet growth. 
  Report of the Directors: Financial summary (continued) 
Group performance by income and expense item / Consolidated balance sheet 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
56 
Tax expense 
 
2014
US$m 
2013 
US$m  
2012
US$m 
Profit before tax  18,680 22,565 20,649 
Tax expense  (3,975) (4,765) (5,315)
Profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 14,705 17,800 15,334 
Effective tax rate  21.3% 21.1%  25.7%
 
The effective tax rate for 2014 of 21.3% was lower than 
the blended UK corporation tax rate for the year of 
21.5%.  
The effective tax rate in the year reflected the following 
recurring benefits: tax exempt income from government 
bonds and equities held by a number of Group entities 
and recognition of the Group’s share of post-tax profits 
of associates and joint ventures within our pre-tax 
income. In addition, the effective tax rate reflected a 
current tax credit for prior periods. This was partly offset 
by non-tax deductible settlements and provisions in 
connection with foreign exchange investigations.  
The tax expense decreased by US$0.8bn to US$4.0bn for 
2014, primarily due to a reduction in accounting profits 
and the benefit of the current tax credit for previous 
years. 
In 2014, the tax borne and paid by the Group to the 
relevant tax authorities, including tax on profits, bank 
levy and employer-related taxes, was US$7.9bn (2013: 
US$8.6bn). The amount differs from the tax charge 
reported in the income statement due to indirect taxes 
such as VAT and the bank levy which are included in 
pre-tax profit, and the timing of payments. 
We also play a major role as tax collector for 
governments in the jurisdictions in which we operate. 
Such taxes include employee-related taxes and taxes 
withheld from payments to deposit holders. In 2014, 
we collected US$9.1bn (2013: US$8.8bn). 
 
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
57 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Consolidated balance sheet 
Five-year summary consolidated balance sheet 
 2014
US$m 
2013
US$m 
2012 
US$m 
 2011 
US$m 
 2010
US$m 
ASSETS    
Cash and balances at central banks  129,957 166,599 141,532  129,902  57,383
Trading assets
26
 304,193 303,192 408,811  330,451  385,052
Financial assets designated at fair value  29,037 38,430 33,582  30,856  37,011
Derivatives  345,008 282,265 357,450  346,379  260,757
Loans and advances to banks
27
 112,149 120,046 117,085  139,078  141,869
Loans and advances to customers
27,28
 974,660 992,089 962,972  899,010  897,847
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
26,27
 161,713 179,690 70,112  83,328  126,921
Financial investments  415,467 425,925 421,101 400,044  400,755
Other assets  161,955 163,082 179,893  196,531  147,094
Total assets at 31 December 2,634,139 2,671,318 2,692,538  2,555,579  2,454,689
     
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY     
Liabilities     
Deposits by banks
27
 77,426 86,507 95,480  95,205  87,221
Customer accounts
27
 1,350,642 1,361,297 1,311,396  1,223,140  1,190,763
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
26,27
 107,432 164,220 40,567  48,402  60,325
Trading liabilities
26
 190,572 207,025 304,563  265,192  300,703
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  76,153 89,084 87,720  85,724  88,133
Derivatives  340,669 274,284 358,886  345,380  258,665
Debt securities in issue  95,947 104,080 119,461  131,013  145,401
Liabilities under insurance contracts  73,861 74,181 68,195 61,259  58,609
Other liabilities  121,459 120,181 123,141  134,171  109,954
Total liabilities at 31 December 2,434,161 2,480,859 2,509,409  2,389,486  2,299,774
     
Equity   
Total shareholders’ equity  190,447 181,871 175,242  158,725  147,667
Non-controlling interests  9,531 8,588 7,887 7,368  7,248
Total equity at 31 December 199,978 190,459 183,129  166,093  154,915
Total liabilities and equity at 31 December 2,634,139 2,671,318 2,692,538 2,555,579  2,454,689
Five-year selected financial information 
 2014
US$m 
2013
US$m 
2012 
US$m 
 2011 
US$m 
 2010
US$m 
Called up share capital  9,609 9,415 9,238  8,934  8,843
Capital resources
29,30
 190,730 194,009 180,806  170,334  167,555
Undated subordinated loan capital  2,773 2,777 2,778  2,779  2,781
Preferred securities and dated subordinated loan capital
31
47,208 48,114 48,260  49,438  54,421
Risk-weighted assets
29
 1,219,765 1,092,653 1,123,943  1,209,514  1,103,113
Financial statistics     
Loans and advances to customers as a percentage of  
customer accounts
27
 72.2 72.9 73.4  73.5  75.4 
Average total shareholders’ equity to average total assets 7.01 6.55 6.16  5.64  5.53
Net asset value per ordinary share at year-end
32
 (US$)  9.28 9.27 9.09  8.48  7.94
Number of US$0.50 ordinary shares in issue (millions)  19,218 18,830 18,476  17,868  17,686
Closing foreign exchange translation rates to US$:     
US$1: £  0.642 0.605 0.619  0.646  0.644
US$1: €  0.823 0.726 0.758  0.773  0.748
For footnotes, see page 109. 
A more detailed consolidated balance sheet is contained in the Financial Statements on page 337.  Report of the Directors: Financial summary (continued) 
Consolidated balance sheet 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
58 
Movement in 2014 
Total reported assets were US$2.6 trillion, 1% lower 
than at 31 December 2013. On a constant currency 
basis, total assets were US$85bn or 3% higher. 
Our balance sheet remains strong with a ratio of 
customer advances to customer accounts of 72%. 
Although customer loans and customer accounts 
have fallen on a reported basis, both have increased 
on a constant currency basis, notably rising in Asia. 
The following commentary is on a reported basis unless 
otherwise stated. 
Assets 
Cash and balances at central banks decreased by 
US$37bn, notably in Europe, in part reflecting net 
reductions in repurchase and reverse repurchase 
agreements. 
Trading assets were broadly unchanged. Excluding 
adverse foreign exchange movements of US$18bn, 
trading assets grew, primarily from the holdings of debt 
securities in Asia to support GB&M’s Rates business. 
In Europe, trading assets were broadly unchanged as 
increased holdings of equity securities were broadly 
offset by reductions in several other asset classes. 
Financial assets designated at fair value decreased by 
US$9bn, notably in Europe, largely from the transfer 
to ‘Assets held for sale’ of balances relating to the UK 
Pension business of HSBC Life (UK) Limited.  
Derivative assets increased by 22%, notably in Europe 
relating to interest rate and foreign exchange derivative 
contracts reflecting market movements, including 
changes in yield curves and foreign exchange rates.  
Loans and advances to customers marginally decreased 
by US$17bn or 2% including adverse foreign exchange 
movements of US$45bn. Excluding these movements, 
customer lending grew by US$28bn, or 3%, largely from 
growth in Asia of US$32bn and, to a lesser extent, in 
North America and Latin America. By contrast, balances 
decreased in Europe by US$15bn, as term lending 
growth in CMB and GB&M was more than offset by a 
fall in corporate overdraft balances relating to a small 
number of customers, as explained further below.  
In Asia, term lending to CMB and GB&M customers grew, 
which included growth in commercial real estate and 
other property-related lending. Mortgage balances 
also increased, mainly in Hong Kong. In North America, 
the growth in balances was driven by increased term 
lending to corporate and commercial customers in CMB 
and GB&M, partly offset by a decline in RBWM from the 
continued reduction in the US run-off portfolio and the 
transfer to ‘Assets held for sale’ of US first lien mortgage 
balances. Balances also rose in Latin America, mainly in 
CMB in Brazil and GB&M in Mexico.  
The fall in lending in Europe of US$15bn was driven by 
a reduction in corporate overdraft balances. In the UK, 
a small number of clients benefit from the use of net 
interest arrangements across their overdraft and deposit 
positions. During the year, as we aligned our approach 
in our Payments and Cash Management business to be 
more globally consistent, many of these clients increased 
the frequency with which they settled these balances, 
reducing their overdraft and deposit balances which 
fell by US$28bn. Other customer loans and advances 
increased by US$13bn, mainly in CMB and GB&M, 
driven by an increase in term lending to corporate and 
commercial customers, notably in the second half of the 
year. 
Reverse repurchase agreements decreased by US$18bn, 
driven by a managed reduction in Europe as we 
reassessed the overall returns of these activities in light 
of new regulatory requirements. This decrease was 
partly offset by increases in Asia and North America.  
Liabilities 
Repurchase agreements decreased by US$57bn or 35%, 
driven by a decrease in Europe, notably in the UK and 
France, reflecting the managed reduction in reverse 
repurchase agreements in Europe as noted above. 
Customer accounts decreased marginally by US$11bn, 
and included adverse foreign exchange movements of 
US$58bn. Excluding these movements, balances 
increased by US$47bn or 4%, with growth in all regions, 
notably Asia, of US$36bn. The increase in Asia reflected 
growth in our Payments and Cash Management business 
in CMB and GB&M, an increase in balances in Securities 
Services in GB&M and a rise in RBWM, in part reflecting 
successful deposit campaigns. In Europe, balances 
increased marginally despite a US$28bn fall in corporate 
current accounts, mainly in GB&M, in line with the fall in 
corporate overdraft balances, and a reduction in client 
deposits in GPB. These factors were more than offset by 
growth in CMB and, to a lesser extent, in GB&M as 
deposits from our Payments and Cash Management 
business increased together with a rise in RBWM 
balances reflecting customers’ continued preference for 
holding balances in current and savings accounts. 
Trading liabilities fell by US$16bn including adverse 
foreign exchange movements of US$12bn. Excluding 
these, balances fell reflecting changes in client demand. 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value reduced by 
US$13bn, mainly in Europe reflecting the transfer 
to ‘Liabilities held for sale’ of balances relating to the 
UK Pension business of HSBC Life (UK) Limited. 
The increase in derivative liabilities was in line with that 
of ‘Derivative assets’ as the underlying risk is broadly 
matched. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
59 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Equity 
Total shareholders’ equity rose by 5%, driven by profits 
generated in the year, which were partially offset 
by dividends paid. In addition, shareholders’ equity 
increased as we issued new contingent convertible 
securities of US$5.7bn during 2014. For further details 
of these securities, see Note 35 on the Financial 
Statements. These movements were partly offset by a 
reduction of US$9bn in our foreign exchange reserve 
reflecting the notable appreciation in the US dollar 
against sterling and the euro, particularly in the second 
half of the year.
 
Reconciliation of consolidated reported and constant currency assets and liabilities 
  31 December 2014 compared with 31 December 2013 
 
 
 31 Dec 13
 as
 reported 
 Currency 
 translation 
 adjustment
33
31 Dec 13
 at 31 Dec 14
 exchange
 rates 
 31 Dec 14
 as
 reported 
 Reported 
 change  
 Constant
 currency
 change 
  US$m US$m US$m US$m %  %
Cash and balances at central banks  166,599 (9,384) 157,215 129,957 (22)  (17)
Trading assets  303,192 (18,176) 285,016 304,193 −   7 
Financial assets designated at fair value  38,430 (2,467) 35,963 29,037 (24)  (19)
Derivative assets  282,265 (16,582) 265,683 345,008 22   30 
Loans and advances to banks
27
 120,046 (4,923) 115,123 112,149 (7)  (3)
Loans and advances to customers
27
 992,089 (45,494) 946,595 974,660 (2)  3 
Reverse repurchase agreements – 
non-trading
26,27
 179,690 (9,961) 169,729 161,713 (10)  (5)
Financial investments  425,925 (15,285) 410,640 415,467 (2)  1 
Other assets  163,082 (385) 162,697 161,955 (1)  −
Total assets  2,671,318 (122,657) 2,548,661 2,634,139 (1)  3 
   
Deposits by banks
27
  86,507 (3,317) 83,190 77,426 (10)  (7)
Customer accounts
27
  1,361,297 (57,673) 1,303,624 1,350,642 (1)  4 
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
26, 27
 164,220 (7,730) 156,490 107,432 (35)  (31)
Trading liabilities  207,025 (12,208) 194,817 190,572 (8)  (2)
Financial liabilities designated at 
fair value 89,084 (3,930) 85,154 76,153 (15)  (11)
Derivative liabilities  274,284 (16,214) 258,070 340,669 24   32 
Debt securities in issue  104,080 (5,089) 98,991 95,947 (8)  (3)
Liabilities under insurance contracts  74,181 (4,447) 69,734 73,861 −   6 
Other liabilities  120,181 (4,221) 115,960 121,459 1   5 
Total liabilities  2,480,859 (114,829) 2,366,030 2,434,161 (2)  3 
Total shareholders’ equity  181,871 (7,720) 174,151 190,447 5   9 
Non-controlling interests  8,588 (108) 8,480 9,531 11   12 
Total equity  190,459 (7,828) 182,631 199,978 5   9 
Total liabilities and equity  2,671,318 (122,657) 2,548,661 2,634,139 (1)  3 
For footnotes, see page 109. 
  Report of the Directors: Financial summary (continued) 
Consolidated balance sheet 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
60 
Combined view of lending and deposits
26,27 
 2014 2013  Change
 US$m US$m  %
Customers – amortised cost   
Loans and advances to customers 974,660 992,089  (2)
Loans and advances to customers reported in ‘Assets held for sale’
34
577 1,703  (66)
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 66,310 88,215  (25)
Combined customer lending  1,041,547 1,082,007  (4)
   
Customer accounts  1,350,642 1,361,297  (1)
Customer accounts reported in ‘Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ 145 2,187  (93)
Repurchase agreements – non-trading 79,556 121,515  (35)
Combined customer deposits  1,430,343 1,484,999  (4)
   
Banks – amortised cost   
Loans and advances to banks  112,149 120,046  (7)
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 95,403 91,475  4 
Combined bank lending 207,552 211,521  (2)
   
Deposits by banks  77,426 86,507  (10)
Repurchase agreements – non-trading 27,876 42,705  (35)
Combined bank deposits 105,302 129,212  (19)
   
Customers and banks – fair value  
Trading assets – reverse repos  1,297 10,120  (87)
–  loans and advances to customers  908 7,180  (87)
–  loans and advances to banks 389 2,940  (87)
Trading liabilities – repos  3,798 17,421  (78)
–  customer accounts  898 9,611  (91)
–  deposits by banks 2,900 7,810  (63)
For footnotes, see page 109. 
Financial investments 
  2014 2013 
 
Equity
securities 
Debt
securities Total 
Equity
securities 
Debt 
securities  Total 
 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn  US$bn
Balance Sheet Management  – 306.8 306.8 – 314.4  314.4
Insurance entities  – 48.5 48.5 – 46.4  46.4
Structured entities   0.1 14.9 15.0 0.1 22.6  22.7
Principal Investments   2.0 – 2.0 2.7 –  2.7
Other   8.6 34.6 43.2 6.3 33.4  39.7
At 31 December  10.7 404.8 415.5 9.1 416.8  425.9
 
   
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
61 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  er Information 
Customer accounts by country 
 2014 
US$m 
2013
US$m 
Europe  545,959 581,933
UK 439,313 462,796
France
35
 40,750 45,149
Germany  15,757 16,615 
Switzerland  11,058 16,796 
Turkey  7,856 7,795 
Other  31,225 32,782
Asia
8
 577,491 548,483
Hong Kong  389,094 365,905
Australia  19,312 19,812 
India  11,678 11,549 
Indonesia  5,788 5,865 
Mainland China  46,588 40,579 
Malaysia  16,292 17,093
Singapore  43,731 43,988 
Taiwan  14,901 12,758 
Other  30,107 30,934
Middle East and North Africa (excluding Saudi Arabia) 39,720 38,683 
Egypt  7,663 7,401 
UAE  19,771 18,433 
Other  12,286 12,849
North America  138,884 140,809
US 84,894 80,037
Canada  43,871 47,872
Other  10,119 12,900
Latin America  48,588 51,389
Argentina  4,384 4,468 
Brazil  23,204 23,999
Mexico  18,360 21,529
Other  2,640 1,393
At 31 December 1,350,642 1,361,297
For footnotes, see page 109.  Report of the Directors: Financial summary / Global businesses  
Reconciliation of RoRWA / Critical accounting estimates and judgements / Summary 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
62 
Reconciliation of RoRWA 
measures 
Performance Management 
During 2014, we targeted a return on average ordinary 
shareholders’ equity of 12%–15%. For internal management 
purposes we monitored global businesses and geographical 
regions by pre-tax return on RWAs, a metric which combines 
return on equity and regulatory capital efficiency objectives. 
We targeted a return on average risk-weighted assets of 2.2%-
2.6% in 2014. 
In addition to the return on average risk-weighted assets 
(‘RoRWA’) we measure our performance internally using 
the non-GAAP measure of adjusted RoRWA, which is 
adjusted profit before tax as a percentage of average 
risk-weighted assets adjusted for the effects of foreign 
currency translation differences and the effects of 
significant items. Excluded from adjusted RoRWA are 
certain items which distort year-on-year performance 
as explained on page 40. 
We also present the non-GAAP measure of adjusted 
RoRWA which is further adjusted for the effect of 
operations that are not regarded as contributing to the 
long-term performance of the Group. These include the 
run-off portfolios and the CRS business which was sold in 
2012. 
The CRS average RWAs in the table below represent the 
average of the associated operational risk RWAs that 
were not immediately released on disposal and have 
not already been adjusted as part of the adjusted 
RoRWA calculation. At the end of 2014, the residual 
CRS operational risk RWAs relating to the CRS portfolio 
were fully amortised.
 
Reconciliation of adjusted RoRWA (excluding run-off portfolios and Card and Retail Services) 
  2014 2013 
  Pre-tax
return 
Average
RWAs
36
RoRWA
36
Pre-tax 
return  
Average 
RWAs
36
 RoRWA
36
 US$m US$bn % US$m  US$bn  %
Reported  18,680 1,209 1.5 22,565  1,104  2.0
Adjusted
37 
 22,829 1,207 1.9 22,981  1,071  2.1
Run-off portfolios  870 115 0.8 443  121  0.4
Legacy credit in GB&M  172 48 0.4 186  33  0.6
US CML and other
38
  698 67 1.0 257   88  0.3
Card and Retail Services  – – – –  4  –
Adjusted (excluding run-off portfolios and CRS)  21,959 1,092 2.0 22,538  946   2.4
Reconciliation of reported and adjusted average risk-weighted assets 
 Year ended 31 December 
 2014 2013 Change
 US$bn US$bn %
Average reported RWAs
36
  1,209 1,104  9.5
Currency translation adjustment
33
 – (8)  
Acquisitions, disposals and dilutions  (2) (21)  
Other significant items – (4)  
Average adjusted RWAs
36
  1,207 1,071  12.6
For footnotes, see page 109. 
Critical accounting 
estimates and judgements 
The results of HSBC reflect the choice of accounting 
policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie 
the preparation of HSBC’s consolidated financial 
statements. The significant accounting policies, including 
the policies which include critical accounting estimates 
and judgements, are described in Note 1 and in the 
individual Notes on the Financial Statements. The 
accounting policies listed below are highlighted as they 
involve a high degree of judgement and estimation 
uncertainty and have a material impact on the financial 
statements: 
• Impairment of loans and advances: Note 1(k) on 
page 349; 
• Deferred tax assets: Note 8 on page 365; 
• Valuation of financial instruments: Note 13 on 
page 378; 
• Impairment of interests in associates: Note 20 on 
page 403; 
• Goodwill impairment: Note 21 on page 407; and 
• Provisions: Note 29 on page 420. 
In view of the inherent uncertainties and the high 
level of subjectivity involved in the recognition or 
measurement of the items above, it is possible that the 
outcomes in the next financial year could differ from 
those on which management’s estimates are based, 
resulting in the recognition and measurement of 
materially different amounts from those estimated 
by management in the 2014 Financial Statements.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
63 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Global businesses 
 
Summary  63 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management  64 
Commercial Banking  67 
Global Banking and Markets  70 
Global Private Banking  72 
Other  75 
Analysis by global business  76 
 
Summary 
HSBC reviews operating activity on a number of bases, 
including by geographical region and by global business. 
The commentaries below present global businesses 
followed by geographical regions (page 78). Performance 
is discussed in this order because certain strategic 
themes, business initiatives and trends affect more than 
one geographical region. All commentaries are on an 
adjusted basis (page 40) unless stated otherwise, while 
tables are on a reported basis unless stated otherwise. 
Basis of preparation 
The results of global businesses are presented in accordance 
with the accounting policies used in the preparation of HSBC’s 
consolidated financial statements. Our operations are closely 
integrated and, accordingly, the presentation of global business 
data includes internal allocations of certain items of income and 
expense. These allocations include the costs of certain support 
services and global functions, to the extent that these can be 
meaningfully attributed to operational business lines. While 
such allocations have been made on a systematic and 
consistent basis, they necessarily involve some subjectivity. 
Where relevant, income and expense amounts presented 
include the results of inter-segment funding along with inter-
company and inter-business line transactions. All such 
transactions are undertaken on arm’s length terms. 
The expense of the UK bank levy is included in the Europe 
geographical region as HSBC regards the levy as a cost of being 
headquartered in the UK. For the purposes of the presentation 
by global business, the cost of the levy is included in ‘Other’. 
 
 
Profit/(loss) before tax 
 2014 2013 2012 
 US$m % US$m %  US$m %
Retail Banking and Wealth Management  5,651 30.3 6,649 29.5   9,575  46.4 
Commercial Banking  8,744 46.8 8,441 37.4   8,535  41.3 
Global Banking and Markets  5,889 31.5 9,441 41.8   8,520  41.3 
Global Private Banking  626 3.4 193 0.9   1,009  4.9 
Other
39
  (2,230) (12.0) (2,159) (9.6)  (6,990) (33.9)
Year ended 31 December 18,680 100.0 22,565 100.0   20,649  100.0 
Total assets
40
 
 2014 2013 
 US$m % US$m %
Retail Banking and Wealth Management  499,083 18.9   517,085 19.4
Commercial Banking  372,739 14.2   360,623 13.5
Global Banking and Markets  1,839,644 69.8   1,975,509 74.0
Global Private Banking  88,342 3.4   97,655 3.7
Other  164,537 6.2   171,812 6.4
Intra-HSBC items  (330,206) (12.5)  (451,366) (17.0)
At 31 December 2,634,139 100.0   2,671,318 100.0
For footnotes, see page 109. 
Risk-weighted assets 
 2014 2013 
 US$bn %  US$bn %
Retail Banking and Wealth Management  205.1 16.8  233.5 21.4
Commercial Banking  432.4 35.4  391.7 35.8
Global Banking and Markets  516.1 42.3  422.3 38.6
Global Private Banking  20.8 1.8  21.7 2.0
Other  45.4 3.7  23.5 2.2
At 31 December 1,219.8 100.0  1,092.7 100.0
 
Principal Retail Banking and Wealth 
Management business 
RBWM comprises the Principal RBWM business, the US 
run-off portfolio and the disposed-of US CRS business. 
We believe that looking at the Principal RBWM business 
allows management to more clearly discuss the cause 
of material changes from year-to-year in the ongoing 
business and to assess the factors and trends in the 
business which are expected to have a material effect 
in future years. The reconciliation of RBWM to Principal 
RBWM is on page 64. Tables which reconcile reported to 
adjusted financial measures are available on 
www.hsbc.com.  Report of the Directors: Global businesses (continued) 
RBWM 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
64 
Retail Banking and Wealth 
Management 
RBWM provides banking and wealth 
management services for our personal 
customers to help them secure their future 
prosperity and realise their ambitions. 
 
   US
 Total US run-off Principal
 RBWM CRS portfolio RBWM
 US$m US$m US$m US$m
2014   
Net interest income  16,782 – 1,390 15,392
Net fee income  6,668 – (4) 6,672
Other income/ 
(expense)
42
  1,144  – (49) 1,193 
Net operating income
4 
 24,594 – 1,337 23,257
LICs
43
  (1,819)  – (30) (1,789)
Net operating income  22,775  1,307 21,468
Total operating 
expenses (17,522)  – (738) (16,784)
Operating profit  5,253 – 569 4,684
Income from 
associates
44 
 398  – – 398 
Profit before tax  5,651 – 569 5,082
RoRWA
36 
  2.6% –  0.8% 3.3%
    
2013    
Net interest income   18,339 – 2,061 16,278
Net fee income   7,021 – 11 7,010
Other income/ 
(expense)
42
 
 
1,380 – (400)1,780 
Net operating income
4 
  26,740 – 1,672 25,068
LICs
43
   (3,227) – (705) (2,522)
Net operating income   23,513 – 967 22,546
Total operating 
expenses 
 
(17,248) – (1,166)(16,082)
Operating profit/(loss)   6,265 – (199) 6,464
Income/(expense) from 
associates
44 
 
 
384 – (1) 385 
Profit/(loss) before tax   6,649 – (200) 6,849
RoRWA
36 
  2.6% –   (0.2%) 4.4%
    
2012    
Net interest income   20,298 1,267 2,563 16,468
Net fee income   7,205 395 33 6,777
Other income/ 
(expense)
42
  
 
6,358 3,155 (200) 3,403 
Net operating income
4 
  33,861 4,817 2,396 26,648
LICs
43
   (5,515) (322) (2,569) (2,624)
Net operating income/ 
(expense)  
 
28,346 4,495 (173) 24,024 
Total operating 
expenses 
 
(19,769) (729) (1,103)(17,937)
Operating profit/(loss)   8,577 3,766 (1,276) 6,087
Income from 
associates
44 
 
 
998 – 2 996 
Profit/(loss) before tax   9,575 3,766 (1,274) 7,083
RoRWA
36 
   3.1%  14.7%   (1.1%) 4.2%
For footnotes, see page 109. 
 
Principal RBWM RoRWA  
3.3% 
Global mobile application 
downloads surpass  
6 million 
Best Mobile Banking Application 2014 
(Global Finance Magazine) 
 
Strategic direction
RBWM provides retail banking and wealth management 
services for personal customers in markets where we have, or 
can build, the scale in our target customer segments to do so 
cost effectively.  
We focus on three strategic imperatives: 
• building a consistent, high standard, customer needs-driven 
wealth management service for retail customers drawing 
on our Insurance and Asset Management businesses; 
• using our global expertise to improve customer service 
and productivity to provide a high standard of banking 
solutions and service to our customers efficiently; and 
• simplifying and re-shaping the RBWM portfolio of 
businesses to focus our capital and resources on key 
markets. 
Our three growth priorities are customer growth in target 
segments, deepening customer relationships through wealth 
management and relationship-led lending, and enhancing 
distribution capabilities, including digital.  
Implementing Global Standards, enhancing risk management 
control models and simplifying processes also remain top 
priorities for RBWM. 
Review of reported performance  
• On a reported basis, RBWM profit before tax reduced 
by US$1.0bn to US$5.7bn, while Principal RBWM 
profit before tax fell by US$1.8bn to US$5.1bn. 
The reduction in RBWM partly reflected the effects 
of significant items (see page 42) including provisions 
of US$568m arising from the ongoing review of 
compliance with the CCA in the UK, adverse 
movements in non-qualifying hedges of US$493m 
in 2014 compared with favourable movements of 
US$262m in 2013, UK customer redress provisions 
of US$992m compared with US$953m in 2013, 
and disposals. 
• In the US run-off portfolio, a profit before tax was 
recorded compared with a loss in 2013. A reduction in 
revenue was more than offset by lower LICs reflecting 
decreased lending balances, reduced new impaired 
loans and lower delinquency levels. Operating 
expenses also fell, mainly from the non-recurrence 
of a customer remediation provision relating to our 
former CRS business and lower divestiture costs.    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
65 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Review of adjusted performance
45
 
The commentary that follows reflects performance in our 
Principal RBWM
46
 business (see page 63). 
Profit before tax (US$m) 
• Profit before tax fell by US$0.7bn to US$6.9bn. 
Revenue was broadly unchanged, while lower LICs 
were more than offset by higher operating expenses.  
Revenue (US$m) 
• Revenue was broadly unchanged despite the effect 
of de-risking initiatives and against a backdrop of 
continued low interest rates and muted growth in 
certain key markets. Higher income from current 
accounts, savings and deposits was broadly offset by 
lower revenues from personal lending and wealth 
management products. 
Principal RBWM: management view of adjusted revenue 
   2014  2013
   US$m  US$m
Current accounts, savings and deposits 5,839 5,606
Wealth management products 6,201 6,263
– investment distribution
47
  3,456 3,568
– life insurance manufacturing 1,603 1,602
– asset management 1,142 1,093
Personal lending 11,300 11,455
– mortgages 3,169 3,182
– credit cards  4,339 4,310
– other personal lending
48
 3,792 3,963
Other
49
 645 873
Net operating income
4
 23,985 24,197
For footnotes, see page 109. 
• Revenue from current accounts, savings and deposits 
increased by 4%. This reflected an increase in 
customer account balances, of 4% compared with 
2013, mainly in Hong Kong and the UK. In addition, 
higher revenue reflected increased spreads on savings 
products in the UK and, to a lesser extent, on deposits 
in mainland China where market interest rates 
increased. 
• Revenue from wealth management products reduced 
by 1%. Investment distribution income declined, 
mainly as a result of lower fees in the UK, in part 
reflecting the Retail Distribution Review undertaken 
in 2013, and in Brazil reflecting a change in product 
mix. Life insurance manufacturing income was 
broadly unchanged. This reflected higher new 
business sales and investment income in Hong Kong, 
and a net favourable movement in the PVIF asset in 
Brazil, offset by a reduction in the PVIF asset in France 
where a fall in long-term yields increased the cost 
of guarantees on savings business.  
• Personal lending revenue was down by 1%. While 
mortgage and credit card revenues were broadly 
unchanged, other personal lending income declined 
by 4%, notably in the UK due to the cessation of 
certain overdraft fees. 
• LICs decreased by 22% with reductions across all 
regions, mainly in Brazil due to impairment model 
changes and assumption revisions for restructured 
loans in 2013 which were not repeated in 2014. LICs 
also reduced in the US and the UK, partly reflecting 
lower delinquency levels and reduced outstanding 
credit card and UK loan balances. 
Operating expenses (US$m) 
• Operating expenses increased by 7%, reflecting 
inflationary pressures, particularly in Latin America, in 
addition to higher costs associated with Regulatory 
Programmes and Compliance. The increase also 
reflected the timing of the recognition of the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme levy in the UK and 
higher marketing costs across the regions. These 
factors were partly offset by sustainable cost savings 
of over US$200m. 
  
5,082
6,849
1,829
6,911
799
7,648
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted profit
23,257
25,068
728 23,985
(871)
24,197
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted revenue
16,784
16,082
(1,099)
15,685
(1,441)
14,641
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted operating 
expenses Report of the Directors: Global businesses (continued) 
RBWM / CMB 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
66 
Growth priorities 
Focus on relationship-led personal lending to 
drive balance sheet growth 
• In 2014, we continued to focus on improving 
the quality of our revenue through the ongoing 
implementation of de-risking initiatives, although 
these have weighed on income. They included 
the introduction of a new discretionary incentive 
framework for our Retail Banking customer-facing 
staff similar to the one launched for Wealth 
Management relationship managers (‘RM’s) in 
2013, removing the formulaic link between product 
sales and variable pay for front line staff. We also 
continued to simplify our product range, improve 
our risk governance and align our practices following 
regulatory changes.  
• We aim to deepen relationships with our existing 
customers and use personal lending to generate new 
business, targeting different segments and offerings 
in each market. To achieve this we continued to use 
improved analytics to support product decisions. 
Based on pricing and customer response measures, 
we enhanced revenue and grew balances in certain 
targeted segments, including the re-launch of the 
Advance segment in 17 markets in 2014. Lending and 
deposit balances and revenue per customer for 
Advance increased compared with 2013. 
• We maintained discipline around growing lending 
within our risk appetite in our home and priority 
growth markets. Home loan average balances 
increased by 3% in 2014, reflecting growth in our 
priority markets, notably with double-digit growth 
in approximately half of these countries as we re-
balanced the product mix towards secured loans, 
although this mix change translated into lower 
spreads. In our home markets, we continued to target 
growth in unsecured lending, with average balances 
marginally higher including an increase in average 
card balances in Hong Kong, partly offset by 
a reduction in the UK. Despite overall balance 
growth, LICs remained lower than in 2013. 
• Customer recommendation levels improved in 
several markets during 2014, with the total volume 
of complaints related to products and services 
decreasing by more than 20% in the second half of 
the year, compared with the equivalent period in 
2013. Further work is required and is ongoing to 
better meet our customer needs as they continue to 
evolve. 
Continue to develop wealth management with a 
focus on growing customer balances  
• We remain committed to capturing opportunities 
from wealth creation, primarily through our Premier 
offering with its customers generating nearly four 
times the average revenue of non-Premier clients.  
• Although revenue from wealth management products 
remained lower than expected we continued to grow 
wealth balances, which comprise investment and 
insurance balances. These balances increased 
compared with 2013 across insurance, mutual funds 
and equities trading. 
• In 2014, Global Asset Management continued its 
strategy of strengthening collaboration across the 
global businesses to serve their customers. This 
helped to attract US$29bn of net new money 
principally in fixed income and liquidity products, in 
particular with GB&M clients. The investment 
performance in over 74% of Global Asset 
Management’s eligible funds by value were above 
the market median.  
• In 2014, we improved our RMs’ productivity through 
new training programmes and tools. Client contact 
and coverage rates increased from 2013 with higher 
numbers of client appointments, financial reviews 
and needs fulfilled per RM. 
Develop digital capabilities to support customers 
and reduce cost 
• We continue to develop our digital channels and 
streamline processes to improve the customer 
experience and to deliver cost savings through our 
distribution network. 
• In 2014, downloads of our global mobile application, 
now with enriched functionality, were over 3m with 
the total number of downloads surpassing 6m. Global 
Finance magazine presented HSBC with the award for 
Best Mobile Banking App at its 2014 World’s Best 
Internet Bank event based on the application’s global 
reach and functionality. 
• In addition, we launched our first straight-through 
on-line mortgage application service in the UK and, by 
the end of 2014, 14% of our annual approvals were 
produced online. We also deployed new Premier 
platforms, digital capabilities and tablet-based tools 
to enhance the end-to-end delivery process and 
customer experience. Across our priority growth 
markets, the revenue derived from digital channels 
increased by 18% compared with 2013. 
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
67 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Commercial Banking 
CMB offers a full range of commercial 
financial services and tailored solutions to 
more than 2.5 million customers ranging 
from small and medium-sized enterprises 
to publicly quoted companies in almost 
60 countries. 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$m US$m US$m
Net interest income  10,506  10,200 10,361 
Net fee income  4,738  4,717 4,470 
Other income
42
  1,059  1,448 1,720 
Net operating income
4 
 16,303  16,365 16,551 
LICs
43
  (1,675) (2,384) (2,099)
Net operating income  14,628  13,981 14,452 
Total operating expenses (7,489) (7,049) (7,598)
Operating profit 7,139  6,932 6,854 
Income from associates
44 
 1,605  1,509 1,681 
Profit before tax  8,744  8,441 8,535 
RoRWA
36 
  2.1%   2.2% 2.2%
Record reported profit before tax of 
US$8.7bn 
10% 
Growth in customer lending balances 
(excluding the effect of currency translation)
Best Global Cash Management Bank for 
Corporates and Financial Institutions 
for the third consecutive year 
(Euromoney 2014) 
Strategic direction 
CMB aims to be the banking partner of choice for our 
customers building on our rich heritage, international 
capabilities and relationships to enable global connectivity. 
We have four growth priorities: 
• providing consistency and efficiency for our customers 
through a business model organised around global 
customer segments and products; 
• utilising our distinctive geographical network to support 
and facilitate global trade and capital flows; 
• delivering excellence in our core flow products – specifically 
in Trade and in Payments and Cash Management; and 
• enhancing collaboration with other global businesses. 
Implementing Global Standards, enhancing risk management 
controls and simplifying processes also remain top priorities 
for CMB. 
For footnotes, see page 109. 
Review of reported performance 
• In 2014, CMB reported a record profit before tax of 
US$8.7bn, 4% higher than in 2013. Reported profit 
before tax included the effect of a number of 
significant items (see page 42), notably the gain on 
sale of our operations in Panama of US$479m in 
2013. The increase in reported profit before tax was 
also driven by a reduction in LICs, although this was 
partly offset by higher operating expenses. 
Review of adjusted performance
45
  
Profit before tax (US$m) 
• Profit before tax grew by 13% to US$8.9bn. This was 
driven by increased revenue and a reduction in LICs, 
partly offset by a rise in operating expenses. 
Revenue (US$m) 
• Revenue grew by 5%, driven by Credit and Lending 
and Payments and Cash Management, notably in our 
home markets of Hong Kong and the UK. This was due 
to higher net interest income from growth in average 
lending and deposit balances in Hong Kong and rising 
average deposit balances and wider lending spreads 
in the UK. Higher net fee income was driven by an 
increase in term lending fees in the UK. 
• Despite lending spread compression compared with 
2013, spreads in 2014 stabilised and showed signs 
of recovery in certain markets. In addition, we saw 
notable growth in our UK lending balances in the 
second half of 2014. 
  
8,744
8,441
196 8,940
(531)
7,910
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted profit
16,303 16,365 9 16,312
(886)
15,479
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted revenue Report of the Directors: Global businesses (continued) 
CMB 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
68 
Management view of adjusted revenue 
 2014 2013
 US$m US$m
Global Trade and Receivables Finance  2,680 2,625
Credit and Lending  6,316 5,938
Payments and Cash Management, 
current accounts and savings deposits  5,018 4,709 
Markets products, Insurance and 
Investments and Other
51
 2,298 2,207 
Net operating income
4
  
16,312 15,479 
For footnotes, see page 109. 
The table above has been restated to reclassify Foreign Exchange 
revenue. In 2014, ‘Markets products, Insurance and Investments and 
Other’ included Foreign Exchange revenue of US$207m previously 
included within ‘Global Trade and Receivables Finance’ (2013: 
US$213m) and US$516m previously included within ‘Payments and 
Cash Management’ (2013: US$462m). 
• Global Trade and Receivables Finance revenue 
increased by 2% compared with 2013. Average 
balances rose, with growth in Asia, Europe and 
Latin America. The effect was partly offset by spread 
compression in Latin America, reflecting a change in 
portfolio mix in Brazil. In 2014, spread compression 
stabilised and showed signs of recovery in certain 
markets.  
• Credit and Lending revenue increased by 6% 
compared with 2013, reflecting higher average 
balances in Hong Kong and the US and, to a lesser 
extent, in Brazil. Revenue also increased in the UK 
due to wider lending spreads and increased fee 
income from term lending due to higher new business 
volumes. These factors were partly offset by spread 
compression in Latin America, primarily in Brazil 
as discussed above and in Mexico due to the 
repositioning of the business, and in mainland China. 
• Payments and Cash Management revenue increased 
by 7% compared with 2013. This reflected strong 
deposit growth, notably in the UK and Hong Kong, 
along with an increase in high value payment 
transaction volumes. This was partly offset by 
spread compression, notably in Europe. 
• Markets products, Insurance and Investments and 
Other revenue was 4% higher, primarily in North 
America. In Canada, this reflected the non-recurrence 
of a write-down of an investment property held for 
sale in 2013 and a gain on sale of an investment 
portfolio in 2014. In the US, higher revenue was 
driven by a gain on sale of a real estate portfolio. 
• LICs decreased by US$663m, mainly in Europe 
and Latin America. Lower LICs in Europe reflected a 
reduction in individually assessed loan impairment 
charges in the UK. The reduction in Latin America 
was driven by lower individually assessed charges in 
Mexico, in particular relating to homebuilders, and 
lower collectively assessed impairments in Brazil 
due to impairment model changes and assumption 
revisions for restructured loans in the Business 
Banking portfolios in 2013 not repeated in 2014. 
These factors were partly offset by higher individually 
assessed charges in Asia, notably in mainland China 
and Hong Kong. 
Operating expenses (US$m) 
• Operating expenses increased by 8%, principally in 
Europe, Latin America and Asia. In Europe and Asia, 
higher costs reflected increased investment in staff to 
support business growth and inflationary pressures, 
while in Latin America costs rose due to inflation 
which was largely attributable to union-agreed 
salary increases in Brazil and Argentina. In addition, 
operating expenses increased due to higher 
Regulatory Programmes and Compliance costs. 
• Income from associates increased by 4% due to 
the improved performance of BoCom and The Saudi 
British Bank. 
Growth priorities 
Providing consistency through a globally led 
business model 
• Our business strategy is built on the foundation of 
global scale and consistency, focusing on customer 
segments and customer behaviour to ensure we 
provide tailored products to suit their needs. 
We continue to invest in providing global product 
coverage for our business segments. This enables 
us to manage risk more efficiently.  
• The creation of new senior management positions 
and a more defined global strategy within our 
customer segments enabled us to improve client 
coverage. In 2014, we appointed a new Global 
Head of International Subsidiary Banking to drive 
investment in supporting our international customers 
across our network. We also established dedicated 
RM teams for international subsidiary banking in 
key markets to focus on meeting the needs of these 
subsidiaries and growing the associated revenue 
streams. 
• We appointed a new Global Head of Lending and 
Transaction Management with a remit to support 
all segments. This globally-aligned product group is 
designed to optimise capital allocation and improve 
revenue mix within our risk appetite.  
• In 2014, we redefined our Large Corporate segment 
to focus on a smaller number of higher-value clients. 
The Large Corporate segment experienced strong 
7,489
7,049
(189)
7,300
(284)
6,765
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted operating 
expenses  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
69 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
growth in most markets fuelled by multi-country flow 
mandates and increased event-driven capital markets 
activity. The increased focus on ‘global wallet’ and 
connectivity led to increased awareness amongst our 
customers of our franchise and capabilities, resulting 
in stronger global strategic partnerships.  
• In addition, we increased our market presence in six 
of our key MME markets (Hong Kong, the UK, Canada, 
the US, Mexico and Brazil). We made further progress 
by appointing regional and country heads of MME 
and by enhancing our client management system. 
• In Business Banking, we invested in additional RMs 
in key markets, increased training worldwide and 
continued to deploy a globally consistent customer 
management system within our relationship-
managed portfolios. Six major campaigns were 
launched in 2014 to help SME customers achieve their 
growth ambitions and expand overseas, including 
offering funds in the UK, France, the US, Canada, 
Australia and Turkey totalling US$18bn.  
Utilising our geographical network to support 
our customers’ international growth ambitions 
• HSBC’s network across the major global trade 
corridors continued to assist us to provide value-
added solutions for our clients. For example, we 
helped one of the largest retailers in the US 
to improve its supply chain management by providing 
holistic financing and liquidity solutions including 
working capital, trade and supply chain finance.  
• In Payments and Cash Management, CMB remained 
well positioned to benefit from global trends such as 
the increase in cross-border payment flows as we are 
strategically located where more than 85% of the 
world’s payment activity originates. For example, new 
customer mandates increased by 23% on 2013. In 
addition, we improved our digital offering, migrating 
over 80,000 customers to date from legacy platforms 
to core electronic banking channels, and continued 
to develop innovative products. These included the 
enhancement of our Global Liquidity Solutions, which 
enables customers in mainland China to connect their 
operating cash with their liquidity structures globally. 
Delivering excellence in our core products 
• HSBC is one of the largest trade finance banks in the 
world with access to more than 85% of the world’s 
trade and capital flows. We continued to enhance 
our open account financing capabilities through 
investment in Receivables Finance and Supply 
Chain, specifically the launch of a new Supply Chain 
Solutions platform and the consolidation of the 
existing Receivables platform into regional hubs. 
This offers customers broader access to expertise 
and liquidity and gives us the ability to deploy our 
capabilities rapidly in new markets, providing better 
risk management and lower operating costs. 
• Against the backdrop of declining commodity prices, 
we achieved double-digit asset balance growth in 
Commodity and Structured Trade Finance compared 
with 2013. 
Enhancing collaboration with other global 
businesses 
• We maintained our focus on strengthening CMB’s 
collaboration with GB&M and GPB by increasing 
product coverage across the Group to our customers. 
In 2014, CMB customers generated over 80% of 
HSBC’s total collaboration revenues. Revenue from 
collaboration remained broadly unchanged compared 
with 2013. This was driven by lower sales of Markets 
products to CMB customers, notably in the Foreign 
Exchange business, offset by growth in the sale of 
Capital Financing products with regard to mergers 
and acquisitions and debt capital markets. 
   Report of the Directors: Global businesses (continued) 
GB&M 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
70 
Global Banking and 
Markets 
GB&M provides tailored financial solutions 
to major government, corporate and 
institutional clients worldwide. 
 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$m US$m US$m
Net interest income  7,022  6,766  6,960 
Net fee income  3,560  3,482  3,329 
Net trading income
50
  5,861  6,780  5,690 
Other income
42 
 1,335  2,148  2,294
Net operating income
4 
 17,778  19,176 18,273 
LICs
43
  (365) (207) (670)
Net operating income  17,413  18,969  17,603 
Total operating expenses (12,028) (9,960) (9,907)
Operating profit  5,385  9,009  7,696 
Income from associates
44
 504  432  824 
Profit before tax  5,889  9,441  8,520 
RoRWA
36
   1.2%   2.3% 2.1%
 
Client flows up in Equities,  
although subdued in Foreign Exchange 
Sustained growth in revenues in 
Payments and Cash Management 
Bond and Derivatives 
House of the year 
(International Finance Review 2014) 
Strategic direction 
GB&M’s business model and strategy is well established with 
the objective of being a ‘top 5’ bank to our priority clients and 
in our chosen products and geographies. 
We focus on the following growth priorities: 
• connecting clients to international growth opportunities;  
• continuing to be well positioned in products that will 
benefit from global trends; and  
• leveraging our distinctive international expertise and 
geographical network which connects developed and 
faster-growing regions. 
Enhancing risk management controls, implementing Global 
Standards and collaborating with other global businesses also 
remain top priorities for GB&M. 
For footnotes, see page 109. 
Review of reported performance 
• GB&M’s reported profit before tax of US$5.9bn was 
down by US$3.6bn, primarily in Europe and North 
America, from higher operating expenses and lower 
revenue. The increase in operating expenses and 
decrease in revenue reflected a number of significant 
items (see page 42). Operating expenses included 
settlements and provisions of US$1.2bn in connection 
with foreign exchange investigations, of which 
US$809m was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2014, 
and a charge of US$533m in the US relating to a 
settlement agreement with the Federal Housing 
Finance Agency, which are included in significant 
items.  
Review of adjusted performance
45
 
Profit before tax (US$m) 
• Profit before tax of US$8.1bn was US$1.1bn lower 
than in 2013, driven by higher operating expenses 
and a fall in revenue, which included the introduction 
of the FFVA on certain derivative contracts that 
resulted in a charge of US$263m. 
Revenue (US$m) 
• Revenue was lower principally due to the effect 
of the FFVA and a reduction in our Foreign Exchange 
business which was partly offset by an increase in 
Capital Financing. 
5,889
9,441
2,225 8,114
(233)
9,208
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted profit
17,778
19,176
328 18,106
(644)
18,532
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted revenue  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
71 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Management view of adjusted revenue 
 
2014 
US$m 
2013
US$m 
Markets
52
 6,262 6,933
– Credit  567 801
– Rates  1,563 1,678
– Foreign Exchange  2,916 3,140
– Equities  1,216 1,314
Capital Financing  4,066 3,981
Payments and Cash Management 1,794 1,743
Securities Services  1,698 1,653
Global Trade and Receivables Finance  767 723
Balance Sheet Management  3,020 3,046
Principal Investments  531 450
Other
53
  (32) 3
Total operating income
4
  18,106 18,532
For footnotes, see page 109. 
• The table below outlines the effect on businesses and 
total adjusted operating income of the FFVA: 
Effect of FFVA on total operating income 
 
2014 
US$m 
2013
US$m 
Total operating income  18,106 18,532
– FFVA in Rates (164) –
– FFVA in Credit (97) –
– FFVA in other businesses (2) –
Total operating income excluding FFVA 18,369 18,532
– of which Rates excluding FFVA 1,727 1,678
– of which Credit excluding FFVA 664 801
• Excluding the above, revenue in the majority of 
our Markets businesses was lower. This was 
predominantly driven by a decline in our Foreign 
Exchange business, which was affected by lower 
volatility, notably in the first half of 2014, and 
reduced client flows. Credit revenue also decreased 
due to adverse movements in credit spreads and a 
reduction in Legacy Credit. Equities revenue fell too, 
as 2013 benefited from higher revaluation gains 
which more than offset a rise in revenue from 
increased client flows and higher derivatives income 
in 2014. By contrast, Rates revenue rose due to 
favourable market movements, notably in Asia, along 
with minimal fair value movements on our own credit 
spread on structured liabilities compared with 
adverse movements in 2013. These factors were 
partly offset by a fall in Rates revenue in Europe.  
• In Capital Financing, revenue grew by US$85m, as the 
effects of increased volumes and market share gains 
across our advisory, equity capital markets and 
lending products were partly offset by spread and fee 
compression. 
• Payments and Cash Management revenue was 
marginally higher, due to both increased deposit 
balances, notably in Asia, and a rise in high value 
transaction volumes, partly offset by spread 
compression. We also experienced growth in 
Securities Services revenue, in part from new business 
in Europe, and Global Trade and Receivables Finance 
from growth in lending balances. 
• LICs were higher due to a revision to certain estimates 
used in our corporate collective loan impairment 
calculation and increased individually assessed 
provisions, including a provision against a guarantee in 
Brazil recorded as a credit risk provision. These were 
partially offset by higher net releases on available-for-
sale ABSs in our legacy portfolio than in 2013. 
Operating expenses (US$m) 
 
• Operating expenses increased by 6%, primarily due to 
higher Regulatory Programmes and Compliance 
related costs and from increased staff costs. These 
factors were partially offset by sustainable savings of 
over US$80m. 
Growth priorities 
Connecting clients to international growth 
opportunities 
• Following the re-shaping of GB&M in 2013, as part 
of which we brought together all our financing 
businesses into Capital Financing, including lending, 
debt capital markets and equity capital markets, we 
continued to focus on better aligning our resources 
with clients’ needs. We segmented our client base 
and created a Client Strategy Group to ensure that 
GB&M’s product, sector and coverage expertise 
supports clients in the growth of their business 
activities. Strong collaboration between these teams 
was recently demonstrated by our appointment as 
the joint global coordinator and joint book runner on 
the largest European corporate equity rights issue 
since 2011. This was our fifth transaction with this 
client in the last 12 months. 
• We are utilising our global network to provide 
solutions for our clients in both established markets 
and faster-growing regions. Our ability to connect 
clients to opportunities was highlighted by the first 
Sukuk bond issued outside the Islamic world on 
which we acted as sole structuring advisor, joint 
lead manager and joint book runner.  
• We continued to strengthen our Foreign Exchange 
franchise by enhancing our risk management 
capabilities and further developing our distribution 
platforms and electronic pricing capabilities. This will 
improve our systems and governance whilst enabling 
us to better serve clients with a robust and efficient 
offering. 
12,028
9,960
(1,897)
10,131
(398)
9,562
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted operating 
expenses Report of the Directors: Global businesses (continued) 
GB&M/GPB 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
72 
Continuing to be well positioned in products that 
will benefit from global trends 
• Capturing new opportunities arising from the 
internationalisation of the renminbi continues to be 
one of our key growth priorities. Recently, we acted 
as joint lead manager, book runner and financial 
advisor on a pioneering Formosa bond issue, which 
simultaneously listed on three exchanges worldwide. 
We were also voted ‘Best Overall for Products and 
Services’ by Asiamoney Offshore RMB Services Survey 
2014 for the third consecutive year, demonstrating 
our continued leading position in the overseas 
renminbi market. 
• In November 2014 we launched the Stock Connect 
programme, a mechanism linking trading and clearing 
between the Shanghai and Hong Kong securities 
markets. This will give our clients direct access to the 
Chinese A-share market and the ability to fund equity 
purchases in renminbi. 
• Geographical expansion of large corporates and rising 
world trade are expected to increase the demand for 
cross-border payments and related services. Our 
strength in Payments and Cash Management was 
recognised by Euromoney, who named HSBC the 
‘Best Global Cash Manager for Non-financial 
Institutions’ and ‘Best Global Cash Manager for 
Corporate and Financial Institutions’, for the second 
and third consecutive years, respectively. We were 
also able to win a mandate for renminbi cash 
management and additional foreign exchange and 
deposit business from a global automotive group 
which is seeking to expand into mainland China. 
Leveraging our distinctive international expertise 
and geographical network which connects 
developed and faster-growing regions 
• Our distinctive geographical network and global 
expertise allows us to provide a truly international 
service to our clients. We recently demonstrated the 
value of our global capital markets capabilities and 
leading position in faster-growing markets to a 
European automotive group. We advised and acted as 
joint sub-underwriter on a domestic securitisation in 
mainland China which was structured to attract both 
international and domestic investors. We were the 
first foreign bank to advise on the structuring of an 
internationally rated ABS transaction in mainland 
China. 
• GB&M continues to focus on collaborating with other 
global businesses and supporting clients in accessing a 
range of products across our Markets and Capital 
Financing businesses. In 2014, collaboration revenue 
between GB&M and CMB was broadly unchanged, 
driven by a reduction in Foreign Exchange which was 
offset by growth in Capital Financing, notably in 
advisory. 
Global Private Banking 
GPB serves high net worth individuals and 
families with complex and international 
needs within the Group’s priority markets. 
 
 
2014 2013 2012
US$m US$m US$m
Net interest income 994  1,146  1,294 
Net fee income 1,056  1,150  1,232 
Other income
42
327  143  646
Net operating income
4
2,377  2,439  3,172 
LICs
43
8  (31) (27)
Net operating income 2,385  2,408  3,145 
Total operating expenses (1,778) (2,229) (2,143)
Operating profit 607  179  1,002 
Income from associates
44
19  14  7 
Profit before tax 626  193  1,009 
RoRWA
36 
2.9%  0.9%  4.6%
Positive net new money of 
US$14bn 
in areas targeted for growth 
since December 2013 
Performance continued to be affected by 
actions taken to reposition the customer 
base 
Best Family Office Offering 
(Private Banker International Global Wealth Awards) 
Strategic direction 
GPB aims to build on HSBC’s commercial banking heritage to be 
the leading private bank for high net worth business owners by:
• capturing growth opportunities in home and priority growth 
markets, particularly from intra-Group collaboration by 
accessing owners and principals of CMB and GB&M clients; 
and 
• repositioning the business to concentrate on onshore 
markets and a smaller number of target offshore markets, 
aligned with Group priorities. 
Implementing Global Standards, enhancing risk management 
controls, tax transparency and simplifying processes also 
remain top priorities for GPB. 
For footnotes, see page 109.   
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
73 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Review of reported performance 
• Reported profit before tax of US$626m was US$433m 
higher than in 2013. This was due to a small number 
of significant items (see page 42), most notably in 
2013 from the loss on write-off of allocated goodwill 
relating to our Monaco business of US$279m and 
regulatory provisions of US$352m. 
• We expect our GPB results in 2015 to be affected by 
the reduction in our client assets as we continue to 
reposition our business model, including reducing the 
number of clients in non-priority markets. 
Review of adjusted performance
45
 
Profit before tax (US$m) 
• Profit before tax fell by US$162m to US$738m, 
mainly due to reduced revenue as we continued to 
reposition the business, partly offset by lower 
operating expenses and LICs.  
Revenue (US$m) 
• Revenue decreased by 11% compared with 2013, due 
to lower trading income and net fee income reflecting 
a managed reduction in client assets and lower 
market volatility. Net interest income also declined, 
mainly in Europe and Asia, driven by a reduction 
in deposit balances and lower treasury income, 
respectively, both reflecting actions to reposition 
the business. In addition, lending spreads narrowed 
compared with 2013. 
• Net loan impairment releases in 2014 compared with 
charges of US$33m in 2013, largely due to releases of 
collective impairment allowances in the UK and in the 
US.  
Operating expenses (US$m) 
• Operating expenses decreased by 5%, primarily 
due to the release of a UK customer redress provision 
recognised in 2012, the non-recurrence of the UK 
provision relating to a bilateral Rubik tax agreement 
between the UK and Swiss governments, and the 
managed reduction in staff numbers. 
Reported client assets
54 
2014 2013
US$bn US$bn
At 1 January 382 398
Net new money (3) (26)
Of which: areas targeted for growth 14 (7)
Value change 8 12
Disposals (11) (3)
Exchange and other (11) 1
At 31 December 365 382
Reported client assets by geography 
 2014 2013
 US$bn US$bn
Europe 179 197
Asia 112 108
North America 63 65
Latin America 11 12
At 31 December 365 382
For footnote, see page 109. 
• On a reported basis, client assets, which include funds 
under management and cash deposits, decreased, 
mainly in Europe, due to the effect of the sale of a 
portfolio of clients in Switzerland, the disposal of 
our HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG business in 
Luxembourg and negative net new money. In 
addition there were unfavourable foreign exchange 
movements, mainly in Europe. This was partly offset 
by favourable market movements. Negative net new 
money of US$3bn was mainly driven by the continued 
repositioning of our business, though we attracted 
positive net new money of US$14bn in areas that we 
have targeted for growth, including our home and 
priority growth markets and the high net worth client 
segment. 
626
193
112 738
707
900
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted profit
2,377
2,439
41 2,418
286 2,725
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted revenue
1,778
2,229
(71)
1,707
(423)
1,806
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted operating 
expenses Report of the Directors: Global businesses (continued) 
GPB /Other 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
74 
• On a reported basis, our return on assets, defined as 
the percentage of revenue to average client assets, 
was 63bps in 2014, broadly unchanged compared 
with 2013. On an adjusted basis, our return on assets 
was 6bps lower in 2014, reflecting the effect of the 
repositioning and reduced market volatility. Our client 
return on assets, which excludes treasury and capital 
revenue, also decreased by 4bps. 
• In January 2015, the Swiss National Bank removed its 
currency cap with the euro which resulted in the 
appreciation of the Swiss franc. We monitor the 
impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on a 
continuing basis and do not expect any significant 
effect on the reported results of our GPB business. 
Strategic direction 
Capture growth in our home and priority growth 
markets and focus on collaboration revenues 
• In 2014, new referrals from other global businesses 
generated net new money of over US$10bn, which 
was US$5.5bn higher than in 2013. In total, 74% of 
our net new money from areas targeted for growth 
in 2014 came from Group-referred clients, helped 
by adopting a more coordinated and systematic 
approach to identifying client needs in conjunction 
with the other global businesses. 
• We integrated our collaboration efforts with GB&M 
and CMB into one team, the Corporate Client Group 
(‘CCG’). This was established to improve client 
introductions to and from GPB by standardising best 
practices and developing tailored offerings to meet 
client needs more effectively. The CCG is also 
responsible for enhancing coverage of existing 
personal and corporate relationships through a 
coordinated approach. In addition, the Global 
Solutions Group was established to deliver bespoke 
solutions to ultra-high net worth and global priority 
clients. This involves working closely with GB&M and 
CMB to enhance the service we offer to these 
sophisticated clients.  
• We also established the Wealth Client Group with 
responsibility for ensuring greater alignment and 
increased collaboration with RBWM, including 
utilising RBWM’s transactional banking capabilities.  
• To support client growth, we expanded our product 
offering with investment opportunities in three new 
Alternatives products, comprising one private equity 
fund and two real estate funds. We strengthened our 
investment group by ensuring that the majority of 
clients with assets greater than US$5m now have 
access to a dedicated investment counsellor. We 
partnered with the GB&M Global Research team to 
improve the advisory services for our clients 
supported by easy client access to a wider range of 
investment research reports. We plan to deploy this 
globally by the end of 2015. We also worked closely 
with HSBC Securities Services to provide our ultra-
high net worth and family office clients with access to 
our institutional global custody platform in Europe 
and the Middle East and North Africa, providing 
clients with access to trade capture, clearing and 
settlement, safekeeping and investment 
administration services. 
Repositioning the business 
• We continued to reposition the GPB business model 
and client base in 2014 by reviewing our portfolio 
and seeking to ensure that all clients comply with 
our Global Standards, including financial crime 
compliance and tax transparency standards. 
• We remain focused on clients with wider Group 
connectivity within our home and priority growth 
markets. Following the announcement of the sale 
of a portfolio of clients in Switzerland to LGT Bank 
(Switzerland) Ltd earlier this year, we completed the 
migration of US$8bn of client assets in the second 
half of 2014. We also continued to reduce the 
number of clients in non-priority markets. 
• In 2014, we continued to streamline and rationalise 
the business, closing a number of non-strategic 
representative offices, and we announced the 
consolidation of our trust business in Europe into 
a regional hub in Jersey. We also commenced 
development of a new global IT banking platform. 
This is expected to deliver improved efficiency, 
enhanced services and a consistent client offering by 
consolidating GPB’s multiple systems onto a single 
banking platform. We remain on track to deliver the 
first phase of the implementation in 2015.  
• We enhanced our digital capabilities with the 
deployment of a new mobile application in 
Switzerland, Monaco, Luxembourg and Guernsey, 
enabling clients to view their investment holdings 
and transactions while on the move. We introduced 
a secure tablet application for front office staff in 
Switzerland delivering digital document browsing 
during client visits, and also deployed video meeting 
capabilities in the US. Wider deployment of these and 
other applications is scheduled for 2015. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
75 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Other
39
 
‘Other’ contains the results of HSBC’s 
holding company and financing operations, 
central support and functional costs with 
associated recoveries, unallocated 
investment activities, centrally held 
investment companies, certain property 
transactions and movements in fair value 
of own debt. 
 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$m US$m US$m
Net interest expense  (501) (737) (730)
Net fee income/ 
(expense) (65) 64  194 
Net trading income/ 
(expense)
50
  (92) 6  (537)
Changes in fair value of 
long-term debt issued  
and related derivatives  508  (1,228) (4,327)
Changes in other financial 
instruments designated  
at fair value  (9) (576) (1,136)
Net income/(expense) 
from financial 
instruments designated 
at fair value  499  (1,804) (5,463)
Other income  6,524  8,122  8,868 
Net operating income
4 
 6,365  5,651  2,332 
LICs
43
  −  − –
Net operating income  6,365  5,651  2,332 
Total operating expenses  (8,601) (7,796) (9,369)
Operating loss  (2,236) (2,145) (7,037)
Income/(expense) from 
associates
44
  6  (14) 47 
Loss before tax  (2,230) (2,159) (6,990)
For footnotes, see page 109. 
Review of reported performance 
Reported loss before tax of US$2.2bn was 3% higher 
than in 2013. This was driven by increased operating 
costs partly offset by higher revenue.  
The increase in loss before tax of US$71m included 
favourable movements in the fair value of own debt of 
US$417m in 2014 compared with adverse movements 
of US$1.2bn in 2013. These results also included the 
following items in 2013: 
• gain on derecognition of Industrial Bank as an 
associate (US$1.1bn); 
• net gain on disposal of Ping An Insurance (Group) 
Company of China, Ltd (‘Ping An’) (US$553m); and 
• foreign exchange gains relating to sterling debt issued 
by HSBC Holdings (US$442m); 
and the following items in 2014: 
• gain on sale of our shareholding in Bank of Shanghai 
in 2014 (US$428m); and 
• an impairment on our investment in Industrial Bank 
(US$271m). 
For further details of all significant items, see page 42. 
Review of adjusted performance
45
 
Loss before tax (US$m) 
• The loss before tax decreased, reflecting increased 
revenue partly offset by higher operating costs. 
Revenue (US$m) 
 
• Revenue rose by US$1.3bn, primarily due to 
favourable movements in 2014 of US$96m on interest 
and exchange rate ineffectiveness in the hedging of 
long-term debt designated at fair value issued 
principally by HSBC Holdings and its European 
subsidiaries, compared with adverse movements 
of US$551m in 2013. In addition, recoveries of certain 
expenses from global businesses increased, reflecting 
higher operating expenses, and we recorded a gain 
arising from the external hedging of an intra-Group 
financing transaction in Europe. There was also 
a release of accrued interest on uncertain tax 
reserves in the US. These factors were partly offset by 
the expiry of the TSAs relating to the sale of the CRS 
business in the US and lower income from investment 
properties in Asia. 
Operating expenses (US$m) 
 
(2,230) (2,159)
(381) (2,611)
(837)
(2,996)
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted loss
6,365
5,651
(501)
5,864
(1,119)
4,532
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted revenue
8,601
7,796
(120)
8,481
(261)
7,535
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted operating 
expenses Report of the Directors: Global businesses (continued) 
Analysis 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
76 
• Operating expenses increased by US$946m due to 
higher costs associated with Regulatory Programmes 
and Compliance, an increase in Global Resourcing 
costs in India and mainland China and the 2013 
release of a litigation provision in Asia. In addition, 
the UK bank levy charge of US$1.1bn in 2014 was 
higher than the charge of US$916m in 2013, primarily 
due to an increase in the rate of the levy. This was 
partly offset by a reduction in North America by the 
expiry of the TSAs relating to the sale of the CRS 
business. 
 
Analysis by global business 
HSBC profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data 
  2014 
 
 Retail 
Banking 
and Wealth 
Management 
US$m  
Commercial
Banking
US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other
39
US$m  
Inter- 
segment 
elimination
55
US$m  
Total
US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax 
 
       
Net interest income/(expense)    16,782 10,506 7,022 994 (501) (98) 34,705
Net fee income/(expense)     6,668 4,738 3,560 1,056 (65) − 15,957
Trading income/(expense) excluding
net interest income  
 
(28) 620 4,063 298 (100) − 4,853 
Net interest income/(expense) on 
trading activities  
 
9 (2) 1,798 (4) 8 98 1,907 
Net trading income/(expense)
50
 (19) 618 5,861 294 (92) 98 6,760
Changes in fair value of long- 
term debt issued and related 
derivatives  
 
− − − − 508  − 508 
Net income/(expense) from other 
financial instruments designated  
at fair value  
 
1,675 288 12 (1) (9)  − 1,965 
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments designated 
at fair value  
 
1,675 288 12 (1) 499 − 2,473 
Gains less losses from financial 
investments  
 
14 31 1,117 9 164 − 1,335 
Dividend income   24 18 80 5 184 − 311
Net insurance premium income 10,570 1,296 5 50 − − 11,921
Other operating income   719 248 124 33 6,176 (6,169) 1,131
Total operating income   36,433 17,743 17,781 2,440 6,365 (6,169) 74,593
Net insurance claims
56
   (11,839) (1,440) (3) (63) − − (13,345)
Net operating income
4
   24,594 16,303 17,778 2,377 6,365 (6,169) 61,248
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other credit risk 
provisions  
 
(1,819) (1,675) (365) 8 − − (3,851)
Net operating income  22,775 14,628 17,413 2,385 6,365 (6,169) 57,397
Employee expenses
57 
   (5,038) (2,439) (3,655) (732) (8,502)  − (20,366)
Other operating expenses   (12,484) (5,050) (8,373) (1,046) (99)  6,169 (20,883)
Total operating expenses   (17,522) (7,489) (12,028) (1,778) (8,601) 6,169 (41,249)
Operating profit/(loss)   5,253 7,139 5,385 607 (2,236) − 16,148
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures  
 
398 1,605 504 19 6 − 2,532 
Profit/(loss) before tax   5,651 8,744 5,889 626 (2,230) − 18,680
   
%  % % % %    % 
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax  30.3  46.8 31.5 3.4 (12.0)    100.0
Cost efficiency ratio   71.2  45.9 67.7 74.8 135.1    67.3
        
Balance sheet data
40
 
 
          
  US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
27
  
 
359,744 313,999 254,463 44,102 2,352  974,660 
Total assets 
 
  499,083 372,739 1,839,644 88,342 164,537 (330,206) 2,634,139
Customer accounts
27
   581,421 363,654 319,121 85,465 981  1,350,642
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
77 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
  2013 
 
 Retail Banking
and Wealth 
Management
US$m  
Commercial
Banking
US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other
39
 
US$m  
Inter- 
segment 
elimination
55 
US$m  
Total
US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax 
 
        
Net interest income/(expense)    18,339 10,200 6,766 1,146 (737) (175)  35,539
Net fee income   7,021 4,717 3,482 1,150 64 −  16,434
Trading income/(expense) excluding
net interest income  
 
689 649 4,953 390 (38) −  6,643 
Net interest income/(expense) on 
trading activities  
 
(3) − 1,827 4 44 175  2,047 
Net trading income
50
  686 649 6,780 394 6 175  8,690
Changes in fair value of long-term 
debt issued and related 
derivatives  
 
− – – – (1,228)  –  (1,228)
Net income/(expense) from other 
financial instruments designated 
at fair value  
 
1,638 332 599 4 (576)  (1)  1,996 
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments designated 
at fair value  
 
1,638 332 599 4 (1,804) (1)  768 
Gains less losses from financial 
investments  
 
55 1 747 (3) 1,212 −  2,012 
Dividend income   21 15 129 8 149 −  322
Net insurance premium income 10,543 1,375 6 16 − −  11,940
Other operating income/(expense)   544 621 670 (239) 6,761 (5,725)  2,632
Total operating income  38,847 17,910 19,179 2,476 5,651 (5,726)  78,337
Net insurance claims
56
   (12,107) (1,545) (3) (37) − −  (13,692)
Net operating income
4
   26,740 16,365 19,176 2,439 5,651 (5,726)  64,645
Loan impairment charges and other 
credit risk provisions  
 
(3,227) (2,384) (207) (31) − −  (5,849)
Net operating income  23,513 13,981 18,969 2,408 5,651 (5,726)  58,796
Employee expenses
57 
   (5,219) (2,327) (3,549) (776) (7,325)  −  (19,196)
Other operating expenses   (12,029) (4,722) (6,411) (1,453) (471)  5,726  (19,360)
Total operating expenses   (17,248) (7,049) (9,960) (2,229) (7,796) 5,726  (38,556)
Operating profit/(loss)   6,265 6,932 9,009 179 (2,145) −  20,240
Share of profit/(loss) in associates 
and joint ventures  
 
384 1,509 432 14 (14) −  2,325 
Profit/(loss) before tax    6,649 8,441 9,441 193 (2,159) −  22,565
      
  %  % % % %    %
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax  29.5  37.4 41.8 0.9 (9.6)    100.0
Cost efficiency ratio   64.5  43.1 51.9 91.4 138.0    59.6
       
Balance sheet data
40
 
 
         
  US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
27
 
 
375,086 297,852 272,473 44,224 2,454   992,089 
Total assets  517,085 360,623 1,975,509 97,655 171,812 (451,366)  2,671,318
Customer accounts
27
  579,994 354,298 328,800 96,770 1,435   1,361,297
For footnotes, see page 109. 
  Report of the Directors: Geographical regions 
Summary/Europe 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
78 
Geographical regions 
Summary  78
Europe  79
Asia  84
Middle East and North Africa  91
North America  96
Latin America  101
 
Summary 
Additional information on results in 2014 may be found 
in the ‘Financial Summary’ on pages 40 to 62. 
In the analysis of profit and loss by geographical regions 
that follows, operating income and operating expenses 
include intra-HSBC items of US$2,972m (2013: 
US$2,628m; 2012: US$2,684m). 
From 1 January 2014, the geographical region ‘Asia’ 
replaced the geographical regions previously reported 
as ‘Hong Kong’ and ‘Rest of Asia-Pacific’. This aligns with 
changes made in the financial information used internally 
to manage the business. Comparative data have been 
represented accordingly.  
All commentaries are on an adjusted basis (page 40) 
unless otherwise stated, while tables are on a reported 
basis unless otherwise stated. 
 
Profit/(loss) before tax 
 2014 2013 2012 
 US$m % US$m % US$m %
Europe  596 3.2 1,825 8.1  (3,414) (16.5)
Asia
8
 14,625 78.3 15,853 70.3 18,030 87.3
Middle East and North Africa  1,826 9.8 1,694 7.5  1,350  6.5 
North America  1,417 7.6 1,221 5.4  2,299  11.1 
Latin America  216 1.1 1,972 8.7  2,384  11.6 
Year ended 31 December 18,680 100.0 22,565 100.0  20,649  100.0 
 
Total assets
40
 
 2014 2013
 US$m % US$m %
Europe  1,290,926 49.0 1,392,959 52.1
Asia
8
 878,723 33.4 831,791 31.1
Middle East and North Africa  62,417 2.4 60,810 2.3
North America  436,859 16.6 432,035 16.2
Latin America  115,354 4.4 113,999 4.3
Intra-HSBC items  (150,140) (5.8) (160,276) (6.0)
At 31 December 2,634,139 100.0  2,671,318 100.0
 
Risk-weighted assets
58
 
 2014 2013
 US$bn % US$bn %
At 31 December 1,219.8 100.0 1,092.7 100.0
Europe  375.4 30.1 300.1 27.1
Asia
8
 499.8 40.0 430.7 38.9
Middle East and North Africa  63.0 5.0 62.5 5.7
North America  221.4 17.8 223.8 20.2
Latin America  88.8 7.1 89.5 8.1
For footnotes, see page 109.   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
79 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Europe 
Our principal banking operations in Europe 
are HSBC Bank plc in the UK, HSBC France, 
HSBC Bank A.S. in Turkey, HSBC Private 
Bank (Suisse) SA and HSBC Trinkaus & 
Burkhardt AG. Through these subsidiaries 
we provide a wide range of banking, 
treasury and financial services to personal, 
commercial and corporate customers 
across Europe. 
 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$m US$m US$m
Net interest income  10,611  10,693  10,394 
Net fee income  6,042  6,032  6,169 
Net trading income  2,534  4,423  2,707 
Other income/(expense)  2,384  (181) (1,662)
Net operating income
4 
 21,571  20,967  17,608 
LICs
43
  (764) (1,530) (1,921)
Net operating income  20,807  19,437  15,687 
Total operating expenses  (20,217) (17,613) (19,095)
Operating profit/(loss)  590  1,824  (3,408)
Income/(expense) from 
associates
44
  6  1  (6)
Profit/(loss) before tax  596  1,825  (3,414)
Cost efficiency ratio   93.7%   84.0% 108.4%
RoRWA
36
   0.2%  0.6% (1.0%)
Year-end staff numbers  69,363  68,334  70,061
Best Debt House in Western Europe 
for the second consecutive year 
(Euromoney Awards)  
UK No1 Trade Bank 
(Global Finance Magazine) 
US$3.1bn 
of regulatory fines, provisions, 
penalties and UK customer redress 
 
 
For footnotes, see page 109. 
Economic background  
The UK recovery continued through the second half of 
2014, though the pace of expansion moderated towards 
the end of the year. Preliminary estimates indicate that 
the annual rate of growth of real Gross Domestic Product 
(‘GDP’) was 2.6%. The unemployment rate fell to 5.7% in 
the three months to December and wage growth 
accelerated slightly from a very low level. The annual 
Consumer Price Index (‘CPI’) measure of inflation 
reached a 14-year low of 0.5% in December. After a 
period of rapid activity in 2013 and the early months of 
2014, there were signs that both economic activity and 
price inflation in the housing market were moderating as 
the year ended. The Bank of England kept the Bank Rate 
steady at 0.5%. 
The recovery in eurozone economic activity in 2014 was 
slow and uneven across member states. Real GDP in the 
region as a whole grew by 0.9% in the year. The German 
and Spanish economies grew by 1.6% and 1.5%, 
respectively, while French GDP grew by a more modest 
0.4%. Eurozone inflation fell to minus 0.2% in December, 
prompting fears that the region could move towards a 
sustained period of deflation. The likelihood that low 
growth and inflation could persist for an extended period 
prompted the European Central Bank (‘ECB’) to cut the 
main refinancing rate and the deposit rate to 0.05% and 
minus 0.2%, respectively, in September and embark on a 
policy of balance sheet expansion starting with 
purchases of covered bonds and asset-backed securities. 
Financial overview 
Profit before tax (US$m) 
Our European operations reported a profit before tax of 
US$596m in 2014 compared with US$1.8bn in 2013. The 
decrease in reported profit before tax was driven by a 
number of significant items and increased operating 
expenses, partly offset by reduced LICs. The former 
included charges relating to UK customer redress of 
US$1.3bn, settlements and provisions in relation to 
regulatory investigations into foreign exchange of 
US$1.2bn, of which US$809m was recorded in the fourth 
quarter of 2014, and provisions arising from the on-going 
review of compliance with the CCA in the UK of 
US$632m. For further details of all significant items, see 
page 42. 
596
1,825
3,309
3,905
2,476 4,301
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted profit Report of the Directors: Geographical regions (continued) 
Europe 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
80 
Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses 
 
 Retail Banking
and Wealth
Management
US$m 
Commercial 
Banking
US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other 
US$m  
Total
US$m 
UK  589 2,193 (801) 191 (2,228) (56)
France
35
  (181) 240 354 − (199) 214
Germany  28 71 162 27 (10) 278
Switzerland  − 5 2 38 (3) 42
Turkey  (155) 5 92 − (6) (64)
Other  33 34 240 59 (184) 182
Year ended 31 December 2014 314 2,548 49 315 (2,630) 596
       
UK  1,471 1,684 1,246 252 (3,493) 1,160
France
35
  285 255 351 21 (162) 750
Germany  30 70 183 44 (25) 302
Switzerland  − 2 2 (291) − (287)
Turkey  (74) 36 108 (1) 1 70
Other  41 41 (89) (190) 27 (170)
Year ended 31 December 2013 1,753 2,088 1,801 (165) (3,652) 1,825
  
UK  343 832 (111) 235 (6,355) (5,056)
France
35
  135 203 514 (11) (263) 578
Germany  29 64 283 40 (72) 344
Switzerland  – 2 1 133 – 136
Turkey  (32) 71 104 – 1 144
Other  34 36 195 102 73 440
Year ended 31 December 2012 509 1,208 986 499 (6,616) (3,414)
For footnote, see page 109. 
Adjusted profit before tax decreased by US$396m, 
primarily reflecting an increase in costs which was partly 
offset by a reduction in LICs; revenue was broadly in line 
with 2013. 
Country business highlights 
In the UK, overall CMB lending increased by 7% 
compared with 2013, with new lending and re-financing 
before attrition and amortisation increasing by 38% and 
over 85% of small business loan applications approved. 
In addition, Business Banking launched a campaign to 
offer further support and lending to SME customers. As 
part of this, £5.8bn (US$9.9bn) of future lending was 
made available to help finance growth across the UK. 
Lending in Global Trade and Receivables Finance also 
grew by 3% as we built on our position in the market in 
Trade Finance and reduced attrition from our existing 
clients in Receivables Finance.  
In RBWM, we approved £11.4bn (US$18.8bn) of new 
mortgage lending to over 118,000 customers, including 
£3.5bn (US$5.8bn) to over 27,500 first-time buyers. 
However, our aggregate amount of mortgage balances 
drawn down decreased marginally. The loan-to-value 
(‘LTV’) ratio on new lending was 60% compared with an 
average of 43.7% for the total mortgage portfolio. In 
October 2014, we expanded our mortgage distribution 
channels to include an intermediary in order to reach the 
growing proportion of the mortgage market in the UK 
that wishes to source its finance that way. 
As part of the re-shaping of the GB&M business in 2013, 
we brought together all our financing businesses into 
Capital Financing, including lending, debt capital markets 
and equity capital markets. We increased our sector 
expertise and enhanced our geographical spread by 
appointing two new co-heads of UK Banking. In 2014, 
the advisory and equity capital markets businesses 
within Capital Financing experienced volume growth 
that outstripped the market. 
In France, in GB&M, we acted as sole advisor on one of 
the largest mergers and acquisitions (‘M&A’) transactions 
in Europe. In CMB, our Payments and Cash Management 
business implemented the Single Euro Payments Area 
platform (‘SEPA’) for euro-denominated credit transfer 
and direct debit payments across our European 
locations. This allows our clients to make and receive 
payments in euros from their HSBC accounts in the 34 
countries that have implemented SEPA, all governed by 
a consistent set of standards, rules and conditions. In 
addition, in CMB, we allocated a further €1.5bn 
(US$2.0bn) to the SME fund and approved over €2.0bn 
(US$2.7bn) of lending in 2014. In RBWM, we experienced 
strong growth in home loans. 
In Germany, as part of our growth initiative, we opened 
three branches in Dortmund, Mannheim and Cologne, 
increased the number of relationship managers by 26% 
and held a number of roadshows in countries including 
France, mainland China and the UK to reinforce Germany 
as a key international hub. In GPB, we disposed of our 
HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG business in Luxembourg. 
In Turkey, the regulator imposed interest rate caps on 
credit cards and overdrafts which affected revenue. 
Despite this, in September 2014 CMB launched a TRL2bn 
(US$914m) international fund in order to provide 
sustainable support and global connectivity for 
international business, of which TRL1.1bn (US$519m) 
was drawn down.    
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
81 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
In Switzerland, we continued to reposition the GPB 
business and focused on growth through the high net 
worth client segment. Client assets, which include funds 
under management and cash deposits, decreased due 
to this repositioning, as well as the sale of a portfolio 
of client assets. 
In November 2014, we sold the Kazakhstan business in 
line with the Group strategy. 
Review of adjusted performance
45
 
Revenue increased by US$76m, primarily in the UK, 
partly offset by reductions elsewhere, including France, 
Switzerland and Turkey. 
Revenue (US$m) 
Country view of adjusted revenue 
 2014 2013 
 US$m US$m 
UK 16,080  15,365
France 2,937  3,097
Germany 945  960
Switzerland 736  831
Turkey 791  827
Other 790  1,123
Year ended 31 December 22,279  22,203
In the UK, revenue increased by US$715m. This was 
driven by favourable fair value movements of US$222m 
from interest and exchange rate ineffectiveness in the 
hedging of long-term debt issued principally by HSBC 
Holdings in 2014, compared with adverse movements 
of US$480m in 2013, and a gain arising from external 
hedging of an intra-Group financing transaction. 
Revenue also rose in CMB due to growth in deposit 
volumes in Payments and Cash Management and net 
interest income improved due to wider spreads in term 
lending. In addition, net fee income grew, partly 
reflecting increased volumes of new business lending 
in the Large Corporate and Mid-Market segments. 
By contrast, GB&M revenue decreased compared with 
2013, primarily driven by Markets. This included the 
introduction of the FFVA on certain derivative contracts 
which resulted in a charge affecting Rates and Credit. 
Revenue also fell in Foreign Exchange, reflecting lower 
volatility and reduced client flows. Furthermore, revenue 
decreased in Equities, as 2013 benefited from higher 
revaluation gains, which more than offset the increase 
in revenue from increased client flows and higher 
derivative income.  
RBWM revenue reduced marginally due to spread 
compression, primarily on mortgages. In addition, fee 
income fell as a result of higher fees payable under 
partnership agreements and lower fee income from 
investment products and overdrafts. These factors were 
partly offset by improved spreads on savings products and 
higher current account balances. 
In the rest of Europe, revenue decreased in France, 
Switzerland and Turkey. Revenue in France fell principally 
in RBWM in the Insurance business due to adverse 
movements of US$203m in the PVIF asset, reflecting a fall 
in long-term yields which increased the cost of guarantees 
on the savings business, compared with favourable 
movements of US$48m in 2013. This was coupled with a 
fall in GB&M in Rates, due to lower volatility and levels 
of market activity. In Switzerland, the fall in revenue 
reflected the repositioning of the GPB business and a 
reduction in client assets. Revenue also decreased in 
Turkey, principally in RBWM due to interest rate caps on 
cards and overdrafts imposed by the local regulator, partly 
offset by an increase in card fees.  
LICs reduced, primarily in the UK and, to a lesser extent, in 
Spain. In the UK in CMB, individually assessed provisions 
fell, reflecting the quality of the portfolio and improved 
economic conditions. GB&M also recorded reduced loan 
impairment charges due to lower individually assessed 
provisions, and higher net releases of credit risk provisions 
on available-for-sale ABSs. This was partly offset by an 
increase due to a revision in certain estimates in our 
corporate collective loan impairment calculation. Loan 
impairment charges in RBWM decreased as a result of 
lower delinquency levels in the improved economic 
environment and as customers continued to reduce 
outstanding credit card and loan balances. Loan 
impairment charges in Spain decreased due to lower 
individually assessed provisions. 
The decreases in the UK and Spain were partly offset by 
increases in Turkey and France. Loan impairment charges 
increased in Turkey due to growth in card delinquency 
rates following regulatory changes. Loan impairment 
charges in France increased, predominantly in GB&M and 
CMB due to higher individually assessed provisions. 
Operating expenses (US$m) 
 
 
21,571 20,967
708 22,279 1,236 22,203
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted revenue
20,217
17,613
(2,601)
17,616
(1,289)
16,324
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted operating 
expenses Report of the Directors: Geographical regions (continued) 
Europe 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
82 
Operating expenses rose by US$1.3bn, mainly in the UK, 
reflecting growth in Regulatory Programmes and 
Compliance costs in all businesses and increased staff 
costs. In addition, the UK bank levy charge of US$1.1bn 
in respect of 2014 was US$0.2bn higher than in 2013, 
primarily due to an increase in the rate of the levy. 
Expenses also increased due to the timing of the 
recognition of the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme levy in the UK. These increases were partly 
offset by sustainable cost savings of over US$330m. 
 
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Europe 
  2014
 
 Retail 
Banking 
and Wealth 
Management 
US$m  
Commercial
Banking
US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other 
US$m  
Inter-
segment 
elimination
55 
US$m  
Total 
US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax        
Net interest income/(expense)   5,196 3,616 1,956 594 (654)  (97)  10,611
Net fee income/(expense)    2,456 1,900 1,087 626 (27)  −  6,042
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income 
 
(260)  33 1,943 140 (92)  −  1,764 
Net interest income/(expense) 
on trading activities 
 
14  2 660 (4) 1  97  770 
Net trading income/(expense)
50
 (246) 35 2,603 136 (91)  97  2,534
Changes in fair value of long-term 
debt issued and related 
derivatives  
 
−  − − − 614  −  614 
Net income/(expense) from other 
financial instruments 
designated at fair value  
 
616  119 14 (1) (11)  −  737 
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments 
designated at fair value  
 
616 119 14 (1) 603  −  1,351 
Gains less losses from financial 
investments  
 
12 10 730 9 11  −  772 
Dividend income   3 7 50 2 3  −  65
Net insurance premium 
income/(expense) 
 
2,741 217 − 50 −  −  3,008 
Other operating income/(expense)  (127) 45 (3) 29 1,249  (186)  1,007
Total operating income   10,651 5,949 6,437 1,445 1,094  (186)  25,390
Net insurance claims
56
   (3,450) (306) − (63) −  −  (3,819)
Net operating income
4
  7,201 5,643 6,437 1,382 1,094  (186)  21,571
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other credit risk 
provisions 
 
(268) (502) − 4 2  −  (764) 
Net operating income   6,933 5,141 6,437 1,386 1,096  (186)  20,807
Total operating expenses   (6,621) (2,594) (6,391) (1,071) (3,726)  186  (20,217)
Operating profit/(loss)   312 2,547 46 315 (2,630)  −  590
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures  
 
2 1 3 − −  −  6 
Profit/(loss) before tax   314 2,548 49 315 (2,630)  −  596
       
  %  % % % %    %
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax  1.7  13.6 0.3 1.7 (14.1)    3.2
Cost efficiency ratio   91.9  46.0 99.3 77.5 340.6    93.7
       
Balance sheet data
40
        
  US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m    US$m
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
27
 
 
165,112 106,342 113,136 24,766 377    409,733 
Total assets 
 
  221,679 120,819 948,951 64,676 64,182  (129,381)  1,290,926
Customer accounts
27
  202,413 135,837 166,075 41,380 254   545,959
   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
83 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
  2013 
 
 Retail Banking 
and Wealth 
Management 
US$m  
Commercial
Banking
US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other 
US$m  
Inter- 
segment 
elimination
55 
US$m  
Total
US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax 
 
          
Net interest income/(expense)   5,600  3,353 1,774 722 (694)  (62)  10,693
Net fee income/(expense)    2,545  1,789 957 744 (3)  –  6,032
Trading income excluding net  
interest income  
 
206  30 2,181 192 698  –  3,307 
Net interest income on trading 
activities  
 
2  5 1,013 4 30  62  1,116 
Net trading income
50
   208  35 3,194 196 728  62  4,423
Changes in fair value of long-term 
debt issued and related 
derivatives   
 
−  − − − (936)  −  (936)
Net income/(expense) from other 
financial instruments 
designated at fair value  
 
1,059  271 591 4 (570)  (1)  1,354 
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments 
designated at fair value   
 
1,059  271 591 4 (1,506)  (1)  418 
Gains less losses from financial 
investments  
 
52  − 344 (17) −  −  379 
Dividend income   4  2 65 4 −  −  75
Net insurance premium 
income/(expense) 
 
2,782  361 (1) 16 −  −  3,158 
Other operating income/(expense)   (103)  9 110 (253) 766  −  529
Total operating income/(expense)   12,147  5,820 7,034 1,416 (709)  (1)  25,707
Net insurance claims
56
   (4,136)  (567) − (37) −  −  (4,740)
Net operating income/(expense)
4
 8,011  5,253 7,034 1,379 (709)  (1)  20,967
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions  
 
(329)  (935) (242) (24) −  −  (1,530)
Net operating income/(expense)  7,682  4,318 6,792 1,355 (709)  (1)  19,437
Total operating expenses   (5,934)  (2,231) (4,987) (1,519) (2,943)  1  (17,613)
Operating profit/(loss)   1,748  2,087 1,805 (164) (3,652)  −  1,824
Share of profit/(loss) in associates 
and joint ventures  
 
5  1 (4) (1) −  −  1 
Profit/(loss) before tax   1,753  2,088 1,801 (165) (3,652)  −  1,825
        
  %  %% %%    %
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax  7.8  9.2 8.0 (0.7) (16.2)    8.1
Cost efficiency ratio   74.1  42.5 70.9 110.2 (415.1)    84.0
        
Balance sheet data
40
 
 
          
  US$m  US$m US$m US$m US$m    US$m
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
27
 
 
177,357  105,498 145,136 27,289 830     456,110 
Total assets 
 
  238,499   124,242 1,054,506 75,718 72,174   (172,180)  1,392,959 
Customer accounts
27
  205,288  134,120 191,715 49,789 1,021    581,933
For footnotes, see page 109.  Report of the Directors: Geographical regions (continued) 
Asia 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
84 
Asia
7
 
HSBC’s principal banking subsidiaries 
in Hong Kong are The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and 
Hang Seng Bank Limited. The former is the 
largest bank incorporated in Hong Kong 
and is our flagship bank in Asia. 
We offer a wide range of banking and 
financial services in mainland China, 
through our local subsidiaries HSBC Bank 
(China) Company Limited and Hang Seng 
Bank (China) Limited. We also participate 
indirectly in mainland China through our 
associate, Bank of Communications.  
Outside Hong Kong and mainland China, 
we conduct business in 18 countries and 
territories in Asia, with particularly strong 
coverage in Australia, India, Indonesia, 
Malaysia and Singapore. 
 
 2014 2013 2012 
 US$m US$m US$m 
Net interest income   12,273  11,432 10,707 
Net fee income  5,910  5,936 5,418 
Net trading income  2,622  2,026 2,516 
Other income  2,872  5,038 6,691 
Net operating income
4
  23,677  24,432 25,332 
LICs
43 
 (647) (498) (510)
Net operating income  23,030  23,934 24,822 
Total operating expenses  (10,427) (9,936) (9,980)
Operating profit  12,603  13,998 14,842 
Income from associates
44
  2,022  1,855 3,188 
Profit before tax  14,625  15,853 18,030 
Cost efficiency ratio   44.0%   40.7% 39.4% 
RoRWA
36
   3.1%  3.8% 4.4% 
Year-end staff numbers  118,322  113,701 112,766 
10% 
Growth in customer lending balances  
excluding the effect of currency translation
Market leader for 
Asia ex-Japan Bonds 
(Bloomberg) 
Best Bank in Asia 
(The Euromoney Awards of Excellence 2014)
For footnotes, see page 109. 
Economic background 
Hong Kong’s real GDP growth slowed in 2014 relative 
to 2013 due to weaker domestic demand, partly 
attributable to the slowdown in the annual growth of 
retail sales. Labour market conditions softened with 
unemployment rising, albeit from historically low levels. 
Tourism arrivals to Hong Kong held up overall, up by 16% 
in the year compared with 2013, driven by the growth 
of visitors from mainland China. Headline CPI inflation 
averaged just over 4% for 2014, with a number of 
expiring government subsidies offsetting lower inflation 
in fuel and food prices.  
In mainland China, real GDP growth slowed from 7.7% 
in 2013 to 7.4% in 2014, largely due to a slowdown in 
activity in construction and manufacturing investment 
which was only partially offset by resilient infrastructure 
investment. Headline annual CPI inflation fell steadily to 
1.5% in December, significantly below the government’s 
target of 3.5%. The People’s Bank of China eased 
monetary policy in November by cutting policy interest 
rates for the first time since July 2012. The one-year 
deposit rate was lowered by 25bps to 2.75% and the 
one-year lending rate by 40bps to 5.6%. Further 
measures were announced in December to support 
bank lending and spur economic activity. 
Japan experienced significant economic volatility during 
2014 from the imposition of a 3 percentage point 
consumption tax increase, which took effect on 1 April. 
The economy recorded annualised GDP growth of 5.8% 
in the first quarter of 2014, but growth slowed sharply 
after the tax rise, as government stimuli and exports 
were unable to offset the decline in private consumption. 
GDP grew at an annualised rate of 2.2% in the fourth 
quarter after falls of 6.7% and 1.9% in the preceding 
quarters. The Bank of Japan announced another round 
of quantitative easing on 31 October 2014, prompting 
further depreciation of the yen. 
In India, a new government with a strong mandate for 
reform boosted market sentiment regarding the long-
term prospects for the country’s economy. However, 
the recovery remained constrained in 2014 with many 
infrastructure projects delayed pending government 
clearance. The steep decline in international commodity 
prices during the second half of the year helped push 
down goods price inflation and reduce the current 
account deficit. Following an interest rate rise early 
in 2014, the central bank kept monetary policy stable 
throughout the year. 
The downward trend in global commodity prices 
permitted Indonesia and Malaysia to cut costly fuel 
subsidies, which is expected to reduce external 
imbalances and improve their fiscal position. Domestic 
demand in these countries remained relatively robust 
throughout 2014, supporting economic growth. In 
Singapore, GDP growth slowed in 2014 from weaker 
export growth and domestic economic restructuring. 
The Monetary Authority maintained its policy of gradual 
currency appreciation.   
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
85 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses 
 
 Retail Banking
and Wealth
Management
US$m 
Commercial 
Banking 
US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other 
US$m  
Total
US$m 
Hong Kong  3,727 2,264 1,807 146 198 8,142
Australia  78 126 232 − (4) 432
India  4 121 442 11 122 700
Indonesia  10 53 110 − 25 198
Mainland China  292 1,533 954 (3) 175 2,951
Malaysia  156 122 190 − 28 496
Singapore  129 168 243 57 (8) 589
Taiwan  19 35 166 − 1 221
Other  57 320 432 − 87 896
Year ended 31 December 2014 4,472 4,742 4,576 211 624 14,625
  
Hong Kong  3,742 2,110 1,971 208 58 8,089
Australia  100 131 189 − 26 446
India  (21) 113 418 7 136 653
Indonesia  12 106 126 − 36 280
Mainland China  223 1,536 842 (4) 1,644 4,241
Malaysia  148 105 236 − 25 514
Singapore  147 120 262 74 22 625
Taiwan  7 30 158 − 5 200
Other  61 207 473 (1) 65 805
Year ended 31 December 2013 4,419 4,458 4,675 284 2,017 15,853
  
Hong Kong  3,694 2,188 1,518 249 (67) 7,582
Australia  97 38 184 – (44) 275 
India  41 89 497 7 175  809 
Indonesia  29 124 146 – 7  306 
Mainland China  838 1,724 1,257 (4) 2,525  6,340 
Malaysia  183 131 242 – 8  564 
Singapore  201 139 296 97 (65) 668 
Taiwan  62 36 136 – – 234 
Other  66 321 567 59 239 1,252
Year ended 31 December 2012 5,211 4,790 4,843 408 2,778 18,030
 
In Australia, real GDP growth rose to an annual rate 
of around 2.8% in 2014 and unemployment remained 
roughly unchanged at 6.1%. Mining investment fell 
sharply and was only partly offset by an improvement 
in other sectors of the economy. Low interest rates 
continued to drive an increase in housing market activity 
and credit growth picked up modestly. The Australian 
dollar weakened during the year but remained well 
above its long-run average level. 
In Taiwan, economic activity accelerated with the level 
of GDP in 2014 rising 3.5% in the year as a whole. This 
was the strongest annual rate of growth since 2011 
and an improvement on the 2.1% growth seen in 2013. 
Growth was driven by a combination of strong exports 
and domestic consumption thanks to low unemployment 
and rising wage growth. The central bank in Taiwan 
kept its key policy rate unchanged throughout 2014 
at 1.875%, which is the level it has been since 2011. 
Financial overview 
Profit before tax (US$m) 
Our operations in Asia reported a profit before tax of 
US$14.6bn in 2014 compared with US$15.9bn in 2013, 
a decrease of 8%. The reduction reflected a decrease 
in revenue and an increase in costs and LICs, partly offset 
by a higher share of profits from associates. Revenue 
included the effect of a number of significant items, 
notably in 2013, an accounting gain arising from 
the reclassification of Industrial Bank as a financial 
investment (US$1.1bn) and the net gain on completion 
of the Ping An disposal (US$553m).  
14,625
15,853
10 14,635
(1,544)
14,309
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted profit Report of the Directors: Geographical regions (continued) 
Asia 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
86 
Analysis of mainland China profit/(loss) before tax 
 
 Retail Banking
and Wealth
Management
US$m 
Commercial 
Banking
 US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other 
US$m  
Total
US$m 
BoCom and other associates   255 1,421 296 – 1 1,973
Mainland China operations 37 112 658 (3) 174 978
Industrial Bank – – – – – –
Ping An – – – – – –
Year ended 31 December 2014 292 1,533 954 (3) 175 2,951
  
BoCom and other associates   247 1,360 284 – (38) 1,853
Mainland China operations (24) 176 558 (4) 40 746
Industrial Bank  – – – – 1,089 1,089
Ping An  – – – – 553 553
Year ended 31 December 2013 223 1,536 842 (4) 1,644 4,241
  
BoCom and other associates   214 1,193 248 – – 1,655
Mainland China operations (52) 176 606 (4) 66 792
Industrial Bank  54 273 343 – – 670
Ping An  622 82 60 – 2,459 3,223
Year ended 31 December 2012 838 1,724 1,257 (4) 2,525 6,340
 
In 2014, significant items included the gain on sale of 
our investment in Bank of Shanghai (US$428m) and 
an impairment of our investment in Industrial Bank 
(US$271m). See page 42 for further details of significant 
items.  
On an adjusted basis, profit before tax rose by US$326m 
or 2%, driven by higher revenue partly offset by 
increased operating expenses and LICs. 
Country business highlights 
We continued to focus on our strategic priorities for Asia, 
using our international network to drive organic growth 
and connect customers across borders. We completed 
the sale of our investment in Bank of Shanghai and 
implemented a discretionary incentive framework that 
removes the formulaic link between product sales and 
remuneration. We also saw continued adoption of our 
mobile banking applications, extended the contact-less 
payment systems to Android phones and enhanced our 
digital banking capabilities. 
In Hong Kong, average mortgage balances in RBWM 
increased by 7%, with average LTV ratios of 47% on new 
mortgage drawdowns and an estimated 29% on the 
portfolio as a whole. In November 2014, to coincide with 
the launch of the Hong Kong-Shanghai Stock Connect 
platform, we rolled out new services allowing retail 
customers to trade and invest in eligible shares that are 
listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. We strengthened 
our cards offering with the launch of the ‘Visa Signature’ 
card product in Hong Kong and continued building new 
merchant partnerships across the region. We also re-
launched our Advance offering to emerging affluent 
customers in Hong Kong and nine other regional 
markets. We were awarded ‘International Retail Bank 
of the Year’ by Asian Banking and Finance. 
In CMB, we were one of the first foreign banks to 
announce renminbi cross-border pooling capability in the 
Shanghai Free Trade Zone. The collaboration between 
CMB and GB&M continued throughout the year, as a 
consequence of which 157 primary markets transactions 
were completed in 2014, up from 122 in 2013, primarily 
for debt capital market issuances and leveraged asset 
finance mandates. In addition, we were named ‘Best 
Commercial Bank’ by FinanceAsia Achievement Awards 
2014.  
In GB&M, we maintained our market leadership in Asia 
ex-Japan G3 currency and investment grade bonds, and 
led the market in Hong Kong dollar bond issuances. We 
were involved in three of the five largest equity capital 
market transactions during 2014, as well as the first 
Sukuk sovereign bond issuance in Hong Kong. 
Furthermore, we continued to lead the market in 
offshore renminbi bond issuance in Hong Kong, 
becoming one of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority’s 
primary liquidity providers for offshore renminbi. 
We also acted as a joint book runner for an offshore 
preference share issuance for a mainland Chinese bank, 
the first mainland Chinese Basel III compliant additional 
tier-1 capital offering. We remain well-positioned to 
service our institutional investors using Stock Connect 
through our integrated Custody Plus platform.  
In mainland China, we continued to develop our branch 
network, which comprised 173 HSBC outlets, 25 HSBC 
rural bank outlets and 50 Hang Seng Bank outlets at 
the end of the year. In RBWM, we were one of the first 
foreign banks to launch renminbi derivative products 
linked to the US dollar/renminbi rate and were awarded 
‘Best Foreign Retail Bank’ by The Asian Banker for the 
sixth consecutive year. During 2014, we were the first 
foreign custodian bank to service renminbi qualified 
foreign institutional investors based in Singapore and 
South Korea. We also became a member of the Shanghai 
Gold Exchange’s international board, a newly established 
trading platform connecting mainland China’s gold 
market to global investors. In addition, we received 
regulatory approval to be one of the first market makers 
to directly trade renminbi, euro and Singaporean dollars 
in mainland China’s interbank foreign exchange market.   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
87 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
In Payments and Cash Management, we launched the 
Global Payments System which supports all cross-border 
payments in and out of mainland China in all currencies, 
including renminbi. In Global Trade and Receivables 
Finance, we launched trade link initiatives to connect 
mainland China with the rest of Asia, Germany and the 
US, to enhance international connectivity and promote 
activity between key trade routes. In mergers and 
acquisitions (‘M&A’), we were adviser to a number 
of state owned enterprises on significant overseas 
investments and acquisitions.  
Elsewhere in Asia, in India, we continued to grow our 
balance sheet in CMB, including term lending and 
Payments and Cash Management deposits, particularly 
helping UK corporations to invest in India. In GB&M, we 
were adviser on two of the largest M&A transactions 
in 2014, and in Wealth Management we launched 
Managed Solutions, a multi-asset fund series. In 
Australia, we were a mandated lead arranger for the 
largest mining project financing deal and for the largest 
transport infrastructure project during 2014. In CMB, we 
also announced an A$250m (US$225m) International 
Growth Fund, providing credit facilities to local SMEs to 
explore business opportunities abroad. 
Review of adjusted performance
45
 
Revenue (US$m) 
Revenue was US$1.2bn or 5% higher, driven by Hong 
Kong and mainland China, mainly in CMB and RBWM 
from balance sheet growth, as well as in GB&M from 
portfolio growth in Balance Sheet Management and 
increased term lending. Revenue was also higher in 
India and Australia. 
Country view of adjusted revenue 
 2014 2013 
 US$m US$m 
Hong Kong 13,725  13,211 
Australia 975  898 
India 1,826  1,666 
Indonesia 561  559 
Mainland China 2,463  1,948 
Malaysia 1,066  1,063 
Singapore 1,339  1,319 
Taiwan 491  501 
Other 1,183  1,289 
Year ended 31 December 23,629  22,454 
In Hong Kong, revenue increased by 4%, primarily 
in CMB and RBWM and, to a lesser extent, in GB&M. 
Higher revenue in CMB was due to increased net interest 
income from growth in term lending across a range of 
sectors, higher average Payments and Cash Management 
deposit balances and higher fees from remittance 
volumes, as well as improved lending spreads. 
In RBWM, revenue growth was driven by higher net 
interest income from increased average lending 
balances, mainly credit cards and other personal lending, 
and from growth in average deposit balances, though 
the benefit of higher volumes was partly offset by spread 
compression. Net fee income also increased, principally 
from volume growth in unit trusts, credit card 
transactions and securities brokerage. In our insurance 
operations, revenue growth reflected higher premium 
income, which also contributed to growth in the debt 
securities portfolio, although this was partly offset by 
less favourable movements in the PVIF asset from annual 
actuarial assumption updates. 
Revenue in GB&M also increased, mainly in Balance 
Sheet Management due to portfolio growth, and in 
Capital Financing from higher average term lending 
balances. This was partly offset by lower net fee income 
in Markets due to reduced client flows and in Capital 
Financing reflecting fee compression. 
In mainland China, revenue increased by 26% compared 
with 2013. In GB&M, we reported greater net interest 
income from Balance Sheet Management due to 
portfolio growth and higher reinvestment rates, and a 
rise in average term lending balances. Additionally, 
trading income improved in Rates from higher interest 
income on debt securities and revaluation gains on 
trading bonds as yields fell, and in Foreign Exchange 
from increased client flows. Revenue in RBWM 
increased, mainly from wider deposit spreads as market 
interest rates rose in the first half of 2014, while in CMB 
revenue growth was driven by higher average deposit 
and lending balances. 
Elsewhere in Asia, revenue in India rose by 10%, 
primarily in GB&M from higher Rates trading income 
due to favourable credit valuation adjustments (‘CVA’s) 
on derivatives, coupled with higher net interest income 
from portfolio growth in Balance Sheet Management. 
In Australia, we reported an increase in revenue of 9%, 
predominantly in GB&M from higher trading income in 
Rates and Foreign Exchange. This was partly offset by 
lower revenue in South Korea following the run-off of 
our RBWM operations in 2013.  
LICs rose by US$167m or 35%, principally in GB&M 
and CMB from a rise in a small number of individually 
assessed impairment charges in Hong Kong and 
mainland China. This was partly offset by a reduction 
in individually assessed impairment charges in CMB 
in New Zealand, Malaysia and Vietnam. 
  
23,677
24,432
(48)
23,629
(1,978)
22,454
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted revenue Report of the Directors: Geographical regions (continued) 
Asia 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
88 
Operating expenses (US$m) Operating expenses rose by US$753m following 
investment in the region, notably in Regulatory 
Programmes and Compliance, and increased use of our 
Global Services Centres across the Group. Cost growth 
also reflected wage inflation and additional headcount, 
notably in Hong Kong and mainland China to support 
business growth, mainly in CMB, as well as increased 
marketing activity. These factors were partly offset by 
around US$270m of sustainable cost savings achieved in 
2014. 
Share of profit from associates and joint ventures rose 
by US$71m, mainly from BoCom, reflecting higher 
revenue from balance sheet growth and trading income, 
partly offset by increases in operating expenses and LICs. 
10,427
9,936
(58)
10,369
(320)
9,616
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted operating 
expenses  
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
89 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Profit before tax and balance sheet data – Asia 
  2014
 
 Retail 
Banking 
and Wealth 
Management 
US$m  
Commercial
Banking
US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other 
US$m  
Inter- 
segment 
elimination
55 
US$m  
Total
US$m 
Profit before tax          
Net interest income/(expense) 5,003 3,439 3,579 177 (16)  91  12,273
Net fee income 2,792 1,529 1,311 272 6  −  5,910
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income 216 382 1,220 142 (5)  −  1,955 
Net interest income/(expense)  
on trading activities   (13) (9) 771 − 9  (91)  667 
Net trading income
50
 203 373 1,991 142 4  (91)  2,622
Changes in fair value of long-term 
debt issued and related 
derivatives  − − − − (4)  −  (4)
Net income/(expense) from other 
financial instruments 
designated at fair value  543 (6) (2) − 2  −  537 
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments 
designated at fair value  543 (6) (2) − (2)  −  533 
Gains less losses from financial 
investments   1 5 46 − 148  −  200 
Dividend income  1 − 1 − 177  −  179
Net insurance premium income 6,596 794 − − −  −  7,390
Other operating income  516 95 141 3 2,734  (1,158)  2,331
Total operating income  15,655 6,229 7,067 594 3,051  (1,158)  31,438
Net insurance claims
56
  (6,979) (782) − − −  −  (7,761)
Net operating income
4 
 8,676 5,447 7,067 594 3,051  (1,158)  23,677
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other credit  
risk provisions (317) (228) (103) 1 −  −  (647)
Net operating income  8,359 5,219 6,964 595 3,051  (1,158)  23,030
Total operating expenses  (4,191) (1,897) (2,686) (384) (2,427)  1,158  (10,427)
Operating profit  4,168 3,322 4,278 211 624  −  12,603
Share of profit in associates 
and joint ventures  304 1,420 298 − −  −  2,022 
Profit before tax  4,472 4,742 4,576 211 624  −  14,625
      
  % % % % %    %
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax  23.9  25.4 24.5 1.1 3.4    78.3
Cost efficiency ratio   48.3  34.8 38.0 64.6 79.5    44.0
      
Balance sheet data
40
          
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m    US$m
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
27
  115,643 132,509 99,934 12,894 1,975    362,955 
Total assets  166,577 158,747 548,865 14,905 79,477  (89,848)  878,723
Customer accounts
27
  286,670 155,608 104,896 29,847 470    577,491
  Report of the Directors: Geographical regions (continued) 
Asia/Middle East and North Africa 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
90 
  2013 
 
 Retail Banking 
and Wealth 
Management 
US$m  
Commercial
Banking
US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other 
US$m  
Inter- 
segment 
elimination
55 
US$m  
Total
US$m 
Profit before tax        
Net interest income/(expense)   4,895 3,103 3,245 205 (124) 108 11,432
Net fee income/(expense)  2,758 1,518 1,419 249 (8) – 5,936
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income 238 377 1,483 175 (739) – 1,534 
Net interest income/(expense)  
on trading activities   (16) (6) 608 – 14 (108) 492 
Net trading income/(expense)
50
222 371 2,091 175 (725) (108) 2,026
Changes in fair value of long-term 
debt issued and related 
derivatives  – – – – (1) – (1)
Net income/(expense) from other 
financial instruments 
designated at fair value  315 – 7 – (7) – 315 
Net income/(expense) from 
financial instruments 
designated at fair value  315 – 7 – (8) – 314 
Gains less losses from financial 
investments   (1) – 58 14 1,204 – 1,275 
Dividend income  – 16 – 145 – 152
Net insurance premium income 6,263 654 1 – – – 6,918
Other operating income  764 97 163 12 3,871 (1,232) 3,675
Total operating income   15,216 5,744 6,990 655 4,355 (1,232) 31,728
Net insurance claims
56
  (6,609) (687) – – – – (7,296)
Net operating income
4 
 8,607 5,0576,990 6554,355 (1,232) 24,432
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions   (347) (144) (3) (4) – – (498)
Net operating income  8,260 4,913 6,987 651 4,355 (1,232) 23,934
Total operating expenses  (4,138) (1,786) (2,560) (367) (2,317) 1,232 (9,936)
Operating profit  4,122 3,127 4,427 284 2,038 – 13,998
Share of profit/(loss) in associates 
and joint ventures  297 1,331 248 – (21) – 1,855 
Profit before tax  4,419 4,458 4,675 284 2,017 – 15,853
    
  % %% %%  %
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax  19.6   19.8 20.7 1.3 8.9     70.3 
Cost efficiency ratio   48.1  35.3 36.6 56.0 53.2    40.7
    
Balance sheet data
40
        
 US$m US$mUS$mUS$mUS$m  US$m
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
27
 111,769 122,882 89,722 10,904 1,620  336,897 
Total assets 158,456 146,898 515,023 12,994 82,453 (84,033) 831,791
Customer accounts
27
 278,392 141,95896,54631,250 337  548,483
For footnotes, see page 109. 
   
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
91 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Middle East and 
North Africa 
The network of branches of HSBC Bank 
Middle East Limited, together with HSBC’s 
subsidiaries and associates, gives us wide 
coverage in the region. Our associate in 
Saudi Arabia, The Saudi British Bank (40% 
owned), is the Kingdom’s sixth largest bank 
by total assets. 
 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$m US$m US$m
Net interest income   1,519  1,486 1,470
Net fee income  650  622 595
Net trading income  314  357 390
Other income  65  38 (25)
Net operating income
4
  2,548  2,503 2,430
LICs
43
  6  42 (286)
Net operating income  2,554  2,545 2,144
Total operating expenses (1,216) (1,289) (1,166)
Operating profit  1,338  1,256 978
Income from associates
44
  488  438 372
Profit before tax  1,826  1,694 1,350
Cost efficiency ratio   47.7%   51.5% 48.0%
RoRWA
36
   2.9%  2.7% 2.2%
Year-end staff numbers  8,305  8,618 8,765
Best Investment Bank in the  
Middle East 
(Euromoney 2014) 
Record reported profit before tax of  
US$1.8bn 
Completed disposal of our operations in  
Jordan and Pakistan  
in line with the Group’s  
six filters investment criteria 
For footnotes, see page 109. 
 
 
Economic background  
Economic activity across the Middle East and North 
Africa remained strong during 2014, despite heightened 
geopolitical uncertainties and weaker global oil prices 
towards the end of the year. The region’s energy 
exporters fared particularly well, buoyed by an oil-
funded fiscal stimulus and an expansionary monetary 
stance. Saudi Arabia, the Middle East’s largest oil 
exporter, grew strongly as the Kingdom pushed ahead 
with its infrastructure and industrial expansion 
programme. The United Arab Emirates (‘UAE’), 
however, showed the most significant gains in 
momentum, boosted by growth in both its export-
orientated non-oil sector and an increasingly 
expansionary fiscal stance. Though showing some gains 
as growth picked up speed, inflation remained muted at 
under 5% across the Gulf. 
Egypt showed further signs of stabilisation in 2014. 
Although still below the trend levels that prevailed prior 
to the 2011 revolution, some momentum in growth 
was achieved in the second half of the year, boosted 
by the receipt of further concessional funding and 
an improvement in political order and policy making 
following the May presidential election. Inflation rose 
and the budget deficit remained high, recording a third 
successive double-digit deficit as a percentage of GDP. 
International reserves fell in the latter months of the 
year, highlighting ongoing pressure on the currency 
which remained subject to significant controls.  
Financial overview 
Profit before tax (US$m) 
Our operations in the Middle East and North Africa 
reported a profit before tax of US$1.8bn, an increase of 
8% on a reported basis, despite the effects of business 
disposals, including the loss on sale of our Pakistan 
business. See page 42 for further details of our 
significant items. 
On an adjusted basis, profit before tax grew by 11% 
driven by higher revenue and increased income from our 
associate, The Saudi British Bank.  
1,826
1,694
28
1,854
(21)
1,673
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted profit Report of the Directors: Geographical regions (continued) 
Middle East and North Africa 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
92 
Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses 
 
 
 
 
  Retail Banking
and Wealth
Management
US$m 
Commercial 
Banking 
US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other 
US$m  
Total
US$m 
Egypt  64 94 177 − − 335 
United Arab Emirates   154 190 364 − (46) 662 
Saudi Arabia 91 168 203 19 5 486 
Other  14 152 182 − (5) 343 
Year ended 31 December 2014 323 604 926 19 (46) 1,826 
       
Egypt  31 37 166 − (29) 205
United Arab Emirates   142 290 275 1 (72) 636
Saudi Arabia 82 146 188 15 7 438
Other  3 172 240 − − 415
Year ended 31 December 2013 258 645 869 16 (94) 1,694
       
Egypt  67 71 157 – (5) 290
United Arab Emirates   143 235 141 1 (56) 464
Saudi Arabia 60 120 170 9 18 377
Other  (18) 161 113 – (37) 219 
Year ended 31 December 2012 252 587 581 10 (80) 1,350
 
Country business highlights 
In the UAE, we made significant progress in executing 
the strategic plan we announced in 2013. In RBWM, we 
expanded our range of products in Wealth Management, 
including the launch of the International Bonds and 
Portfolio Advisory Service to widen our offering for 
Premier clients. The introduction of a financial health 
check to better understand customer needs coupled 
with the opening of a Customer Service Unit in Abu 
Dhabi illustrated our focus on putting the customer first. 
In CMB, we enhanced our services to customers that 
trade internationally by completing the implementation 
of our International Subsidiary Business model across the 
region in order to better meet their cross-border banking 
requirements and cement our strategic relationships. 
We also launched a second tranche of the International 
Growth Fund for AED1bn (US$272m). We continued to 
invest in our Payments and Cash Management business 
including recruiting client-facing and specialised staff and 
won the Best Regional Cash Management Provider in the 
Middle East award.  
In GB&M, we advised a major regional airline on 
its investment in a European air carrier and a large 
investment company in Dubai on its inaugural US$1bn 
bond issue. In addition, we increased our collaboration 
with CMB, particularly in Capital Financing, focusing on 
existing clients and taking advantage of our connectivity 
with other regions. 
The drop in oil prices did not have a material impact on 
our financial performance in the UAE. 
In Egypt, in RBWM, we expanded our product offering 
with enhanced features and reduced pricing for credit 
cards, and were ranked number one in the customer 
recommendation index. In GB&M, we acted as the 
global coordinator, structuring bank, mandated lead 
arranger and facility agent for a government entity. This 
reflected our commitment to supporting the Egyptian 
government’s plan for the development of the country’s 
infrastructure. 
In Saudi Arabia, through our associates, The Saudi British 
Bank and HSBC Saudi Arabia Limited, we acted as joint 
financial advisor, joint lead manager and a receiving bank 
on the US$6bn National Commercial Bank initial public 
offering (‘IPO’). This was the Middle East’s largest ever 
IPO and the world’s second largest in 2014. 
Review of adjusted performance
45
 
Revenue (US$m) 
Revenue increased in the majority of our markets, most 
notably in Egypt in all global businesses and in the UAE.  
Country view of adjusted revenue 
 2014 2013 
 US$m US$m 
UAE 1,448  1,401 
Egypt 531  451 
Rest of MENA 566  550 
Year ended 31 December 2,545  2,402 
In Egypt, revenue increased by US$80m, reflecting higher 
net interest income in RBWM due to improved deposit 
spreads as a result of re-pricing,  and the non-recurrence 
of losses on disposal of available-for-sale debt securities 
2,548
2,503
(3)
2,545
(101)
2,402
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted revenue  
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
93 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
in GB&M in 2013. In addition, the Central Bank resumed 
interest payments on overnight placements during 2014, 
which contributed to the rise in revenue in all global 
businesses. 
In the UAE, revenue increased by US$47m, primarily 
in GB&M reflecting a rise in Capital Financing due to 
increased advisory mandates in Project and Export 
Finance and a gain on restructuring a specific loan in 
Credit and Lending. In addition, revenue rose in our 
Equities and Securities Services businesses from 
increased customer flows, which in part reflected the 
upgrade of the UAE to emerging markets status in the 
MSCI Index. In RBWM, revenue increased, but to a lesser 
extent, reflecting higher net interest income as mortgage 
balances rose and deposit spreads improved due to re-
pricing initiatives. This was partially offset by reduced 
revenue in CMB from lower spreads on lending balances, 
reflecting a highly liquid and competitive market coupled 
with lower charges on foreign exchange transactions in 
Payments and Cash Management. 
In the rest of the region, revenue was higher with 
increases in Oman and Qatar partly offset by a reduction 
in Algeria. Higher revenue in Oman in part reflected 
growth in customer advances in CMB. The increase in 
Qatar was driven by fees in GB&M reflecting increased 
customer flows in our Securities Services business, which 
in part reflected the upgrade of Qatar to emerging 
markets status in the MSCI Index. The reduction in 
Algeria reflected regulatory restrictions on foreign 
exchange spreads charged on corporate customer 
transactions. 
Net loan impairment releases were lower by US$44m, 
primarily driven by lower impairment releases for a 
particular UAE-related exposure in GB&M. 
Operating expenses (US$m) 
Operating expenses of US$1,183m decreased by 
US$31m, mainly due to reductions in Egypt and the UAE. 
In Egypt, expenses fell following charges recorded in 
2013 relating to changes in the interpretation of tax 
regulations. In the UAE, expenses reduced due to the 
non-recurrence of charges incurred in 2013 on customer 
redress programmes in RBWM relating to fees charged 
on overseas credit card transactions. This was partly 
offset by wage inflation, investment in Regulatory 
Programmes and Compliance, growth in customer-facing 
staff in RBWM and increased service and product 
support staff in CMB.  
Share of profits from associates and joint ventures 
increased by 12%, mainly from The Saudi British Bank. 
This was driven by higher revenue resulting from strong 
balance sheet growth.  
1,216
1,289
(33)
1,183
(75)
1,214
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted operating 
expenses Report of the Directors: Geographical regions (continued) 
Middle East and North Africa 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
94 
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Middle East and North Africa 
  2014
 
 Retail 
Banking 
and Wealth 
Management 
US$m  
Commercial
Banking
US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other 
US$m  
Inter- 
segment 
 elimination
55 
US$m  
Total
US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax        
Net interest income   615 467 410 − 3 24 1,519
Net fee income/(expense)  152 268 240 − (10) − 650
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income   58 68 207 − (5) − 328 
Net interest income on trading 
activities   − − 10 − − (24) (14)
Net trading income/(expense)
50
58 68 217 − (5) (24) 314
Net expense from financial 
instruments designated at fair 
value  − − − − (3) − (3)
Gains less losses from financial 
investments   1 1 20 − − − 22 
Dividend income  1 1 12 − − − 14
Other operating income  8 − 27 − 108 (111) 32
Total operating income  835 805 926 − 93 (111) 2,548
Net insurance claims
56
  − − − − − − −
Net operating income
4
  835 805 926 − 93 (111) 2,548
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other credit 
risk provisions  (26) (21) 53 − − − 6 
Net operating income  809 784 979 − 93  (111) 2,554
Total operating expenses  (578) (348) (256) − (145) 111 (1,216)
Operating profit/(loss)  231 436 723 − (52) − 1,338
Share of profit in associates and 
joint ventures  92 168 203 19 6 − 488 
Profit/(loss) before tax  323 604 926 19 (46) − 1,826
    
  % % % % %  %
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax  1.7  3.2 5.0 0.1 (0.2)    9.8 
Cost efficiency ratio   69.2  43.2 27.6 − 155.9    47.7
    
Balance sheet data
40
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
27
  6,318  13,104 9,641 − −   29,063 
Total assets  7,073 14,911 39,229 77 2,900 (1,773) 62,417
Customer accounts
27
 18,024 11,809 9,630 − 257  39,720
   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
95 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
  2013
 
Retail Banking 
and Wealth 
Management 
US$m  
Commercial
Banking
US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other 
US$m  
Inter- 
segment 
elimination
55 
US$m  
Total
US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax        
Net interest income   585 486 390 − 4 21 1,486
Net fee income/(expense)  161 269 197 − (5) – 622
Trading income excluding net  
interest income  59 85 220 − − – 364 
Net interest income on trading 
activities   − − 14 − − (21) (7)
Net trading income
50
 59 85234 − − (21) 357
Net expense from financial 
instruments designated at fair 
value  − − − − (2) − (2)
Gains less losses from financial 
investments   − − (18) − − − (18)
Dividend income  − − 9 − − − 9
Other operating income  25 30 15 − 99 (120) 49
Total operating income   830 870 827 − 96 (120) 2,503
Net insurance claims
56
  − − − − − − −
Net operating income
4
  830 870 827 − 96 (120) 2,503
Loan impairment (charges)/  
recoveries and other credit  
risk provisions  (49) (20) 110 1 − − 42 
Net operating income  781 850 937 1 96 (120) 2,545
Total operating expenses  (606) (350) (256) − (197) 120 (1,289)
Operating profit/(loss)  175 500 681 1 (101) − 1,256
Share of profit in associates and 
joint ventures  83 145 188 15 7 − 438 
Profit/(loss) before tax   258 645 869 16 (94) − 1,694
    
  % %% %%  %
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax  1.1  2.9 3.8 0.1 (0.4)    7.5
Cost efficiency ratio   73.0  40.2 31.0 – 205.2    51.5
    
Balance sheet data
40
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
27
  6,152 11,814 9,241 − 4  27,211 
Total assets  7,016 13,776 39,302 64 3,340 (2,688) 60,810
Customer accounts
27
  18,771 12,402 7,432 1 77  38,683
For footnotes, see page 109. 
  Report of the Directors: Geographical regions (continued) 
North America 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
96 
North America  
Our principal North American businesses 
are located in the US and Canada. 
Operations in the US are primarily 
conducted through HSBC Bank USA, N.A., 
and HSBC Finance, a national consumer 
finance company. HSBC Markets (USA) Inc. 
is the intermediate holding company of, 
inter alia, HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. 
Canadian operations are conducted 
through HSBC Bank Canada. 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$m US$m US$m
Net interest income  5,015  5,742  8,117 
Net fee income  1,940  2,143  2,513 
Net trading income  411  948  507 
Gains on disposals of US 
branch network and  
cards business – – 4,012 
Other income/(expense)  786  (30) (456)
Net operating income
4 
 8,152  8,803 14,693 
LICs
43
  (322) (1,197) (3,457)
Net operating income  7,830  7,606 11,236 
Total operating expenses  (6,429) (6,416) (8,940)
Operating profit  1,401  1,190 2,296 
Income from associates
44
 16  31 3 
Profit before tax  1,417  1,221 2,299 
Cost efficiency ratio   78.9%   72.9% 60.8%
RoRWA
36
   0.6%  0.5% 0.8%
Year-end staff numbers  20,412  20,871 22,443
Best Export Finance Arranger in   
North America 
(Trade Finance Awards for Excellence – 2014)  
11% 
increase in  
CMB customer lending balances  
on a reported basis 
73% 
decrease in  
loan impairment charges 
on a reported basis 
For footnotes, see page 109. 
 
Economic background 
In the US, real GDP rose by 2.4% in 2014, after 2.2% 
growth in 2013. Both consumer spending and business 
fixed investment increased at a moderate pace in 2014, 
climbing 2.5% and 5.2%, respectively. Growth in 
residential investment slowed markedly, however, 
to 1.8% in 2014, from 11.9% in 2013. Government 
expenditure fell by 0.2% in 2014, as a decline in federal 
government spending more than offset an increase 
in state and local government expenditure. The 
unemployment rate fell from 6.7% at the end of 2013 to 
5.6% at the end of 2014. CPI inflation averaged 1.6% in 
2014, after averaging 1.5% in 2013. The Federal Reserve 
continued to pursue a highly accommodative monetary 
policy in 2014, keeping the federal funds rate in a 
0.00% to 0.25% range. It gradually reduced its monthly 
purchases of longer-term Treasury securities and agency 
mortgage-backed securities during the first ten months 
of the year, bringing its asset purchase programme to a 
conclusion at the end of October. 
Canadian real GDP grew at a 2.4% annual rate through the 
first three quarters of 2014, an improvement on the 1.8% 
increase observed during the comparable period in 2013. 
Exports were supported by US economic growth and 
rising oil production. Business investment was largely 
unchanged in 2014. The annual rate of CPI inflation rose 
to a peak of 2.4% in late 2013 and early 2014. However, 
as the oil price fell late in the year, fuel prices declined 
and the annual rate of inflation dropped to 1.5% in 
December, below the Bank of Canada’s 2% inflation target. 
Monetary policy remained accommodative with the Bank 
of Canada keeping its policy rate at 1% throughout 2014, 
where it has been since September 2010. 
Financial overview 
Profit before tax (US$m) 
Our operations in North America reported a profit before 
tax of US$1.4bn in 2014 compared with US$1.2bn in 2013. 
The increase of US$196m primarily reflected lower LICs, 
mainly in the US CML portfolio. This was partly offset by 
lower revenue, primarily reflecting continued CML run-off 
and a reduction in GB&M in the US. Costs were broadly 
unchanged as portfolio run-off broadly offset a US$550m 
charge in relation to a settlement with the Federal 
Housing Finance Authority.  
See page 42 for further details of significant items. 
1,417
1,221
694 2,111
827 2,048
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted profit  
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
97 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses 
 
  Retail Banking
 and Wealth 
 Management 
 US$m 
 Commercial 
 Banking 
 US$m 
 Global
 Banking and 
 Markets 
 US$m 
 Global 
 Private
 Banking
 US$m 
 Other 
 US$m  
 Total
 US$m 
US  513 400 (403) 82 (60) 532 
Canada 96 514 242 −  (23) 829 
Other 23 (1) 49 3 (18) 56 
Year ended 31 December 2014 632 913 (112) 85 (101) 1,417 
       
US   (358) 296 633 53 (350) 274 
Canada  131 506 280 −  (3) 914 
Other 20 (16)16 4 9 33 
Year ended 31 December 2013 (207) 786 929 57 (344) 1,221 
       
US  2,746 637 661 72 (2,901) 1,215 
Canada 207 577 314 (1)(16) 1,081 
Other 42 (15)(18)1 (7) 3 
Year ended 31 December 2012 2,995 1,199 957 72 (2,924) 2,299 
 
Adjusted profit before tax was US$63m higher, reflecting a 
reduction in LICs and operating expenses, partially offset 
by a decrease in revenue. 
Country business highlights 
In the US, CMB added US$4.0bn in 2014 to its SME fund 
which supports businesses that trade or aspire to trade 
internationally, raising the programme’s total available 
funding to US$5.0bn. Of this, US$3.7bn was utilised at 
31 December 2014. Corporate lending balances rose as 
we continued to be successful in our markets targeted 
for expansion, with balances in both the Midwest and 
the West Coast increasing by more than 25% year on 
year. 
In RBWM, we continued to optimise the mortgage 
origination process to improve the customer experience 
and expanded our digital channel capabilities. The re-
launch of our Global Premier programme along with 
other related campaigns led to approximately 22,000 
new Premier customers being added in 2014, an increase 
of 25%. 
Despite lower revenue in GB&M, we continued to 
execute our growth strategy utilising GB&M’s unique 
client franchise, its geographical network and product 
capabilities to connect our markets. In addition 
collaboration with CMB resulted in revenue from its 
clients rising by 19%. 
In Canada, CMB continued to focus on the acquisition 
of new clients, to whom advances reached over 
US$1.3bn. We created a dedicated International 
Subsidiary Banking team to manage and support our 
international clients on a consistent basis. GB&M 
focused on increasing its multinational client base, and 
the Project and Export Finance business continued to 
reflect growth. Our focus in RBWM continued to be 
on developing the Premier customer base, building 
mortgage, credit card, and deposit balances and growing 
assets under management. 
We continued to make progress in our strategy to 
accelerate the run-off and sale of our US CML portfolio. 
We completed the sale of several tranches of real estate 
secured accounts with an aggregate unpaid principal 
balance of US$2.9bn during 2014 and recognised a 
cumulative gain on sale of US$168m. Gross lending 
balances in the CML portfolio, including loans held for 
sale, were US$25bn at 31 December 2014, a decline 
of US$5.8bn from 2013. 
Review of adjusted performance
45
  
Revenue (US$m) 
Revenue fell in the US in RBWM, partly reflecting 
continued CML run-off, and in GB&M. Revenue also 
reduced in Canada, mainly reflecting the continued run-
off of the Consumer Finance business. 
Country view of adjusted revenue 
2014 2013
US$m US$m
US 6,083  7,071 
Canada 1,921  1,975 
Other 264  293 
Year ended 31 December 8,268  9,339 
In the US, revenue decreased by US$988m, mainly in 
RBWM where lower average lending balances driven by 
the continued run-off and loan sales of the CML portfolio 
led to lower net interest income. In addition, loan yields 
fell, partly reflecting the sale of our higher yielding CML 
non-real estate personal loan portfolio, which resulted in 
a significant shift in product mix towards increased levels 
of lower yielding first lien real estate loans. Revenue also 
declined due to lower deposit volumes and narrower 
deposit spreads. The fall in revenue was partly offset by 
8,152
8,803
116 8,268
536 9,339
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted revenue Report of the Directors: Geographical regions (continued) 
North America 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
98 
releases of mortgage loan repurchase obligations related 
to loans previously sold, which compared with provisions 
in 2013.  
Revenue decreased in GB&M, driven by a reduction 
in Balance Sheet Management income due to lower 
reported gains on sales of available-for-sale debt 
securities as a result of our ongoing portfolio 
repositioning for risk management purposes, and the 
adverse performance of economic hedges used to 
manage interest rate risk. Credit revenue also reduced, 
primarily in our legacy credit portfolio partly reflecting 
net adverse fair value movements on the portfolio.  
By contrast, revenue increased in CMB, mainly reflecting 
increased lending balances in markets targeted for 
expansion and higher income in GB&M from increased 
collaboration in acquisition financing activity.  
In Canada, revenue decreased by US$54m, mainly in 
RBWM reflecting a fall in net interest income due to 
lower average lending balances from the continued run-
off of the Consumer Finance business. Excluding this, 
RBWM revenues rose, driven by higher fees partly 
reflecting increased sales of wealth management 
products. In CMB, revenues also increased, largely 
because of the non-recurrence of a reduction in the fair 
value of an investment property held for sale and 
recognised in 2013. By contrast, GB&M revenue 
decreased, reflecting lower trading income from foreign 
exchange and a reduction in reported gains on sales 
of available-for-sale debt securities. 
LICs fell, mainly in the CML portfolio reflecting reduced 
levels of delinquency, new impaired loans and lower 
lending balances from the continued run-off and loan 
sales. This was partly offset by less favourable market 
value adjustments to underlying property prices because 
improvements in housing market conditions were less 
pronounced in 2014 than in 2013. LICs also fell in 
Principal RBWM, mainly reflecting lower levels of 
delinquency, and in Canada in CMB from lower 
individually and collectively assessed impairment 
charges.  
Operating expenses (US$m) 
Operating expenses decreased by US$285m, primarily in 
the US, reflecting lower divestiture costs as our former 
Cards business reached the end of the data separation 
process, and lower average staff numbers and costs 
resulting from the continued run-off and sales of 
tranches of our CML portfolio. In addition, we also 
achieved over US$185m of sustainable cost savings, 
primarily reflecting organisational effectiveness 
initiatives. Partly offsetting the lower operating 
expenses were higher legal costs and the growth in 
costs associated with Regulatory Programmes and 
Compliance, reflecting our continued investment in 
Global Standards. 
 
6,429 6,416
(578)
5,851
(280)
6,136
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted operating 
expenses  
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
99 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – North America 
  2014 
 
Retail Banking 
and Wealth 
Management 
US$m  
Commercial
Banking
 
US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other 
US$m  
Inter- 
segment 
elimination
55 
 US$m  
Total
US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax        
Net interest income  2,645 1,455 587 204 157 (33) 5,015
Net fee income/(expense) 497 572 775 130 (34)  − 1,940
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income  (165) 34 302 13 3  − 187 
Net interest income/(expense) 
on trading activities 7 1 183 − −  33 224 
Net trading income/(expense)
50
(158) 35 485 13 3  33 411
Changes in fair value of long-term 
debt issued and related 
derivatives  − − − − (99)  − (99)
Net income from other financial 
instruments designated at  
fair value  − − − − −  − − 
Net expense from financial 
instruments designated at  
fair value  − − − − (99)  − (99)
Gains less losses from financial 
investments   − 15 237 − 5  − 257 
Dividend income   13 8 16 3 4  − 44
Net insurance premium income − − − − −  − −
Other operating income  268 61 101 1 1,872 (1,719) 584
Total operating income  3,265 2,146 2,201 351 1,908 (1,719) 8,152
Net insurance claims
56
   − − − − −  − −
Net operating income
4
   3,265 2,146 2,201 351 1,908 (1,719) 8,152
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other credit  
risk provisions  (117) (148) (63) 8 (2)  − (322)
Net operating income  3,148 1,998 2,138 359 1,906 (1,719) 7,830
Total operating expenses   (2,516) (1,101) (2,250) (274) (2,007) 1,719 (6,429)
Operating profit/(loss)   632 897 (112) 85 (101)  − 1,401
Share of profit in associates  
and joint ventures  − 16 − − −  − 16 
Profit/(loss) before tax  632 913 (112) 85 (101)  − 1,417
    
 % % % % %  %
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax  3.4   4.9 (0.6) 0.5 (0.5)     7.6
Cost efficiency ratio   77.1   51.3 102.2 78.1 105.2     78.9
    
Balance sheet data
40
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
27
  60,365 41,966 21,110 6,346 –  129,787 
Total assets   74,680 48,411 319,819 8,386 16,823 (31,260) 436,859
Customer accounts
27
  51,258 45,275 30,301 12,050 –  138,884
 
  Report of the Directors: Geographical regions (continued) 
North America/Latin America 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
100 
  2013
 
Retail Banking 
and Wealth 
Management 
US$m  
Commercial
Banking
US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other 
US$m  
Inter- 
segment 
elimination
55 
US$m  
Total
US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax        
Net interest income  3,483 1,430 582 195 89 (37) 5,742
Net fee income  605 593 741 125 79 − 2,143
Trading income excluding net 
interest income  48 40 613 19 7 − 727 
Net interest income on trading 
activities  11 1 172 − − 37 221 
Net trading income
50
  59 41 785 19 7 37 948
Changes in fair value of long-term 
debt issued and related 
derivatives  − – – – (288) – (288)
Net income from other financial 
instruments designated at fair 
value  − − − − − − − 
Net expense from financial 
instruments designated at  
fair value  − − − − (288) − (288)
Gains less losses from financial 
investments   4 − 282 − 8 − 294 
Dividend income   12 9 48 4 4 − 77
Net insurance premium income 34 – – – – – 34
Other operating income/ 
(expense)   (454) − 229 1 1,829 (1,713) (108)
Total operating income   3,743 2,073 2,667 344 1,728 (1,713) 8,842
Net insurance claims
56
  (39) − − − − − (39)
Net operating income
4
  3,704 2,073 2,667 344 1,728 (1,713) 8,803
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions (950) (223) (20) (4) − − (1,197)
Net operating income 2,754 1,850 2,647 340 1,728 (1,713) 7,606
Total operating expenses   (2,960) (1,096) (1,718) (283) (2,072) 1,713 (6,416)
Operating profit/(loss)  (206) 754 929 57 (344) − 1,190
Share of profit/(loss) in associates 
and joint ventures   (1) 32 − − − − 31 
Profit/(loss) before tax   (207) 786 929 57 (344) − 1,221
    
 % %% %%  %
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax (0.9)  3.5 4.1 0.3 (1.6)    5.4
Cost efficiency ratio  79.9  52.9 64.4 82.3 119.9    72.9
    
Balance sheet data
40
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
27
 66,192 37,735 18,070 5,956 −  127,953 
Total assets   82,530 45,706 313,701 8,542 13,211 (31,655) 432,035
Customer accounts
27
  53,600 49,225 24,113 13,871 −  140,809
For footnotes, see page 109.   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
101 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Latin America 
Our operations in Latin America principally 
comprise HSBC Bank Brasil S.A.-Banco 
Múltiplo, HSBC México, S.A. and HSBC 
Bank Argentina S.A. In addition to banking 
services, we operate insurance businesses 
in Brazil, Mexico and Argentina. 
 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$m US$m US$m
Net interest income   5,310  6,186  6,984 
Net fee income  1,415  1,701  1,735 
Net trading income  856  936  971 
Other income  691  1,745  1,261 
Net operating income
4
  8,272  10,568  10,951 
LICs
43
  (2,124) (2,666) (2,137)
Net operating income  6,148  7,902  8,814 
Total operating expenses (5,932) (5,930) (6,430)
Operating profit  216  1,972  2,384 
Income from associates
44 
 − − –
Profit before tax  216  1,972  2,384 
Cost efficiency ratio   71.7%   56.1% 58.7% 
RoRWA
36
   0.2%  2.0% 2.4%
Year-end staff numbers  41,201  42,542  46,556
Further progress made in repositioning 
our businesses in Brazil and Mexico 
Loan House and Bond House of the Year 
(LatinFinance, 2014) 
#1 
in Domestic Cash Management  
in Argentina and Mexico 
(Euromoney Cash Management Survey, 2014) 
For footnotes, see page 109. 
 
Economic background 
Data for the third quarter of 2014 suggested that Latin 
America may have seen a material slowdown in its 
average real annual GDP growth in 2014 to nearly 1.0% 
from 2.6% in 2013. 
A slowdown in the Brazilian economy explains much of 
this weakness. The level of economic activity was broadly 
unchanged in 2014 following growth of 2.5% in 2013, 
but deteriorating business confidence and the resulting 
contraction in business investment spending were 
the main factors behind the economic slowdown. To 
mitigate inflationary pressures from a weakening 
currency, the central bank raised the key policy rate by 
75bps in the fourth quarter to 11.75%.  
Mexico’s economic growth accelerated in 2014 after 
low real GDP growth of only 1.1% in 2013. Consumer 
spending, the main area of weakness in 2013, 
accelerated during the year and the improvement in US 
demand served to boost exports. Inflationary pressures 
remained muted and the Mexican central bank cut its 
key policy rate to 3% from 3.5% at the start of the year.  
The Argentinian economy contracted in 2014 due to 
falling commodity prices, a stagnant Brazilian economy 
and a technical default on the dollar-denominated 
external debt of the country. A significant devaluation 
of the Argentine peso at the beginning of 2014 fuelled 
higher inflation.  
Financial overview 
Profit before tax (US$m) 
Latin America reported a profit before tax of US$216m 
in 2014 compared with US$2.0bn in 2013. The reduction 
was due to lower revenue, primarily driven by the 
non-recurrence of the US$1.1bn gain on sale of our 
operations in Panama in 2013 partly offset by a decrease 
in LICs. 
Adjusted profit before tax decreased by US$326m, 
and included a loss before tax in Brazil. The reduction 
in profit primarily reflected higher operating expenses, 
mainly due to inflationary and union-agreed salary 
increases in Brazil and Argentina, and lower revenue 
in Mexico and Brazil as we progressed with repositioning 
our business. These factors were partly offset by an 
increase in revenue in Argentina and a reduction in LICs, 
primarily in Mexico.  
216
1,972
108 324 (1,322)
650
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted profit Report of the Directors: Geographical regions (continued) 
Latin America  
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
102 
Profit/(loss) before tax by country within global businesses 
 
 Retail Banking
and Wealth
Management
US$m 
Commercial 
Banking 
US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other 
US$m  
Total
US$m 
Argentina  52 135 219 − (22) 384
Brazil  (174) (153) 115 (2) (33) (247)
Mexico  36 (52) 89 (2) (20) 51
Other  (4) 7 27 − (2) 28
Year ended 31 December 2014 (90) (63) 450 (4) (77) 216
  
Argentina  97 142 170 − (1) 408
Brazil  (114) (43) 514 5 (11) 351
Mexico  154 (160) 115 (3) 11 117
Other  289 525 368 (1) (85) 1,096
Year ended 31 December 2013 426 464 1,167 1 (86) 1,972
  
Argentina  209 169 174 – (46) 506
Brazil  94 359 696 17 (43) 1,123
Mexico  338 176 201 2 (18) 699
Other  (33) 47 82 1 (41) 56
Year ended 31 December 2012 608 751 1,153 20 (148) 2,384
 
Country business highlights 
In 2014, in our priority growth markets of Brazil, Mexico 
and Argentina, we continued to implement strategic 
initiatives to improve future returns whilst we faced 
economic and inflationary pressures.  
In Brazil, we made progress in our efforts to transform 
the business in order to ensure its long-term 
sustainability. In RBWM, we are updating our business 
model by concentrating RMs on specific client segments 
in order to better serve customer needs. We also 
updated certain features of our lending products to 
improve our competitiveness such as increasing the 
duration of some of our personal loans, and further 
strengthened our retail credit capabilities to improve the 
quality of originations. We continued to rationalise our 
branch network, closing 21 branches in areas with lower 
growth potential as we concentrated our efforts on 
city clusters with faster-growing revenue pools, and 
launching 60 client service units with a focus on sales 
and automated transactions. In CMB, we increased MME 
market presence and in RBWM we grew lending by 4% 
following contraction in the past two years. In addition, 
we saw increased client activity in GB&M, mainly in our 
Rates business. 
In Mexico, we remained focused on achieving 
sustainable growth although revenue was subdued. 
In RBWM we introduced RMs dedicated to our 
Advance segment to improve productivity and customer 
experience. We launched a balance transfer campaign, 
selectively increased credit limits for lower risk 
customers and saw mortgage balances grow by 5% 
reflecting competitive pricing. In CMB we improved 
processes in the Business Banking segment to allow 
RMs to better support their clients. In GB&M, lending 
balances rose by 48% as a result of new business 
initiatives following energy reforms in the second half 
of 2014. We made strong progress on repositioning our 
business, which has reduced customer numbers, and 
continued to focus on streamlining, managing our cost 
base and strengthening our risk management and 
controls. 
In Argentina, we continued to manage our business 
conservatively as the economic environment remained 
challenging. We focused our growth on GB&M and 
corporate CMB customers and continued to follow 
cautious lending policies in RBWM and Business Banking. 
We retained leading market positions in Trade and 
Foreign Exchange. 
Review of adjusted performance
45
 
Revenue (US$m) 
Revenue was higher in Argentina due to favourable 
results in GB&M and growth in RBWM and CMB. This 
was partly offset by reductions in Mexico across all 
global businesses and in Brazil, primarily in CMB and 
GB&M. 
Country view of adjusted revenue 
2014 2013
US$m US$m
Argentina 1,070  718 
Brazil 4,821  4,932 
Mexico 2,304  2,479 
Other 58  (54)
Year ended 31 December 8,253  8,075 
8,272
10,568
(19)
8,253
(2,493)
8,075
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted revenue  
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
103 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
In Argentina, revenue increased by US$352m, primarily 
in GB&M, together with growth in RBWM and CMB. In 
GB&M, the increase reflected favourable trading results 
and higher revenue in Balance Sheet Management, as 
volumes and spreads related to short-term funds grew in 
a volatile market.  
Revenue increased in RBWM, primarily due to growth 
in insurance revenue from higher investment income 
which reflected movements in the bond markets. In 
addition, revenue rose from increased net interest 
income, driven by wider spreads due to higher interest 
rates coupled with growth in average deposit balances. 
In CMB, revenue increased due to growth in net interest 
income reflecting wider spreads due to an increase in 
interest rates, higher average lending balances and 
growth in Payments and Cash Management deposit 
balances. Higher balances also led to increased fees 
from both Payments and Cash Management and Trade 
products. 
In Mexico, revenue decreased by US$175m, mainly 
in RBWM and, to a lesser extent, in CMB and GB&M. 
In RBWM, revenue fell primarily due to lower sales 
volumes in the insurance business. Revenue was also 
adversely affected as we continued to progress with 
repositioning the business. In addition, we experienced 
narrower liability spreads on current accounts, savings 
and deposits following a decrease in interest rates 
although the effect was partly offset by higher mortgage 
balances.  
In CMB, net interest income decreased due to asset 
spread compression and a reduction in average lending 
balances. This was notably in Business Banking, where 
we continued to reposition the business, there were pre-
payments by a small number of large corporates and a 
portion of loans to certain homebuilders were written 
off. Net interest income was also adversely affected 
by narrower deposit spreads following a decrease in 
interest rates. In addition, fee income decreased as a 
result of lower Account Services and Payments and Cash 
Management fees reflecting fewer customers, as we 
continued to reposition the business.  
In GB&M, lower revenue was primarily due to market 
movements which affected counterparty credit spreads 
resulting in increased CVA charges, and lower gains on 
disposal of available-for-sale securities.  
In Brazil, revenue decreased in CMB and GB&M, while 
RBWM remained broadly unchanged. In CMB, revenue 
was lower, despite growth in overall lending balances, 
as the portfolio mix changed to reflect an increase in 
lower-yielding MMEs. 
In GB&M, revenue reduced in Balance Sheet 
Management, though this was partly offset by growth 
in Rates revenue, driven by higher client activity. 
Revenue in RBWM was broadly unchanged. Insurance 
revenue increased due to favourable movements in the 
PVIF asset compared with adverse movements in 2013. 
This was offset by a decrease in fee income across a 
number of products, in part reflecting a change in mix by 
customers towards more secured, lower-yielding assets 
and strong market competition.  
LICs fell, primarily in Mexico and, to a lesser extent, in 
Brazil.  
In Mexico, LICs improved due to lower individually 
assessed charges in CMB, in particular relating to certain 
homebuilders following a change in the public housing 
policy in 2013, and in GB&M due to the non-recurrence 
of a large specific provision booked in 2013. 
In Brazil, the fall was driven by changes to the 
impairment model and assumption revisions for 
restructured loan account portfolios which occurred in 
2013 in both RBWM and CMB. In addition, collectively 
assessed impairments reduced in CMB, notably in 
Business Banking, reflecting improved delinquency rates. 
This was partly offset by an increase in GB&M driven by 
an individually assessed impairment and a provision 
made against a guarantee. 
Operating expenses (US$m) 
Operating expenses increased by US$796m, primarily in 
Brazil and Argentina, largely due to union-agreed salary 
increases and inflationary pressures. In addition, we saw 
higher transactional taxes in Argentina in line with a 
growth in revenue and increased infrastructure costs 
across the region. We also incurred specific costs 
in Brazil in 2014 relating to an accelerated depreciation 
charge and an impairment of an intangible asset in 
RBWM. Despite these factors, our strict cost control 
continued and we progressed with our strategic focus on 
streamlining, which resulted in sustainable cost savings 
of over US$155m. 
5,932 5,930
(125)
5,807
(919)
5,011
2014 2013
Reported Currency translation
and significant items
Adjusted operating 
expenses Report of the Directors: Geographical regions (continued) 
Latin America  
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
104 
Profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data – Latin America 
  2014
 
Retail Banking 
and Wealth 
Management 
US$m  
Commercial
Banking
US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other 
US$m  
Inter- 
segment 
elimination
55 
US$m  
Total
US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax    
Net interest income  3,323 1,529 490 19 9 (60) 5,310
Net fee income    771 469 147 28 − − 1,415
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income  123 103 391 3 (1) − 619 
Net interest income/(expense) on 
trading activities   1 4 174 − (2) 60 237 
Net trading income/(expense)
50
124 107 565 3 (3) 60 856
Changes in fair value of long-term 
debt issued and related  
derivatives   − − − − − − − 
Net income from other financial 
instruments designated at  
fair value   516 175 − − − − 691 
Net income from financial  
instruments designated at  
fair value   516 175 − − − − 691 
Gains less losses from financial 
investments   − − 84 − − − 84 
Dividend income   6 2 1 − − − 9
Net insurance premium income 1,233 285 5 − − − 1,523
Other operating income   54 47 19 − 213 (184) 149
Total operating income   6,027 2,614 1,311 50 219 (184) 10,037
Net insurance claims
56
   (1,410) (352) (3) − − − (1,765)
Net operating income
4
   4,617 2,262 1,308 50 219 (184) 8,272
Loan impairment (charges)/ 
recoveries and other credit risk 
provisions (1,091) (776) (252) (5) − − (2,124)
Net operating income   3,526 1,486 1,056 45 219 (184) 6,148
Total operating expenses   (3,616) (1,549) (606) (49) (296) 184 (5,932)
Operating profit/(loss)  (90) (63) 450 (4) (77) − 216
Share of profit in associates and 
joint ventures − − − − − − − 
Profit/(loss) before tax (90) (63) 450 (4) (77) − 216
    
 % % % % %  %
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax (0.5)  (0.3) 2.4 − (0.5)    1.1
Cost efficiency ratio  78.3  68.5 46.3 98.0 135.2    71.7
    
Balance sheet data
40
    
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
27
 12,306 20,078 10,642 96 –  43,122 
Total assets  29,074 29,851 55,827 298 1,155 (851) 115,354
Customer accounts
27
  23,056 15,125 8,219 2,188 −  48,588
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
105 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
  2013
 
Retail Banking 
and Wealth 
Management 
US$m  
Commercial
Banking
US$m 
Global
Banking and
Markets
US$m 
Global
Private
Banking
US$m 
Other 
US$m  
Inter- 
segment 
elimination
55 
US$m  
Total
US$m 
Profit/(loss) before tax        
Net interest income/(expense)  3,776 1,828 775 24 (12) (205) 6,186
Net fee income    952 548 168 32 1 − 1,701
Trading income/(expense) 
excluding net interest income  138 117 456 4 (4) − 711 
Net interest income on trading 
activities   − − 20 − − 205 225 
Net trading income/(expense)
50
138 117 476 4 (4) 205 936
Changes in fair value of long-term 
debt issued and related 
derivatives  − − − − − − − 
Net income from other financial 
instruments designated at  
fair value   264 61 1 − − − 326 
Net income from financial  
instruments designated at  
fair value   264 61 1 − − − 326 
Gains less losses from financial 
investments   − 1 81 − − − 82 
Dividend income   5 3 1 − − − 9
Net insurance premium income 1,464 360 6 − − − 1,830
Other operating income   312 485 310 1 196 (189) 1,115
Total operating income   6,911 3,403 1,818 61 181 (189) 12,185
Net insurance claims
56
   (1,323) (291) (3) − − − (1,617)
Net operating income
4
  5,588 3,112 1,815 61 181 (189) 10,568
Loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions  (1,552) (1,062) (52) − − − (2,666)
Net operating income   4,036 2,050 1,763 61 181 (189) 7,902
Total operating expenses   (3,610) (1,586) (596) (60) (267) 189 (5,930)
Operating profit/(loss)   426 464 1,167 1 (86) − 1,972
Share of profit in associates and 
joint ventures   − − − − − − − 
Profit/(loss) before tax   426 464 1,167 1 (86) − 1,972
    
 % %% %%  %
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax 1.9  2.0 5.2 − (0.4)    8.7
Cost efficiency ratio   64.6  51.0 32.8 98.4 147.5    56.1
    
Balance sheet data
40
        
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
27
  13,616 19,923 10,304 75 −  43,918 
Total assets   30,584 30,001 52,977 337 634 (534) 113,999
Customer accounts
27
  23,943 16,593 8,994 1,859 −  51,389
For footnotes, see page 109. 
  Report of the Directors: Other information 
FuM/Taxes paid/Property/Disclosure philosophy 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
106 
Other information  
Funds under management and assets held in custody 106
Taxes paid by region and country  106
Property  107
Our disclosure philosophy 107
Disclosures arising from EDTF recommendations 108
Funds under management 
and assets held in custody 
Funds under management
59
 
 2014 2013
 US$bn US$bn
Funds under management  
At 1 January  921 910
Net new money  38 (18)
Value change  40 34
Exchange and other  (45) (5)
At 31 December  954 921
 
 2014 2013
 US$bn US$bn
Funds under management by  
business 
 
Global Asset Management  445 420
Global Private Banking  275 282
Affiliates  5 5
Other  229 214
At 31 December 954 921
For footnote, see page 109. 
Funds under management (‘FuM’) at 31 December 2014 
amounted to US$954bn, an increase of 4%, primarily due 
to favourable market movements and net inflows in the 
year. 
Global Asset Management FuM increased by 6% to 
US$445bn as we attracted US$29bn of net new money, 
notably in fixed income products from our customers in 
Europe and Asia, as well as from net inflows into liquidity 
funds in Europe and North America. In addition, we 
transferred FuM of US$18bn which had previously been 
reported within Other FuM and we benefited from 
favourable movements in equity and bond markets. 
These increases were partly offset by adverse foreign 
exchange movements reflecting the strengthening of 
the US dollar against all major currencies. 
GPB FuM decreased by 3% to US$275bn due to the 
ongoing repositioning of our client base, which gave rise 
to disposals of a portfolio of assets in Switzerland to 
LGT Bank (Switzerland) Ltd and our HSBC Trinkaus & 
Burkhardt AG business in Luxembourg with a combined 
FuM of US$8bn, and negative net new money in Europe. 
In addition, there were unfavourable foreign exchange 
movements, mainly in Europe. This was partly offset by 
favourable market movements, also principally in 
Europe, and from positive net new money in areas 
targeted for growth. 
Other FuM increased by 7% to US$229bn, primarily 
due to strong net inflows and favourable market 
movements. This was partly offset by the transfer of 
FuM into Global Asset Management noted above. 
Assets held in custody
59
 and under administration 
Custody is the safekeeping and servicing of securities 
and other financial assets on behalf of clients. At 
31 December 2014, we held assets as custodian of 
US$6.4 trillion, 3% higher than the US$6.2 trillion 
held at 31 December 2013. This was mainly driven 
by incremental net asset inflows in Asia and Europe, 
and notably in Middle East and North Africa, partly 
offset by adverse foreign exchange movements. 
Our assets under administration business, which includes 
the provision of bond and loan administration services 
and the valuation of portfolios of securities and other 
financial assets on behalf of clients, complements the 
custody business. At 31 December 2014, the value 
of assets held under administration by the Group 
amounted to US$3.2 trillion, which was 6% higher 
than at 31 December 2013. This was mainly driven by 
incremental net asset inflows in the Funds business in 
Europe and Asia, which was partly offset by adverse 
foreign exchange movements. 
Taxes paid by region and 
country 
The following tables reflect a geographical view of 
HSBC’s operations and the basis of preparation is aligned 
to the Group’s approach in meeting its country-by- 
country reporting obligations as laid out in Article 89 
of the EU’s CRD IV. 
Breakdown of tax paid by region
60
 
2014 
US$bn 
2013
US$bn 
Region 
UK 2.4 2.1
Rest of Europe 1.3 1.5
Asia 2.7 2.5
Middle East and North Africa 0.2 0.3
North America (0.1) 0.4
Latin America 1.4 1.8
Total 7.9 8.6
For footnote, see page 109.     
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
107 
Strategic Report Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Taxes paid by country
60 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$m US$m US$m
Total taxes paid analysed 
by regions    
Asia 2,687 2,536 2,639
Home and priority growth 
markets 2,399 2,185 2,225 
– Hong Kong  1,273 1,248 974
– Mainland China  278 207 276
– India  290 318 349
– Australia 204 105 209
– Malaysia   133 106 193
– Indonesia 76 74 113
– Singapore 101 88 89
– Taiwan  44 39 22
    
Other markets 288 351 414
      
Europe 3,709 3,570 3,213
Home and priority growth 
markets 3,466 3,326 3,021 
– UK  2,363 2,107 1,906
– France  790 844 679
– Germany 131 151 200
– Switzerland  107 142 160
– Turkey  75 82 76
      
Other markets 243 244 192
      
Middle East and  
North Africa 210 251 284 
Priority growth markets 162 213 234
– UAE  102 98 120
– Egypt  60 115 114
      
Other markets 48 38 50
      
North America (108) 414 1,236
Priority growth markets    
– US  (377) 125 798
– Canada 269 285 434
Other markets  – 4 4
      
Latin America 1,384 1,836 1,977
Priority growth markets 1,338 1,645 1,835
– Brazil 804 1,002 1,174
– Argentina  333 318 391
– Mexico  201 325 270
    
Other markets 46 191 142
    
Total 7,882 8,607 9,349
For footnote, see page 109.  
Property 
At 31 December 2014, we operated from some 
7,885 operational properties worldwide, of which 
approximately 1,965 were located in Europe, 2,500 
in Asia, 450 in North America, 2,700 in Latin America and 
275 in the Middle East and North Africa. These 
properties had an area of approximately 54.3m square 
feet (2013: 56.6m square feet). 
Our freehold and long leasehold properties, together 
with all our leasehold land in Hong Kong, were valued 
in 2014. The value of these properties was US$10.8bn 
(2012: US$10.3bn) in excess of their carrying amount in 
the consolidated balance sheet on an historical cost 
based measure. In addition, properties with a net book 
value of US$1.6bn (2013: US$1.5bn) were held for 
investment purposes. 
Our operational properties are stated at cost, being 
historical cost or fair value at the date of transition to 
IFRSs (their deemed cost) less any impairment losses, 
and are depreciated on a basis calculated to write off 
the assets over their estimated useful lives. Properties 
owned as a consequence of an acquisition are 
recognised initially at fair value. 
Further details are included in Note 23 on the Financial 
Statements. 
Our disclosure philosophy 
HSBC strives to maintain the highest standards of 
disclosure in our reporting. 
It has long been our policy to provide disclosures that 
help investors and other stakeholders understand the 
Group’s performance, financial position and changes 
thereto. In accordance with this policy:  
• In order to make the financial statements and notes 
thereon easier to understand, we have undertaken an 
initiative to provide more focused information and to 
remove duplication where possible. As a result, we 
have changed the location and the wording used to 
describe certain accounting policies within the notes, 
removed certain immaterial disclosures and changed 
the order of certain sections. In applying materiality 
to financial statement disclosures, we consider both 
the amount and nature of each item. The main 
changes to the presentation of the financial 
statements and notes thereon in 2014 are described 
on pages 346 and 347. 
• The information provided in the ‘Notes on the 
Financial Statements’ and the ‘Report of the Directors’ 
goes beyond the minimum levels required by 
accounting standards, statutory and regulatory 
requirements and listing rules. In particular, we 
provide additional disclosures having regard to the 
recommendations of the Enhanced Disclosures Task 
Force (‘EDTF’) report ‘Enhancing the Risk Disclosures 
of Banks’ issued in October 2012. The report aims 
to help financial institutions identify areas that 
investors had highlighted needed better and more 
transparent information about banks’ risks, and how 
these risks relate to performance measurement and 
reporting. In addition, we continue to enhance our 
disclosures in line with good practice recommendations 
issued by relevant regulators and standard setters and 
in response to feedback received from users of our 
financial statements.  Report of the Directors: Other information (continued) 
EDTF disclosures/Footnotes 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
108 
Disclosures arising from EDTF recommendations 
Type of risk Recommendation Disclosure  Page
General 1 The risks to which the business is exposed. 112 to 117
 2 Our risk appetite and stress testing. 117 to 118
 3 Top and emerging risks, and the changes during the reporting period. 118 to 124
 4 Discussion of future regulatory developments affecting our business 
model and Group profitability, and its implementation in Europe. 
119 to 120 and 252 to 
256
Risk governance, risk 
management and 
business model 
5 Group Risk Committee, and their activities. 280 to 281
6 Risk culture and risk governance and ownership. 111
7 Diagram of the risk exposure by global business segment. 22
 8 Stress testing and the underlying assumptions. 117 to 118
Capital adequacy and 
risk-weighted assets 
9 Pillar 1 capital requirements. 
For calculation of Pillar 1 capital requirements, see the Pillar 3 Disclosures 
2014 document. 258 to 259
 10 Reconciliation of the accounting balance sheet to the regulatory balance 
sheet. 249
 11 Flow statement of the movements in regulatory capital since the previous 
reporting period, including changes in the different tiers of regulatory 
capital. 245
 12 Discussion of targeted level of capital, and the plans on how to establish 
this. 239 and 252 to 258
 13 Analysis of risk-weighted assets by risk type, global business and 
geographical region, and market risk RWAs. 240
 14 For analysis of the capital requirements for each Basel asset class,  
see the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2014 document. 
 15 For analysis of credit risk for each Basel asset class,  
see the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2014 document. 
 16 Flow statements reconciling the movements in risk-weighted assets 
for each risk-weighted asset type. 242 to 244
 17 For discussion of Basel credit risk model performance, see the  
Pillar 3 Disclosures 2014 document. 
 
Liquidity 18 Analysis of the Group’s liquid asset buffer. 165 to 166
Funding 19 Encumbered and unencumbered assets analysed by balance sheet 
category. 171 to 173
 20 Consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments 
analysed by remaining contractual maturity at the balance sheet date. 426 to 435
 21 Analysis of the Group’s sources of funding and a description of our 
funding strategy. 168
Market risk 22 Relationship between the market risk measures for trading and 
non-trading portfolios and the balance sheet, by business segment. 179 to 180
 23 Discussion of significant trading and non-trading market risk factors. 176 to 179
 24 VaR assumptions, limitations and validation. 223 to 224
 25 Discussion of stress tests, reverse stress tests and stressed VaR. 224 to 225
Credit risk 26 Analysis of the aggregate credit risk exposures, including details of both 
personal and wholesale lending. 129 to 130
 27 Discussion of the policies for identifying impaired loans, defining 
impairments and renegotiated loans, and explaining loan forbearance 
policies. 137 and 208 to 213
 28 Reconciliations of the opening and closing balances of impaired loans and 
impairment allowances during the year. 137 and 142 to 143
 29 Analysis of counterparty credit risk that arises from derivative 
transactions. 150 to 151
 30 Discussion of credit risk mitigation, including collateral held for all sources 
of credit risk. 146 to 150
Other risks 31 Quantified measures of the management of operational risk. 187 to 189
 32 Discussion of publicly known risk events. 118 to 124
The 32 recommendations listed above were made in the report ‘Enhancing the Risk Disclosures of Banks’ issued by the Enhanced Disclosure Task 
Force of the Financial Stability Board in October 2012. 
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
109 
Strategic Report Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Footnotes to pages 40 to 108 
Use of non-GAAP financial measures 
  1 The operating results of these disposals were removed from adjusted results in addition to disposal gains and losses. 
  2 The operating results of these disposals and acquisitions were not removed from adjusted results as they were not significant. 
  3 Excludes items where there are substantial offsets in the income statement for the same year. 
  4 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue. 
  5 Positive numbers are favourable: negative numbers are unfavourable. 
  6 ‘Currency translation adjustment’ is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates 
of exchange applicable in the current year. 
  7 ‘Own credit spread’ includes the fair value movements on our long-term debt attributable to credit spread where the net result of such 
movements will be zero upon maturity of the debt. This does not include fair value changes due to own credit risk in respect of trading liabilities 
or derivative liabilities. 
  8 From 1 January 2014, the geographical region ‘Asia’ replaced the geographical regions previously reported as ‘Hong Kong’ and ‘Rest of 
Asia-Pacific’ (see Note 11 on the Financial Statements for further details). Comparative data have been represented accordingly.  
Consolidated income statement 
  9 Dividends recorded in the financial statements are dividends per ordinary share declared in a year and are not dividends in respect of, or for, 
that year. For further information, see footnote 3 on page 39. 
10 Dividends per ordinary share expressed as a percentage of basic earnings per share. 
11 Net interest income includes the cost of internally funding trading assets, while the related external revenues are reported in ‘Trading income’. 
In our global business results, the cost of funding trading assets is included with Global Banking and Market’s net trading income as interest 
expense. 
12 Gross interest yield is the average annualised interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets (‘AIEA’).  
13 Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan fees, 
and the average annualised interest rate paid on average interest-bearing funds. 
14 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA. 
15 Interest income on trading assets is reported as ‘Net trading income’ in the consolidated income statement. 
16 Interest income on financial assets designated at fair value is reported as ‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’ in the 
consolidated income statement. 
17 Including interest-bearing bank deposits only.  
18 Interest expense on financial liabilities designated at fair value is reported as ‘Net income on financial instruments designated at fair value’ in 
the consolidated income statement, other than interest on own debt which is reported in ‘Interest expense’. 
19 Including interest-bearing customer accounts only. 
20 Net trading income includes a favourable movement of US$15m (2013: unfavourable movement of US$66m; 2012: unfavourable movement of 
US$629m), associated with changes in the fair value of issued structured notes and other hybrid instrument liabilities arising from movements in 
HSBC issuance spreads. 
21 Trading income also includes movements on non-qualifying hedges. These hedges are derivatives entered into as part of a documented interest 
rate management strategy for which hedge accounting was not, nor could be, applied. They are principally cross-currency and interest rate 
swaps used to economically hedge fixed rate debt issued by HSBC Holdings and floating rate debt issued by HSBC Finance. The size and direction 
of the changes in the fair value of non-qualifying hedges that are recognised in the income statement can be volatile from year-to-year, but do 
not alter the cash flows expected as part of the documented interest rate management strategy for both the instruments and the underlying 
economically hedged assets and liabilities if the derivative is held to maturity. 
22 In 2013, we recorded a net gain on US$553m on the completion of the Ping An disposal. This represented the net effect of US$1,235m gain on 
de-recognition of equity securities classified as available for sale and recorded in ‘Gains less losses from financial investments’, partly offset by 
US$682m on a contingent forward sale contract, recorded in ‘Net trading income’. 
23 Other changes in fair value include gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with 
HSBC’s long-term debt issued. 
24 Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders arise from both life and non-life insurance business. For 
non-life business, amounts reported represent the cost of claims paid during the year and the estimated cost of incurred claims. For life 
business, the main element of claims is the liability to policyholders created on the initial underwriting of the policy and any subsequent 
movement in the liability that arises, primarily from the attribution of investment performance to savings-related policies. Consequently, claims 
rise in line with increases in sales of savings-related business and with investment market growth. 
25 The cost efficiency ratio is defined as total operating expenses divided by net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit 
risk provisions. 
Consolidated balance sheet 
26 In 2013, GB&M changed the way it manages reverse repo and repo activities in the Credit and Rates business. This led to a decrease in amounts 
classified as ‘Trading assets’ and ‘Trading liabilities’ in the balance sheet and an increase in the amount classified as ‘Non-trading reverse repos’ 
at amortised cost and ‘Non-trading repos’ at amortised cost respectively. 
27 From 1 January 2014, non-trading reverse repos and repos are presented as separate lines in the balance sheet. Previously, non-trading reverse 
repos were included within ‘Loans and advances to banks’ and ‘Loans and advances to customers’ and non-trading repos were included within 
‘Deposits by banks’ and ‘Customer accounts’. Comparative data have been re-presented accordingly. Non-trading reverse repos and repos have 
been presented as separate lines in the balance sheet to align disclosure with market practice and provide more meaningful information in 
relation to loans and advances. The extent to which reverse repos and repos represent loans to/from customers and banks is set out in Note 17 
on the Financial Statements. 
28 Net of impairment allowances. 
29 On 1 January 2014, CRD IV came into force and the calculation of capital resources and risk-weighted assets at 31 December 2014 are 
calculated and presented on this basis. 2011 to 2013 comparatives are on a Basel 2.5 basis. 2010 comparatives are on a Basel II basis.  
30 Capital resources are total regulatory capital, the calculation of which is set out on page 246. 
31 Including perpetual preferred securities, details of which can be found in Note 30 on the Financial Statements. 
32 The definition of net asset value per ordinary share is total shareholders’ equity, less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities, 
divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue excluding shares the company has purchased and are held in treasury.  Report of the Directors: Other information / Risk 
Footnotes/Risk profile 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
110 
33 ‘Currency translation adjustment’ is the effect of translating the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year-end at 
the rates of exchange applicable at the current year-end. 
34 Balance included in disposal groups of assets held for sale. 
35 France primarily comprises the domestic operations of HSBC Finance, HSBC Assurances Vie and the Paris branch of HSBC Bank plc. 
Reconciliation of RoRWA measures 
36 Risk-weighted assets (‘RWA’s) and pre-tax return on average risk-weighted assets (‘RoRWA’). 
37 Adjusted RoRWA is calculated using adjusted pre-tax return and reported average RWAs at constant currency and adjusted for the effects of 
significant items. 
38 ‘Other’ includes treasury services related to the US Consumer and Mortgage Lending business and commercial operations in run-off. US CML 
includes loan portfolios within the run-off business that are designated held for sale. 
Global businesses and geographical regions  
39 The main items reported under ‘Other’ are the results of HSBC’s holding company and financing operations, which includes net interest earned 
on free capital held centrally, operating costs incurred by the head office operations in providing stewardship and central management services 
to HSBC, along with the costs incurred by the Group Service Centres and Shared Service Organisations and associated recoveries. The results 
also include fines and penalties as part of the settlement of investigations into past inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and 
sanctions laws, the UK bank levy together with unallocated investment activities, centrally held investment companies, gains arising from the 
dilution of interests in associates and joint ventures and certain property transactions. In addition, ‘Other’ also includes part of the movement in 
the fair value of long-term debt designated at fair value (the remainder of the Group’s movement on own debt is included in GB&M). 
40 Assets by geographical region and global businesses include intra-HSBC items. These items are eliminated, where appropriate, under the 
heading ‘Intra-HSBC items’ or ‘inter-segment elimination’, as appropriate. 
41 For disposed of businesses, this includes the gain or loss on disposal and material results of operations as described on page 40. 
42 Other income in this context comprises where applicable net trading income, net income/(expense) from other financial instruments designated 
at fair value, gains less losses from financial investments, dividend income, net insurance premium income and other operating income less net 
insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders. 
43 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions. 
44 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures. 
45 See ‘Use of non-GAAP financial measures’ on page 40. Reconciliation of adjusted results to reported results is provided in the Form 20-F filed 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is available on www.hsbc.com. 
46 The Principal RBWM business measure excludes the effects of the US run-off portfolio and the disposed-of US CRS business. Concentrating on 
the Principal RBWM business allows management to identify material changes in the ongoing business and assess the factors and trends which 
are expected to have a material effect on it in future years. Tables which reconcile reported to adjusted financial measures for Principal RBWM 
are available on www.hsbc.com. 
47 ‘Investment distribution’ includes Investments, which comprises mutual funds (HSBC manufactured and third party), structured products and 
securities trading, and Wealth Insurance distribution, consisting of HSBC manufactured and third-party life, pension and investment insurance 
products. 
48 ‘Other personal lending’ includes personal non-residential closed-end loans and personal overdrafts. 
49 ‘Other’ mainly includes the distribution and manufacturing (where applicable) of retail and credit protection insurance. 
50 In the analysis of global businesses, net trading income/(expense) comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial 
assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, related external and internal interest income and interest expense, and dividends 
received; in the statutory presentation internal interest income and expense are eliminated. 
51 ‘Markets products, Insurance and Investments and Other’ includes revenue from Foreign Exchange, insurance manufacturing and distribution, 
interest rate management and GCF products. 
52 In 2014, Markets included a favourable fair value movement of US$15m on the widening of credit spreads on structured liabilities (2013: 
adverse fair value movement of US$66m; 2012: adverse fair value movement of US$629m). 
53 ‘Other’ in GB&M includes net interest earned on free capital held in the global business not assigned to products, allocated funding costs and 
gains resulting from business disposals. Within the management view of total operating income, notional tax credits are allocated to the 
businesses to reflect the economic benefit generated by certain activities which is not reflected within operating income, for example notional 
credits on income earned from tax-exempt investments where the economic benefit of the activity is reflected in tax expense. In order to reflect 
the total operating income on an IFRS basis, the offset to these tax credits are included within ‘Other’. 
54 ‘Client assets’ are translated at the rates of exchange applicable for their respective period-ends, with the effects of currency translation 
reported separately. The main components of client assets are funds under management (US$275bn as at 31 December 2014) which are not 
reported on the Group’s balance sheet, and customer deposits (US$90bn as at 31 December 2014), of which US$85bn is reported on the Group’s 
balance sheet and US$5bn are off-balance sheet deposits. 
55 Inter-segment elimination comprises (i) the costs of shared services and Group Service Centres included within ‘Other’ which are recovered from 
global businesses, and (ii) the intra-segment funding costs of trading activities undertaken within GB&M. HSBC’s Balance Sheet Management 
business, reported within GB&M, provides funding to the trading businesses. To report GB&M’s ‘Net trading income’ on a fully funded basis, 
‘Net interest income’ and ‘Net interest income/(expense) on trading activities’ are grossed up to reflect internal funding transactions prior to 
their elimination in the inter-segment column. 
56 Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders. 
57 ‘Employee expenses’ comprise costs directly incurred by each global business. The reallocation and recharging of employee and other expenses 
directly incurred in the ‘Other’ category are shown in ‘Other operating expenses’. 
58 RWAs are non-additive across geographical regions due to market risk diversification effects within the Group. 
59 Funds under management and assets held in custody are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, except where it is deemed that we 
are acting as principal rather than agent in our role as investment manager, and these assets are consolidated as Structured entities (see 
Note 39 on the Financial Statements). 
60 Taxes paid by HSBC relate to HSBC’s own tax liabilities including tax on profits earned, employer taxes, bank levy and other duties/levies such as 
stamp duty. Numbers are reported on a cash flow basis.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
111 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Risk Page App
1
Risk profile
2
 111
Managing risk
2
 112
Risk management framework  112
Risk factors  113
Risks managed by HSBC  114
Risk management processes and procedures 117
Risk governance 204
Risk appetite 205
Top and emerging risks
2
  118
Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk  118
Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks  
to our business model   119
Regulatory commitments and consent orders 120
Risks related to our business operations, 
governance and internal control systems  122
Areas of special interest
2
  124
Financial crime compliance and  
regulatory compliance  124
Private Bank 124
Regulatory stress tests 125
Oil and gas prices 126
Russia 126
Eurozone 126
Credit risk
4
  127 206
Liquidity and funding
4
  163 215
Market risk
4
  175 221
Operational risk
2
  186 228
Compliance risk  189 229
Legal risk  229
Global security and fraud risk  230
Systems risk  231
Vendor risk management  231
Risk management of insurance operations
3
  190 231
Other material risks
2
  199
Reputational risk  199 235
Fiduciary risk 200 235
Pension risk  200 236
Sustainability risk  201 237
1 Appendix to Risk – risk policies and practices. 
2 Unaudited.     3  Audited.     4  Audited where indicated.
For details of HSBC’s policies and practices regarding risk 
management and governance see the Appendix to Risk on 
page 204. 
Risk profile 
(Unaudited) 
Managing our risk profile 
• A strong balance sheet remains core to our philosophy. 
• Our portfolios continue to be aligned to our risk 
appetite and strategy. 
• Our risk management framework is supported 
by strong forward-looking risk identification.  
Maintaining capital strength and a strong 
liquidity position 
• Our transitional common equity tier 1 capital ratio 
remains strong at 10.9%. 
• We have sustained our strong liquidity position 
throughout 2014. 
• The ratio of customer advances to deposits remains 
significantly below 90%. 
Strong governance  
• Robust risk governance and accountability is embedded 
across the Group. 
• The Board, advised by the Group Risk Committee, 
approves our risk appetite.  
• Our global risk operating model supports adherence to 
globally consistent standards and risk management 
policies across the Group. 
Our top and emerging risks 
• Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk. 
• Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks 
to our business model. 
• Risks related to our business operations, governance 
and internal control systems.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Managing risk 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
112 
Managing risk 
(Unaudited) 
As a provider of banking and financial services, 
we actively manage risk as a core part of our 
day-to-day activities. 
Risk management framework 
Our risk management framework, which is employed at 
all levels of the organisation, is set out on page 24. The 
key elements are discussed below. 
The Group’s Risk Appetite Statement is a key component 
in our management of risk and is described on page 24. 
Risk governance framework 
Robust risk governance and accountability are 
embedded throughout the Group through an established 
framework that ensures appropriate oversight of and 
accountability for the effective management of risk at 
all levels of the organisation and across all risk types. 
Adherence to consistent standards and risk management 
policies is required across HSBC by our Global Standards 
and our Global Risk operating model. 
The Board has ultimate responsibility for approving 
HSBC’s risk appetite and the effective management of 
risk. 
• The Group Risk Committee advises the Board on 
risk appetite and its alignment with strategy, risk 
governance and internal controls and high-level risk 
related matters. 
• The Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 
reports to the Board on matters relating to financial 
crime and financial system abuse and provides a 
forward-looking perspective on financial crime risk. 
• The Conduct & Values Committee was established in 
January 2014 to oversee the design and application of 
HSBC’s policies, procedures and standards, to ensure 
that we conduct business responsibly and consistently 
adhere to HSBC Values and to advise the Board 
accordingly. 
Executive accountability for the ongoing monitoring, 
assessment and management of the risk environment 
and the effectiveness of our risk management policies 
resides with the Risk Management Meeting of the 
GMB. Day-to-day risk management activities are 
the responsibility of senior managers of individual 
businesses, supported by global functions as described 
under ‘Three lines of defence’ below. 
The executive and non-executive risk governance 
structures and their interactions are set out on page 204, 
with similar arrangements in place for major operating 
subsidiaries. 
The report of the Group Risk Committee is on page 280. The 
Report of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee is on 
page 282. The report of the Conduct & Values Committee is on 
page 286.  
Three lines of defence 
We use a three lines of defence model in the 
management of risk. 
• First line – every employee is responsible for the risks 
that form part of their day to day jobs. The first line 
of defence ensures that all key risks within their 
operations are identified, mitigated and monitored by 
appropriate internal controls within an overall control 
environment. 
• Second line – global functions such as Risk, Finance and 
Human Resources form the second line of defence. 
They are responsible for providing assurance, challenge 
and oversight of the activities conducted by the first 
line. 
• Third line – Internal Audit forms the third line of 
defence, providing independent assurance to senior 
management and the Board over the first and second 
lines of defence. 
For details of our operational risk management framework, 
see page 186. 
People 
All employees are required to identify, assess and 
manage risk within the scope of their assigned 
responsibilities and, as such, they are critical to the 
effectiveness of the three lines of defence. Personal 
accountability for Global Standards is reinforced by 
HSBC Values. 
Clear and consistent employee communication on risk 
conveys strategic messages and sets the tone from 
senior leadership. A suite of mandatory training on 
critical risk and compliance topics is deployed to embed 
skills and understanding and strengthen the risk culture 
within HSBC. It reinforces the attitude to risk in the 
behaviour expected of employees, as described in our 
risk policies. The training is updated regularly, describing 
technical aspects of the various risks assumed by the 
Group and how they should be managed effectively. 
Staff are supported in their roles by a disclosure line 
which enables them to raise concerns confidentially 
(see page 20). 
Our risk culture is reinforced by our approach to 
remuneration. Individual awards, including those for 
executives, are based on compliance with HSBC Values 
and the achievement of financial and non-financial 
objectives which are aligned to our risk appetite and 
global strategy. 
For further information on risk and remuneration, see the Report 
of the Group Remuneration Committee on page 300.  
Independent Risk function 
Global Risk, headed by the Group Chief Risk Officer, 
is responsible for enterprise-wide risk oversight including 
the establishment of global policy, the monitoring of 
risk profiles and forward-looking risk identification 
and management. Global Risk also has functional 
responsibility for risk management in support of HSBC’s 
global businesses and regions through an integrated 
network of Risk sub-functions which are independent   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
113 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
from the sales and trading functions of our businesses. 
This independence ensures the necessary balance in 
risk/return decisions. 
We run Global Risk like a business, ensuring that the 
function is dynamic and responsive to the needs of its 
stakeholders. 
Risks faced by HSBC 
All of our activities involve, to varying degrees, the 
analysis, evaluation, acceptance and management 
of risks or combinations of risks. 
Risk factors 
We have identified a comprehensive suite of risk factors 
which covers the broad range of risks our businesses are 
exposed to. 
A number of the risk factors have the potential to affect 
the results of our operations or financial condition, but 
may not necessarily be deemed as top or emerging risks. 
However, they inform the ongoing assessment of our top 
and emerging risks which may result in our risk appetite 
being revised. The risk factors are: 
Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk 
• Current economic and market conditions may 
adversely affect our results. 
• We are subject to political and economic risks in the 
countries in which we operate, including the risk of 
government intervention. 
• We may suffer adverse effects as a result of the 
renewed economic and sovereign debt tensions in the 
eurozone. 
• Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may affect 
our results. 
Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to 
our business model 
• Failure to implement our obligations under the 
deferred prosecution agreements could have a 
material adverse effect on our results and operations. 
• Failure to comply with certain regulatory requirements 
would have a material adverse effect on our results and 
operations. 
• Failure to meet the requirements of regulatory stress 
tests could have a material adverse effect on our 
capital position, operations, results and future 
prospects. 
• We are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
actions and investigations, the outcomes of which 
are inherently difficult to predict, but unfavourable 
outcomes could have a material adverse effect on 
our operating results and brand. 
• Unfavourable legislative or regulatory developments, 
or changes in the policy of regulators or governments, 
could have a material adverse effect on our operations, 
financial condition and prospects. 
• HSBC Holdings and its UK subsidiaries may become 
subject to stabilisation provisions under the Bank Act 
2009, as amended, in certain significant stress 
situations. 
• Structural separation of banking and trading activities 
proposed or enacted in a number of jurisdictions could 
have a material adverse effect on our operations and 
operating results. 
• We are subject to tax-related risks in the countries 
in which we operate which could have a material 
adverse effect on our operating results. 
Risks related to our business, business 
operations, governance and internal control 
systems 
• The delivery of our strategic priorities is subject to 
execution risk. 
• We may not achieve all the expected benefits of our 
strategic initiatives. 
• We operate in markets that are highly competitive. 
• Our risk management measures may not be successful. 
• Operational risks are inherent in our business. 
• Our operations are subject to the threat of fraudulent 
activity. 
• Our operations are subject to disruption from the 
external environment. 
• Our operations utilise third-party suppliers and service 
providers. 
• Our operations are highly dependent on our 
information technology systems. 
• We may not be able to meet regulatory requests for 
data. 
• Our operations have inherent reputational risk. 
• We may suffer losses due to employee misconduct. 
• We rely on recruiting, retaining and developing 
appropriate senior management and skilled personnel. 
• Our financial statements are based in part on 
judgements, estimates and assumptions which are 
subject to uncertainty. 
• HSBC could incur losses or be required to hold 
additional capital as a result of model limitations or 
failure.  
• Third parties may use us as a conduit for illegal 
activities without our knowledge, which could have 
a material adverse effect on us. 
• We have significant exposure to counterparty risk.  
• Market fluctuations may reduce our income or the 
value of our portfolios. 
• Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our 
businesses. 
• Any reduction in the credit rating assigned to HSBC 
Holdings, any subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings or any 
of their respective debt securities could increase the 
cost or decrease the availability of our funding and 
adversely affect our liquidity position and interest 
margins. Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Risks managed by HSBC 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
114 
• Risks concerning borrower credit quality are inherent 
in our businesses. 
• Our insurance business is subject to risks relating 
to insurance claim rates and changes in insurance 
customer behaviour. 
• HSBC Holdings is a holding company and, as a result, 
is dependent on loan payments and dividends from 
its subsidiaries to meet its obligations, including 
obligations with respect to its debt securities, and 
to provide profits for payment of future dividends 
to shareholders. 
• We may be required to make substantial 
contributions to our pension plans. 
Risks managed by HSBC 
The principal risks associated with our banking and 
insurance manufacturing operations are described in 
the tables below. 
 
Description of risks – banking operations 
Risks  Arising from  Measurement, monitoring and management of risk 
Credit risk (page 127) 
The risk of financial loss if a 
customer or counterparty fails 
to meet an obligation under a 
contract.  
 
Credit risk arises principally 
from direct lending, trade 
finance and leasing business, 
but also from certain other 
products such as guarantees 
and derivatives. 
Credit risk is:
• measured as the amount which could be lost if a customer or 
counterparty fails to make repayments. In the case of derivatives, 
the measurement of exposure takes into account the current mark-
to-market value to HSBC of the contract and the expected potential 
change in that value over time caused by movements in market 
rates; 
• monitored within limits approved by individuals within a framework 
of delegated authorities. These limits represent the peak exposure or 
loss to which HSBC could be subjected should the customer or 
counterparty fail to  perform its contractual obligations; and 
• managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines 
clear and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk 
managers. 
Liquidity and funding risk (page 163) 
The risk that we do not have 
sufficient financial resources 
to meet our obligations as 
they fall due or that we can 
only do so at excessive cost.  
 
Liquidity risk arises from 
mismatches in the timing of 
cash flows. 
Funding risk arises when the 
liquidity needed to fund 
illiquid asset positions cannot 
be obtained at the expected 
terms and when required. 
Liquidity and funding risk is:
• measured using internal metrics including stressed operational cash 
flow projections, coverage ratios and advances to core funding 
ratios; 
• monitored against the Group’s liquidity and funding risk framework 
and overseen by regional Asset and Liability Management 
Committees (‘ALCO’s), Group ALCO and the Risk Management 
Meeting; and 
• managed on a stand-alone basis with no reliance on any Group 
entity (unless pre-committed) or central bank unless this represents 
routine established business as usual market practice. 
Market risk (page 175) 
The risk that movements in 
market factors, including 
foreign exchange rates and 
commodity prices, interest 
rates, credit spreads and 
equity prices, will reduce our 
income or the value of our 
portfolios. 
Exposure to market risk is 
separated into two portfolios:
• trading portfolios comprise 
positions arising from 
market-making and 
warehousing of customer-
derived positions. 
• non-trading portfolios 
comprise positions that 
primarily arise from the 
interest rate management 
of our retail and 
commercial banking assets 
and liabilities, financial 
investments designated as 
available for sale and held 
to maturity, and exposures 
arising from our insurance 
operations (page 198). 
Market risk is:
• measured in terms of value at risk, which is used to estimate 
potential losses on risk positions as a result of movements in market 
rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of 
confidence, augmented with stress testing to evaluate the potential 
impact on portfolio values of more extreme, though plausible, events 
or movements in a set of financial variables; 
• monitored using measures including the sensitivity of net interest 
income and the sensitivity of structural foreign exchange which are 
applied to the market risk positions within each risk type; and 
• managed using risk limits approved by the GMB for HSBC Holdings 
and our various global businesses. These units are allocated across 
business lines and to the Group’s legal entities.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
115 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Risks  Arising from  Measurement, monitoring and management of risk 
Operational risk (page 186) 
The risk of loss resulting from 
inadequate or failed internal 
processes, people and systems 
or from external events, 
including legal risk (along with 
accounting, tax, security and 
fraud, people, systems, 
projects, operations and 
organisational change risk). 
Operational risk arises from 
day to day operations or 
external events, and is 
relevant to every aspect of 
our business. 
Compliance risk and fiduciary 
risk are discussed below. 
Other operational risks are 
covered in the Appendix to 
Risk (page 204). 
Operational risk is:
• measured using both the top risk analysis process and the risk 
and control assessment process, which assess the level of risk and 
effectiveness of controls; 
• monitored using key indicators and other internal control activities; 
and 
• managed primarily by global business and functional managers. They 
identify and assess risks, implement controls to manage them and 
monitor the effectiveness of these controls utilising the operational 
risk management framework. Global Operational Risk is responsible 
for the framework and for overseeing the management of 
operational risks within businesses and functions. 
Compliance risk (page 189) 
The risk that we fail to  
observe the letter and spirit of 
all relevant laws, codes, rules, 
regulations and standards of 
good market practice, and 
incur fines and penalties and 
suffer damage to our business 
as a consequence. 
Compliance risk is part of 
operational risk, and arises 
from rules, regulations, other 
standards and Group policies, 
including those relating to 
anti-money laundering, anti-
bribery and corruption, 
counter-terrorist and 
proliferation financing, 
sanctions compliance and 
conduct of business.  
The DPA is discussed on 
page 120 and the Monitor on 
page 27. 
Compliance risk is:
• measured by reference to identified metrics, incident assessments 
(whether affecting HSBC or the wider industry), regulatory feedback 
and the judgement and assessment of the managers of our global 
businesses and functions; 
• monitored against our compliance risk assessments and metrics, the 
results of the monitoring and control activities of the second line of 
defence functions, including the Financial Crime Compliance and 
Regulatory Compliance functions, and the results of internal 
and external audits and regulatory inspections; and  
• managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies 
and procedures, training employees in them, and monitoring activity 
to assure their observance. Proactive risk control and/or remediation 
work is undertaken where required. 
Other material risks  
Reputational risk (page 199) 
The risk that illegal, unethical 
or inappropriate behaviour 
by the Group itself, members 
of staff or clients or 
representatives of the 
Group will damage HSBC’s 
reputation, leading potentially 
to a loss of business, fines or 
penalties. 
Reputational risk is the risk of 
failure to meet stakeholder 
expectations as a result of any 
event, behaviour, action or 
inaction, either by HSBC itself, 
its employees or those with 
whom it is associated, that 
may cause stakeholders to 
form a negative view of HSBC. 
Reputational risk is:
• measured by reference to our reputation as indicated by our 
dealings with all relevant stakeholders, including media, regulators, 
customers and employees; 
• monitored through a reputational risk management framework, 
taking into account the results of the compliance risk monitoring 
activity outlined above; and  
• managed by every member of staff and is covered by a number of 
policies and guidelines. There is a clear structure of committees and 
individuals charged with mitigating reputational risk, including the 
Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee and regional/business 
equivalents. 
Fiduciary risk (page 200) 
The risk of breaching our 
fiduciary duties, defined as 
any duty where HSBC holds, 
manages, oversees or has 
responsibilities for assets for 
a third party that involves 
a legal and/or regulatory 
duty to act with the highest 
standard of care and with 
utmost good faith. 
Fiduciary risk is part of 
operational risk, and arises 
from our business activities 
where we act in a fiduciary 
capacity (‘designated 
businesses’) as Trustee, 
Investment Manager or 
as mandated by law or 
regulation. 
Fiduciary risk is:
• measured by each designated business monitoring against their 
own risk appetite statements and by the operational risk and 
control assessment process, which assesses the level of risk and 
the effectiveness of the key controls; 
• monitored through a combination of testing, key indicators and 
other metrics such as client and regulatory feedback; and 
• managed within the designated businesses via established 
governance frameworks, and comprehensive policies, procedures 
and training programmes.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Risks managed by HSBC 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
116 
Description of risks – banking operations (continued) 
Risks  Arising from  Measurement, monitoring and management of risk 
Pension risk (page 236) 
The risk that contributions 
from Group companies and 
members fail to generate 
sufficient funds to meet the 
cost of accruing benefits for 
the future service of active 
members, and the risk that  
the performance of assets held
in pension funds is insufficient 
to cover existing pension 
liabilities. 
Pension risk arises from 
investments delivering an 
inadequate return, economic 
conditions leading to 
corporate failures, adverse 
changes in interest rates or 
inflation, or members living 
longer than expected 
(longevity risk). Pension risk 
includes operational risks 
listed above. 
Pension risk is:
• measured in terms of the schemes’ ability to generate sufficient 
funds to meet the cost of their accrued benefits; 
• monitored through the specific risk appetite that has been 
developed at both Group and regional levels; and 
• managed locally through the appropriate pension risk governance 
structure and globally through the Risk Management Meeting. 
 
Sustainability risk (page 237) 
The risk that the 
environmental and social 
effects of providing financial 
services outweigh the 
economic benefits. 
Sustainability risk arises from 
the provision of financial 
services to companies or 
projects which run counter 
to the needs of sustainable 
development. 
Sustainability risk is:
• measured by assessing the potential sustainability effect of a 
customer’s activities and assigning a Sustainability Risk Rating to 
all high risk transactions; 
• monitored quarterly by the Risk Management Meeting and monthly 
by Group Sustainability Risk management; and 
• managed using sustainability risk policies covering project finance 
lending and sector-based sustainability polices for sectors with high 
environmental or social impacts. 
 
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are separately 
regulated from our banking operations. Risks in the 
insurance entities are managed using methodologies and 
processes appropriate to insurance activities, but remain 
subject to oversight at Group level. Our insurance 
operations are also subject to the operational risks and 
the other material risks presented above in relation to 
the banking operations, and these are covered by the 
Group’s risk management processes. 
 
Description of risks – insurance manufacturing operations 
Risks  Arising from  Measurement, monitoring and management of risk 
Financial risks (page 194) 
Our ability to effectively match 
the liabilities arising under 
insurance contracts with the 
asset portfolios that back 
them are contingent on the 
management of financial risks 
such as market, credit and 
liquidity risks, and the extent 
to which these risks are borne 
by the policyholders. 
Liabilities to policyholders 
under unit-linked contracts 
move in line with the value of 
the underlying assets, and as 
such the policyholder bears 
the majority of the financial 
risks. 
Contracts with DPF share the 
performance of the underlying 
assets between policyholders 
and the shareholder in line 
with the type of contract and 
the specific contract terms. 
Exposure to financial risks 
arises from:  
• market risk of changes in 
the fair values of financial 
assets or their future cash 
flows from fluctuations in 
variables such as interest 
rates, foreign exchange 
rates and equity prices; 
• credit risk and the 
potential for financial loss 
following the default of 
third parties in meeting 
their obligations; and 
• liquidity risk of entities 
not being able to make 
payments to policyholders 
as they fall due as there 
are insufficient assets that 
can be realised as cash. 
Financial risks are:
• measured separately for each type of risk: 
− market risk is measured in terms of exposure to fluctuations in 
key financial variables; 
− credit risk is measured as the amount which could be lost if a 
customer or counterparty fails to make repayments; and 
− liquidity risk is measured using internal metrics including stressed 
operational cash flow projections. 
• monitored within limits approved by individuals within a framework 
of delegated authorities; and 
• managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines 
clear and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk 
managers. Subsidiaries manufacturing products with guarantees are 
usually exposed to falls in market interest rates and equity prices to 
the extent that the market exposure cannot be managed by utilising 
any discretionary participation (or bonus) features within the policy 
contracts they issue. 
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
117 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Risks  Arising from  Measurement, monitoring and management of risk 
Insurance risk (page 198) 
The risk that, over time, 
the cost of acquiring and 
administering a contract, 
claims and benefits may 
exceed the aggregate amount 
of premiums received and 
investment income.  
The cost of claims and 
benefits can be influenced 
by many factors, including 
mortality and morbidity 
experience, lapse and 
surrender rates and, if the 
policy has a savings element, 
the performance of the assets 
held to support the liabilities. 
Insurance risk is:
• measured in terms of life insurance liabilities; 
• monitored by the RBWM Risk Management Committee, which 
checks the risk profile of the insurance operations against a 
risk appetite for insurance business agreed by the GMB; and 
• managed both centrally and locally using product design, 
underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures. 
Risk management processes and 
procedures 
In addition to risk appetite, the following processes are 
integral to risk management at HSBC: 
• risk identification through our top and emerging risk 
process; 
• mapping our risk profile; and 
• stress testing and scenario analysis. 
Risk identification 
We identify and monitor risks continuously. This process, 
which is informed by analysis of our risk factors and the 
results of our stress testing programme, gives rise to 
the classification of certain key risks as top or emerging. 
Changes in our assessment of top and emerging risks 
may result in adjustments to our business strategy and, 
potentially, our risk appetite. 
Our current top and emerging risks are discussed below. 
Mapping our risk profile 
Risks are assumed by our global businesses in 
accordance with their risk appetite and are managed at 
Group, global business and regional levels. All risks are 
recorded and monitored through our risk map process, 
which describes our risk profile by risk type in the 
different regions and global businesses. 
In addition to our principal banking and insurance risks, 
the risk map process identifies and monitors risks such 
as model, financial management, capital, Islamic finance 
and strategic risks. These risks are regularly assessed 
through our risk appetite framework, stress tested and 
considered for classification as top and emerging risks.  
Stress testing 
We conduct stress testing scenarios across the Group on 
both an enterprise-wide basis and at a major subsidiary 
level, reflecting our business strategy and its resultant 
risk exposures. Our stress testing and scenario analysis 
programme examines the sensitivities of our capital plans 
and unplanned demand for regulatory capital under a 
number of scenarios and ensures that top and emerging 
risks are appropriately considered. These scenarios 
include, but are not limited to, adverse macroeconomic 
events, failures at country, sector and counterparty 
levels, geopolitical occurrences and a variety of 
projected major operational risk events. 
The Stress Testing Management Board, which is chaired 
by the Group Finance Director, is responsible for stress 
testing strategy and stewardship. Stress testing models 
are approved through the Group’s Model Oversight 
Committee framework. Updates on stress testing are 
provided at each meeting of the Risk Management 
Meeting of the GMB. The Group Risk Committee is 
informed and consulted, and approves, as appropriate. 
The development of macroeconomic scenarios is a 
critical part of the process. Potential scenarios are 
defined and generated by an expert panel comprising 
economic experts from various global teams including 
Risk and Finance. Variables and assumptions 
underpinning the scenarios, including economic 
indicators such as yield curves, exchange rates and 
volatilities, are expanded and enriched by internal and 
external teams. Once approved by the governing 
committee, they are circulated to the regional and global 
business stress testing teams along with instructions for 
the exercise. 
Scenarios are translated into financial impacts, such as 
on our forecast profitability and RWAs, using a suite of 
stress testing models and methodologies. Models are 
subject to independent model review and go through a 
process of validation and approval. Model overlays may 
be considered where necessary. 
Stress testing results are subject to a review and 
challenge process at regional and Group levels and 
action plans are developed to mitigate identified risks. 
The extent to which these action plans would be 
implemented in the event of particular scenarios 
occurring depends on senior management’s evaluation 
of the risks and their potential consequences, taking into 
account HSBC’s risk appetite.  
In addition to the Group-wide risk scenarios, each major 
HSBC subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic and 
event-driven scenario analyses specific to their region. 
They may also participate in local regulatory stress 
testing programmes. 
Stress testing is applied to risks such as market risk, 
liquidity and funding risk and credit risk to evaluate the 
potential effect of stress scenarios on portfolio values, 
structural long-term funding positions, income or capital. 
Reverse stress testing is run annually on both Group and 
subsidiary entity bases. This stress test is conducted by 
assuming the business model is non-viable and working 
backwards to identify a range of occurrences that could  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Top and emerging risks 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
118 
bring that event about. Non-viability might occur before 
the bank’s capital is depleted, and could result from a 
variety of events. These include idiosyncratic or systemic 
events or combinations thereof, and/or could imply 
failure of the Group’s holding company or one of its 
major subsidiaries. They would not necessarily mean 
the simultaneous failure of all the major subsidiaries. 
Reverse stress testing is used to strengthen our 
resilience by helping to inform early-warning triggers, 
management actions and contingency plans designed to 
mitigate the potential stresses and vulnerabilities which 
the Group might face. 
HSBC participated in regulatory stress testing 
programmes in a number of jurisdictions during 2014, 
as outlined on page 125. 
Top and emerging 
risks /
(Unaudited) 
Our approach to identifying and monitoring top and 
emerging risks is described on page 22. 
During 2014, senior management paid particular 
attention to a number of top and emerging risks. Our 
current top and emerging risks are as follows: 
Macroeconomic and geopolitical risks 
 
Economic outlook and government 
intervention 
 
Increased geopolitical risk 
 
 
Economic outlook and government 
intervention  
Economic growth in both developed and emerging 
market countries remained weak in 2014. 
Oil and commodity prices have declined significantly 
since the middle of 2014 as a result of increasing global 
demand-supply imbalances. The precipitous fall in 
energy prices over such a short span of time changes 
both the nature and the distribution of risks. It sharpens 
fiscal and financing challenges for energy exporters, 
and although it brings benefits for oil importers, it also 
accentuates deflationary risks among some of these 
(particularly in the eurozone). In addition, the prospect 
of low oil prices for a prolonged period may reduce 
investment in exploration and thus poses the danger 
of significantly reduced future supply. 
The economic recovery in the eurozone is still at risk. 
Deflationary pressures persist as a result of low oil prices 
and despite much looser monetary policy. Acceleration 
in the structural reform agenda could also accentuate 
deflationary pressures in the short-term. The eurozone 
is discussed further in ‘Areas of special interest’ on 
page 126. Japan fell into a technical recession in the 
third quarter of 2014 and policy responses may not be 
sufficient to support a recovery in economic activity. 
Resilience in US economic activity represents an upside 
to the world economy. 
Emerging markets, particularly those with domestic 
vulnerabilities, remain exposed to monetary policy 
normalisation in the US and to greater risk aversion. 
While high by international standards, mainland China’s 
GDP growth in 2014 was the lowest in over two decades 
and recent forecasts indicate a lower trajectory than in 
recent years. Years of excessive investment, notably in 
the property market, has stoked potential financial 
bubbles, requiring the implementation of a new 
economic growth model. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• HSBC’s results could be adversely affected by a 
prolonged period of low or negative interest rates, 
low inflation levels or deflation and/or low oil prices. 
• We earn a significant proportion of our profits from 
our operations in emerging markets. Our results could 
be adversely affected by a prolonged slowdown in 
emerging market growth. 
• Global trade and capital flows may contract as a 
result of weaker economic growth, the introduction 
of protectionist measures, the emergence of 
geopolitical risks or increasing redenomination risk. 
This may curtail our profitability. 
Mitigating actions 
• We closely monitor economic developments in key 
markets and sectors with the aim of ensuring trends 
are identified, the implications for specific customers, 
customer segments or portfolios are assessed and 
appropriate mitigating action, which may include 
revising key risk appetite metrics and limits, is taken 
as circumstances evolve. 
• We use stress testing, both internal and regulatory 
programmes, to assess the effect of changes in 
economic conditions on our operations. Regulatory 
stress tests are discussed on page 124. 
Increased geopolitical risk 
Our operations are exposed to risks arising from political 
instability and civil unrest in many parts of the world, 
which may have a wider effect on regional stability and 
regional and global economies. 
Geopolitical risk increased during 2014. Military escalation 
and/or civil war remain a possibility in Ukraine, while 
sanctions targeting the Russian government, institutions 
and individuals, together with falling oil prices, have had 
an adverse effect on the Russian economy.  
In the Middle East, the civil war in Syria has been 
complicated by the seizure of parts of Iraq and Syria by 
Islamic State, a terrorist group. Elsewhere in the region, 
chaos in Libya, ongoing tensions between Israel and 
Palestine and fraught negotiations over Iran’s nuclear 
programme are combining to increase risks to stability. 
In Asia, there was no easing in the maritime sovereignty 
disputes involving mainland China and its neighbours, 
while tensions remain high over the line of control 
between India and Pakistan, raising concerns over a 
possible wider conflict between the two nuclear-armed 
neighbours. 
T E
E
E
E
E  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
119 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Civil unrest and demonstrations in a number of countries 
during 2014, including Turkey and Hong Kong, have also 
contributed to geopolitical risk as governments took 
measures to contain them.  
A number of emerging and developed markets will hold 
elections in 2015, which could lead to further market 
volatility. In addition, a sustained period of low oil prices 
may affect stability in countries that rely heavily on oil 
production as a significant source of revenue.  
Potential impact on HSBC 
• Our results are subject to the risk of loss from 
unfavourable political developments, currency 
fluctuations, social instability and changes in 
government policies on matters such as 
expropriation, authorisations, international 
ownership, interest-rate caps, foreign exchange 
transferability and tax in the jurisdictions in which 
we operate. 
• Actual conflict could expose our staff to physical risk 
and/or result in physical damage to our assets. 
Mitigating actions 
• We continuously monitor the geopolitical outlook, 
in particular in countries where we have material 
exposures and/or a physical presence. 
• Our internal credit risk rating of sovereign 
counterparties takes these factors into account and 
drives our appetite for conducting business in those 
countries. Where necessary, we adjust our country 
limits and exposures to reflect our risk appetite and 
mitigate risks as appropriate. 
Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks 
to our business model 
 
Regulatory developments affecting our 
business model and Group profitability 
 
Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions, 
commitments and consent orders and 
requirements relating to conduct of business 
and financial crime negatively affecting our 
results and brand 
 
Dispute risk 
Financial service providers face increasingly stringent 
and costly regulatory and supervisory requirements, 
often involving the provision of large amounts of data, 
particularly in the areas of capital and liquidity 
management, conduct of business, operational 
structures and the integrity of financial services delivery. 
Increased government intervention and control over 
financial institutions both on a sector-wide basis and 
individually, together with measures to reduce systemic 
risk, may significantly alter the competitive landscape 
locally, regionally and/or globally for some or all of the 
Group’s businesses. These measures may be introduced 
as formal requirements in a supra-equivalent manner 
and to differing timetables by different regulatory 
regimes. 
 
 
Regulatory developments affecting our 
business model and Group profitability 
Regulatory changes affect our activities, both of the 
Group as a whole and of some or all of our principal 
subsidiaries. These changes include: 
• the UK’s Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2013 
which requires the ring-fencing of our UK retail 
banking activities from wholesale banking, together 
with the structural separation of other activities as 
envisaged in the legislation and rules adopted in the 
US (including the Volcker Rule adopted in December 
2013 under the Dodd-Frank Act), measures adopted 
in France restricting certain trading activities and 
potential further changes under European 
Commission proposals for structural measures for 
larger EU banks;  
• the implementation of extra-territorial laws, including 
the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (‘FATCA’) 
and other related initiatives to share tax information 
such as those being pursued by the OECD more 
generally; 
• changes in the regime for the operation of capital 
markets, notably mandatory central clearing of over 
the counter (‘OTC’) derivatives, including under the 
Dodd-Frank Act and the EU’s European Market 
Infrastructure Regulation (‘EMIR’); 
• changes arising from the increasing focus by 
regulators on how institutions conduct business, 
particularly with regard to the delivery of fair 
outcomes for customers and orderly/transparent 
markets, promoting effective competition in the 
interests of consumers (including the outcome of the 
current investigation by the UK Competition and 
Markets Authority on the personal current account 
and SME banking market in the UK and recent 
indications of further FCA focus on UK wholesale 
markets); 
• the outcome of the Fair and Effective Financial 
Markets Review being undertaken by the Bank of 
England which will consider changes in the operation 
of wholesale financial markets in the UK; 
• restrictions on the structure of remuneration imposed 
under CRD IV and UK regulations and increasing 
requirements to detail management accountability 
within the Group to meet the requirements of the 
Senior Managers’ Regime in the UK (including the 
continued focus in the UK on the progress being 
made in implementing wider recommendations 
made by the Parliamentary Commission on Banking 
Standards on matters relating to institutional 
‘culture’, employee conduct and obligations more 
generally such as whistleblowing etc.); 
• the implementation of CRD IV, notably the UK 
application of the capital buffer framework and its 
interaction with Pillar 2; 
• the effect of proposals for the UK Financial Policy 
Committee to be given more powers to impose 
leverage constraints on UK banks;  
T
T
T
T Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Top and emerging risks 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
120 
• the proposals from the Financial Stability Board 
which are subject to consultation and translation 
into national regulations but which would require  
G-SIB’s to hold minimum levels of capital and 
subordinated debt as total loss absorbing capacity 
(‘TLAC’);  
• requirements flowing from arrangements for the 
resolution strategy of the Group and its individual 
operating entities, which may have different effects 
in different countries;  
• the continuing stress tests by supervisory authorities 
and the implication for capital requirements and 
capital transfers within the Group;  
• the tightening by regulators in a number of countries 
of credit controls on mortgage lending and unsecured 
portfolios; and 
• the continued risk of further changes to regulation 
relating to taxes affecting financial service providers, 
including financial transaction taxes. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• Proposed changes in and/or the implementation of 
regulations including mandatory central clearing of 
OTC derivatives, EMIR, ring-fencing and similar 
requirements, the Volcker Rule, recovery 
and resolution plans, FATCA and findings from 
competition orientated enquiries and investigations 
may affect the manner in which we conduct our 
activities and how the Group is structured. 
• Requirements for higher levels of capital or TLAC may 
increase the funding costs for the Group and reduce 
our return on equity. 
• Mandatory central clearing of OTC derivatives also 
brings new risks to HSBC in our role as a clearing 
member, as we will be required to underwrite losses 
incurred by central clearing counterparties from the 
default of other clearing members and their clients. 
Hence central clearing brings with it a new element of 
interconnectedness between clearing members and 
clients which we believe may increase rather than 
reduce our exposure to systemic risk. 
• Increased regulatory scrutiny of conduct of business 
(including incentive structures, remuneration, 
product governance and sales processes) and 
management accountability may affect the industry in 
areas such as employee recruitment and retention, 
product pricing and profitability in both retail and 
wholesale markets. HSBC’s businesses may be 
affected by these developments. 
• These measures have the potential to increase our 
cost of doing business and curtail the types of 
business we can carry out, with the consequent 
risk of decreased profitability. 
Mitigating actions 
• We are engaged closely with governments and 
regulators in the countries in which we operate 
to help ensure that the new requirements are 
considered properly and can be implemented in 
an effective manner. 
• We have developed and are implementing a global 
approach to the management of conduct and have 
established a Conduct & Values Committee as a sub-
committee of the Board to oversee the management 
of conduct across the Group. 
• We have enhanced our governance around central 
clearing counterparties and appointed specialists to 
manage the associated liquidity and collateral risks. 
• We continue to enhance and strengthen governance 
and resourcing more generally around regulatory 
change management and the implementation of 
required measures to actively address this ongoing 
and significant agenda of regulatory change. 
Regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions, 
commitments and consent orders and 
requirements relating to conduct of business 
and financial crime negatively affecting our 
results and brand 
Financial service providers are at risk of regulatory 
sanctions or fines related to conduct of business 
and financial crime. The incidence of regulatory 
proceedings against financial service firms is increasing, 
with a consequent increase also in civil litigation arising 
from or relating to issues which are subject to regulatory 
investigation, sanction or fine. In addition, criminal 
prosecutions of financial institutions for, among other 
alleged conduct, breaches of AML and sanctions 
regulations, antitrust violations, market manipulation, 
aiding and abetting tax evasion, and providing unlicensed 
cross-border banking services, have become more 
commonplace and may increase in frequency due to 
increased media attention and higher expectations from 
prosecutors and the public. Moreover, financial service 
providers may face similar or broader legal proceedings, 
investigations or regulatory actions across many 
jurisdictions as a result of, among other things, increased 
media attention and higher expectations from regulators 
and the public. Any such prosecution or investigation of, 
or legal proceeding or regulatory action brought against, 
HSBC or one or more of its subsidiaries could result in 
substantial fines, penalties and/or forfeitures and could 
have a material adverse effect on our results, business, 
financial condition, prospects and reputation, including 
the potential loss of key licences, requirement to exit 
certain businesses and withdrawal of funding from 
depositors and other stakeholders. 
Regulatory commitments and consent orders 
In December 2012, HSBC Holdings, HSBC North America 
Holdings Inc. (‘HNAH’) and HSBC Bank USA, N.A. (‘HSBC 
Bank USA’) entered into agreements with US and UK 
authorities regarding past inadequate compliance with 
AML and sanctions laws. Among these agreements, HSBC 
Holdings and HSBC Bank USA entered into a five-year 
deferred prosecution agreement (‘US DPA’) with the US 
Department of Justice (‘DoJ’) and HSBC Holdings entered 
T  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
121 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
into a two-year DPA with the New York County District 
Attorney (the ‘DANY DPA’). HSBC Holdings also entered 
into an undertaking with the FSA (the ‘FCA Direction’) 
to comply with certain forward-looking obligations 
with respect to AML and sanctions requirements. In 
addition, HSBC Holdings entered into a cease and desist 
order with the US FRB with respect to compliance with 
US AML and sanctions requirements. 
The agreements with the DoJ and the FRB and the FCA 
Direction require us to retain an independent monitor 
to evaluate our progress in fully implementing our 
obligations and produce regular assessments of the 
effectiveness of our Financial Crime Compliance 
function. The Monitor is discussed on page 27. 
HSBC has fulfilled all of the requirements imposed by the 
DANY DPA, which expired by its terms at the end of the 
two-year period of that agreement in December 2014. 
While we still have significant work to do to build and 
improve our AML and sanctions compliance programme, 
and our DPA with the DoJ and other settlement 
agreements remain in place, the expiration of the 
DANY DPA is an important milestone.  
HSBC Bank USA is also subject to an agreement entered 
into with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
(‘OCC’) in December 2012, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act 
(‘GLBA’) Agreement and other consent orders. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• It is difficult to predict the outcome of the regulatory 
proceedings involving our businesses. Unfavourable 
outcomes may have a material adverse effect on 
our reputation, brand and results, including loss 
of business and withdrawal of funding. 
• Our significant involvement in facilitating 
international capital flows and trade exposes the 
Group to the risk of financial crime or inadvertently 
breaching restrictions and sanctions imposed by the 
US Office of Foreign Assets Control and other 
regulators.  
• Breach of the US DPA at any time during its term may 
allow the DoJ to prosecute HSBC Holdings or HSBC 
Bank USA in relation to the matters which are the 
subject of the US DPA. 
• The design and execution of AML and sanctions 
remediation plans is complex and requires major 
investments in people, systems and other 
infrastructure. This complexity creates significant 
execution risk, which could impact our ability to 
effectively manage financial crime risk and remedy 
AML and sanctions compliance deficiencies in a timely 
manner. This could, in turn, impact HSBC’s ability to 
satisfy the Monitor or comply with the terms of the 
US DPA, the FCA Direction, or the FRB Cease and 
Desist Order, and may require HSBC to take additional 
remedial measures in the future. 
• Failure to comply with the requirements of consent 
orders or the GLBA Agreement within the time 
periods specified in them or otherwise as may be 
extended, could result in supervisory action. Any such 
action could have a material adverse effect on the 
consolidated results and operation of HSBC. 
Mitigating actions 
• Steps to address many of the requirements of the US 
DPA, the FCA Direction and the GLBA Agreement 
have either already been taken or are under way in 
consultation with the relevant regulatory agencies. 
These include simplifying the Group’s control 
structure, strengthening the governance structure 
with new leadership appointments, revising key 
policies and implementing Global Standards to 
detect, deter and protect against financial crime (see 
page 26). In addition, we have substantially increased 
spending and staffing in the Financial Crime 
Compliance and Regulatory Compliance functions 
in the past few years.  
• During 2014, we approved a new global strategy for 
transaction monitoring. Globally standardised AML 
investigations processes have been developed and 
are being implemented, starting in priority countries.  
Conduct of business 
Regulators in the UK and other countries have continued 
to increase their focus on ‘conduct’ matters relating to 
fair outcomes for customers and orderly/transparent 
markets including, for example, attention to sales 
processes and incentives, product and investment 
suitability, product governance, employee activities 
and accountabilities as well as the risks of market abuse 
in relation to benchmark, index, other rate setting 
processes, wider trading activities and more general 
conduct of business concerns.  
In the UK, the FCA is making increasing use of existing 
and new powers of intervention and enforcement, 
including powers to consider past business undertaken 
and implement customer compensation and redress 
schemes or other, potentially significant, remedial work. 
The FCA is also now regulating areas of activity not 
previously regulated by them, such as consumer credit, 
and considering competition issues in the markets they 
regulate. Additionally, the FCA and other regulators 
increasingly take actions in response to customer 
complaints or where they see poor customer outcomes 
and/or market abuses, either specific to an institution or 
more generally in relation to a particular product. There 
have been examples of this approach by regulators in the 
context of the possible mis-selling of PPI, of interest rate 
hedging products for SMEs and of wealth management 
products. 
The Group also remains subject to a number of other 
regulatory proceedings including investigations and 
reviews by various national regulatory, competition 
and enforcement authorities relating to certain past 
submissions made by panel banks and the process for 
making submissions in connection with the setting 
of Libor and other interbank offered and benchmark  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Top and emerging risks 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
122 
interest rates. There are also ongoing investigations into 
foreign exchange, precious metals and credit default 
swap related activities. Details of these investigations 
can be found in Note 40 on the Financial Statements. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• HSBC may face regulatory censure or sanctions 
including fines and/or be exposed to legal 
proceedings and litigation. 
• Regulators in the UK and other countries may identify 
future industry-wide mis-selling, market conduct or 
other issues that could affect the Group. This may 
lead from time to time to significant direct costs or 
liabilities and/or changes in the practices of such 
businesses. Also, decisions taken by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service in the UK (or similar overseas 
bodies) could, if applied to a wider class or grouping 
of customers, have a material adverse effect on the 
operating results, financial condition and prospects of 
the Group. 
Mitigating actions 
• Programmes to enhance the management of conduct 
of business are progressing in all global businesses 
and functions. 
• Performance management arrangements for 
managers and staff are being reviewed, focusing on 
reward linked to values-based behaviour and good 
conduct.  
• Enhancements to surveillance capabilities and 
benchmark rate setting processes are ongoing and 
HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries are cooperating 
fully with all regulatory investigations and reviews. 
 
Dispute risk 
HSBC is party to legal proceedings and regulatory 
matters in a number of jurisdictions arising out of its 
normal business operations. Further details are provided 
in Note 40 on the Financial Statements. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• Dispute risk gives rise to potential financial loss 
and significant reputational damage which could 
adversely affect customer and investor confidence. 
Mitigating actions 
• We continue to focus on identifying emerging 
regulatory and judicial trends in order to limit 
exposure to litigation or regulatory enforcement 
action in the future. 
• We are enhancing our financial crime and regulatory 
compliance controls and resources. 
Risks related to our business operations, 
governance and internal control systems 
Heightened execution risk 
People risk 
Internet crime and fraud 
Information security risk 
Data management 
Model risk 
Third party risk management 
 
Heightened execution risk 
The financial services industry is currently facing an 
unprecedented period of scrutiny. Regulatory requests, 
legal matters and business initiatives all require a 
significant amount of time and resources to implement. 
The magnitude and complexity of projects within 
HSBC required to meet these demands has resulted 
in heightened execution risk. There also remains 
heightened risk around the execution of a number 
of disposals across the Group in line with our strategy.  
Potential impact on HSBC 
• These factors may affect the successful delivery of 
our strategic priorities. 
• The potential risks of disposals include regulatory 
breaches, industrial action, loss of key personnel 
and interruption to systems and processes during 
business transformation. They can have both financial 
and reputational implications. 
Mitigating actions 
• We have strengthened our prioritisation and 
governance processes for significant projects and 
have invested in our project implementation and IT 
capabilities. 
• Risks related to disposals are carefully assessed and 
monitored and are subject to close management 
oversight. 
People risk 
The demands being placed on the human capital of the 
Group are unprecedented. The cumulative workload 
arising from a regulatory reform programme that is often 
extra-territorial and still evolving is hugely consumptive 
of human resources, placing increasingly complex and 
conflicting demands on a workforce where the expertise 
is in short supply and globally mobile.  
Potential impact on HSBC 
• Changes in remuneration policy and practice resulting 
from the new regulations under CRD IV apply globally 
to all employees of EU headquartered banks. The key 
change is the application of a cap on variable pay that 
can be paid to any ‘material risk-taker’ (based on 
qualitative and quantitative criteria issued by the 
T
T
T
T
T
T
T
E
T
T  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
123 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
EBA). This presents significant challenges for HSBC 
because a significant number of our material risk 
takers are based outside the EU. 
• The policy statement issued by the PRA extends the 
Remuneration Code to require all PRA-authorised 
firms to apply clawback to vested/paid variable 
remuneration on a Group-wide basis for any material 
risk takers receiving variable pay from 1 January 2015. 
• The introduction by the PRA and FCA in the UK of the 
Senior Managers and Certification regimes and of 
the related Rules of Conduct (the detail of which is 
currently subject to consultation) are intended to 
set clearer expectations of the accountabilities and 
behaviour of both senior and more junior employees. 
However, there are a number of uncertainties around 
the precise impact of these regimes at present 
(including on more senior employees, on non-UK 
based employees and on non-executive directors). 
• Organisational changes to support the Group’s 
strategy and/or implement regulatory reform 
programmes have the potential to lead to increased 
staff turnover.  
Mitigating actions 
• The changes in remuneration under the new CRD IV 
regulations has necessitated a review of our 
remuneration policy, especially the balance between 
fixed and variable pay, to ensure we can remain 
competitive on a total compensation basis and retain 
our key talent. 
• Risks related to organisational change and disposals 
are subject to close management oversight. 
• We continue to increase the level of specialist 
resources within Financial Crime Compliance, 
Regulatory Compliance and stress testing and to 
engage with our regulators as they finalise new 
regulations. 
 
Internet crime and fraud 
HSBC is increasingly exposed to fraudulent and criminal 
activities as a result of increased usage of internet and 
mobile services by customers. We also face the risk of 
breakdowns in processes or procedures and systems 
failure or unavailability, and our business is subject to 
disruption from events that are wholly or partially 
beyond our control, such as internet crime and acts 
of terrorism. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• Internet crime could result in financial loss and/or 
customer data and sensitive information being 
compromised. They may also give rise to losses in 
service to customers. The same threats apply equally 
when we rely on external suppliers or vendors for 
services provided to us and our customers.  
Mitigating actions 
• We continually assess these threats as they evolve 
and adapt our controls to mitigate them. 
• We have increased our defences through enhanced 
monitoring and have implemented additional 
controls, such as two-factor authentication, to reduce 
the possibility of losses from fraud. 
Information security risk 
The security of our information and technology 
infrastructure is crucial for maintaining our banking 
applications and processes while protecting our 
customers and the HSBC brand. HSBC and other 
multinational organisations continue to be the targets of 
cyber-attacks which may disrupt services including the 
availability of our external facing websites, compromise 
organisational and customer information or expose 
security weaknesses. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• Information security risk gives rise to potential 
financial loss and reputational damage which could 
adversely affect customer and investor confidence. 
Loss of customer data would also trigger regulatory 
breaches which could result in fines and penalties 
being incurred. 
Mitigating actions 
• We have invested significantly in addressing this risk 
through increased training to raise staff awareness of 
the requirements, enhanced multi-layered controls 
protecting our information and technical 
infrastructure, heightened monitoring and 
management of potential cyber-attacks and 
continued vulnerability assessment. 
Data management 
HSBC must have a clear data strategy to meet the 
volume, granularity, frequency and scale of regulatory 
and other reporting requirements. As a G-SIB, HSBC is 
also required to comply with the principles for effective 
risk data aggregation and risk reporting as set out by the 
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (‘the Basel 
Committee’) in its paper. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• Ineffective data management could adversely 
affect our ability to aggregate and report complete, 
accurate and consistent data to regulators, investors 
and senior management on a timely basis. 
• Financial institutions that fail to meet their Basel 
Committee data obligations by the required deadline 
may face supervisory measures. 
Mitigating actions 
• Since the Data Strategy Board was established in 
2012, we have set a data strategy for the Group and 
defined Group-level principles, standards and policies 
to enable consistent data aggregation, reporting and 
management.
T
T
T Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Top and emerging risks / Areas of special interest 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
124 
• A number of key initiatives and projects to implement 
our data strategy and work towards meeting our 
Basel Committee data obligations are in progress. 
 
Model risk 
HSBC uses models for a range of purposes in managing 
its business, including regulatory and economic capital 
calculations, stress testing, granting credit, pricing 
and financial reporting. Model risk is the potential for 
adverse consequences as a result of decisions based on 
incorrect model outputs and reports or the use of such 
information for purposes for which it was not designed. 
Model risk could arise from models that are poorly 
developed, implemented or used, or from the modelled 
outcome being misunderstood and acted upon 
inappropriately by management. The regulatory 
environment and supervisory concerns over banks’ 
use of internal models to determine regulatory capital 
further contribute to model risk. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• HSBC could incur losses or be required to hold 
additional capital as a result of model limitations 
or failure. 
• Supervisory concerns over the internal models and 
assumptions used by banks in the calculation of 
regulatory capital have led to the imposition of risk 
weight and loss given default floors. Such changes 
have the potential to increase our capital 
requirement and/or make it more volatile. 
Mitigating actions 
• We aim to mitigate model risk through appropriate 
governance over model development, usage and 
validation, together with independent review, 
monitoring and feedback.  
 
Third-party risk management 
We have increased our risk management focus on our 
use of third-party service providers, in part in response 
to increased scrutiny by global regulators. This includes 
how outsourcing decisions are made, how the key 
relationships are managed and the consistency of risk 
management across the range of third parties used. Risks 
arising from the use of third-party service providers may 
be less transparent and therefore more challenging to 
manage or influence. 
Potential impact on HSBC 
• Any deficiency in the management of third-party 
service providers could lead to a variety of risks 
including business disruption, regulatory failings, loss 
of confidential information and financial crime.  
Mitigating actions 
• We are enhancing our third-party risk management 
capability in line with guidance issued by the OCC and 
FRB, strengthening controls over third-party use and 
increasing the monitoring and assurance over these 
controls. 
Areas of special interest 
(Unaudited) 
During 2014, we considered a number of 
particular areas because of the effect they may 
have on the Group. Whilst these areas may 
already have been identified in top and emerging 
risks, further details of the actions taken during 
the year are provided below. 
Financial crime compliance and regulatory 
compliance 
In recent years, we have experienced increasing levels of 
compliance risk as regulators and other agencies pursued 
investigations into historical activities, and we continued 
to work with them in relation to existing issues. This has 
included the matters giving rise to the DPAs reached 
with US authorities in relation to investigations regarding 
inadequate compliance with anti-money laundering and 
sanctions law, and the related undertaking with the FSA 
(the ‘FCA Direction’). The work of the Monitor, who 
has been appointed to assess our progress against our 
various obligations is discussed on page 27. 
We continue to respond to a number of investigations by 
the FCA into the possible mis-selling in the UK of certain 
products, including sales of PPI, of interest rate hedging 
products for SMEs and of wealth management products. 
In addition, we also remain subject to a number of other 
regulatory proceedings including investigations and 
reviews by various national regulatory, competition 
and enforcement authorities relating to certain past 
submissions made by panel banks and the process for 
making submissions in connection with the setting 
of Libor and other interbank offered and benchmark 
interest rates. There are also investigations in progress 
into activities related to foreign exchange, precious 
metals and credit default swaps. Details of these 
investigations and legal proceedings can be found 
in Note 40 on the Financial Statements. 
It is clear from both our own and wider industry 
experience that the level of activity among regulators 
and law enforcement agencies in investigating possible 
breaches of regulations has increased, and that the 
direct and indirect costs of such breaches can be 
significant. Coupled with a substantial rise in the volume 
of new regulation, much of which has some element of 
extra-territorial reach, and the geographical spread 
of our businesses, we believe that the level of inherent 
compliance risk that we face as a Group will continue to 
remain high for the foreseeable future. 
Further information about the Group’s compliance 
risk management may be found on page 189. 
Private Bank 
Past practices at our Swiss private bank and the financial 
affairs of some of our Swiss private banking clients have 
been subject to recent media coverage. The media focus 
has been on historical events that show the standards to 
T
E  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
125 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
which we operate today were not universally in place in 
our Swiss operations eight years ago. 
Since then, we have fundamentally changed the way 
HSBC is run and have established much tighter central 
control around who are our customers. We have put in 
place tough, world-class financial crime, regulatory 
compliance and tax transparency standards, enforced by 
a team of over 7,000 compliance staff.  
GPB, and in particular its Swiss private bank, has 
undergone a radical transformation. We have taken 
significant steps over the past several years to 
implement reforms and exit clients who did not meet 
strict new HSBC standards, including those where we had 
concerns in relation to tax compliance. As a result of this 
repositioning, HSBC’s Swiss private bank has reduced its 
client base by almost 70% since 2007. 
We are fully committed to the exchange of information 
with relevant authorities and are actively pursuing 
measures that ensure clients are tax transparent, even in 
advance of a regulatory or legal requirement to do so. 
We are also cooperating with relevant authorities 
investigating these matters. 
Regulatory stress tests 
Stress testing is an important tool for regulators to 
assess vulnerabilities in the banking sector and in 
individual banks, the results of which could have a 
significant effect on minimum capital requirements, 
risk and capital management practices and planned 
capital actions, including the payment of dividends, 
going forward. 
We are subject to regulatory stress testing in many 
jurisdictions. These have increased both in frequency 
and in the granularity of information required by 
supervisors. They include the programmes of the PRA, 
the FRB, the EBA, the ECB, the Hong Kong Monetary 
Authority (‘HKMA’) and other regulators. Assessment by 
regulators is on both quantitative and qualitative bases, 
the latter focusing on portfolio quality, data provision, 
stress testing capability, forward-looking capital 
management processes and internal management 
processes. 
In 2014, the Group took part in the first PRA concurrent 
stress test exercise involving major UK banks. The 
exercise was run on an enterprise-wide basis and 
comprised the EBA base scenario and a stress scenario 
that predominantly followed the EBA stress scenario 
with an additional overlay of variables reflecting the 
vulnerabilities facing the UK banking system, including 
significant declines in the value of sterling, residential 
and commercial property prices and bond and equity 
prices, along with a downturn in economic activity and 
rising unemployment. HSBC’s submission was made to 
the PRA at the end of June 2014. The Group also 
participated in the complementary programme of 
regular data provision to the Bank of England under 
its Firm Data Submission Framework.  
The PRA disclosed the results of the 2014 Concurrent 
Stress Test on 16 December 2014. The stressed CET1 
capital ratio of HSBC was deemed by the PRA to fall 
to a minimum of 8.7%, taking into account approved 
management mitigating actions. This was above the 
target minimum of 4.5%.  
The EBA conducted a Europe-wide stress test in the first 
half of 2014, administered via the PRA for UK banks. The 
base scenario covered a wide range of risks including 
credit, market, securitisation, sovereign and funding 
risks. The adverse macroeconomic scenario included 
country-specific shocks to sovereign bond spreads, 
short-term interest rates and residential property 
prices, together with a decline in world trade, currency 
depreciation in Central and Eastern Europe and slow-
downs or contractions in GDP growth around the world.  
The EBA disclosed results of the stress test exercise on 
26 October 2014. Our stressed CET1 capital ratio was 
projected to fall to a low point of 8.7% at the end of 
2015, above the EBA minimum threshold of 5.5%. Our 
fully-loaded stressed CET1 ratio was projected to be 
9.3% at the end of 2016, which compared favourably 
with other major European banks. 
The PRA and EBA results demonstrate HSBC’s continued 
capital strength. 
The ECB conducted its comprehensive assessment in 
the first half of 2014, which comprised an Asset Quality 
Review and the ECB’s stress testing process, the latter 
using the EBA scenarios. HSBC France and HSBC Malta 
fell within scope and both passed the exercise, the 
results of which were also published in October 2014. 
The CET1 ratio for HSBC France was projected to fall 
from 12.9% in 2013 to 6.6% by the end of 2016, 
remaining above the regulatory minimum. The fall 
reflected the impact of stress on HSBC France’s business 
model, which includes the Group’s euro Rates trading 
business, and the effect of ECB credit loss benchmarks 
on the loan portfolio. 
HNAH participates in the Comprehensive Capital Analysis 
and Review (‘CCAR’) and Dodd-Frank Stress Testing 
(‘DFAST’) programmes of the FRB and HSBC Bank USA 
in the OCC’s DFAST programme. Both made their first 
submissions under these programmes on 6 January 
2014. On 26 March 2014, the FRB informed HNAH that 
it objected to the submitted capital plan on qualitative 
grounds and a resubmission of its capital plan was 
required by 5 January 2015, together with improvements 
to its stress testing processes. However, the FRB 
approved the capital actions included in HNAH’s CCAR 
submission and HNAH was allowed to proceed with the 
payment of dividends on the outstanding preferred 
shares and trust preferred securities of HNAH and its 
subsidiaries. HNAH’s stressed CET1 capital ratio was 
forecast by the FRB to fall to a minimum of 9.4% under 
the supervisory ‘severely adverse’ scenario, above the 
regulatory minimum ratio of 4.5%. HNAH made its CCAR 
2015 submission, which also served as the required re-
submission for the CCAR 2014, and HSBC Bank USA made 
its DFAST 2015 submission, on 5 January 2015. 
Disclosure by the FRB and HNAH and HSBC Bank USA of 
the results of the exercises, based on the supervisory 
scenarios published in November 2014, will be made in Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Areas of special interest/Credit risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
126 
March 2015. In addition, the FRB will also provide its 
non-objection or objection to HNAH’s capital plan and 
the capital actions included within its 2015 CCAR 
submission. 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
participated in the HKMA stress test exercise in the first 
half of 2014. The HKMA stress scenario envisaged a 
significant deceleration of growth in mainland China 
and a sharper contraction in Hong Kong.  
Oil and gas prices 
Oil and commodity prices have declined significantly 
since the middle of 2014 as a result of increasing global 
demand and supply imbalances and changes in market 
sentiment. There is considerable uncertainty regarding 
the future price levels during 2015 and beyond. 
Prolonged depressed oil prices will affect countries, 
industries and individual companies differently: 
• Country level: net oil importers are likely to benefit 
from reduced oil prices. In advanced economies, this 
is likely to increase consumer disposable income 
while in emerging market countries it is more likely 
to benefit the governments’ fiscal position. The 
impact on oil exporting countries will depend on the 
importance of the oil receipts to fiscal revenues, the 
extraction costs and the amount of fiscal reserves 
that the countries are able to draw upon.   
• Industry level: the oil and gas industry and supporting 
services will be affected, though this will vary 
depending on the relevant sub-sector. Large 
integrated producers are likely to remain resilient. 
Within the pure producers sector, the higher 
cost pure producers, such as shale and oil sands 
producers, are likely to experience higher levels of 
stress. Similarly, infrastructure and services providers 
are likely to come under stress as producers curtail 
capital expenditure. Industries where oil and gas 
represent major costs, such as haulage, transport 
and shipping, are likely to benefit if prices remain 
depressed. 
The oil and gas sector has been considered a higher risk 
sector for some time and has been under enhanced 
monitoring and controls with risk appetite and new 
money lending under increased scrutiny. 
HSBC has a diversified lending profile to the oil and gas 
sector. Lending in GB&M is concentrated predominately 
in upstream activities and with large investment-grade 
global integrated producers. CMB mainly focuses on 
lending to service companies and pure producers. The 
exposures are diversified across a number of countries. 
The overall portfolio has drawn risk exposures amounting 
to about US$34bn, with just over 47% consisting of 
exposures to oil service companies and non-integrated 
producers. In-depth client reviews have been conducted 
on larger clients considered to be potentially vulnerable to 
depressed oil prices for a period of one to two years, 
particularly, but not exclusively, focusing on oil service 
companies, and producers (and their suppliers) reliant on 
expensive extraction methods such as shale or oil sands. 
Following these reviews, about US$0.5bn of exposures 
have been identified as being of sufficient concern to 
require close management. Whilst weakening credit is 
evident in this population, no new customers were 
identified as being impaired at this stage. 
Russia 
During 2014, tensions have risen between the Russian 
Federation (‘Russia’) and western countries (‘the West’) in 
respect of Ukraine. The West’s response to date has been 
to impose sanctions on a selected list of Russian 
individuals, banks and corporates during the course of 
2014. Monitoring and action in response to the sanctions 
requirements is ongoing and will impose some restrictions 
on HSBC’s business in Russia, although the effect on the 
Group is not expected to be significant. Our exposures to 
counterparties incorporated or domiciled in Ukraine are 
not considered material. 
The fourth quarter of 2014 saw significant falls in the 
value of the Russian rouble and the price of crude oil, 
and multiple interest rate rises implemented by Russia’s 
central bank. The impact of these developments is being 
monitored by management and, combined with the 
sanctions, means the outlook for Russia remains highly 
uncertain with the economy expected to contract in 
2015. 
Our exposures to Russia mainly consist of loans and 
advances. At 31 December 2014 these amounted to 
US$4bn. 
In addition to the above, a number of our multinational 
clients have indirect exposure to Russia through 
majority or minority stakes in Russia-based entities, 
via dependency of supply or from reliance on exports. 
The operations and businesses of such clients may be 
negatively affected should the scope and nature of 
sanctions and other actions be widened or the Russian 
economy deteriorate. Also, we run operations in 
neighbouring countries where the financial system has 
strong links to the Russian economy. Management is 
monitoring the quantum and potential severity of such 
risks. 
Eurozone 
In recent years the EU has introduced a series of 
legislative changes designed to better equip it to deal 
with a financial crisis and to reduce the risks of contagion 
in the event of an EU member country experiencing 
financial difficulties. The outcome of current 
negotiations on the terms of the Greek bail out is highly 
uncertain. The debt may be rescheduled or Greece 
may default on its debts; there is also the possibility that 
Greece may eventually exit the euro. Our exposures to 
Greece mainly consist of loans and advances and reverse 
repos. At 31 December 2014 these amounted to US$4bn 
and US$2bn respectively. Included in loans and advances 
are US$2bn related to the shipping industry, 
denominated in US dollars and booked in the UK.  We 
believe the shipping industry is less sensitive to the 
Greek economy as it is mainly dependent on 
international trade.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
127 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Credit risk 
 Page App
1
Tables Page 
Credit risk   129 206 Summary of credit risk 129
 Gross loans to customers and banks over five years  130
 Loan impairment charge over five years  130
 Loan impairment charges by geographical region  130
 Loan impairment charges by industry  130
 Loan impairment allowances over five years  130
Credit risk management  206
Credit exposure  130
Maximum exposure to credit risk 130
Other credit risk mitigants 130 Maximum exposure to credit risk 131
 Loan and other credit-related commitments 131
Concentration of exposure   132 206
Financial investments   132
Trading assets  132
Derivatives  132
Loans and advances  132 Gross loans and advances to customers by industry sector 
and by geographical region 132 
Credit quality of financial instruments 133 207
Credit quality classification Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality 134
Past due but not impaired gross financial 
instruments 136  
Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments by 
geographical region  136 
   
Ageing analysis of days for past due but not impaired  
gross financial instruments  136 
Impaired loans  137 Movement in impaired loans by geographical region 137
Renegotiated loans and forbearance 138 208 Renegotiated loans and advances to customers by  
geographical region  139 
 Movement in renegotiated loans by geographical region 140
Impairment of loans and advances 141 Loan impairment charge to the income statement by 
industry sector 141 
 
Loan impairment charge to the income statement by 
assessment type 141 
 
Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average 
gross loans and advances to customers by 
geographical region 142 
 
Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector 
and geographical region 142 
 
Movement in impairment allowances on loans and 
advances to customers and banks 143 
Impairment assessment 212
Wholesale lending 144 Total wholesale lending 144
Commercial real estate 145 Commercial real estate lending 145
 
  
Commercial real estate loans and advances including loan 
commitments by level of collateral  147 
   
Other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank)  
loans and advances including loan commitments by 
level of collateral rated CRR/EL8 to 10 only   148 
   
Loans and advances to banks including loan commitments 
by level of collateral   149 
Other credit risk exposures 149
Derivatives 149
 
Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives
by product type 150 
 OTC collateral agreements by type 150
Reverse repos – non-trading by geographical 
region 151  Reverse repos – non-trading by geographical region 151 
Loan Management Unit 213
   Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
128 
 Page App
1
Tables Page 
Personal lending 151 Total personal lending 151
Mortgage lending 152
Other personal lending 153  
HSBC Finance US Consumer and Mortgage Lending 
residential mortgages 153 
 HSBC Finance: foreclosed properties in the US 153
   
Trends in two months and over conctractual delinquency 
in the US  153 
   
Gross loan portfolio of HSBC Finance and real estate 
secured balances 154 
   
Number of renegotiated real estate secured accounts 
remaining in HSBC Finance’s portfolio 154 
HSBC Finance loan modifications and re-age 
programmes 154    
Collateral and other credit enhancements held 156 Residential mortgage loans including loan commitments 
by level of collateral 156 
Supplementary information 157 Gross loans and advances by industry sector over 5 years 157
 
   
Reconciliation of reported and constant currency impaired 
loans, allowances and charges by geographical region 158 
 
   
Reconciliation of reported and constant currency loan 
impairment charges to the income statement 158 
 Loan impairment charges by industry sector over 5 years 159
 
   
Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average 
gross loans and advances to customers 159 
 Movement in impairment allowances over 5 years 159
 Gross loans and advances to customers by country 160
Refinance risk 214
HSBC Holdings  161 HSBC Holdings – maximum exposure to credit risk  161
Securitisation exposures and other structured 
products  161  214 Overall exposure of HSBC  161 
 Carrying amount of HSBC’s consolidated holdings of ABSs 162
 Definitions and classifications of ABSs and CDOs 214
Representations and warranties related to 
mortgage sales and securitisation activities   162     
1 Appendix to Risk – risk policies and practices. 
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
129 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Credit risk 
(Unaudited) 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a 
customer or counterparty fails to meet an 
obligation under a contract. It arises principally 
from direct lending, trade finance and leasing 
business, but also from other products such 
as guarantees and credit derivatives and from 
holding assets in the form of debt securities. 
There were no material changes to our policies and 
practices for the management of credit risk in 2014. 
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding credit 
risk is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 204. 
Our maximum exposure to credit risk is presented on 
page 131 and credit quality on page 133. While credit 
risk arises across most of our balance sheet, losses have 
typically been incurred on loans and advances and 
securitisation exposures and other structured products. 
As a result, our disclosures focus primarily on these two 
areas. 
This year we have redesigned the ‘Credit risk’ section in 
order to enhance clarity and reduce duplication. It now 
begins with a summary of credit risk followed by an 
overview of our gross exposures. We describe various 
measures of credit quality such as past due status, 
impaired loans and renegotiated loans before analysing 
impairment allowances. There are specific sections on 
wholesale lending and personal lending where additional 
detail is provided and we cover areas of particular focus 
such as our exposure to commercial real estate in 
wholesale lending and our Consumer and Mortgage 
Lending (‘CML’) portfolio in personal lending. This is 
followed by a section describing our securitisation 
exposures and other structured products. Information 
on our exposures to oil and gas, Russia and Greece is 
provided in ‘Areas of special interest’ on page 126. 
Following the change in balance sheet presentation 
explained on page 347, non-trading reverse repos are 
shown separately on the balance sheet and are no longer 
included in ‘Loans and advances to customers’ and 
‘Loans and advances to banks’. Comparative data have 
been re-presented accordingly. As a result, any analysis 
that references loans and advances to customers or 
banks excludes non-trading reverse repos. The amount 
of the non-trading reverse repos to customers and banks 
is set out on page 151. 
Loan impairment charges, loan impairment allowances 
and impaired loans all reduced compared with 2013.  
Gross loans and advances decreased by US$28bn 
which included adverse foreign exchange movements 
of US$51bn; excluding these movements customer 
lending grew in 2014.  
The commentary that follows is on a constant currency 
basis, whilst tables are presented on a reported basis. 
Summary of credit risk 
(Unaudited) 
2014 2013 Page
US$bn US$bn
At year-end 
Maximum exposure to credit 
risk  3,133 3,112 131 
Gross loans and advances
1
 
– personal lending 393 411 132
– wholesale lending 706 716 132
Total 1,099 1,127 132
Impaired loans 
– personal lending 15 19 137
– wholesale lending 14 18 137
Total 29 37 137
Impaired loans as a % of
gross loans and advances     
– personal lending 3.9%   4.6%
– wholesale lending 2.0%   2.5%
– total 2.7%   3.3%
US$bn   US$bn  
Impairment allowances    
– personal lending 4.6   6.6 143
– wholesale lending 7.8   8.6 143
Total 12.4   15.2 143
Loans and advances net of 
impairment allowances
1
 1,087 1,112  
For year ended 31 December   
Loan impairment charge   
– personal lending 1.8   3.1 141
– wholesale lending 2.3   2.9 141
Total 4.1   6.0 141
For footnotes, see page 202. 
See page 158 for further details in respect of the constant 
currency reconciliation. For an analysis of loans and advances by 
country see page 160. 
Wholesale gross loans and advances increased by 
US$21bn. Asia grew by US$16bn and North America by 
US$10bn with more modest levels of growth in the 
Middle East and North Africa and Latin America. This 
was offset by a decrease of US$15bn in Europe. Loan 
impairment charges were lower in 2014 as we continued 
to benefit from the improvement in various economies 
and the low interest rate environment. 
Personal lending balances, excluding the planned US 
CML portfolio run off, grew by US$7.7bn. This was 
primarily driven by increased mortgage and other 
lending in Asia and growth in the mortgage portfolio in 
both North America and Latin America. The growth was 
partially offset by lower lending balances in Europe due 
to repayments on the mortgage and credit card portfolio 
in the UK. The CML portfolio declined by a further 
US$5.7bn during the year. Loan impairment charges 
were down as a result of improvements in the US 
housing market and the continued run-off of the CML 
portfolio.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
130 
Gross loans to customers and banks over five years
1
 (US$bn) 
(Unaudited) 
 
Loan impairment charge over five years (US$bn) 
(Unaudited) 
 
Loan impairment charges by geographical region (US$bn) 
(Unaudited) 
 
Loan impairment charges by industry (US$bn) 
(Unaudited) 
 
Loan impairment allowances over five years 
(Unaudited) 
 
For footnote, see page 202. 
Credit exposure 
Maximum exposure to credit risk 
(Audited) 
The table on page 131 provides information on balance 
sheet items, offsets and loan and other credit-related 
commitments. Commentary on balance sheet 
movements is provided on page 58. The offset on 
derivatives increased in line with the increase in 
maximum exposure amounts.  
The offset on corporate and commercial loans to 
customers decreased by US$31bn. This reduction was in 
the UK where a small number of clients benefit from the 
use of net interest arrangements across their overdraft 
and deposit positions. During the year, as we aligned our 
approach in our Payments and Cash Management 
business to be more globally consistent, many of these 
clients increased the frequency with which they settled 
these balances thereby reducing the amount of offset 
available. 
‘Maximum exposure to credit risk’ table (page 131) 
The table presents our maximum exposure to credit risk from 
balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments 
before taking account of any collateral held or other credit 
enhancements (unless such enhancements meet accounting 
offsetting requirements). For financial assets recognised on 
the balance sheet, the maximum exposure to credit risk equals 
their carrying amount; for financial guarantees and similar 
contracts granted, it is the maximum amount that we would 
have to pay if the guarantees were called upon. For loan 
commitments and other credit-related commitments, it is 
generally the full amount of the committed facilities. 
The offset in the table relates to amounts where there is a 
legally enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty 
default and where, as a result, there is a net exposure for credit 
risk purposes. However, as there is no intention to settle these 
balances on a net basis under normal circumstances, they do 
not qualify for net presentation for accounting purposes. 
In the case of derivatives the offset column also includes 
collateral received in cash and other financial assets. 
Other credit risk mitigants 
While not disclosed as an offset in the ‘Maximum 
exposure to credit risk’ table, other arrangements are in 
place which reduce our maximum exposure to credit risk. 
These include a charge over collateral over borrowers’ 
specific assets such as residential properties. Other 
credit risk mitigants include short positions in securities 
and financial assets held as part of linked insurance/ 
investment contracts where the risk is predominantly 
borne by the policyholder. In addition, we hold collateral 
in the form of financial instruments that are not 
recognised on the balance sheet.  
See Note 32 and from page 147 and page 156 respectively on 
the Financial Statements for further details on collateral in 
respect of certain loans and advances and derivatives. 
393 
367 
391 392 378 
620 
647 666 
698 692 
32 
27 
24 19 
15 
15 
15 
15 
18 14 
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Personal Wholesale
Impaired
Not impaired
11.2 
9.3 
5.4 
3.1 
1.8 
2.4 2.2 
2.8 2.9 
2.3 
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Personal Wholesale
1.7 
0.5 
1.2 
2.6 
1.1 
0.6 
0.3 
2.0 
Europe Asia MENA North
America
Latin
America
2013 2014
– –
0.6 
2.5 
0.8 
2.2 
(0.1)
(0.1)
1.9 
0.3 
2.0 
–
First lien
residential
mortgages
Other
personal
lending
Commercial
real
estate
Other
corporate
commercial
Financial
2013 2014
12.3 9.8 8.2 6.6 4.6 7.9 7.9 8.0 8.6 7.8 
38%
37%
35% 35%
30%
53% 51% 53%
48%
55%
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Personal Wholesale
Loan impairment allowances (US$bn)
Loan impairment allowances as a % of impaired loans  
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
131 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Maximum exposure to credit risk 
(Audited) 
  2014 2013 
  Maximum
exposure Offset Net 
Maximum 
exposure  Offset  Net 
  US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m
Cash and balances at central banks    129,957 – 129,957 166,599  –  166,599
Items in the course of collection from other banks   4,927 – 4,927 6,021  –  6,021
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 27,674 – 27,674 25,220  –  25,220
Trading assets   228,944 – 228,944 239,301  (1,777)  237,524
– Treasury and other eligible bills   16,170 – 16,170 21,584  –  21,584
– debt securities   141,532 – 141,532 141,644  –  141,644
– loans and advances to banks  27,581 – 27,581 27,885  –  27,885
– loans and advances to customers   43,661 – 43,661 48,188  (1,777)  46,411
Financial assets designated at fair value    9,031 – 9,031 12,719  –  12,719
– Treasury and other eligible bills   56 – 56 50  –  50
– debt securities   8,891 – 8,891 12,589  –  12,589
– loans and advances to banks  84 – 84 76  –  76
– loans and advances to customers   – – – 4  –  4
Derivatives   345,008 (313,300) 31,708 282,265  (252,344)  29,921
Loans and advances to customers held at  
amortised cost
1
  
 
974,660 (67,094) 907,566 992,089  (96,726)  895,363 
– personal   388,954 (4,412) 384,542 404,126  (1,348)  402,778
– corporate and commercial  535,184 (59,197) 475,987 537,922  (90,215)  447,707
– financial (non-bank financial institutions)   50,522 (3,485) 47,037 50,041  (5,163)  44,878
Loans and advances to banks held at  
amortised cost
1
 
 
112,149 (258) 111,891 120,046  (587)  119,459 
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading  161,713 (5,750) 155,963 179,690  (22,267)  157,423
Financial investments   404,773 – 404,773 416,785  –  416,785
– Treasury and other similar bills   81,517 – 81,517 78,111  –  78,111
– debt securities   323,256 – 323,256 338,674  –  338,674
Other assets   35,264 – 35,264 37,324  (22)  37,302
– assets held for sale  1,375 – 1,375 3,306  (22)  3,284
– endorsements and acceptances   10,775 – 10,775 11,624  –  11,624
– other   23,114 – 23,114 22,394  –  22,394
Financial guarantees and similar contracts
2
    47,078 – 47,078 46,300  –  46,300
Loan and other credit-related commitments
3
   651,380 – 651,380 587,603  –  587,603
At 31 December  3,132,558 (386,402) 2,746,156 3,111,962  (373,723)  2,738,239
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Loan and other credit-related commitments
3
 
(Unaudited) 
  
Europe Asia
4
MENA 
North 
America  
Latin 
America  Total 
  US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m
Personal   86,247 96,497 2,995 15,636  11,679  213,054
Corporate and commercial    98,045 138,366 20,141 102,911  17,540  377,003
Financial
5
  26,605 9,355 711 23,559  1,093  61,323
At 31 December 2014  210,897 244,218 23,847 142,106  30,312  651,380
      
Personal   92,148 74,445 2,940 15,647  9,774  194,954
Corporate and commercial    91,895 120,084 19,045 92,837  21,956  345,817
Financial
5
  18,930 8,477 705 17,478  1,242  46,832
At 31 December 2013  202,973 203,006 22,690 125,962  32,972  587,603
For footnotes, see page 202.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
132 
Concentration of exposure 
(Unaudited) 
Concentrations of credit risk are described in the Appendix to 
Risk on page 206. 
The geographical diversification of our lending portfolio 
and our broad range of global businesses and products 
ensured that we did not overly depend on a few markets 
to generate growth in 2014. This diversification also 
supported our strategy for growth in faster-growing 
markets and those with international connectivity. 
Financial investments 
Our holdings of available-for-sale government and 
government agency debt securities, corporate debt 
securities, ABSs and other securities were spread across 
a wide range of issuers and geographical regions in 2014, 
with 15% invested in securities issued by banks and 
other financial institutions and 72% in government or 
government agency debt securities. We also held assets 
backing insurance and investment contracts.  
For an analysis of financial investments, see Note 18 on the 
Financial Statements. 
Trading assets 
Trading securities remained the largest concentration 
within trading assets at 77% compared with 75% in 2013. 
The largest concentration within the trading securities 
portfolio was in government and government agency debt 
securities. We had significant exposures to US Treasury 
and government agency debt securities (US$26bn) 
and UK (US$9.3bn) and Hong Kong (US$6.9bn) 
government debt securities. 
For an analysis of debt and equity securities held for trading, see 
Note 12 on the Financial Statements. 
Derivatives 
Derivative assets were US$345bn at 31 December 2014 
(2013: US$282bn). Details of derivative amounts cleared 
through an exchange, central counterparty and non-
central counterparty are shown on page 150. 
For an analysis of derivatives, see page 150 and Note 16 on the 
Financial Statements. 
Loans and advances to customers 
The following tables analyse loans and advances to 
customers by industry sector and by the location of the 
principal operations of the lending subsidiary or, in the 
case of the operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East 
Limited (‘HSBC Bank Middle East’) and HSBC Bank USA, 
by the location of the lending branch. The distribution of 
loans across geographical regions and industries 
remained similar to last year. 
For an analysis of loans and advances by country see page 160. 
 
Gross loans and advances to customers by industry sector and by geographical region 
(Audited) 
 
 
 Europe  Asia
4
 MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin
 America   Total  
 As a %
 of total
 gross 
   US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   loans
Personal  178,531 129,515 6,571 65,400 13,537 393,554  39.9
– first lien residential mortgages
6
 131,000 93,147 2,647 55,577 4,153 286,524  29.0
– other personal
7
 47,531 36,368 3,924 9,823 9,384 107,030  10.9
Corporate and commercial  210,585 220,799 20,588 57,862 30,722 540,556  54.8
– manufacturing  39,456 37,767 2,413 15,299 12,051 106,986  10.9
– international trade and services  76,629 72,814 9,675 13,484 8,189 180,791  18.3
– commercial real estate  28,187 35,678 579 6,558 2,291 73,293  7.4
– other property-related  7,126 34,379 1,667 8,934 281 52,387  5.3
– government  2,264 1,195 1,552 164 968 6,143  0.6
– other commercial
8
 56,923 38,966 4,702 13,423 6,942 120,956  12.3
Financial  23,103 13,997 3,291 9,034 1,393 50,818  5.1
– non-bank financial institutions  21,867 13,410 3,289 9,034 1,199 48,799  4.9
– settlement accounts  1,236 587 2 – 194 2,019  0.2
Asset-backed securities reclassified  1,938 – – 131 – 2,069  0.2
Total gross loans and advances to  
customers at 31 December 2014 (A)  414,157 364,311 30,450 132,427 45,652 986,997  100.0 
Percentage of A by geographical region    42.0% 36.9% 3.1% 13.4% 4.6%   100.0%   –
   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
133 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
 
 Europe  Asia
4
 MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin
 America   Total  
 As a %
 of total
 gross 
   US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   loans
Personal  192,107 124,529 6,484 72,690 14,918 410,728  40.8
– first lien residential mortgages
6
 140,474 92,047 2,451 60,955 3,948 299,875  29.8
– other personal
7
 51,63332,4824,03311,73510,970 110,853  11.0
Corporate and commercial  239,116 203,894 19,760 50,307 30,188 543,265  53.9
– manufacturing  55,920 30,758 3,180 11,778 12,214 113,850  11.3
– international trade and services  76,700 79,368 8,629 11,676 8,295 184,668  18.3
– commercial real estate  31,326 34,560 639 5,900 2,421 74,846  7.4
– other property-related  7,308 27,147 1,333 8,716 328 44,832  4.5
– government  3,340 1,021 1,443 499 974 7,277  0.7
– other commercial
8
 64,52231,0404,53611,7385,956 117,792  11.7
Financial  27,872 9,688 2,532 9,055 1,376 50,523  5.0
– non-bank financial institutions  26,314 9,359 2,532 9,055 1,277 48,537  4.8
– settlement accounts  1,558 329 – – 99 1,986  0.2
Asset-backed securities reclassified  2,578 – – 138 – 2,716  0.3
Total gross loans and advances to 
customers at 31 December 2013 (B)  461,673 338,111 28,776 132,190 46,482 1,007,232  100.0 
Percentage of B by geographical region    45.8% 33.6% 2.9% 13.1% 4.6%   100.0%   
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Credit quality of financial instruments 
(Audited) 
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding 
the credit quality of financial instruments is provided in the 
Appendix to Risk on page 207. 
We assess credit quality on all financial instruments 
which are subject to credit risk. 
The five classifications describing the credit quality of 
our lending, debt securities portfolios and derivatives 
are defined on page 207 (unaudited). Additional credit 
quality information in respect of our consolidated 
holdings of ABSs is provided on page 162. 
For the purpose of the following disclosure, retail loans 
which are past due up to 90 days and are not otherwise 
classified as impaired in accordance with our disclosure 
convention are not disclosed within the expected loss 
(‘EL’) grade to which they relate, but are separately 
classified as past due but not impaired. 
The overall credit quality of assets remained stable 
with ‘Strong’ and ‘Good’ categories making up 84% of 
the portfolio, ‘Satisfactory’ 13%, ‘Sub-standard’ and ‘Past 
due but not impaired’ 2% and ‘Impaired’ 1%.
 
   Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
134 
Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality 
(Audited) 
 Neither past due nor impaired Past due
 but not
impaired
 Total 
 gross 
amount 
 
Impairment 
 allowances
9
 
 
Total Strong 
 
 Good Satisfactory
Sub-
standard Impaired
  
  
 US$m   US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m  US$m
Cash and balances at central 
banks  127,971  1,438 195 353 129,957    129,957
Items in the course of collection 
from other banks 4,515  46 365 1 4,927    4,927
Hong Kong Government 
certificates of indebtedness  27,674  – – – 27,674    27,674
Trading assets
10
  168,521  35,042 24,740 641 228,944    228,944
– treasury and other eligible 
bills  13,938  1,641 559 32 16,170    16,170
– debt securities  111,138  17,786 12,305 303 141,532    141,532
– loans and advances:        
to banks  17,492  4,961 5,016 112 27,581    27,581
to customers  25,953  10,654 6,860 194 43,661    43,661
Financial assets designated at fair 
value
10
  3,017  4,476 1,207 331 9,031    9,031
– treasury and other eligible 
bills  5  – – 51 56    56
– debt securities  3,011  4,476 1,124 280 8,891    8,891
– loans and advances:        
to banks  1  – 83 – 84    84
to customers  –  – – – –    –
Derivatives
10
  269,490  58,596 15,962 960 345,008    345,008
Loans and advances to customers 
held at amortised cost
11
  487,734  239,136 196,685 20,802 13,357 29,283 986,997  (12,337)  974,660
– personal  320,678  32,601 15,109 1,130 8,876 15,160 393,554  (4,600)  388,954
– corporate and commercial 141,375  192,799 171,748 18,986 3,922 13,795 542,625  (7,441)  535,184
– financial (non-bank  
financial institutions)  25,681  13,736 9,828 686 559 328 50,818  (296)  50,522
Loans and advances to banks 
held  
at amortised cost  83,766  19,525 7,945 914 1 47 112,198  (49)  112,149
Reverse repurchase agreements 
– non-trading 98,470  28,367 33,283 1,593 – – 161,713  –  161,713
Financial investments  347,218  27,373 22,600 5,304 – 2,278 404,773    404,773
– treasury and other similar 
bills  68,966  6,294 4,431 1,826 – – 81,517    81,517
– debt securities  278,252  21,079 18,169 3,478 – 2,278 323,256    323,256
Other assets  13,015  7,564 12,976 631 210 884 35,280  (16)  35,264
– assets held for sale  802  43 79 – 2 465 1,391  (16)  1,375
– endorsements and 
acceptances  1,507  4,644 4,281 298 34 11 10,775    10,775
– accrued income and other 10,706  2,877 8,616 333 174 408 23,114    23,114
At 31 December 2014 1,631,391  421,563 315,958 31,530 13,568 32,492 2,446,502  (12,402)  2,434,100
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
135 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 Neither past due nor impaired Past due Total 
gross 
amount 
  
  Strong 
 
 Good Satisfactory 
Sub-
 standard 
but not
 impaired  Impaired 
 Impairment 
 allowances
9 
 
 
 Total    
 US$m  US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m
Cash and balances at central 
banks  162,017  2,877 265 1,440   166,599    166,599 
Items in the course of collection 
from other banks 5,590  66 286 79   6,021    6,021 
Hong Kong Government 
certificates of indebtedness  25,220  – – –   25,220    25,220 
Trading assets
10
  163,444  39,475 34,868 1,514 239,301    239,301
– treasury and other eligible 
bills  17,235  3,585 758 6   21,584    21,584 
– debt securities  107,831  16,498 16,167 1,148 141,644    141,644
– loans and advances:        
to banks  15,804  5,546 6,342 193 27,885    27,885
to customers  22,574  13,846 11,601 167 48,188    48,188
Financial assets designated at fair 
value
10
  6,608  5,183 671 257   12,719    12,719 
– treasury and other eligible 
bills  50  – – –   50    50 
– debt securities  6,490  5,179 664 256 12,589    12,589
– loans and advances:       
to banks  68  – 7 1 76    76
to customers  –  4 – – 4    4
Derivatives
10
  220,711  47,004 13,425 1,125   282,265    282,265 
Loans and advances to customers 
held at amortised cost
11
  488,504  243,077 199,821 23,942 15,460 36,428 1,007,232  (15,143)  992,089 
– personal  326,269  39,024 14,882 1,580 10,175 18,798 410,728  (6,602)  404,126
– corporate and commercial 132,943  194,966 174,905 21,281 5,009 16,877 545,981  (8,059)  537,922
– financial (non-bank  
financial institutions)  29,292  9,087 10,034 1,081 276 753 50,523  (482)  50,041 
Loans and advances to banks 
held  
at amortised cost  91,498  21,131 6,266 1,123 11 75 120,104  (58)  120,046 
Reverse repurchase agreements 
– non-trading 111,543  37,878 28,265 2,004 – – 179,690  –  179,690 
Financial investments  362,799  27,833 17,556 6,089 – 2,508 416,785    416,785
– treasury and other similar 
bills  69,364  5,595 1,856 1,296 – – 78,111    78,111 
– debt securities  293,435  22,238 15,700 4,793 – 2,508 338,674    338,674
Other assets  12,501  8,028 14,848 1,159 307 592 37,435  (111)  37,324
– assets held for sale 1,129  642 1,050 351 89 156 3,417  (111)  3,306
– endorsements and 
acceptances  1,976  4,824 4,562 225 19 18 11,624    11,624 
– accrued income and other 9,396  2,562 9,236 583 199 418 22,394    22,394
At 31 December 2013 1,650,435  432,552 316,271 38,732 15,778 39,603 2,493,371  (15,312)  2,478,059
For footnotes, see page 202.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
136 
Past due but not impaired gross financial 
instruments 
(Audited) 
Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments are 
those loans where, although customers have failed to 
make payments in accordance with the contractual terms 
of their facilities, they have not met the impaired loan 
criteria described on page 137.  
Overall, past due but not impaired balances decreased by 
US$2.2bn, mainly due to continued run-off and loan sales 
in the CML portfolio. 
 
Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments by geographical region 
(Audited) 
 
 
 Europe  Asia
4
 MENA 
North 
 America  
 Latin
 America  Total 
   US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
Loans and advances to customers held at  
amortised cost 2,409 4,260 704 4,634 1,350 13,357 
– personal   1,159 2,880 182 3,759 896 8,876
– corporate and commercial  1,244 1,102 508 623 445 3,922
– financial (non-bank financial institutions)   6 278 14 252 9 559
Other financial instruments 6 52 31 97 25 211
At 31 December 2014 2,415 4,312 735 4,731 1,375 13,568
   
Loans and advances to customers held at  
amortised cost 2,399 4,211 757 6,453 1,640 15,460 
– personal   1,287 2,764 174 4,817 1,133 10,175
– corporate and commercial  1,092 1,197 580 1,635 505 5,009
– financial (non-bank financial institutions)   20 250 3 1 2 276
Other financial instruments 45 49 50 101 73 318
At 31 December 2013 2,444 4,260 807 6,554 1,713 15,778
For footnote, see page 202. 
Ageing analysis of days for past due but not impaired gross financial instruments 
(Audited) 
 Up to 29
days 
30-59
days 
60-89
days 
90-179 
 days  
180 days 
and over  Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m
Loans and advances to customers held at amortised cost 10,427 2,057 801 54  18  13,357
– personal  6,477 1,717 676 5  1  8,876
– corporate and commercial 3,417 328 114 48  15  3,922
– financial (non-bank financial institutions)  533 12 11 1  2  559
Other financial instruments 130 33 18 12  18  211
At 31 December 2014 10,557 2,090 819 66  36  13,568
     
Loans and advances to customers held at amortised cost 11,689 2,587 1,057 76  51  15,460
– personal  7,170 2,124 865 16  –  10,175
– corporate and commercial 4,290 418 190 60  51  5,009
– financial (non-bank financial institutions) 229 45 2 –  –  276
Other financial instruments 214 55 26 12  11  318
At 31 December 2013 11,903 2,642 1,083 88  62  15,778
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
137 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Impaired loans 
(Audited) 
Impaired loans and advances are those that meet any of 
the following criteria: 
• wholesale loans and advances classified as Customer 
Risk Rating (‘CRR’) 9 or CRR 10. These grades are 
assigned when the bank considers that either the 
customer is unlikely to pay their credit obligations 
in full, without recourse to security, or when the 
customer is more than 90 days past due on any 
material credit obligation to HSBC. 
• retail loans and advances classified as Expected Loss 
(‘EL’) 9 or EL 10. These grades are typically assigned to 
retail loans and advances more than 90 days past due 
unless individually they have been assessed as not 
impaired. 
• renegotiated loans and advances that have been 
subject to a change in contractual cash flows as a 
result of a concession which the lender would not 
otherwise consider, and where it is probable that 
without the concession the borrower would be 
unable to meet the contractual payment obligations 
in full, unless the concession is insignificant and there 
are no other indicators of impairment. Renegotiated 
loans remain classified as impaired until there is 
sufficient evidence to demonstrate a significant 
reduction in the risk of non-payment of future 
cash flows, and there are no other indicators of 
impairment.  
For loans that are assessed for impairment on a 
collective basis, the evidence to support reclassification 
as no longer impaired typically comprises a history of 
payment performance against the original or revised 
terms, depending on the nature and volume of 
renegotiation and the credit risk characteristics 
surrounding the renegotiation. For loans that are 
assessed for impairment on an individual basis, all 
available evidence is assessed on a case-by-case basis. 
For further details of the CRR and the EL scales see page 207. 
 
Movement in impaired loans by geographical region 
(Unaudited) 
 
 
Europe Asia
4
MENA 
North
America  
Latin 
America  Total 
  US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m
Impaired loans at 1 January 2014 13,228 1,623 2,285 15,123  4,244  36,503
– personal   2,938 526 317 13,669  1,348  18,798
– corporate and commercial  9,714 1,082 1,765 1,427  2,889  16,877
– financial
5 
  576 15 203 27  7  828
Classified as impaired during the year  3,367 1,970 346 4,724  3,342  13,749
– personal   1,168 857 193 4,360  1,958  8,536
– corporate and commercial  2,166 1,113 153 354  1,383  5,169
– financial
5 
  33 – – 10  1  44
Transferred from impaired to unimpaired during  
the year  (1,661) (230) (320) (2,609)  (730)  (5,550)
– personal   (282) (184) (178) (2,551)  (364)  (3,559)
– corporate and commercial  (1,319) (46) (53) (57)  (366)  (1,841)
– financial
5
  (60) – (89) (1)  –  (150)
Amounts written off (2,037) (617) (111) (1,369)  (2,048)  (6,182)
– personal   (631) (470) (77) (1,007)  (1,371)  (3,556)
– corporate and commercial  (1,201) (147) (29) (356)  (673)  (2,406)
– financial
5 
  (205) – (5) (6)  (4)  (220)
Net repayments and other (2,655) (698) (219) (4,175)  (1,443)  (9,190)
– personal   (649) (238) (13) (3,645)  (514)  (5,059)
– corporate and commercial  (1,975) (457) (140) (506)  (926)  (4,004)
– financial
5 
  (31) (3) (66) (24)  (3)  (127)
Impaired loans at 31 December 2014  10,242 2,048 1,981 11,694  3,365  29,330
– personal   2,544 491 242 10,826  1,057  15,160
– corporate and commercial  7,385 1,545 1,696 862  2,307  13,795
– financial
5
  313 12 43 6  1  375
Impaired loans as a percentage of gross loans 2.3% 0.5% 4.8% 8.4%  6.1%  2.7%
– personal  1.4% 0.4% 3.7% 16.6%  7.8%  3.9%
– corporate and commercial 3.5% 0.7% 8.2% 1.5%  7.5%  2.5%
– financial
5
 0.7% 0.0% 0.3% 0.0%  0.0%  0.2%
  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
138 
 
 
Europe Asia
4
MENA 
North
America  
Latin 
America  Total 
  US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m
Impaired loans at 1 January 2013 11,145 1,624 2,474 20,345   3,188   38,776 
– personal   2,466 611 368 18,726   1,580   23,751 
– corporate and commercial  8,058 967 1,872 1,592   1,604   14,093 
– financial
5
  621 46 234 27   4   932 
Classified as impaired during the year  4,952 1,424 419 6,168  4,333  17,296
– personal   1,176 798 107 5,319  1,872  9,272
– corporate and commercial  3,726 623 306 837  2,453  7,945
– financial
5 
  50 3 6 12  8  79
Transferred from impaired to unimpaired during  
the year  (1,215) (145) (166) (3,198)  (642)  (5,366)
– personal   (265) (137) (68) (3,172)  (266)  (3,908)
– corporate and commercial  (804) (8) (85) (24)  (375)  (1,296)
– financial
5 
  (146) – (13) (2)  (1)  (162)
Amounts written off (1,411) (538) (165) (1,706)  (1,957)  (5,777)
– personal   (423) (444) (79) (1,433)  (1,456)  (3,835)
– corporate and commercial  (927) (91) (75) (270)  (499)  (1,862)
– financial
5 
  (61) (3) (11) (3)  (2)  (80)
Net repayments and other (243) (742) (277) (6,486)  (678)  (8,426)
– personal   (16) (302) (11) (5,771)  (382)  (6,482)
– corporate and commercial  (339) (409) (253) (708)  (294)  (2,003)
– financial
5 
  112 (31) (13) (7)  (2) 59
Impaired loans at 31 December 2013  13,228 1,623 2,285 15,123 4,244 36,503
– personal   2,938 526 317 13,669 1,348 18,798
– corporate and commercial  9,714 1,082 1,765 1,427 2,889 16,877
– financial
5 
  576 15 203 27 7 828
Impaired loans as a percentage of gross loans 2.7% 0.4% 6.5% 10.9%   7.5%   3.2%
– personal  1.5% 0.4% 4.9% 18.8%   9.0%   4.6%
– corporate and commercial 4.0% 0.5% 8.9% 2.8%   9.6%   3.1%
– financial
5 
 1.1% 0.0% 2.3% 0.2%   0.1%   0.5%
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Impaired loans decreased by US$7.2bn during the year. 
Personal impaired loans declined mainly due to the 
continued run off and loan sales in the CML portfolio in 
North America. In personal lending, ‘Net repayments 
and other’ includes US$2.9bn of CML portfolio assets 
that were reclassified as held for sale and also sold 
during the year. 
Impaired loans in wholesale lending declined mainly in 
Europe and, to a lesser extent, in North America and 
Latin America due to repayments and a reduction in 
new impaired loans which reflected improvements in 
the economic conditions in these markets. These 
decreases were offset by an increase in Asia.  
Renegotiated loans and forbearance 
(Audited) 
Current policies and procedures regarding renegotiated loans 
and forbearance are described in the Appendix to Risk on 
page 208. 
The contractual terms of a loan may be modified for 
a number of reasons, including changes in market 
conditions, customer retention and other factors not 
related to the current or potential credit deterioration 
of a customer. ‘Forbearance’ describes concessions 
made on the contractual terms of a loan in response to 
an obligor’s financial difficulties. We classify and report 
loans on which concessions have been granted under 
conditions of credit distress as ‘renegotiated loans’ 
when their contractual payment terms have been 
modified, because we have significant concerns about 
the borrowers’ ability to meet contractual payments 
when due. On renegotiation, where the existing 
agreement is cancelled and a new agreement is made 
on substantially different terms, or if the terms of an 
existing agreement are modified such that the 
renegotiated loan is substantially a different financial 
instrument, the loan would be derecognised and 
recognised as a new loan for accounting purposes. 
However, the newly recognised financial asset will 
retain the renegotiated loan classification. Concessions 
on loans made to customers which do not affect the 
payment structure or basis of repayment, such as 
waivers of financial or security covenants, do not 
directly provide concessionary relief to customers in 
terms of their ability to service obligations as they fall 
due and are therefore not included in this 
classification. 
The most significant portfolio of renegotiated loans 
remained in North America, substantially all of which 
were retail loans held by HSBC Finance. 
The following tables show the gross carrying amounts 
of the Group’s holdings of renegotiated loans and 
advances to customers by industry sector, geography 
and credit quality classification. 
 
    
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
139 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Renegotiated loans and advances to customers by geographical region 
(Audited) 
 
 
 Europe  Asia
4
 MENA 
North 
 America  
 Latin
 America  Total 
  US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
First lien residential mortgages 1,605 94 58 13,540 60 15,357
– neither past due nor impaired  529 63 19 3,695 32  4,338
– past due but not impaired   221 8 1 1,894 5  2,129
– impaired   855 23 38 7,951 23  8,890
Other personal lending
7
 324 292 27 1,267 326 2,236
– neither past due nor impaired  184 173 16 453 14  840
– past due but not impaired   40 22 5 214 1  282
– impaired   100 97 6 600 311  1,114
Corporate and commercial 5,469 501 1,439 427 1,324 9,160
– neither past due nor impaired  1,383 102 483 36 303  2,307
– past due but not impaired  68 – 31 1 1  101
– impaired   4,018 399 925 390 1,020  6,752
Financial
5
 413 4 323 1 1 742
– neither past due nor impaired  219 – 305 – –  524
– past due but not impaired  – – – – –  –
– impaired  194 4 18 1 1  218
Renegotiated loans at 31 December 2014  7,811 891 1,847 15,235 1,711 27,495
– neither past due nor impaired  2,315 338 823 4,184 349  8,009
– past due but not impaired  329 30 37 2,109 7  2,512
– impaired   5,167 523 987 8,942 1,355  16,974
Impairment allowances on renegotiated loans 1,458 170 458 1,499 704 4,289
– renegotiated loans as % of total gross loans  1.9% 0.2% 6.1% 11.5%   3.7%   2.8%
       
First lien residential mortgages 1,820 117 91 16,853 76 18,957
– neither past due nor impaired  392 78 47 4,332 32  4,881
– past due but not impaired   517 11 3 2,684 4  3,219
– impaired   911 28 41 9,837 40  10,857
Other personal lending
7
  431 318 58 1,27 7 531 2,61 5
– neither past due nor impaired  253 207 33 503 18  1,014
– past due but not impaired   39 24 17 284 2  366
– impaired   139 87 8 490 511  1,235
Corporate and commercial 7,270 330 1,583 658 2,161 12,002
– neither past due nor impaired  1,796 134 677 47 493  3,147
– past due but not impaired   193 4 126 34 5  362
– impaired   5,281 192 780 577 1,663  8,493
Financial
5
 23523621 1 601
– neither past due nor impaired  93 – 265 – –  358
– past due but not impaired   – – – – –  –
– impaired   142 2 97 1 1  243
Renegotiated loans at 31 December 2013 9,756 767 2,094 18,789 2,769 34,175
– neither past due nor impaired  2,534 419 1,022 4,882 543  9,400
– past due but not impaired   749 39 146 3,002 11  3,947
– impaired   6,473 309 926 10,905 2,215  20,828
Impairment allowances on renegotiated loans 1,867 101 460 2,285 1,014 5,727
– renegotiated loans as % of total gross loans  2.1% 0.2% 7.3% 14.2%   6.0%   3.4%
For footnotes, see page 202. 
The following table shows movements in renegotiated 
loans during the year. Renegotiated loans reduced by 
US$6.7bn to US$27bn in 2014. Renegotiated loans in 
personal lending reduced by US$4bn. Included within 
‘other’ movements is US$1.9bn of CML portfolio assets 
that were transferred to held for sale. New renegotiated 
loans and write-offs reduced as a result of improvements 
in the US housing market and economic conditions. 
Renegotiated loans in wholesale lending decreased by 
US$2.7bn. The reductions were mainly concentrated in 
Europe and Latin America and were the result of 
increased write-offs and repayments.
   Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
140 
Movement in renegotiated loans by geographical region 
(Unaudited) 
 
 
 Europe Asia
4
MENA
North
America  
 Latin
 America   Total
   US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
Renegotiated loans at 1 January 2014  9,756 767 2,094 18,789  2,769  34,175 
– personal   2,251 435 149 18,130  607  21,572 
– corporate and commercial  7,270 330 1,583 658  2,161  12,002 
– financial   235 2 362 1  1  601 
Loans renegotiated in the year without 
derecognition 1,543 371 296 862  725  3,797 
– personal   433 83 10 774  310  1,610 
– corporate and commercial  939 288 286 78  415  2,006 
– financial   171 – – 10  –  181 
Loans renegotiated in the year resulting in 
recognition of a new loan 500 5 79 –  92  676 
– personal   69 2 – –  28  99 
– corporate and commercial  381 – 61 –  64  506 
– financial   50 3 18 –  –  71 
Repayments  (2,416) (246) (562) (1,518) (1,036) (5,778)
– personal   (635) (96) (47) (1,319) (288) (2,385)
– corporate and commercial  (1,757) (149) (445) (189) (747) (3,287)
– financial   (24) (1) (70) (10) (1) (106)
Amounts written off  (828) (42) (23) (640) (510) (2,043)
– personal   (88) (28) (7) (568) (223) (914)
– corporate and commercial  (740) (14) (16) (72) (286) (1,128)
– financial   – – – –  (1) (1)
Other  (744) 36 (37) (2,258) (329) (3,332)
– personal   (101) (10) (20) (2,210) (48) (2,389)
– corporate and commercial  (624) 46 (30) (48) (283) (939)
– financial   (19) – 13 –  2  (4)
At 31 December 2014  7,811 891 1,847 15,235  1,711  27,495 
– personal   1,929 386 85 14,807  386  17,593 
– corporate and commercial  5,469 501 1,439 427  1,324  9,160 
– financial   413 4 323 1  1  742 
       
Renegotiated loans at 1 January 2013  9,974 944 2,389 26,162 2,758 42,227
– personal   2,817 493 190 25,474 781 29,755
– corporate and commercial  6,829 447 1,859 685 1,975 11,795
– financial   328 4 340 3 2 677
Loans renegotiated in the year without 
derecognition 2,807 49 101 1,727 1,311 5,995
– personal   264 8 16 1,335 507 2,130
– corporate and commercial  2,541 41 85 391 803 3,861
– financial   2 – – 1 1 4
Loans renegotiated in the year resulting in 
recognition of a new loan 105 113 14 – 62 294
– personal   17 76 14 – 25 132
– corporate and commercial  88 37 – – 37 162
– financial   – – – – – –
Repayments  (2,139) (233) (541) (1,759) (707) (5,379)
– personal   (489) (111) (64) (1,387) (353) (2,404)
– corporate and commercial  (1,574) (121) (477) (370) (354) (2,896)
– financial   (76) (1) – (2) – (79)
Amounts written off  (426) (25) (38) (1,035) (409) (1,933)
– personal   (99) (20) (9) (995) (233) (1,356)
– corporate and commercial  (303) (5) (29) (40) (175) (552)
– financial  (24) – – – (1) (25)
Other  (565) (81) 169 (6,306) (246) (7,029)
– personal   (259) (11) 2 (6,297) (120) (6,685)
– corporate and commercial  (311) (69) 145 (8) (125) (368)
– financial  5 (1) 22 (1) (1) 24
At 31 December 2013 9,756 767 2,094 18,789 2,769 34,175
– personal   2,251 435 149 18,130 607 21,572
– corporate and commercial  7,270 330 1,583 658 2,161 12,002
– financial   235 2 362 1 1 601
For footnote, see page 202. 
   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
141 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Impairment of loans and advances 
(Audited) 
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding 
impairment assessment is provided in the Appendix to Risk 
on page 212. For an analysis of loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions by global business, see page 76. 
The tables below analyse the impairment allowances 
recognised for impaired loans and advances that are 
either individually or collectively assessed, and collective 
impairment allowances on loans and advances that are 
classified as not impaired. 
Loan impairment charge to the income statement by industry sector  
(Unaudited) 
 
 
 Europe  Asia
4
 MENA 
North
 America  
 Latin
 America   Total 
   US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
Personal 245 321 25 117 1,095 1,803
– first lien residential mortgages  (75) 6 (24) 26 15 (52)
– other personal
7
  320 315 49 91 1,080 1,855
Corporate and commercial 790 327 6 196 937 2,256
– manufacturing and international trade and 
services 
 
520 197 36 116 382 1,251 
– commercial real estate and other property-
related 
 
78 29 (28) 27 176 282 
– other commercial
8
  192 101 (2) 53 379 723
Financial
5
 44 (4) (32) (13) 1 (4)
Total loan impairment charge for the year ended 
31 December 2014 1,079 644 (1) 300 2,033 4,055 
       
Personal 32034546963 1,522 3,196
– first lien residential mortgages  (11) (7) (13) 647 11 627
– other personal
7
  33135259316 1,511 2,569
Corporate and commercial 1,467 152 (13) 253 1,115 2,974
– manufacturing and international trade and 
services 
 
800 134 37 125 594 1,690 
– commercial real estate and other property-
related 
 
432 (2) (5) 79 322 826 
– other commercial
8
  23520(45)49 199 458
Financial
5
 (55)(14)(77)19 5 (122)
Total loan impairment charge for the year ended 
31 December 2013 1,732 483 (44) 1,235 2,642 6,048 
 
Loan impairment charge to the income statement by assessment type 
(Unaudited) 
 
 
 Europe  Asia
4
 MENA 
North
 America  
 Latin
 America   Total 
   US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
Individually assessed impairment allowances  617 351 32 190 590 1,780
– new allowances   1,112 542 134 298 738 2,824
– release of allowances no longer required   (486) (171) (95) (88) (90) (930)
– recoveries of amounts previously written off    (9) (20) (7) (20) (58) (114)
Collectively assessed impairment allowances
12
  462 293 (33) 110 1,443 2,275
– new allowances net of allowance releases   757 426 2 205 1,726 3,116
– recoveries of amounts previously written off    (295) (133) (35) (95) (283) (841)
Total loan impairment charge for the year ended 
31 December 2014 1,079 644 (1) 300 2,033 4,055 
       
Individually assessed impairment allowances  1,376 145 (86) 262 623 2,320
– new allowances   1,828 316 196 398 702 3,440
– release of allowances no longer required   (402) (145) (235) (98) (31) (911)
– recoveries of amounts previously written off    (50) (26) (47) (38) (48) (209)
Collectively assessed impairment allowances
12
 356 338 42 973 2,019 3,728
– new allowances net of allowance releases   943 479 82 1,058 2,253 4,815
– recoveries of amounts previously written off    (587) (141) (40) (85) (234) (1,087)
Total loan impairment charge for the year ended 
31 December 2013 1,732 483 (44) 1,235 2,642 6,048 
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Total loan impairment charges of US$4.1bn were 
US$2.0bn lower than in 2013 reflecting reduced 
impairment charges in both the personal lending and 
the corporate and commercial lending portfolios, 
primarily in North America, Europe and Latin America. 
  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
142 
In North America, loan impairment charges relating to 
both first lien mortgages and other personal lending 
decreased, which reflected reduced levels of both 
delinquency and new impaired loans in the CML portfolio, 
and a fall in lending balances from continued run-off and 
loan sales. This was partly offset by lower favourable 
market value adjustments of underlying properties as 
improvements in housing market conditions were less 
pronounced in 2014 than in 2013.  
In Europe, the reduction in loan impairment charges was 
primarily in corporate and commercial lending, as a result 
of lower individually assessed impairment allowances 
reflecting the improved quality of the portfolio and 
economic conditions. Loan impairment charges also 
decreased in personal lending, albeit to a lesser extent, 
due to lower delinquency levels in the improved economic 
environment and as customers continued to reduce 
outstanding credit card and loan balances. These factors 
were partly offset by an increase in collectively assessed 
allowances in the corporate and commercial lending 
sector as we revised certain estimates in our collective 
corporate loan impairment calculation, and in the financial 
industry sector reflecting charges compared with releases 
in 2013. 
In Latin America, the reduction in loan impairment 
charges in the other personal lending and the corporate 
and commercial portfolios primarily reflected the prior 
year adverse effect of changes to the impairment model 
and assumption revisions for restructured loan portfolios 
in Brazil. Individually assessed allowances were broadly 
stable. There were lower loan impairment charges in 
Mexico in the commercial real estate and other property 
related sector, in particular relating to certain 
homebuilders. In Brazil individually assessed allowances 
increased due to an impairment relating to a corporate 
customer in the other commercial sector.
 
Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers by geographical region 
(Unaudited) 
 Europe  Asia
4
  MENA 
North
 America  
 Latin
 America   Total 
 % % % %   %   %
New allowances net of allowance releases  0.37 0.22 0.14 0.32  5.00  0.53
Recoveries  (0.08) (0.04) (0.14) (0.09)   (0.72)   (0.10)
Total charge for impairment losses at 31 December 2014 0.29 0.18 – 0.23   4.28   0.43
Amount written off net of recoveries  0.49 0.13 0.58 0.97   3.59   0.58
New allowances net of allowance releases  0.65 0.20 0.15 1.00   5.93   0.81
Recoveries  (0.17) (0.05) (0.29) (0.09)   (0.57)   (0.14)
Total charge for impairment losses at 31 December 2013 0.48 0.15 (0.14) 0.91   5.36   0.67
Amount written off net of recoveries  0.42 0.12 0.38 1.10   3.69   0.59
For footnote, see page 202. 
Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector and by geographical region 
(Unaudited) 
 Europe  Asia
4
 MENA 
North
 America  
 Latin
 America   Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
Impairment allowances at 1 January 2014  5,598 1,214 1,583 4,242 2,564 15,201
Amounts written off    
Personal  (724) (463) (157) (1,030) (1,359) (3,733)
– first lien residential mortgages  (21) (17) (4) (731) (40) (813)
– other personal
7
 (703) (446) (153) (299) (1,319) (2,920)
Corporate and commercial  (1,202) (146) (47) (346) (684) (2,425)
– manufacturing and international trade and services (732) (86) (41) (81) (428) (1,368)
– commercial real estate and other property-related (342) (53) (6) (153) (39) (593)
– other commercial
8
 (128) (7) – (112) (217) (464)
Financial
5
 (203) – (8) (6) (4) (221)
Total amounts written off (2,129) (609) (212) (1,382) (2,047) (6,379)
Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years    
Personal  271 143 35 86 283 818
– first lien residential mortgages  3 3 – 40 33 79
– other personal
7
 268 140 35 46 250 739
Corporate and commercial  29 9 7 25 58 128
– manufacturing and international trade and services 19 7 7 6 46 85
– commercial real estate and other property-related 11 – – 3 1 15
– other commercial
8
 (1) 2 – 16 11 28
Financial
5
 4 1 – 4 – 9
Total recoveries of amounts written off in previous years 304 153 42 115 341 955
Charge to income statement  1,079 644 (1) 300 2,033 4,055
Exchange and other movements
13
(397) (46) (6) (635) (362) (1,446)
Impairment allowances at 31 December 2014  4,455 1,356 1,406 2,640 2,529 12,386  
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
143 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 Europe  Asia
4
 MENA 
North
 America  
 Latin
 America   Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
Impairment allowances against banks:   
– individually assessed  31 – 18 – – 49
Impairment allowances against customers:   
– individually assessed  2,981 812 1,110 276 1,016 6,195
– collectively assessed
12
 1,443 544 278 2,364 1,513 6,142
Impairment allowances at 31 December 2014  4,455 1,356 1,406 2,640 2,529 12,386
    
Impairment allowances at 1 January 2013  5,361 1,219 1,811 5,616 2,162 16,169
Amounts written off    
Personal  (876) (461) (107) (1,330) (1,593) (4,367)
– first lien residential mortgages  (83) (7) (2) (779) (25) (896)
– other personal
7
 (793)(454)(105)(551) (1,568) (3,471)
Corporate and commercial  (1,264) (96) (78) (277) (514) (2,229)
– manufacturing and international trade and services (680) (73) (64) (80) (386) (1,283)
– commercial real estate and other property-related (289) (7) (2) (141) (23) (462)
– other commercial
8
  (295) (16) (12) (56) (105) (484)
Financial
5
  (40) (3) (10) (3) (3) (59)
Total amounts written off (2,180) (560) (195) (1,610) (2,110) (6,655)
Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years    
Personal  584 153 41 82 237 1,097
– first lien residential mortgages  25 4 – 67 23 119
– other personal
7
  559 149 41 15 214 978
Corporate and commercial  52 14 46 41 45 198
– manufacturing and international trade and services 19 7 2 6 27 61
– commercial real estate and other property-related 6 4 – 18 1 29
– other commercial
8
  27 3 44 17 17 108
Financial
5
 1 – – – – 1
Total recoveries of amounts written off in previous years 637 167 87 123 282 1,296
Charge to income statement  1,732 483 (44) 1,235 2,642 6,048
Exchange and other movements
13
 48(95)(76)(1,122) (412) (1,657)
Impairment allowances at 31 December 2013 5,598 1,214 1,583 4,242 2,564 15,201
Impairment allowances against banks:   
– individually assessed  35 – 18 5 – 58
Impairment allowances against customers:   
– individually assessed  4,019 634 1,131 410 878 7,072
– collectively assessed
12
  1,544 580 434 3,827 1,686 8,071
Impairment allowances at 31 December 2013 5,598 1,214 1,583 4,242 2,564 15,201
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Movement in impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers and banks 
(Audited) 
 Banks Customers  
 individually
 assessed 
Individually 
 assessed 
Collectively 
 assessed   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m   US$m
At 1 January 2014  58 7,072 8,071 15,201
Amounts written off  (6) (2,313) (4,060) (6,379)
Recoveries of loans and advances previously written off – 114 841 955
Charge to income statement  4 1,776 2,275 4,055
Exchange and other movements
13
 (7) (454) (985) (1,446)
At 31 December 2014  49 6,195 6,142 12,386
Impairment allowances:  
on loans and advances to customers  6,195 6,142 12,337
– personal  468 4,132 4,600
– corporate and commercial 5,532 1,909 7,441
– financial  195 101 296
as a percentage of loans and advances
1
  0.04% 0.63% 0.62%   1.13%
  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
144 
 Banks Customers  
 individually
 assessed 
Individually 
 assessed 
Collectively 
 assessed   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m   US$m
At 1 January 2013  57 6,572 9,540 16,169
Amounts written off  (4) (1,937) (4,714) (6,655)
Recoveries of loans and advances previously written off – 209 1,087 1,296
Charge to income statement  5 2,315 3,728 6,048
Exchange and other movements
13
 – (87) (1,570) (1,657)
At 31 December 2013  58 7,072 8,071 15,201
Impairment allowances:  
on loans and advances to customers  7,072 8,071 15,143
– personal  589 6,013 6,602
– corporate and commercial 6,096 1,963 8,059
– financial  387 95 482
as a percentage of loans and advances
1 
 0.05%0.70%0.80%   1.35%
For footnotes, see page 202.
Wholesale lending 
On a reported basis gross loans decreased by US$11bn, 
which included adverse foreign exchange movements of 
US$32bn, mainly in Europe.  
The following commentary is on a constant currency 
basis. 
Wholesale lending grew by US$21bn in the year. In Asia, 
balances grew by US$16bn as we continued to leverage 
our position in emerging markets. In North America, we 
also experienced strong growth of US$10bn as we 
executed our strategy of expanding our core offerings 
and proactively targeting companies with international 
banking requirements in key growth markets. The fall in 
lending in Europe of US$15bn was mainly driven by 
a reduction in corporate overdraft balances. In the UK, 
a small number of clients benefited from the use of net 
interest arrangements across their overdraft and deposit 
positions. During the year, as we aligned our approach 
in our Payments and Cash Management business to be 
more globally consistent, many of these clients increased 
the frequency with which they settled these balances, 
reducing their overdraft and deposit balances, which fell 
by US$28bn. The Middle East and North Africa and Latin 
America grew by US$6bn and US$4bn, respectively. 
 
Total wholesale lending 
(Unaudited) 
  
 Europe  Asia
4
 MENA 
North 
 America  
 Latin
 America   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Corporate and commercial (A)  210,585 220,799 20,588 57,862 30,722 540,556
– manufacturing  39,456 37,767 2,413 15,299 12,051 106,986
– international trade and services  76,629 72,814 9,675 13,484 8,189 180,791
– commercial real estate  28,187 35,678 579 6,558 2,291 73,293
– other property-related  7,126 34,379 1,667 8,934 281 52,387
– government  2,264 1,195 1,552 164 968 6,143
– other commercial
8
 56,923 38,966 4,702 13,423 6,942 120,956
Financial (non-bank financial institutions) (B)  23,103 13,997 3,291 9,034 1,393 50,818
Asset-backed securities reclassified 1,938 – – 131 – 2,069
Loans and advances to banks (C) 21,978 62,960 10,495 7,405 9,360 112,198
Gross loans at 31 December 2014 (D)  257,604 297,756 34,374 74,432 41,475 705,641
Impairment allowances on wholesale lending   
Corporate and commercial (a) 3,112 1,089 1,171 608 1,461 7,441
– manufacturing  529 242 141 152 348 1,412
– international trade and services  877 533 536 157 237 2,340
– commercial real estate  909 44 147 101 476 1,677
– other property-related  203 55 219 57 12 546
– government  4 – 1 – – 5
– other commercial  590 215 127 141 388 1,461
Financial (non-bank financial institutions) (b)  221 13 21 39 2 296
Loans and advances to banks (c)  31 – 18 – – 49
Impairment allowances at 31 December 2014 (d)  3,364 1,102 1,210 647 1,463 7,786
(a) as a percentage of (A)    1.48% 0.49% 5.69% 1.05%   4.76%   1.38%
(b) as a percentage of (B)    0.96% 0.09% 0.64% 0.43%   0.14%   0.58%
(c) as a percentage of (C)    0.14% – 0.17% – –   0.04%
(d) as a percentage of (D)    1.31% 0.37% 3.52% 0.87%   3.53%   1.10%
   
 
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
145 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
  
 Europe  Asia
4
 MENA 
North 
 America  
 Latin
 America   Total 
 US$mUS$mUS$mUS$m US$m US$m
Corporate and commercial (I)  239,116 203,894 19,760 50,307 30,188 543,265
– manufacturing  55,920 30,758 3,180 11,778 12,214 113,850
– international trade and services  76,700 79,368 8,629 11,676 8,295 184,668
– commercial real estate  31,326 34,560 639 5,900 2,421 74,846
– other property-related  7,308 27,147 1,333 8,716 328 44,832
– government  3,340 1,021 1,443 499 974 7,277
– other commercial
8
 64,52231,0404,53611,738 5,956 117,792
Financial (non-bank financial institutions) (J)  27,872 9,688 2,532 9,055 1,376 50,523
Asset-backed securities reclassified  2,578 – – 138 – 2,716
Loans and advances to banks (K) 24,273 72,814 6,419 6,420 10,178 120,104
Gross loans at 31 December 2013 (L)  293,839 286,396 28,711 65,920 41,742 716,608
Impairment allowances on wholesale lending   
Corporate and commercial (i) 3,821 918 1,212 769 1,339 8,059
– manufacturing  618 246 182 89 384 1,519
– international trade and services  1,216 428 502 188 349 2,683
– commercial real estate  1,116 22 153 202 396 1,889
– other property-related  269 102 236 93 8 708
– government  3 – 10 1 – 14
– other commercial  599 120 129 196 202 1,246
Financial (non-bank financial institutions) (j)  344 17 60 50 11 482
Loans and advances to banks (k)  35 – 18 5 – 58
Impairment allowances at 31 December 2013 (l)  4,200 935 1,290 824 1,350 8,599
(i) as a percentage of (I)    1.60% 0.45% 6.13% 1.53%   4.44%   1.48%
(j) as a percentage of (J)    1.23% 0.18% 2.37% 0.55%   0.80%   0.95%
(k) as a percentage of (K)    0.14% – 0.28% 0.08%   –   0.05%
(l) as a percentage of (L)    1.43% 0.33% 4.49% 1.25%   3.23%   1.20%
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Commercial real estate 
Commercial real estate lending 
(Unaudited) 
 Europe  Asia
4
 MENA 
North
 America  
 Latin
 America   Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
Neither past due nor impaired 25,860 35,430 333 6,136 1,535 69,294
Past due but not impaired 18 170 47 100 28 363
Impaired loans 2,309 78 199 322 728 3,636
Total gross loans and advances at 31 December 2014 28,187 35,678 579 6,558 2,291 73,293
Of which:   
– renegotiated loans
14
 1,954 19 183 191 377 2,724
909
Impairment allowances 909 44 147 101 476 1,677
   
Neither past due nor impaired 28,044 34,433 402 5,400 2,249 70,528
Past due but not impaired 95 103 18 29 35 280
Impaired loans 3,187 24 219 471 137 4,038
Total gross loans and advances at 31 December 2013 31,326 34,560 639 5,900 2,421 74,846
Of which:     
– renegotiated loans
14
 2,590 20 229 280  461  3,580
Impairment allowances 1,116 22 153 202  396  1,889
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Commercial real estate lending includes the financing of 
corporate, institutional and high net worth individuals 
who are investing primarily in income producing assets 
and, to a lesser extent, in their construction and 
development. The business focuses mainly on traditional 
core asset classes such as retail, offices, light industrial 
and residential building projects. The portfolio is globally 
diversified with larger concentrations in Hong Kong, the 
UK, the US and Canada. 
In more developed markets, our exposure mainly 
comprises the financing of investment assets, the 
redevelopment of existing stock and the augmentation 
of both commercial and residential markets to support 
economic and population growth. In lesser developed 
commercial real estate markets our exposures comprise 
lending for development assets on relatively short tenors 
with a particular focus on supporting the larger, better 
capitalised developers involved in residential construction 
or in assets supporting economic expansion.  
Many of these markets are beginning to move away from 
the rapid construction of recent years with an increasing 
focus on investment assets consistent with more  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
146 
developed markets. A significant amount of exposure is 
centred on cities which are key locations of economic, 
political or cultural importance.  
Total commercial real estate was US$73bn at 
31 December 2014, a reduction of US$1.6bn which 
included adverse foreign exchange movements of 
US$3.3bn, mainly in Europe. 
Refinance risk in commercial real estate 
Commercial real estate lending tends to require the 
repayment of a significant proportion of the principal at 
maturity. Typically, a customer will arrange repayment 
through the acquisition of a new loan to settle the 
existing debt. Refinance risk is the risk that a customer, 
being unable to repay the debt on maturity, fails 
to refinance it at commercial rates. Refinance risk 
is described in more detail on page 214. We monitor 
our commercial real estate portfolio closely, assessing 
those drivers that may indicate potential issues with 
refinancing. The principal driver is the vintage of the 
loan, when origination reflected previous market norms 
which do not apply in the current market. Examples 
might be higher LTV ratios and/or lower interest cover 
ratios. The range of refinancing sources in the local 
market is also an important consideration, with risk 
increasing when lenders are restricted to banks and 
when bank liquidity is limited. In addition, underlying 
fundamentals such as the reliability of tenants, the 
ability to let and the condition of the property are 
important, as they influence property values. 
For the Group’s commercial real estate portfolios as a 
whole, the behaviour of markets and the quality of 
assets did not cause undue concern in 2014. In the UK, 
which was subject to heightened concerns in recent 
years, the drivers described above are not currently 
causing sufficient concern to warrant enhanced 
management attention. 
Further details on our UK portfolio are as follows: at 
31 December 2014, we had US$20bn (2013: US$22bn) 
of commercial real estate loans of which US$5.9bn 
(2013: US$6.8bn) were due to be refinanced within the 
next 12 months. Of these balances, cases subject to close 
monitoring in our Loan Management Unit amounted to 
US$2.1bn (2013: US$2.4bn). US$1.3bn (2013: US$1.6bn) 
were disclosed as impaired with impairment allowances 
of US$0.6bn (2013: US$0.6bn). Where these loans are 
not considered impaired it is because there is sufficient 
evidence to indicate that the associated contractual cash 
flows will be recovered or that the loans will not need to 
be refinanced on terms we would consider below market 
norms. 
Collateral on loans and advances 
Details of the Group’s practice regarding the use of collateral are 
provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 213. 
Collateral held is analysed separately below for 
commercial real estate and for other corporate, 
commercial and financial (non-bank) lending. This 
reflects the greater correlation between collateral 
performance and principal repayment in the commercial 
real estate sector than applies to other lending. In each 
case, the analysis includes off-balance sheet loan 
commitments, primarily undrawn credit lines. 
The collateral measured in the tables below consists of 
fixed first charges on real estate and charges over cash 
and marketable financial instruments. The values in the 
tables represent the expected market value on an open 
market basis; no adjustment has been made to the 
collateral for any expected costs of recovery. Cash is 
valued at its nominal value and marketable securities at 
their fair value. The LTV ratios presented are calculated 
by directly associating loans and advances with the 
collateral that individually and uniquely supports each 
facility. When collateral assets are shared by multiple 
loans and advances, whether specifically or, more 
generally, by way of an all monies charge, the collateral 
value is pro-rated across the loans and advances 
protected by the collateral. 
Other types of collateral which are commonly taken 
for corporate and commercial lending such as 
unsupported guarantees and floating charges over 
the assets of a customer’s business are not measured in 
the tables below. While such mitigants have value, often 
providing rights in insolvency, their assignable value is 
not sufficiently certain and they are therefore assigned 
no value for disclosure purposes. 
For impaired loans the collateral values cannot be 
directly compared with impairment allowances 
recognised. The LTV tables below use open market 
values with no adjustments. Impairment allowances are 
calculated on a different basis, by considering other cash 
flows and adjusting collateral values for costs of realising 
collateral as explained further on page 212. 
Commercial real estate loans and advances 
The value of commercial real estate collateral is 
determined by using a combination of professional and 
internal valuations and physical inspections. Due to the 
complexity of valuing collateral for commercial real 
estate, local valuation policies determine the frequency 
of review on the basis of local market conditions. 
Revaluations are sought with greater frequency as 
concerns over the performance of the collateral or 
the direct obligor increase. Revaluations may also 
be sought where customers amend their banking 
requirements, resulting in the Group extending further 
funds or other significant rearrangements of exposure or 
collateral, which may change the customer risk profile. 
As a result, the real estate collateral values used for 
CRR1-7 might date back to the last point at which such 
considerations applied. For CRR 8 and 9-10 almost all 
collateral would have been revalued within the last 
three years. 
In Hong Kong, market practice is typically for lending 
to major property companies to be either secured 
by guarantees or unsecured. In Europe, facilities of 
a working capital nature are generally not secured by 
a first fixed charge and are therefore disclosed as not 
collateralised.   
 
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
147 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Commercial real estate loans and advances including loan commitments by level of collateral 
(Audited) 
  
 Europe Asia
4
MENA
 North 
America 
  Latin 
 America 
 
 Total
   US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
Rated CRR/EL 1 to 7   
Not collateralised  5,351 16,132 361 87 1,719 23,650
Fully collateralised  25,873 26,323 23 9,093 556 61,868
Partially collateralised (A) 1,384 1,599 – 1,819 152 4,954
– collateral value on A   1,032 901 – 1,199 47 3,179
 32,608 44,054 384 10,999 2,427 90,472
Rated CRR/EL 8   
Not collateralised  34 7 – 9 2 52
Fully collateralised  568 23 – 30 1 622
LTV ratio:    
– less than 50%   64 – – 16 1 81
– 51% to 75%   222 11 – 10 – 243
– 76% to 90%   132 9 – 4 – 145
– 91% to 100%    150 3 – – – 153
Partially collateralised (B)  365 – – 7 – 372
– collateral value on B  296 – – 2 – 298
 967 30 – 46 3 1,046
Rated CRR/EL 9 to 10   
Not collateralised  369 48 6 1 499 923
Fully collateralised  992 15 7 166 178 1,358
LTV ratio:    
– less than 50%   78 6 7 28 10 129
– 51% to 75%   593 2 – 91 43 729
– 76% to 90%   167 2 – 17 53 239
– 91% to 100%    154 5 – 30 72 261
Partially collateralised (C)  1,085 15 181 37 50 1,368
– collateral value on C   664 5 89 30 13 801
 2,446 78 194 204 727 3,649
At 31 December 2014 36,021 44,162 578 11,249 3,157 95,167
     
Rated CRR/EL 1 to 7     
Not collateralised  4,865 14,164 192 137  935  20,293
Fully collateralised  24,154 25,317 21 8,627  1,728  59,847
Partially collateralised (D) 2,664 2,377 139 704  484  6,368
– collateral value on D  1,827 1,688 24 303  292  4,134
 31,68341,858 352 9,468  3,147  86,508
Rated CRR/EL 8     
Not collateralised  109 10 – 1  3  123
Fully collateralised  793 – 72 68  1  934
LTV ratio:      
– less than 50%   139 – – 15  –  154
– 51% to 75%   367 – 72 49  1  489
– 76% to 90%   173 – – 4  –  177
– 91% to 100%    114 – – –  –  114
Partially collateralised (E)  360 2 – 13  –  375
– collateral value on E   281 1 – 11  –  293
 1,262 12 72 82  4  1,432
Rated CRR/EL 9 to 10     
Not collateralised  564 – 7 4  521  1,096
Fully collateralised  1,079 12 31 233  286  1,641
LTV ratio:      
– less than 50%   275 2 7 39  32  355
– 51% to 75%   436 6 7 110  57  616
– 76% to 90%   209 3 17 62  62  353
– 91% to 100%    159 1 – 22  135  317
Partially collateralised (F)  1,815 5 181 240  56  2,297
– collateral value on F   1,284 5 89 115  34  1,527
 3,45817 219 477  863  5,034
At 31 December 2013 36,403 41,887 643 10,027  4,014  92,974
For footnote, see page 202.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
148 
Other corporate, commercial and financial  
(non-bank loans) are analysed separately below. For 
financing activities in other corporate and commercial 
lending, collateral value is not strongly correlated to 
principal repayment performance. Collateral values are 
generally refreshed when an obligor’s general credit 
performance deteriorates and we have to assess the 
likely performance of secondary sources of repayment 
should it prove necessary to rely on them. 
Accordingly, the table below reports values only for 
customers with CRR 8 to 10, recognising that these 
loans and advances generally have valuations which 
are comparatively recent. 
Other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) loans and advances including loan commitments by level of 
collateral rated CRR/EL 8 to 10 only 
(Audited) 
  
 Europe  Asia
4
 MENA 
North 
 America 
  Latin 
 America 
 
 Total 
   US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
Rated CRR/EL 8   
Not collateralised  2,051 237 15 320 227 2,850
Fully collateralised  629 56 72 331 11 1,099
LTV ratio:  13  
– less than 50%   120 13 – 186 5 324
– 51% to 75%   293 – – 72 6 371
– 76% to 90%   51 9 69 46 – 175
– 91% to 100%    165 34 3 27 – 229
Partially collateralised (A)  105 44 1 148 6 304
– collateral value on A   46 17 1 68 4 136
68
 2,785 337 88 799 244 4,253
Rated CRR/EL 9 to 10   
Not collateralised  4,185 939 813 62 1,420 7,419
Fully collateralised  615 143 147 231 124 1,260
LTV ratio:    
– less than 50%   169 68 25 48 48 358
– 51% to 75%   136 27 19 39 35 256
– 76% to 90%   168 16 6 35 26 251
– 91% to 100%    142 32 97 109 15 395
Partially collateralised (B)  624 364 547 251 140 1,926
– collateral value on B   341 169 92 141 46 789
 5,424 1,446 1,507 544 1,684 10,605
At 31 December 2014 8,209 1,783 1,595 1,343 1,928 14,858
   
Rated CRR/EL 8   
Not collateralised  2,411 185 37 328 456 3,417
Fully collateralised  259 51 1 227 70 608
LTV ratio:    
– less than 50%   65 38 1 84 11 199
– 51% to 75%   103 4 – 47 10 164
– 76% to 90%   25 8 – 31 5 69
– 91% to 100%    66 1 – 65 44 176
Partially collateralised (C)  435 23 528 345 73 1,404
– collateral value on C   17 5 398 89 18 527
 3,105259566900 599 5,429
Rated CRR/EL 9 to 10   
Not collateralised  1,467 685 1,089 26 1,615 4,882
Fully collateralised  1,121 161 49 309 266 1,906
LTV ratio:    
– less than 50%   124 57 2 24 159 366
– 51% to 75%   161 21 47 29 49 307
– 76% to 90%   156 53 – 46 43 298
– 91% to 100%    680 30 – 210 15 935
Partially collateralised (D)  1,192304770359 290 2,915
– collateral value on D    606 150 102 149 131 1,138
 3,7801,1501,908694 2,171 9,703
At 31 December 2013 6,885 1,409 2,474 1,594 2,770 15,132
For footnote, see page 202. 
Loans and advances to banks are typically unsecured. 
Collateral values held for customers rated CRR 9 to 10 
(i.e. classified as impaired) are separately disclosed. 
   
 
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
149 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Loans and advances to banks including loan commitments by level of collateral 
(Audited) 
  
 Europe  Asia
4
 MENA 
North 
 America 
  Latin 
 America 
 
 Total 
   US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
Rated CRR/EL 1 to 8   
Not collateralised  22,405 64,210 10,472 7,985 9,406 114,478
Fully collateralised  104 1,587 – – – 1,691
Partially collateralised (A)  5 – – – – 5
– collateral value on A   3 – – – – 3
 22,514 65,797 10,472 7,985 9,406 116,174
Rated CRR/EL 9 to 10   
Not collateralised  102 1 21 – – 124
At 31 December 2014 22,616 65,798 10,493 7,985 9,406 116,298
   
Rated CRR/EL 1 to 8   
Not collateralised  21,225 72,986 6,373 7,210  9,837  117,631
Fully collateralised  3,614 1,376 – –  266  5,256
Partially collateralised (B)  68 560 – –  –  628
– collateral value on B   3 389 – –  –  392
 24,907 74,922 6,373 7,210  10,103  123,515
Rated CRR/EL 9 to 10     
Not collateralised  153 – 312 14  –  479
At 31 December 2013 25,060 74,922 6,685 7,224  10,103  123,994
For footnote, see page 202. 
Other credit risk exposures 
In addition to collateralised lending, other credit 
enhancements are employed and methods used to 
mitigate credit risk arising from financial assets. These 
are described in more detail below: 
• some securities issued by governments, banks and 
other financial institutions benefit from additional 
credit enhancement provided by government 
guarantees that cover the assets. 
Details of government guarantees are included in Notes 12, 
15 and 18 on the Financial Statements. 
• debt securities issued by banks and financial 
institutions include ABSs and similar instruments 
which are supported by underlying pools of financial 
assets. Credit risk associated with ABSs is reduced 
through the purchase of credit default swap (‘CDS’) 
protection.  
Disclosure of the Group’s holdings of ABSs and associated 
CDS protection is provided on page 162. 
• trading assets include loans and advances held 
with trading intent. These mainly consist of cash 
collateral posted to satisfy margin requirements on 
derivatives, settlement accounts, reverse repos and 
stock borrowing. There is limited credit risk on cash 
collateral posted since in the event of default of the 
counterparty these would be set-off against the 
related liability. Reverse repos and stock borrowing 
are by their nature collateralised. 
Collateral accepted as security that the Group is permitted 
to sell or repledge under these arrangements is described in 
Note 19 on the Financial Statements. 
• the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk includes 
financial guarantees and similar contracts granted, as 
well as loan and other credit-related commitments. 
Depending on the terms of the arrangement, we 
may have recourse to additional credit mitigation 
in the event that a guarantee is called upon or a loan 
commitment is drawn and subsequently defaults. 
For further information on these arrangements, 
see Note 37 on the Financial Statements. 
Derivatives 
HSBC participates in transactions exposing us to 
counterparty credit risk. Counterparty credit risk is the 
risk of financial loss if the counterparty to a transaction 
defaults before satisfactorily settling it. It arises 
principally from OTC derivatives and securities financing 
transactions and is calculated in both the trading and 
non-trading books. Transactions vary in value by 
reference to a market factor such as interest rate, 
exchange rate or asset price. 
The counterparty risk from derivative transactions 
is taken into account when reporting the fair value of 
derivative positions. The adjustment to the fair value 
is known as the credit value adjustment (‘CVA’). 
For an analysis of CVA, see Note 13 on the Financial Statements. 
The table below reflects by risk type the fair values and 
gross notional contract amounts of derivatives cleared 
through an exchange, central counterparty and non-
central counterparty. 
  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
150 
Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives by product type 
(Unaudited) 
  2014 2013 
  Notional Fair value Notional Fair value
  amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities
  US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Foreign exchange  5,573,415 97,312 95,759 5,291,003  80,914 75,798
– exchange traded 81,785 229 369 41,384  121 93
– central counterparty cleared OTC 18,567 321 349 16,869  415 622
– non-central counterparty cleared OTC 5,473,063 96,762 95,041 5,232,750  80,378 75,083
Interest rate 22,328,518 473,243 468,152 27,347,918  458,576 452,531
– exchange traded 1,432,333 112 161 857,562  335 225
– central counterparty cleared OTC 15,039,001 261,880 264,509 18,753,836  285,390 285,375
– non-central counterparty cleared OTC 5,857,184 211,251 203,482 7,736,520  172,851 166,931
Equity 568,932 11,694 13,654 589,903  18,389 22,573
– exchange traded 289,140 2,318 3,201 274,880  8,403 2,949
– non-central counterparty cleared OTC 279,792 9,376 10,453 315,023  9,986 19,624
Credit 550,197 9,340 10,061 678,256  9,092 8,926
– central counterparty cleared OTC 126,115 1,999 2,111 104,532  1,346 1,409
– non-central counterparty cleared OTC 424,082 7,341 7,950 573,724  7,746 7,517
Commodity and other 77,565 3,884 3,508 77,842  2,624 1,786
– exchange traded 7,015 80 23 6,531  182 6
– non-central counterparty cleared OTC 70,550 3,804 3,485 71,311  2,442 1,780
Total OTC derivatives  27,288,354 592,735 587,379 32,804,565  560,554 558,341
– total OTC derivatives cleared by central 
counterparties  15,183,683 264,200 266,968 18,875,237  287,151 287,406 
– total OTC derivatives not cleared by central 
counterparties  12,104,671 328,535 320,411 13,929,328  273,403 270,935 
Total exchange traded derivatives 1,810,273 2,739 3,755 1,180,357  9,041 3,273
Gross  29,098,627 595,473 591,134 33,984,922  569,595 561,614
Offset (250,465) (250,465) (287,330)  (287,330) 
Total at 31 December 345,008 340,669 282,265 274,284
 
The purposes for which HSBC uses derivatives are described in 
Note 16 on the Financial Statements. 
The International Swaps and Derivatives Association 
(‘ISDA’) Master Agreement is our preferred agreement 
for documenting derivatives activity. It provides the 
contractual framework within which dealing activity 
across a full range of OTC products is conducted, and 
contractually binds both parties to apply close-out 
netting across all outstanding transactions covered by 
an agreement if either party defaults or another pre-
agreed termination event occurs. It is common, and our 
preferred practice, for the parties to execute a Credit 
Support Annex (‘CSA’) in conjunction with the ISDA 
Master Agreement. Under a CSA, collateral is passed 
between the parties to mitigate the counterparty risk 
inherent in outstanding positions. 
We manage the counterparty exposure arising from 
market risk on our OTC derivative contracts by using 
collateral agreements with counterparties and netting 
agreements. Currently, we do not actively manage 
our general OTC derivative counterparty exposure 
in the credit markets, although we may manage 
individual exposures in certain circumstances. 
We have historically placed strict policy restrictions 
on collateral types and as a consequence the types of 
collateral received and pledged are, by value, highly 
liquid and of a strong quality, being predominantly cash. 
Where a collateral type is required to be approved 
outside the collateral policy (which includes collateral 
that includes wrong way risks), a submission to one of 
three regional Documentation Approval Committees 
(‘DAC’s) for approval is required. These DACs require the 
participation and sign-off of senior representatives from 
regional Global Markets Chief Operating Officers, Legal 
and Risk. 
The majority of the counterparties with whom we have 
a collateral agreement are European. The majority of 
our CSAs are with financial institutional clients. 
As a consequence of our policy, the type of agreement 
we enter into is predominately ISDA CSAs, the majority 
of which are written under English law. The table below 
provides a breakdown of OTC collateral agreements by 
agreement type: 
 
OTC collateral agreements by type 
(Unaudited) 
  Number of 
 agreements 
ISDA CSA (English law)  2,434
ISDA CSA (New York law)  1,628
ISDA CSA (Japanese law)  18
French Master Agreement and CSA equivalent
15
    227
German Master Agreement and CSA equivalent
16
   90
Others  205
At 31 December 2014  4,602
For footnotes, see page 202.    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
151 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
See page 130 and Note 32 on the Financial Statements for 
details regarding legally enforceable right of offset in the event 
of counterparty default and collateral received in respect of 
derivatives. 
Reverse repos – non-trading by geographical 
region 
Following the change in balance sheet presentation 
explained on page 347, non-trading reverse repos are 
presented separately on the face of the balance sheet 
and are no longer included in ‘Loans and advances to 
customers’ and ‘Loans and advances to banks’. 
Comparative data have been re-presented accordingly. 
As a result, any analysis in the Credit Risk section that 
references loans and advances to customers or banks 
excludes non-trading reverse repos to customers or 
banks, respectively. For reference, the amount of non-
trading reverse repos to customers and banks is set out 
below. 
 
Reverse repos – non-trading by geographical region 
(Audited) 
 
 
 Europe  Asia
4
 MENA 
North 
 America  
 Latin 
 America   Total 
   US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
With customers  25,841 5,409 – 35,060 – 66,310
With banks  34,748 22,813 19 29,008 8,815 95,403
At 31 December 2014 60,589 28,222 19 64,068 8,815 161,713
   
With customers  48,091 6,448 – 33,676 – 88,215
With banks  49,631 12,973 24 23,744 5,103 91,475
At 31 December 2013 97,722 19,421 24 57,420 5,103 179,690
For footnote, see page 202. 
Personal lending 
We provide a broad range of secured and unsecured 
personal lending products to meet customer needs. 
Personal lending includes advances to customers for 
asset purchases such as residential property where the 
loans are secured by the assets being acquired. We also 
offer loans secured on existing assets, such as first liens 
on residential property, and unsecured lending products 
such as overdrafts, credit cards and payroll loans.  
 
 
Total personal lending 
(Unaudited) 
  
 Europe Asia
4
MENA
North 
America 
  Latin 
 America  Total
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
First lien residential mortgages (A)  131,000 93,147 2,647 55,577 4,153 286,524
Of which:     
– interest only (including offset)   44,163 956 – 276 – 45,395
– affordability including ARMs  337 5,248 – 16,452 – 22,037
Other personal lending (B)  47,531 36,368 3,924 9,823 9,384 107,030
– other   34,567 25,695 2,633 4,328 4,846 72,069
– credit cards   12,959 10,289 897 1,050 3,322 28,517
– second lien residential mortgages   – 56 2 4,433 – 4,491
– motor vehicle finance   5 328 392 12 1,216 1,953
Total gross loans at 31 December 2014 (C)   178,531 129,515 6,571 65,400 13,537 393,554
Impairment allowances on personal lending   
First lien residential mortgages (a)  306 46 97 1,644 36 2,129
Other personal lending (b)  786 208 97 350 1,030 2,471
–  other  438 87 59 43 672 1,299
– credit cards    347 119 33 36 298 833
– second lien residential mortgages   – – – 271 – 271
–  motor vehicle finance  1 2 5 – 60 68
Total impairment allowances at 31 December  
2014 (c) 1,092 254 194 1,994 1,066 4,600
(a) as a percentage of A    0.2% – 3.7% 3.0%   0.9%   0.7%
(b) as a percentage of B    1.7% 0.6% 2.5% 3.6%   11.0%   2.3%
(c) as a percentage of C    0.6% 0.2% 3.0% 3.0%   7.9%   1.2%
 
   Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
152 
  
 Europe Asia
4
MENA
North 
America 
  Latin 
 America  Total
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
First lien residential mortgages (D)  140,474 92,047 2,451 60,955 3,948 299,875
Of which:     
– interest only (including offset)   49,460 1,115 – 352 – 50,927
– affordability including ARMs  508 5,593 – 16,274 – 22,375
Other personal lending (E)  51,633 32,482 4,033 11,735 10,970 110,853
– other  37,126 21,636 2,728 5,309 5,651 72,450
– credit cards   14,496 10,274 915 1,145 3,526 30,356
– second lien residential mortgages   – 91 2 5,261 – 5,354
– motor vehicle finance   11 481 388 20 1,793 2,693
Total gross loans at 31 December 2013 (F)   192,107 124,529 6,484 72,690 14,918 410,728
Impairment allowances on personal lending   
First lien residential mortgages (d)  439 57 124 2,886 32 3,538
Other personal lending (e)  959 222 169 532 1,182 3,064
–  other  553 93 104 59 881 1,69 0
– credit cards    403 127 61 47 217 855
– second lien residential mortgages   – – – 426 – 426
–  motor vehicle finance  3 2 4 – 84 93
Total impairment allowances at 31 December  
2013 (f) 1,398 279 293 3,418 1,214 6,602
(d) as a percentage of D   0.3% 0.1% 5.1% 4.7%   0.8%   1.2%
(e) as a percentage of E   1.9% 0.7% 4.2% 4.5%   10.8%   2.8%
(f) as a percentage of F   0.7% 0.2% 4.5% 4.7%   8.1%   1.6%
For footnote, see page 202. 
Total personal lending was US$394bn at 31 December 
2014, down from US$411bn at the end of 2013 
(US$392bn on a constant currency basis). We continued 
to run-off our CML portfolio in North America and the 
balance declined by a further US$5.7bn during the year. 
Personal lending
 
excluding the US CML run-off portfolio 
grew by US$7.7bn on a constant currency basis in 2014. 
This was mainly due to increased mortgage and other 
lending in Asia and growth in the mortgage portfolio in 
the US and Brazil. It was partially offset by a reduction in 
personal lending in UK. 
Mortgage lending 
(Unaudited) 
We offer a wide range of mortgage products designed to 
meet customer needs, including capital repayment, 
interest-only, affordability and offset mortgages. 
Group credit policy prescribes the range of acceptable 
residential property LTV thresholds with the maximum 
upper limit for new loans set at between 75% and 95%. 
Specific LTV thresholds and debt-to-income ratios are 
managed at regional and country levels and, although 
the parameters must comply with Group policy, strategy 
and risk appetite, they differ in the various locations in 
which we operate to reflect the local economic and 
housing market conditions, regulations, portfolio 
performance, pricing and other product features. 
The commentary that follows is on a constant currency 
basis 
Personal lending
 
excluding the US CML run-off portfolio, 
mortgage lending balances increased by US$3.9bn during 
the year. Mortgage lending in Asia, excluding the 
reclassification to Other Personal lending discussed on 
page 153, grew by US$4.8bn. The increases were 
primarily attributable to continued growth in Hong Kong 
(US$2.9bn) and, to a lesser extent, in Australia (US$0.5bn), 
Malaysia (US$0.4bn), and Taiwan (US$0.3bn) as a result 
of strong demand and competitive customer offerings. 
The quality of our Asian mortgage book remained high 
with negligible defaults and impairment allowances. 
The average LTV ratio on new mortgage lending in Hong 
Kong was 47% compared with an estimated 29% for 
the overall portfolio. 
In North America, our Canadian mortgage balances 
increased by US$0.5bn during the year as a result of a 
focused mortgage campaign and process improvements. 
The Premier mortgage portfolio in the US also increased 
by US$0.9bn during 2014 as we continued to focus on 
growth in our core portfolios. Our business in the US 
exhibited lower collectively assessed impairment charges 
due to continued improvement in the credit quality of 
the mortgage portfolio. The US CML portfolio declined by 
US$5.7bn in 2014.  
Mortgage lending in Brazil increased by US$0.5bn as a 
result of improvements to both our process and products 
offered and overall growth in the mortgage market in 
the country during the year. 
In Europe, there was a marginal decline of US$1.4bn or 
1% due to decreased lending and effects of repayments, 
mainly in the UK mortgage portfolio. 
Interest-only products made up US$44bn of total 
UK mortgage lending, including US$19bn of offset 
mortgages in First Direct. The LTV ratio on new lending 
was 60% compared with an average of 43.7% for 
the total mortgage portfolio. The credit quality of our 
UK mortgage portfolio remained high and both loan 
impairment charges and delinquency levels declined 
in 2014.  
We grew our mortgage book in France by US$0.6bn in 
the year due to strong demand.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
153 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Other personal lending 
(Unaudited) 
Other personal lending increased by US$3.7bn in 
2014. This was driven by growth in personal loans and 
revolving credit facilities in Asia, mainly in Hong Kong 
(US$3.1bn). We also reclassified US$1.7bn of loans in 
mainland China from Residential mortgages to other 
personal lending as the supporting collateral over some of 
the properties either under construction or completed 
was yet to be fully registered. These increases were 
partially offset by a reduction in credit card lending of 
US$0.7bn in the UK and US$0.3bn in Turkey, due to 
repayments. Term lending in North America, primarily 
Canada, declined by US$0.7bn during the year. There was 
also a US$0.2bn reduction in the auto finance dealers run 
off portfolio in Brazil. 
HSBC Finance US Consumer and Mortgage Lending – 
residential mortgages
17
 
(Unaudited) 
  2014 2013
 US$m US$m
Residential mortgages:  
– first lien  21,915 27,305
Other personal lending:  
– second lien  2,509 3,014
Total (A) at 31 December  24,424 30,319
Impairment allowances  1,679 3,028
– as a percentage of A    6.9%  10.0%
For footnote, see page 202. 
HSBC Finance 
Mortgage lending balances in HSBC Finance declined 
by US$5.7bn during 2014. In addition to the continued 
loan sales in the CML portfolio, we transferred a further 
US$2.9bn to assets held for sale during the year, and 
expect to sell these in multiple transactions over the next 
12 months. 
The decrease in impairment allowances reflected lower 
levels of both new impaired loans and loan balances 
outstanding as a result of continued liquidation of the 
portfolio. This included loan sales and loss estimates due 
to lower delinquency and loss severity levels than in 
2013. 
Across the first and second lien residential mortgages 
in our CML portfolio, two months and over delinquent 
balances reduced by US$2.5bn to US$2.4bn during 2014 
reflecting the continued portfolio run-off and loan sales. 
HSBC Finance: foreclosed properties in the US 
(Unaudited) 
 2014  2013
 US$m  US$m
Number of foreclosed properties at  
year-end 
 
2,139  4,254 
Number of properties added to 
foreclosed inventory in the period  
 
3,716  9,752 
Average (gain)/loss on sale of 
foreclosed properties
18
  
 
 (1%)  1% 
Average total loss on foreclosed 
properties
19
  
 
51%  51% 
Average time to sell foreclosed 
properties (days)  
 
189  154 
For footnotes, see page 202. 
The number of foreclosed properties at 31 December 
2014 significantly decreased compared with the end of 
2013 as during 2014 more properties were sold than 
were added to the foreclosed inventory. We added 
fewer properties to the inventory as many of them were 
sold prior to taking title as a result of the ongoing sale of 
receivables from the CML portfolio. 
HSBC Bank USA 
In HSBC Bank USA, mortgage balances grew by US$0.9bn 
during 2014 as we implemented our strategy to grow the 
HSBC Premier customer base. Credit quality improved 
further during 2014 and balances which were two 
months and over delinquent in our first lien residential 
mortgage portfolio declined by US$0.3bn to US$1.1bn at 
December 2014. We also continued to sell all agency 
eligible new originations in the secondary market as a 
means of managing our interest rate risk and improving 
structural liquidity. 
 
Trends in two months and over contractual delinquency in the US 
(Unaudited) 
 2014 2013
 US$m US$m
In personal lending in the US  
First lien residential mortgages 3,271 5,931
– Consumer and Mortgage Lending  2,210 4,595
– other mortgage lending  1,061 1,336
Second lien residential mortgages 216 406
– Consumer and Mortgage Lending  154 276
– other mortgage lending  62 130
Credit card  17 25
Personal non-credit card   7 25
Total at 31 December 3,511 6,387
 % %
As a percentage of the equivalent loans and receivables balances  
First lien residential mortgages 8.6   14.0
Second lien residential mortgages 5.0   8.1
Credit card  2.4   3.4
Personal non-credit card   1.4   4.9
Total at 31 December 8.1   13.1 Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
154 
Gross loan portfolio of HSBC Finance real estate secured balances 
(Unaudited) 
 
Re-aged
20
 
Modified
and re-aged Modified 
Total
renegotiated
loans 
Total non-
renegotiated
loans 
Total 
gross 
loans 
Total 
impairment 
allowances 
Impairment
allowances/
gross loans 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m %
At 31 December 2014  6,637 6,581 587 13,805 10,619 24,424 1,679 7
At 31 December 2013 8,167 8,213 768 17,148 13,171 30,319  3,028  10
For footnote, see page 202. 
Number of renegotiated real estate secured accounts remaining in HSBC Finance’s portfolio 
(Unaudited) 
  Number of renegotiated loans (000s) Total number
of loans
(000s) 
 
Re-aged 
Modified
and re-aged Modified Total 
At 31 December 2014  85 64 6 155 297
At 31 December 2013  102 78 8 188  352
 
HSBC Finance loan modifications and re-age 
programmes 
HSBC Finance maintains loan modification and re-age 
(‘loan renegotiation’) programmes in order to manage 
customer relationships, improve collection opportunities 
and, if possible, avoid foreclosure. 
Since 2006, HSBC Finance has implemented an extensive 
loan renegotiation programme, and a significant portion 
of its loan portfolio has been subject to renegotiation at 
some stage in the life of the customer relationship as a 
consequence of the economic conditions in the US and 
the characteristics of HSBC Finance’s customer base. 
The volume of loans that qualify for modification has 
reduced significantly in recent years and we expect this 
trend to continue. Volumes of new loan modifications 
are decreasing due to improvements in economic 
conditions, the cessation of new real estate secured 
and personal non-credit card receivables originations, 
and the continued run-off and loan sales in the CML 
portfolio. 
Qualifying criteria 
For an account to qualify for renegotiation it must meet 
certain criteria, and HSBC Finance retains the right to 
decline a renegotiation. The extent to which HSBC 
Finance renegotiates accounts that are eligible under its 
existing policies varies according to its view of prevailing 
economic conditions and other factors which may 
change from year to year. In addition, exceptions to 
policies and practices may be made in specific situations 
in response to legal or regulatory agreements or orders. 
Renegotiated real estate secured are not eligible for 
a subsequent renegotiation for 12 months, with a 
maximum of five renegotiations permitted within  
a five-year period. Borrowers must be approved for a 
modification and, to activate it, must generally make 
two minimum qualifying monthly payments within 60 
days. In certain circumstances where the debt has been 
restructured in bankruptcy proceedings, fewer or no 
payments may be required. Real estate secured loans 
involving a bankruptcy and accounts whose borrowers 
are subject to a Chapter 13 plan filed with a bankruptcy 
court generally may be considered current upon receipt 
of one qualifying payment, while accounts whose 
borrowers have filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy 
protection may be re-aged upon receipt of a signed 
reaffirmation agreement. In addition, some products 
accounts may be re-aged without receipt of a payment 
in certain special circumstances (e.g. in the event of a 
natural disaster or a hardship programme). 
2014 compared with 2013 
At 31 December 2014, renegotiated real estate secured 
accounts in HSBC Finance represented 91% (2013: 91%) 
of North America’s total renegotiated loans. US$8.0bn 
of renegotiated real estate secured loans were 
classified as impaired (2013: US$10bn). During 2014, the 
aggregate number of renegotiated loans in HSBC Finance 
reduced, due to the run-off and loan sales in the CML 
portfolio, despite renegotiation activity continuing. 
Within the constraints of our Group credit policy, HSBC 
Finance’s policies allow for multiple renegotiations 
under certain circumstances. Consequently, a significant 
proportion of loans included in the table above have 
undergone multiple re-ages or modifications. In this 
regard, multiple modifications have remained consistent 
at 70% to 75% of total modifications.  
The accounts that received second or subsequent 
renegotiations during the year do not appear in the 
statistics presented. These statistics treat a loan as an 
addition to the volume of renegotiated loans on its first 
renegotiation only.    
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
155 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Types of loan renegotiation programmes in HSBC Finance 
• A temporary modification is a change to the contractual terms 
of a loan that results in HSBC Finance giving up a right to 
contractual cash flows over a pre-defined period. With a 
temporary modification the loan is expected to revert back 
to the original contractual terms, including the interest rate 
charged, after the modification period. An example is reduced 
interest payments. 
A substantial number of HSBC Finance modifications involve 
interest rate reductions, which lower the amount of interest 
income HSBC Finance is contractually entitled to receive in 
future periods. Historically, modifications were granted for 
terms as low as six months, although, more recent 
modifications have a minimum term of two years. 
Loans that have been re-aged are classified as impaired 
with the exception of first-time loan re-ages that were less 
than 60 days past due at the time of re-age. These remain 
classified as impaired until they have demonstrated a history 
of payment performance against their original contracted 
terms for at least 12 months. 
• A permanent modification is a change to the contractual 
terms of a loan that results in HSBC Finance giving up a right 
to contractual cash flows over the life of the loan. An example 
is a permanent reduction in the interest rate charged. 
Permanent or long-term modifications which are due to an 
underlying hardship event remain classified as impaired for 
their full life. 
The term ‘re-age’ describes a renegotiation by which the 
contractual delinquency status of a loan is reset to current 
after demonstrating payment performance. The overdue 
principal and/or interest is deferred and paid at a later date. 
Loan re-ageing enables customers who have been unable 
to make a small number of payments to have their loan 
delinquency status reset to current so that their credit score 
is not affected by the overdue balances. 
Loans that have been re-aged remain classified as impaired 
until they have demonstrated a history of payment 
performance against the original contractual terms for 
at least 12 months. 
A temporary or permanent modification may also lead to a 
re-ageing of a loan although a loan may be re-aged without 
any modification to its original terms and conditions.  
Where loans have been granted multiple concessions, subject 
to the qualifying criteria discussed above, the concession is 
deemed to have been made due to concern regarding the 
borrower’s ability to pay, and the loan is disclosed as 
impaired. The loan remains disclosed as impaired from that 
date forward until the borrower has demonstrated a history 
of repayment performance for the period of time required 
for either modifications or re-ages, as described above. 
Valuation of foreclosed properties in the US 
We obtain real estate by foreclosing on the collateral pledged as 
security for residential mortgages. Prior to foreclosure, carrying 
amounts of the loans in excess of fair value less costs to sell are 
written down to the discounted cash flows expected to be 
recovered, including from the sale of the property. 
Broker price opinions are obtained and updated every 180 days 
and real estate price trends are reviewed quarterly to reflect any 
improvement or additional deterioration. Our methodology is 
regularly validated by comparing the discounted cash flows 
expected to be recovered based on current market conditions 
(including estimated cash flows from the sale of the property) 
to the updated broker price opinion, adjusted for the estimated 
historical difference between interior and exterior appraisals. The 
fair values of foreclosed properties are initially determined on the 
basis of broker price opinions. Within 90 days of foreclosure, a 
more detailed property valuation is performed reflecting 
information obtained from a physical interior inspection of the 
property and additional allowances or write-downs are recorded 
as appropriate. Updates to the valuation are performed no less 
than once every 45 days until the property is sold, with declines 
or increases recognised through changes to allowances. 
Second lien mortgages in the US 
The majority of second lien residential mortgages were taken 
up by customers who held a first lien mortgage issued by a third 
party. Second lien residential mortgage loans have a risk profile 
characterised by higher LTV ratios, because in the majority of 
cases the loans were taken out to complete the refinancing of 
properties. Loss severity on default of second liens has typically 
approached 100% of the amount outstanding, as any equity in the 
property is consumed through the repayment of the first lien 
loan. 
Impairment allowances for these loans were determined 
by applying a roll-rate migration analysis which captures the 
propensity of these loans to default based on past experience. 
Once we believe that a second lien residential mortgage loan 
is likely to progress to write-off, the loss severity assumed in 
establishing our impairment allowance is close to 100% in the 
CML portfolios, and more than 80% in HSBC Bank USA. 
 
 
   Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
156 
Collateral and other credit enhancements held 
(Audited) 
Loans and advances held at amortised cost 
Details of the Group’s practice regarding the use of collateral are 
provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 213. 
The tables below provide a quantification of the value 
of fixed charges we hold over specific assets where we 
have a history of enforcing, and are able to enforce, 
collateral in satisfying a debt in the event of the 
borrower failing to meet its contractual obligations, and 
where the collateral is cash or can be realised by sale in 
an established market. The collateral valuation excludes 
any adjustments for obtaining and selling the collateral 
and, in particular, loans shown as not collateralised or 
partially collateralised may also benefit from other forms 
of credit mitigants. 
 
Residential mortgage loans including loan commitments by level of collateral 
(Audited) 
  
 Europe  Asia
4
 MENA 
North 
 America 
  Latin 
 America 
 
 Total 
   US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
Non-impaired loans and advances  
Fully collateralised  135,875 99,257 2,431 43,317 3,759 284,639
LTV ratio:    
– less than 50%   66,075 60,315 1,324 14,003 1,454 143,171
– 51% to 75%   56,178 31,142 856 20,872 1,777 110,825
– 76% to 90%   11,856 6,906 212 5,994 480 25,448
– 91% to 100%    1,766 894 39 2,448 48 5,195
Partially collateralised:   
– greater than 100% LTV (A) 537 99 60 2,209 167 3,072
– collateral value on A   532 81 44 1,999 24 2,680
 136,412 99,356 2,491 45,526 3,926 287,711
Impaired loans and advances   
Fully collateralised  906 256 122 8,618 154 10,056
LTV ratio:    
– less than 50%   232 130 53 1,291 103 1,809
– 51% to 75%   417 90 29 3,462 35 4,033
– 76% to 90%   163 32 19 2,471 10 2,695
– 91% to 100%    94 4 21 1,394 6 1,519
Partially collateralised:   
– greater than 100% LTV (B) 55 7 31 1,395 2 1,490
– collateral value on B   40 5 23 1,181 1 1,250
 961 263 153 10,013 156 11,546
At 31 December 2014 137,373 99,619 2,644 55,539 4,082 299,257
       
Non-impaired loans and advances  
Fully collateralised  146,326 98,332 2,235 44,125 3,749 294,767
LTV ratio:    
– less than 50%   55,028 55,479 749 13,172 1,337 125,765
– 51% to 75%   66,452 34,370 1,095 20,751 1,715 124,383
– 76% to 90%   21,603 6,836 348 6,933 606 36,326
– 91% to 100%    3,243 1,647 43 3,269 91 8,293
Partially collateralised:   
– greater than 100% LTV (C) 1,410 362 42 4,150 59 6,023
– collateral value on C   852 307 37 3,681 49 4,926
 147,73698,6942,27748,275 3,808 300,790
Impaired loans and advances   
Fully collateralised  1,369 254 90 10,128 160 12,001
LTV ratio:    
– less than 50%   244 100 15 1,393 97 1,849
– 51% to 75%   452 96 31 4,250 47 4,876
– 76% to 90%   320 49 34 2,809 13 3,225
– 91% to 100%    353 9 10 1,676 3 2,051
Partially collateralised:   
– greater than 100% LTV (D) 104 17 6 2,548 8 2,683
– collateral value on D    91 4 6 2,272 4 2,377
 1,4732719612,676 168 14,684
At 31 December 2013 149,209 98,965 2,373 60,951 3,976 315,474
For footnote, see page 202. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
157 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Supplementary information 
Gross loans and advances by industry sector over five years 
(Unaudited) 
 2014 
Currency 
 translation
 adjustment  Movement 2013 2012 2011 2010 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Personal  393,554 (19,092) 1,918 410,728 415,093 393,625 425,320
– first lien residential mortgages
6
  286,524 (12,372) (979) 299,875 301,862  278,963 268,681
– other personal
7
  107,030 (6,720) 2,897 110,853 113,231  114,662 156,639
Corporate and commercial  540,556 (24,729) 22,020 543,265 513,229 472,784 445,505
– manufacturing  106,986 (5,856) (1,008) 113,850 112,149  96,054 91,121
– international trade and services  180,791 (8,232) 4,355 184,668 169,389  152,709 146,567
– commercial real estate  73,293 (3,270) 1,717 74,846 76,760  73,941 71,880
– other property-related  52,387 (922) 8,477 44,832 40,532  39,539 34,838
– government  6,143 (395) (739) 7,277 10,785  11,079 8,594
– other commercial
8
  120,956 (6,054) 9,218 117,792 103,614  99,462 92,505
Financial  50,818 (2,303) 2,598 50,523 46,871 44,832 41,213
– non-bank financial institutions  48,799 (2,180) 2,442 48,537 45,430  43,888 39,651
– settlement accounts  2,019 (123) 156 1,986 1,441  944 1,562
Asset-backed securities reclassified  2,069 (147) (500) 2,716 3,891 5,280 5,892
Total gross loans and advances to 
customers (A)  986,997 (46,271) 26,036 1,007,232 979,084 916,521 917,930 
Gross loans and advances to banks  112,198 (4,925) (2,981) 120,104 117,142 139,203 142,027
Total gross loans and advances 1,099,195 (51,196) 23,055 1,127,336 1,096,226 1,055,724 1,059,957
Impaired loans and advances to customers  29,283 (1,538) (5,607) 36,428 38,671 41,584 46,871
–  as a percentage of A    3.0% 3.6% 3.9%  4.5%   4.8%
Impairment allowances on loans and  
advances to customers  12,337 (776) (2,030) 15,143 16,112 17,511 20,083 
–  as a percentage of A    1.2% 1.5% 1.6%  1.9%   2.2%
Loan impairment charge  4,055 (160) (1,833) 6,048 8,160 11,505 13,548
– new allowances net of allowance 
releases  5,010 (158) (2,176) 7,344 9,306  12,931 14,568 
– recoveries  (955) (2) 343 (1,296) (1,146)  (1,426) (1,020)
For footnotes, see page 202. 
The personal lending currency effect on gross loans and 
advances of US$19bn was made up as follows: Europe 
US$13bn, Asia US$2.6bn, Latin America US$1.8bn, North 
America US$1.8bn. The wholesale lending currency effect 
on gross loans and advances of US$32bn was made up as 
follows: Europe US$21bn, Asia US$4.8bn, Latin America 
US$4.7bn, North America US$1.5bn and Middle East and 
North Africa US$0.3bn. 
  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
158 
Reconciliation of reported and constant currency impaired loans, allowances and charges by geographical region 
(Unaudited) 
 
 
 31 Dec 13 
 as reported  
 Currency 
 translation 
 adjustment
21
31 Dec 13
 at 31 Dec 14
 exchange
 rates 
Movement
 – constant
 currency
 basis 
 31 Dec 14 
 as reported  
 Reported 
 change
22
  
 Constant 
 currency 
 change
22
 US$m   US$m US$m US$m US$m   %   %
Impaired loans     
Europe  13,228  (1,011) 12,217 (1,975) 10,242 (23) (16)
Asia
4 
 1,623  (54) 1,569 479 2,048 26 31
Middle East and North Africa  2,285  (8) 2,277 (296) 1,981 (13) (13)
North America  15,123  (42) 15,081 (3,387) 11,694 (23) (22)
Latin America  4,244  (425) 3,819 (454) 3,365 (21) (12)
 36,503  (1,540) 34,963 (5,633) 29,330 (20) (16)
Impairment allowances     
Europe  5,598  (420) 5,178 (723) 4,455 (20) (14)
Asia
4
  1,214  (32) 1,182 174 1,356 12 15
Middle East and North Africa  1,583  (4) 1,579 (173) 1,406 (11) (11)
North America  4,242  (28) 4,214 (1,574) 2,640 (38) (37)
Latin America  2,564  (294) 2,270 259 2,529 (1) 11
 15,201  (778) 14,423 (2,037) 12,386 (19) (14)
Loan impairment charge     
Europe  1,732  62 1,794 (715) 1,079 (38) (40)
Asia
4
  483  (17) 466 178 644 33 38
Middle East and North Africa  (44)  – (44) 43 (1) 98 98
North America  1,235  (15) 1,220 (920) 300 (76) (75)
Latin America  2,642  (190) 2,452 (419) 2,033 (23) (17)
 6,048  (160) 5,888 (1,833) 4,055 (33) (31)
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Reconciliation of reported and constant currency loan impairment charges to the income statement 
(Unaudited) 
 
 
 31 Dec 13 
 as reported  
 Currency 
 translation 
 adjustment
21
31 Dec 13
 at 31 Dec 14
 exchange
rates
Movement
 – constant
 currency
basis
 31 Dec 14 
as reported  
 Reported 
 change
22
  
 Constant 
 currency 
 change
22
 US$m  US$m US$m US$m US$m   %   %
Loan impairment charge     
Europe  1,732  62 1,794 (715) 1,079 (38) (40)
– new allowances  3,082 99 3,181 (736) 2,445 (21) (23)
– releases  (713) (11) (724) (338) (1,062) (49) (47)
– recoveries  (637) (26) (663) 359 (304) 52 54
Asia
4
  483  (17) 466 178 644 33 38
– new allowances  953 (31) 922 193 1,115 17 21
– releases  (303) 8 (295) (23) (318) (5) (8)
– recoveries  (167) 6 (161) 8 (153) 8 5
Middle East and North Africa  (44)  – (44) 43 (1) 98 98
– new allowances  408 (1) 407 (52) 355 (13) (13)
– releases  (365) 2 (363) 49 (314) 14 13
– recoveries  (87) (1) (88) 46 (42) 52 52
North America  1,235  (15) 1,220 (920) 300 (76) (75)
– new allowances  1,640 (17) 1,623 (715) 908 (45) (44)
– releases  (282) 2 (280) (213) (493) (75) (76)
– recoveries  (123) – (123) 8 (115) 7 7
Latin America  2,642  (190) 2,452 (419) 2,033 (23) (17)
– new allowances  3,262 (243) 3,019 (312) 2,707 (17) (10)
– releases  (338) 34 (304) (29) (333) 1 (10)
– recoveries  (282) 19 (263) (78) (341) (21) (30)
Total  6,048  (160) 5,888 (1,833) 4,055 (33) (31)
– new allowances  9,345 (193) 9,152 (1,622) 7,530 (19) (18)
– releases  (2,001) 35 (1,966) (554) (2,520) (26) (28)
– recoveries  (1,296) (2) (1,298) 343 (955) 26 26
For footnotes, see page 202.    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
159 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Loan impairment charges by industry sector over five years 
(Unaudited) 
2014 2013 2012   2011   2010
US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
Loan impairment charge/(release)   
Personal  1,803 3,196 5,362 9,318 11,187
Corporate and commercial  2,256 2,974 2,802 2,114 2,198
Financial
5
 (4) (122) (4) 73 163
Year ended 31 December 4,055 6,048 8,160 11,505 13,548
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers 
(Unaudited) 
 2014 2013 2012   2011   2010
 % %% % %
New allowances net of allowance releases  0.53 0.81 1.00   1.34    1.65
Recoveries  (0.10) (0.14) (0.12)   (0.15)   (0.12)
Total charge for impairment losses  0.43 0.67 0.88   1.19    1.53
Amount written off net of recoveries  0.58 0.59 0.93   1.14    2.08
 
Movement in impairment allowances over five years 
(Unaudited) 
2014 2013 2012   2011   2010
US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
Impairment allowances at 1 January  15,201 16,169 17,636 20,241 25,649
Amounts written off  (6,379) (6,655) (9,812) (12,480) (19,300)
– personal  (3,733) (4,367) (6,905) (10,431) (16,458)
– corporate and commercial (2,425) (2,229) (2,677) (2,009) (2,789)
– financial
5
  (221) (59) (230) (40) (53)
Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years  955 1,296 1,146 1,426 1,020
– personal  818 1,097 966 1,175 846
– corporate and commercial 128 198 172 242 156
– financial
5
  9 1 8 9 18
Loan impairment charge  4,055 6,048 8,160 11,505 13,548
Exchange and other movements
13
 (1,446) (1,657) (961) (3,056) (676)
Impairment allowances at 31 December  12,386 15,201 16,169 17,636 20,241
Impairment allowances   
– individually assessed  6,244 7,130 6,629 6,662 6,615
– collectively assessed  6,142 8,071 9,540 10,974 13,626
Impairment allowances at 31 December  12,386 15,201 16,169 17,636 20,241
Amount written off net of recoveries as a percentage of average 
gross loans and advances to customers  0.6%  0.6%  1.0%   1.2%   2.2% 
For footnotes, see page 202.
   Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
160 
Gross loans and advances to customers by country 
(Unaudited) 
   First lien
 residential
 mortgages
6
 US$m
 Other
 personal
7
US$m
 Property-
 related
US$m
Commercial, 
 international 
 trade and other 
US$m  
 
 
 Total
 US$m
Europe  131,000 47,531 35,313 200,313 414,157
UK
 
 123,239 21,023 25,927 156,577 326,766
France  2,914 12,820 7,341 21,834 44,909
Germany  6 212 304 7,275 7,797
Switzerland  298 8,149 225 614 9,286
Turkey  645 3,389 297 4,244 8,575
Other  3,898 1,938 1,219 9,769 16,824
Asia  93,147 36,368 70,057 164,739 364,311
Hong Kong  56,656 22,891 52,208 82,362 214,117
Australia  9,154 815 2,130 6,360 18,459
India  1,235 285 613 5,099 7,232
Indonesia  64 469 202 5,476 6,211
Mainland China  4,238 1,981 6,606 24,875 37,700
Malaysia  5,201 1,750 1,988 5,217 14,156
Singapore  9,521 5,878 4,210 11,951 31,560
Taiwan  3,920 626 118 7,057 11,721
Other  3,158 1,673 1,982 16,342 23,155
Middle East and North Africa (excluding 
Saudi Arabia)  2,647 3,924 2,246 21,633 30,450
Egypt  1 510 98 2,272 2,881
UAE  2,263 1,782 1,545 13,814 19,404
Other  383 1,632 603 5,547 8,165
North America  55,577 9,823 15,492 51,535 132,427
US  37,937 5,482 11,461 38,632 93,512
Canada  16,236 4,085 3,708 11,825 35,854
Other 1,404 256 323 1,078 3,061
Latin America  4,153 9,384 2,572 29,543 45,652
Argentina  15 1,169 93 2,119 3,396
Brazil  2,067 5,531 1,077 16,814 25,489
Mexico  1,967 2,642 1,336 9,503 
 
15,448
Other  104 42 66 1,107  1,319
At 31 December 2014 286,524 107,030 125,680 467,763          986,997
Europe  140,474 51,633 38,634 230,932  461,673
UK 132,17422,91328,127185,534  368,748
France  2,661 13,840 8,442 23,962  48,905
Germany  7 218 127 6,361  6,713
Switzerland  364 8,616 269 320  9,569
Turkey  833 4,002 305 4,059  9,199
Other  4,435 2,044 1,364 10,696  18,539
Asia 92,04732,48261,707151,875  338,111
Hong Kong  53,762 19,794 44,904 75,547  194,007
Australia  9,468 1,236 2,511 7,138  20,353
India  1,080 297 425 4,231  6,033
Indonesia  69 447 78 5,361  5,955
Mainland China  4,880 300 5,808 22,149  33,137
Malaysia  5,140 1,994 1,997 5,420  14,551
Singapore  10,283 5,754 3,953 12,188  32,178
Taiwan  3,797 660 158 5,198  9,813
Other  3,568 2,000 1,873 14,643  22,084
Middle East and North Africa (excluding 
Saudi Arabia)  2,451 4,033 1,972 20,320 28,776
Egypt  1 477 146 2,232 2,856
UAE  2,082 1,842 1,331 12,344 17,599
Other  368 1,714 495 5,744 8,321
North America  60,955 11,735 14,616 44,884 132,190
US 42,3176,25710,17430,952 89,700
Canada  17,036 5,116 3,912 13,079 39,143
Other 1,602362530853 3,347
Latin America  3,948 10,970 2,749 28,815 46,482
Argentina  20 1,425 62 2,103 3,610
Brazil  1,811 6,466 1,268 17,132 26,677
Mexico  2,117 3,079 1,398 8,994 15,588
Other  – – 21 586 607
At 31 December 2013 299,875 110,853 119,678 476,826 1,007,232
For footnotes, see page 202.   
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
161 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The above tables analyse loans and advances by industry 
sector and by the location of the principal operations of 
the lending subsidiary or, in the case of the operations of 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC 
Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East and HSBC Bank USA, by the 
location of the lending branch. 
HSBC Holdings 
(Audited) 
Risk in HSBC Holdings is overseen by the HSBC Holdings 
Asset and Liability Management Committee (‘HALCO’). 
The major risks faced by HSBC Holdings are credit risk, 
liquidity risk and market risk (in the form of interest 
rate risk and foreign exchange risk), of which the most 
significant is credit risk. 
Credit risk in HSBC Holdings primarily arises from 
transactions with Group subsidiaries and from 
guarantees issued in support of obligations assumed 
by certain Group operations in the normal conduct 
of their business. It is reviewed and managed within 
regulatory and internal limits for exposures by our Global 
Risk function, which provides high-level centralised 
oversight and management of credit risks worldwide. 
HSBC Holdings’ maximum exposure to credit risk at 
31 December 2014 is shown below. Its financial assets 
principally represent claims on Group subsidiaries in 
Europe and North America. 
All the derivative transactions are with HSBC 
undertakings that are banking counterparties (2013: 
100%) and for which HSBC Holdings has in place master 
netting arrangements. Since 2012, the credit risk 
exposure has been managed on a net basis and the 
remaining net exposure is specifically collateralised in 
the form of cash. 
 
HSBC Holdings – maximum exposure to credit risk 
(Audited) 
  2014 2013 
 
Maximum
exposure Offset 
Exposure to
credit risk
(net) 
Maximum 
exposure Offset 
Exposure to
credit risk
(net) 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Cash at bank and in hand:   
– balances with HSBC undertakings  249 – 249 407  – 407 
Derivatives  2,771 (2,610) 161 2,789  (2,755) 34 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings  43,910 – 43,910 53,344  – 53,344 
Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 4,073 – 4,073 1,210  – 1,210 
Financial guarantees and similar contracts  52,023 – 52,023 52,836  – 52,836 
Loan and other credit-related commitments  16 – 16 1,245  – 1,245 
At 31 December 103,042 (2,610) 100,432 111,831  (2,755) 109,076 
 
The credit quality of loans and advances and financial 
investments, both of which consist of intra-Group 
lending, is assessed as ‘strong’ or ‘good’, with 100% 
of the exposure being neither past due nor impaired 
(2013: 100%). 
Securitisation exposures and other 
structured products 
(Audited) 
This section contains information about our exposure 
to asset-backed securities (‘ABS’s), some of which are 
held through consolidated structured entities and are 
summarised in the table below. 
A summary of the nature of HSBC’s exposures is provided in 
the Appendix to Risk on page 214. 
 
Overall exposure of HSBC 
(Audited) 
 Carrying  amount
23
  2014   2013
  US$bn   US$bn
Asset-backed securities   48.9   50.1
– fair value through profit or loss    3.6   3.1
– available for sale
24
  29.7   42.7
– held to maturity
24
  13.4   1.1
– loans and receivables   2.2   3.2
At 31 December  48.9   50.2
For footnotes, see page 202. 
The following table summarises the carrying amount of 
our ABS exposure by categories of collateral and includes 
assets held in the GB&M legacy credit portfolio with a 
carrying value of US$23bn (2013: US$28bn). 
At 31 December 2014, the available-for-sale reserve in 
respect of ABSs was a deficit of US$777m (2013: deficit 
of US$1,643m). For 2014, the impairment write-back in 
respect of ABSs was US$276m (2013: write-back of 
US$289m).  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Credit risk / Liquidity and funding  
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
162 
Carrying amount of HSBC’s consolidated holdings of ABSs
23
 
(Audited) 
 
 
 Trading 
 Available
 for sale 
 Held to
 maturity 
Designated
 at fair value
 through
profit or loss
 Loans and 
 receivables   Total   
 Of which
held through
consolidated
 SEs 
  US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Mortgage-related assets:    
Sub-prime residential  122 3,081 – – 308 3,511 2,075
US Alt-A residential  96 3,022 11 – 110 3,239 2,411
US Government agency and sponsored 
enterprises:        
MBSs  82 10,401 13,436 – – 23,919 –
Other residential  928 1,220 – – 330 2,478 652
Commercial property  654 3,627 – – 516 4,797 2,854
Leveraged finance-related assets 172 3,660 – – 218 4,050 2,526
Student loan-related assets 242 3,545 – – 119 3,906 3,284
Other assets 1,264 1,114 – 19 646 3,043 758
At 31 December 2014 3,560 29,670 13,447 19 2,247 48,943 14,560
    
Mortgage-related assets:    
Sub-prime residential  178 2,977 – – 403 3,558 2,782
US Alt-A residential  101 3,538 18 – 134 3,791 2,926
US Government agency and sponsored 
enterprises:        
MBSs  178 18,661 1,110 – – 19,949 –
Other residential  618 1,925 – – 399 2,942 1,513
Commercial property  133 5,667 – 104 669 6,573 5,146
Leveraged finance-related assets 294 5,011 – – 251 5,556 4,310
Student loan-related assets 196 3,705 – – 121 4,022 3,495
Other assets 1,271 1,265 – 34 1,186 3,756 989
At 31 December 2013 2,969 42,749 1,128 138 3,163 50,147 21,161
For footnote, see page 202. 
 
Representations and warranties related to 
mortgage sales and securitisation activities 
(Unaudited) 
We have been involved in various activities related to the 
sale and securitisation of residential mortgages that are 
not recognised on our balance sheet. These activities 
include: 
• the purchase of US$24bn of third-party originated 
mortgages by HSBC Bank USA and their securitisation 
by HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. (‘HSI’) between 2005 
and 2007; 
• HSI acting as underwriter for the third-party issuance 
of private label mortgage-backed securities (‘MBS’s) 
with an original issuance value of US$37bn, most of 
which were sub-prime; and 
• the origination and sale by HSBC Bank USA 
of mortgage loans, primarily to government-
sponsored entities. 
In selling and securitising mortgage loans, various 
representations and warranties may be made to 
purchasers of the mortgage loans and MBSs. When 
purchasing and securitising mortgages originated by 
third parties and underwriting third-party MBSs, the 
obligation to repurchase loans in the event of a breach 
of loan level representations and warranties resides 
predominantly with the organisation that originated the 
loan. 
Participants in the US mortgage securitisation market 
that purchased and repackaged whole loans, such as 
servicers, originators, underwriters, trustees or sponsors 
of securitisations, have been the subject of lawsuits and 
governmental and regulatory investigations and 
inquiries. 
At 31 December 2014, a liability of US$27m (2013: 
US$99m) was recognised in respect of various 
representations and warranties regarding the origination 
and sale by HSBC Bank USA of mortgage loans, primarily 
to government sponsored entities. These relate to, 
among other things, the ownership of the loans, the 
validity of the liens, the loan selection and origination 
process and compliance with the origination criteria 
established by the agencies. In the event of a breach 
of its representations and warranties, HSBC Bank USA 
may be obliged to repurchase the loans with identified 
defects or to indemnify the buyers. The estimated 
liability was based on the level of outstanding 
repurchase demands, the level of outstanding requests 
for loan files and the expected future repurchase 
demands in respect of mortgages sold to date which 
were either two or more payments delinquent or might 
become delinquent at an estimated conversion rate. 
Repurchase demands of US$3m were outstanding at 
2014 (2013: US$44m). 
For further information on legal proceedings and regulatory 
matters, see Note 40 on the Financial Statements.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
163 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Liquidity and funding 
 Page App
1
Tables Page 
Liquidity and funding  164 215
Primary sources of funding  215
Liquidity and funding in 2014 164
Customer deposit markets  164
Wholesale senior funding markets 164
Liquidity regulation  164
Management of liquidity and funding risk  165 215
Inherent liquidity risk categorisation 215
Core deposits  216
Advances to core funding ratio  165 216 Advances to core funding ratios 165
Stressed coverage ratios  165 216 Stressed one-month and three-month coverage ratios  165
Stressed scenario analysis  216
Liquid assets of HSBC’s principal operating 
entities  166 217 Liquid assets of HSBC’s principal entities  166 
Net contractual cash flows  166 217 Net cash inflows/(outflows) for inter-bank loans and 
intra-group deposits and reverse repo, repo and short 
positions  167 
Wholesale debt monitoring 218
Liquidity behaviouralisation 218
Funds transfer pricing 219
Contingent liquidity risk arising from committed 
lending facilities  167  
The Group’s contractual undrawn exposures monitored  
under the contingent liquidity risk limit structure 167 
Sources of funding  168
Repos and stock lending  219 Funding sources and uses 168
Cross-border intra-Group and cross-currency 
liquidity and funding risk  169 Advances to core funding ratios by material currency 169 
Wholesale term debt maturity profile 
169 
Wholesale funding cash flows payable by HSBC under 
financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities 170 
Encumbered and unencumbered assets  171 220 Summary of assets available to support potential future 
funding and collateral needs (on and off-balance sheet) 171 
Collateral 171
The effect of active collateral management 220
Off-balance sheet collateral received and pledged 
for reverse repo, stock borrowing and derivative 
transactions 171    
Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and 
unencumbered assets 
171 Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and  
unencumbered assets 172 
Additional contractual obligations  173
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities  173 Cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities  
by remaining contractual maturities  173 
Management of cross-currency liquidity and 
funding risk 221   
HSBC Holdings  174 221 Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial 
liabilities by remaining contractual maturities  174 
1 Appendix to Risk – risk policies and practices. 
 
  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Liquidity and funding 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
164 
Liquidity and funding 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not 
have sufficient financial resources to meet its 
obligations as they fall due, or will have to do 
so at an excessive cost. The risk arises from 
mismatches in the timing of cash flows. 
There were no material changes to our policies and 
practices for the management of liquidity and funding 
risks in 2014. 
Following the change in balance sheet presentation 
explained on page 347, the advances to deposits ratio 
now excludes non-trading reverse repos and repos 
with customers. The change had no effect on the 
31 December 2013 ratio as disclosed. 
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding 
liquidity and funding is provided in the Appendix to Risk on 
page 215. 
Our liquidity and funding risk management framework  
The objective of our liquidity framework is to allow us to 
withstand very severe liquidity stresses. It is designed to be 
adaptable to changing business models, markets and 
regulations. 
Our liquidity and funding risk management framework requires: 
• liquidity to be managed by operating entities on a 
stand-alone basis with no implicit reliance on the Group or 
central banks; 
• all operating entities to comply with their limits for the 
advances to core funding ratio; and 
• all operating entities to maintain a positive stressed cash 
flow position out to three months under prescribed 
Group stress scenarios. 
Liquidity and funding in 2014 
(Unaudited) 
The liquidity position of the Group strengthened in 2014, 
and we continued to enjoy strong inflows of customer 
deposits and maintained good access to wholesale 
markets. Customer accounts increased by 4% (US$47bn) 
on a constant currency basis. On a reported basis, 
customer account balances decreased marginally by 1% 
(US$11bn). Loans and advances to customers increased 
by 3% (US$28bn) on a constant currency basis. On a 
reported basis, loans and advances to customers 
decreased by 2% (US$17bn). These changes resulted in a 
small decrease in our advances to deposits ratio to 72% 
(2013:73%) 
HSBC UK recorded a decrease in its advances to core 
funding (‘ACF’) ratio to 97% at 31 December 2014 (2013: 
100%), mainly because core deposits increased more 
than advances, and due to the disposal of legacy assets. 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
recorded an increase in its ACF ratio to 75% at 
31 December 2014 (2013: 72%), mainly because 
advances increased more than core deposits. 
HSBC USA recorded an increase in its ACF ratio to 100% 
at 31 December 2014 (2013: 85%), mainly because of 
growth in customer advances. 
HSBC UK, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and 
HSBC USA are defined in footnotes 26 to 28 on page 202. The 
ACF ratio is discussed on page 216. 
 
Customer deposit markets 
(On constant currency basis) 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
RBWM customer account balances increased by 4%, 
driven by our two home markets of the UK and Hong 
Kong and the majority of our priority growth markets. 
Commercial Banking 
Customer accounts increased by 7% in 2014, driven by 
growth in Payments and Cash Management accounts in 
our two home markets. 
Global Banking and Markets 
Customer accounts increased by 2% in 2014, mainly from 
a rise in Payments and Cash Management accounts. 
Global Private Banking 
GPB customer account balances decreased by 10% 
compared with the end of 2013 following the continued 
repositioning of the GPB business and a client portfolio 
disposal. 
Wholesale senior funding markets 
Conditions in the bank wholesale debt markets were 
generally positive in 2014, supporting increased primary 
market issuance volumes across the capital structure 
from banks when compared with 2013. Periods of 
volatility remained, however, particularly during the 
latter months of the year when concerns around the 
decline in the oil price and growth in Europe combined 
with a variety of other factors to leave the outlook 
uncertain, with market confidence affected as a result. 
In 2014, we issued the equivalent of US$20bn (2013: 
US$16bn) of senior term debt securities in the public 
capital markets in a range of currencies and maturities 
from a number of Group entities. 
Liquidity regulation 
(Unaudited) 
The European adoption of the Basel Committee 
framework (legislative texts known as the Capital 
Requirements Regulation and Directive – ‘CRR/CRD IV’) 
was published in June 2013, and required the reporting 
of the liquidity coverage ratio (‘LCR’) and the net stable 
funding ratio (‘NSFR’) to European regulators from 
January 2014, which was subsequently delayed until 
30 June 2014. A significant level of interpretation has 
been required to report and calculate the LCR as defined 
in the CRR text as certain areas were only addressed by 
the finalisation of the LCR delegated act in January 2015, 
which will not become a regulatory standard until 
1 October 2015. The European calibration of NSFR is still 
pending following the Basel Committee’s final 
recommendation in October 2014.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
165 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Management of liquidity and funding risk 
(Audited) 
Our liquidity and funding risk management framework 
(‘LFRF’) employs two key measures to define, monitor 
and control the liquidity and funding risk of each of our 
operating entities. The ACF ratio is used to monitor the 
structural long-term funding position, and the stressed 
coverage ratio, incorporating Group-defined stress 
scenarios, is used to monitor the resilience to severe 
liquidity stresses. 
The three principal entities listed in the tables below 
represented 66% (2013: 66%) of the Group’s customer 
accounts. Including the other principal entities, the 
percentage was 95% (2013: 94%). 
Advances to core funding ratio 
The table to the right shows the extent to which loans 
and advances to customers in our principal banking 
entities were financed by reliable and stable sources of 
funding. 
ACF limits set for principal operating entities at 
31 December 2014 ranged between 80% and 120%. 
Core funding represents the core component of 
customer deposits and any term professional funding 
with a residual contractual maturity beyond one year. 
Capital is excluded from our definition of core funding. 
Stressed coverage ratios 
The ratios tabulated below express stressed cash inflows 
as a percentage of stressed cash outflows over both 
one-month and three-month time horizons. Operating 
entities are required to maintain a ratio of 100% or 
greater out to three months. 
Inflows included in the numerator of the stressed 
coverage ratio are generated from liquid assets net of 
assumed haircuts, and cash inflows related to assets 
contractually maturing within the time period. 
In general, customer advances are assumed to be 
renewed and as a result do not generate a cash inflow. 
Advances to core funding ratios
25 
(Audited) 
 At 31 December
  2014   2013
  %   %
HSBC UK
26
    
Year-end   97   100
Maximum   102   107
Minimum   97   100
Average   100   104
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation
27
  
 
 
Year-end  75  72
Maximum  75  77
Minimum  72  70
Average  74  74
HSBC USA
28
   
Year-end  100  85
Maximum  100  85
Minimum  85  78
Average  95  82
Total of HSBC’s other principal 
entities
29
  
 
Year-end  92  93
Maximum  94  93
Minimum  92  89
Average  93  91
For footnotes, see page 202. 
The one-month stressed coverage ratio for HSBC UK 
increased as certain assets previously treated as realisable 
under stress between 1 and 3 months were reassessed as 
being either realisable within 1 month or beyond 3 
months. The three-month stressed coverage ratio 
remained broadly unchanged. 
The stressed coverage ratios for the other entities 
remained broadly unchanged. 
Stressed one-month and three-month coverage ratios
25 
(Audited)
 
 
Stressed one-month coverage
ratios at 31 December 
Stressed three-month coverage
ratios at 31 December 
 2014 2013 2014   2013
 % % %   %
HSBC UK
26
   
Year-end  117 106 109  109
Maximum  117 114 109  109
Minimum  102 100 103  101
Average  107 106 104  103
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
27
   
Year-end  117 119 112  114
Maximum 119 131 114  126
Minimum  114 113 111  109
Average  116 119 112  114
HSBC USA
28
   
Year-end  111 114 104  110
Maximum  122 126 111  119
Minimum  108 110 104  109
Average  115 115 107  112
Total of HSBC’s other principal entities
29
   
Year-end  121 121 108  114
Maximum  121 128 115  119
Minimum  114 113 108  109
Average  117 120 110  113
For footnotes, see page 202.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Liquidity and funding 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
166 
Liquid assets of HSBC’s principal operating 
entities 
The table below shows the estimated liquidity value 
(before assumed haircuts) of assets categorised as liquid 
and used for the purposes of calculating the three-month 
stressed coverage ratios, as defined under the LFRF. 
The level of liquid assets reported reflects the stock of 
unencumbered liquid assets at the reporting date, 
adjusted for the effect of reverse repo, repo and 
collateral swaps maturing within three months as the 
liquidity value of these transactions is reflected as a 
contractual cash flow reported in the net contractual 
cash flow table. 
Like reverse repo transactions with residual contractual 
maturities within three months, unsecured interbank 
loans maturing within three months are not included in 
liquid assets, but are treated as contractual cash inflows. 
Liquid assets are held and managed on a stand-alone 
operating entity basis. Most of the liquid assets shown 
are held directly by each operating entity’s Balance Sheet 
Management function, primarily for the purpose of 
managing liquidity risk, in line with the LFRF. 
Liquid assets also include any unencumbered liquid 
assets held outside Balance Sheet Management for any 
other purpose. The LFRF gives ultimate control of all 
unencumbered assets and sources of liquidity to Balance 
Sheet Management. 
For a summary of our liquid asset policy and definitions of the 
classifications shown in the table below, see the Appendix to 
Risk on page 217. 
 
Liquid assets of HSBC’s principal entities 
(Audited) 
 Estimated liquidity value
30
 
31 December
 2014  
 31 December 
 2013 
 US$m   US$m
HSBC UK
26
  
Level 1  131,756 168,877
Level 2  4,688 1,076
Level 3  66,011 63,509
 202,455 233,462
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
27
  
Level 1  109,683 108,713
Level 2  4,854 5,191
Level 3  7,043 7,106
 121,580 121,010
HSBC USA
28
  
Level 1  51,969 43,446
Level 2  15,184 12,709
Level 3  197 5,044
Other  9,492 8,000
 76,842 69,199
Total of HSBC’s other principal entities
29
  
Level 1  141,659 144,774
Level 2  10,419 12,419
Level 3  13,038 13,663
 165,116 170,856
For footnotes, see page 202. 
All assets held within the liquid asset portfolio are 
unencumbered. 
Liquid assets held by HSBC UK decreased as a result 
of switching from central bank reserves to short-term 
reverse repo placements. A corresponding improvement 
can be seen in HSBC UK’s net repo cash flow shown in 
the net contractual cash flow table.  
Liquid assets held by The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation remained broadly unchanged. 
Liquid assets held by HSBC USA increased, mainly due to 
a reduction in short-term repos and the reclassification 
of some assets as liquid in line with the LFRF.  
Net contractual cash flows 
The following table quantifies the contractual cash flows 
from interbank and intra-Group loans and deposits, and 
reverse repo, repo (including intra-Group transactions) 
and short positions for the principal entities shown. 
These contractual cash inflows and outflows are reflected 
gross in the numerator and denominator, respectively, of 
the one and three-month stressed coverage ratios and 
should be considered alongside the level of liquid assets. 
Outflows included in the denominator of the stressed 
coverage ratios include the principal outflows associated 
with the contractual maturity of wholesale debt 
securities reported in the table headed ‘Wholesale  
funding cash flows payable by HSBC under financial 
liabilities by remaining contractual maturities’ on 
page 170. 
For a summary of our policy and definitions of the classifications 
shown in the table below, see the Appendix to Risk on page 218. 
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
167 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Net cash inflows/(outflows) for interbank and intra-Group loans and deposits and reverse repo, repo and short positions 
(Audited) 
 At 31 December 2014 At 31 December 2013
 
Cash flows
 within 1 month 
Cash flows from
 1 to 3 months 
Cash flows 
 within 1 month  
 Cash flows from
 1 to 3 months 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m
Interbank and intra-Group loans and deposits  
HSBC UK
26
 (14,110) (2,846) (19,033) (5,272)
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
27
  (1,277) 6,862 2,314 7,487
HSBC USA
28
 
 
(18,353) 1,648 (24,268) 729
Total of HSBC’s other principal entities
29
 
 
(1,322) 6,158 4,295 10,149
Reverse repo, repo, stock borrowing, stock lending and outright 
short positions (including intra-Group)     
HSBC UK
26
  (16,070) 11,551 (39,064) 149
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
27
  8,139 8,189 12,662 4,297
HSBC USA
28
 
 
(4,928) – (11,001) –
Total of HSBC’s other principal entities
29
 
 
(22,110) (11,120) (40,223) 9,551
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Contingent liquidity risk arising from 
committed lending facilities 
(Audited)
 
The Group’s operating entities provide commitments 
to various counterparties. In terms of liquidity risk, 
the most significant risk relates to committed lending 
facilities which, whilst undrawn, give rise to contingent 
liquidity risk as they could be drawn during a period of 
liquidity stress. Commitments are given to customers 
and committed lending facilities are provided to 
consolidated multi-seller conduits established to enable 
clients to access flexible market-based sources of finance 
(see page 443), consolidated securities investment 
conduits and third-party sponsored conduits. 
The consolidated securities investment conduits include 
Solitaire Funding Limited (‘Solitaire’) and Mazarin 
Funding Limited (‘Mazarin’). They issue asset-backed 
commercial paper secured against the portfolio of 
securities held by them. At 31 December 2014, HSBC 
UK had undrawn committed lending facilities to these 
conduits of US$11bn (2013: US$15bn), of which Solitaire 
represented US$9.5bn (2013: US$11bn) and the 
remaining US$1.6bn (2013: US$4bn) pertained 
to Mazarin. Although HSBC UK provides a liquidity 
facility, Solitaire and Mazarin have no need to draw on it 
so long as HSBC purchases the commercial paper issued, 
which it intends to do for the foreseeable future. At 
31 December 2014, the commercial paper issued by 
Solitaire and Mazarin was entirely held by HSBC UK. 
Since HSBC controls the size of the portfolio of securities 
held by these conduits, no contingent liquidity risk 
exposure arises as a result of these undrawn committed 
lending facilities.  
The table below shows the level of undrawn 
commitments to customers outstanding for the five 
largest single facilities and the largest market sector, 
and the extent to which they are undrawn. 
 
The Group’s contractual undrawn exposures at 31 December monitored under the contingent liquidity risk limit structure 
(Audited) 
  
HSBC UK
26
 HSBC USA
28
 HSBC Canada  
The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking 
Corporation
27
 
   2014   2013 2014 2013 2014 2013   2014   2013
   US$bn   US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn   US$bn   US$bn
Commitments to conduits        
Consolidated multi-seller conduits       
–  total lines   9.8  10.1 2.3 2.5 0.2 1.0  –  –
–  largest individual lines   0.9  0.7 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.7  –  –
Consolidated securities 
investment conduits  – total 
lines  
 
11.1  14.8 – – – –  –  – 
Third party conduits – total lines  –   – 0.1 0.7 – – –  –
        
Commitments to customers        
–  five largest
31
   2.6  4.4 7.1 6.3 1.7 1.5  1.5  2.4
–  largest market sector
32
   16.6  9.5 10.0 8.2 3.5 3.4  3.2  2.7
For footnotes, see page 202.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Liquidity and funding 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
168 
Sources of funding 
(Audited) 
Our primary sources of funding are customer current 
accounts and customer savings deposits payable on 
demand or at short notice. We issue wholesale securities 
(secured and unsecured) to supplement our customer 
deposits and change the currency mix, maturity profile 
or location of our liabilities. 
The ‘Funding sources and uses’ table below, which 
provides a consolidated view of how our balance sheet 
is funded, should be read in light of the LFRF, which 
requires operating entities to manage liquidity and 
funding risk on a stand-alone basis. 
The table analyses our consolidated balance sheet 
according to the assets that primarily arise from 
operating activities and the sources of funding primarily 
supporting these activities. The assets and liabilities that 
do not arise from operating activities are presented as a 
net balancing source or deployment of funds. 
The level of customer accounts continued to exceed the 
level of loans and advances to customers. The positive 
funding gap was predominantly deployed in liquid assets 
– cash and balances with central banks and financial 
investments – as required by the LFRF. 
Loans and other receivables due from banks continued 
to exceed deposits taken from banks. The Group 
remained a net unsecured lender to the banking sector. 
For a summary of sources and utilisation of repos and stock 
lending, see the Appendix to Risk on page 219. 
 
Funding sources and uses
33
 
(Audited) 
   2014   2013
   US$m   US$m
Sources  
Customer accounts
1
  1,350,642 1,361,297
Deposits by banks
1
  77,426 86,507
Repurchase agreements – 
non-trading
1
 107,432 164,220 
Debt securities issued  95,947 104,080
Subordinated liabilities  26,664 28,976
Financial liabilities designated   
at fair value  76,153 89,084
Liabilities under insurance contracts 73,861 74,181
Trading liabilities  190,572 207,025
– repos  3,798 17,421
– stock lending  12,032 12,218
– settlement accounts  17,454 17,428
– other trading liabilities  157,288 159,958
Total equity  199,979 190,459
At 31 December 2,198,676 2,305,829
 
 
2014 2013
US$m US$m
Uses 
Loans and advances to customers
1
  974,660 992,089
Loans and advances to banks
1
112,149 120,046
Repurchase agreements –
non-trading
1
 161,713 179,690 
Trading assets 304,193 303,192
– reverse repos 1,297 10,120
– stock borrowing 7,969 10,318
– settlement accounts 21,327 19,435
– other trading assets 273,600 263,319
 
Financial investments 415,467 425,925
Cash and balances with central 
banks  
 
129,957 166,599
Net deployment in other balance
sheet assets and liabilities 
 
100,537 118,288
At 31 December 2,198,676 2,305,829 
For footnote, see page 202. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
169 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Cross-border, intra-Group and cross-currency 
liquidity and funding risk 
(Unaudited) 
The stand-alone operating entity approach to liquidity and 
funding mandated by the LFRF restricts the exposure of our 
operating entities to the risks that can arise from extensive 
reliance on cross-border funding. Operating entities 
manage their funding sources locally, focusing 
predominantly on the local customer deposit base. The 
RBWM, CMB and GPB customer relationships that give rise 
to core deposits within an operating entity generally reflect 
a local customer relationship with that operating entity. 
Access to public debt markets is co-ordinated globally by 
the Global Head of Balance Sheet Management and the 
Group Treasurer with Group ALCO monitoring all planned 
public debt issuance on a monthly basis. As a general 
principle, operating entities are only permitted to issue in 
their local currency and are encouraged to focus on local 
private placements. The public issuance of debt 
instruments in foreign currency is tightly controlled and 
generally restricted to HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank. 
A central principle of our stand-alone approach to LFRF is 
that operating entities place no future reliance on other 
Group entities. However, operating entities may, at their 
discretion, utilise their respective committed facilities from 
other Group entities if necessary. In addition, intra-Group 
large exposure limits are applied by national regulators to 
individual legal entities locally, which restricts the 
unsecured exposures of legal entities to the rest of the 
Group to a percentage of the lender’s regulatory capital. 
Our LFRF also considers the ability of each entity to 
continue to access foreign exchange markets under 
stress when a surplus in one currency is used to meet 
a deficit in another currency, for example, by using the 
foreign currency swap markets. Where appropriate, 
operating entities are required to monitor stressed 
coverage ratios and ACF ratios for non-local currencies 
and set limits for them. Foreign currency swap markets 
in currency pairs settled through the Continuous Link 
Settlement Bank are considered to be extremely deep 
and liquid and it is assumed that capacity to access these 
markets is not exposed to idiosyncratic risks. The table 
below shows the ACF ratios by material currencies for 
the year ended 31 December 2014.  
Advances to core funding ratios by material currency
25
 
(Unaudited) 
 
  At 31 
 December 
  2014
  %
HSBC UK
26
 
Local currency (sterling) 98
US dollars  100
Euros 99
Consolidated  97
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation
27
  
Local currency (Hong Kong dollars)  81
US dollars  74
Consolidated 75
HSBC USA
28
 
Local currency (US dollars) 100
Consolidated 100
Total of HSBC’s other principal entities
29
  
Local currency 97
US dollars  101
Consolidated  92
For footnotes, see page 202. 
For all HSBC’s operating entities, the only significant foreign 
currencies that exceed 5% of Group balance sheet liabilities 
are the Hong Kong dollar, euro, sterling and US dollar. 
Wholesale term debt maturity profile 
(Unaudited) 
The maturity profile of our wholesale term debt 
obligations is set out in the table on page 170, 
‘Wholesale funding principal cash flows payable by HSBC 
under financial liabilities by remaining contractual 
maturities’. 
The balances in the table do not agree directly with 
those in the consolidated balance sheet as the table 
presents gross cash flows relating to principal payments 
and not the balance sheet carrying value, which includes 
debt securities and subordinated liabilities measured at 
fair value. 
   
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC
170 
Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Liquidity and funding 
 
 
Wholesale funding cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities 
(Unaudited) 
 
 
 Due not
 more than
 1 month 
Due over 
 1 month 
 but not 
 more than 
 3 months 
Due over 
 3 months 
 but not 
 more than 
 6 months 
Due over 
 6 months 
 but not 
 more than 
 9 months 
Due over 
 9 months 
 but not 
 more than 
 1 year 
Due over 
 1 year 
 but not 
 more than 
 2 years 
Due over 
 2 years 
 but not 
 more than 
 5 years 
Due over
5 years Total 
  US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Debt securities issued  17,336 17,161 19,030 9,352 9,055 27,312 40,855 31,928 172,029
–  unsecured CDs and CP  5,637 9,337 9,237 4,793 3,010 3,506 4,158 185 39,863
–  unsecured senior MTNs  1,300 5,679 7,684 2,922 4,794 17,676 23,523 20,715 84,293
–  unsecured senior structured notes   1,363 1,082 2,049 1,149 979 4,757 8,444 6,789 26,612
–  secured covered bonds  – – – 205 – – 2,765 2,942 5,912
–  secured ABCP  8,602 – – – – – – – 8,602
–  secured ABS  212 1,063 60 283 272 915 1,562 – 4,367
–  others   222 – – – – 458 403 1,297 2,380
Subordinated liabilities  – 150 – 3 185 113 5,556 40,487 46,494
–  subordinated debt securities  – 150 – 3 185 113 5,556 34,750 40,757
–  preferred securities  – – – – – – – 5,737 5,737
At 31 December 2014 17,336 17,311 19,030 9,355 9,240 27,425 46,411 72,415 218,523
  
Debt securities issued  25,426 9,752 17,942 11,659 10,587 31,839 46,934 31,066 185,205
–  unsecured CDs and CP  7,589 7,206 9,867 3,239 5,043 4,449 2,749 − 40,142
–  unsecured senior MTNs  6,284 71 5,448 4,221 3,062 21,428 33,091 21,433 95,038
–  unsecured senior structured notes   987 1,423 1,952 1,689 1,718 3,712 6,036 5,021 22,538
–  secured covered bonds  − − − 1,250 − 225 2,747 3,317 7,539
–  secured ABCP  10,383 − − − − − − − 10,383
–  secured ABS  74 1,052 675 1,260 764 1,861 2,311 − 7,997
–  others   109 − − − − 164 − 1,295 1,568
Subordinated liabilities  − 28 1,171 144 6 1,460 3,374 41,801 47,984
–  subordinated debt securities   − 28 1,171 144 6 460 3,374 34,899 40,082
–  preferred securities  − − − − − 1,000 − 6,902 7,902
At 31 December 2013 25,426 9,780 19,113 11,803 10,593 33,299 50,308 72,867 233,189  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
171 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Encumbered and unencumbered assets 
(Unaudited) 
The table on page 172, ‘Analysis of on-balance sheet 
encumbered and unencumbered assets’, summarises the 
total on and off-balance sheet assets that are capable of 
supporting future funding and  collateral needs and 
shows the extent to which these assets are currently 
pledged for this purpose. The objective of this disclosure 
is to facilitate an understanding of available and 
unrestricted assets that could be used to support 
potential future funding and collateral needs. 
The disclosure is not designed to identify assets which 
would be available to meet the claims of creditors or to 
predict assets that would be available to creditors in the 
event of a resolution or bankruptcy. 
An asset is defined as encumbered if it has been pledged 
as collateral against an existing liability, and as a result 
is no longer available to the Group to secure funding, 
satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce the funding 
requirement. An asset is therefore categorised as 
unencumbered if it has not been pledged against an 
existing liability. Unencumbered assets are further 
analysed into four separate sub-categories; ‘readily 
realisable assets’, ‘other realisable assets’, ‘reverse 
repo/stock borrowing receivables and derivative assets’ 
and ‘cannot be pledged as collateral’. 
At 31 December 2014, the Group held US$1,770bn of 
unencumbered assets that could be used to support 
potential future funding and collateral needs, 
representing 85% of the total assets that can support 
funding and collateral needs (on and off-balance sheet). 
Of this amount, US$765bn (US$684bn on-balance sheet) 
were assessed to be readily realisable.
 
Summary of assets available to support potential future funding and collateral needs (on and off-balance sheet) 
(Unaudited) 
 2014 2013
 US$bn US$bn
Total on-balance sheet assets  2,634 2,671
Less:  
Reverse repo/stock borrowing receivables and derivative assets (518) (482)
Other assets that cannot be pledged as collateral  (281) (255)
Total on-balance sheet assets that can support funding and collateral needs 1,835 1,934
Add off-balance sheet assets:  
Fair value of collateral received from reverse repo/stock borrowing/derivatives that is available to sell 
or repledge  257 265 
Total assets that can support funding and collateral needs (on and off-balance sheet) 2,092 2,199
Less:  
On-balance sheet assets pledged  (146) (187)
Off-balance sheet collateral received from reverse repo/stock borrowing/derivatives which has been 
repledged or sold  (176) (187)
Assets available to support future funding and collateral needs at 31 December 1,770 1,825
For a summary of our policy on collateral management and 
definition of encumbrance, see the Appendix to Risk on 
page 213. 
Collateral 
(Unaudited) 
Off-balance sheet collateral received and pledged 
for reverse repo, stock borrowing and derivative 
transactions 
The fair value of assets accepted as collateral that we are 
permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default 
was US$257bn at 31 December 2014 (2013: US$265bn). 
The fair value of any such collateral sold or repledged 
was US$176bn (2013: US$187bn). We are obliged to 
return equivalent securities. These transactions are 
conducted under terms that are usual and customary to 
standard reverse repo, stock borrowing and derivative 
transactions. 
The fair value of collateral received and repledged 
in relation to reverse repos, stock borrowing and 
derivatives is reported on a gross basis. The related 
balance sheet receivables and payables are reported on 
a net basis where required under IFRSs offset criteria. 
As a consequence of reverse repo, stock borrowing and 
derivative transactions where the collateral received 
could be but had not been sold or repledged, we 
held US$81bn (2013: US$78bn) of unencumbered 
collateral available to support potential future funding 
and collateral needs at 31 December 2014. 
Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and 
unencumbered assets 
The table below presents an analysis of on-balance 
sheet holdings only, and shows the amounts of balance 
sheet assets on a liquidity and funding basis that are 
encumbered. The table therefore excludes any available 
off-balance sheet holdings received in respect of reverse 
repos, stock borrowing or derivatives. 
  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Liquidity and funding 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
172 
Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets 
(Unaudited) 
  Encumbered Unencumbered  
 
 
 Assets 
 pledged as 
 collateral
 Readily 
 realisable 
assets
 Other 
 realisable 
assets
Reverse 
 repos/stock 
 borrowing 
 receivables
and derivative 
assets  
 Cannot 
 be pledged 
 as collateral   Total
   US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
Cash and balances at central banks  – 123,990 425 – 5,542 129,957
Items in the course of collection from other 
banks  – – – – 4,927 4,927
Hong Kong Government certificates of 
indebtedness  – – – – 27,674 27,674
Trading assets  59,162 182,305 17,869 9,266 35,591 304,193
–  Treasury and other eligible bills  1,994 14,122 4 – 50  16,170
–  debt securities  46,311 94,941 23 – 257  141,532
–  equity securities  10,857 62,855 1,497 – 40  75,249
–  loans and advances to banks – 2,530 4,818 2,781 17,452  27,581
–  loans and advances to customers  – 7,857 11,527 6,485 17,792  43,661
Financial assets designated at fair value  – 177 2,330 26,530 29,037
–  Treasury and other eligible bills  – – 52 – 4  56
–  debt securities  – 177 1,058 – 7,656  8,891
–  equity securities  – – 1,139 – 18,867  20,006
–  loans and advances to banks and  
customers  – – 81 – 3  84
Derivatives  – – – 345,008 – 345,008
Loans and advances to banks  178 3,573 74,231 762 33,405 112,149
Loans and advances to customers 24,329 92,238 840,241 1,170 16,682 974,660
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading – – – 161,713 – 161,713
Financial investments  61,785 275,732 22,780 – 55,170 415,467
–  Treasury and other eligible bills  3,176 75,896 2,167 – 278  81,517
–  debt securities  58,609 192,411 18,266 – 53,970  323,256
–  equity securities  – 7,425 2,347 – 922  10,694
Prepayments, accrued income and 
other assets  294 6,334 29,780 – 38,768 75,176
Current tax assets  – – – – 1,309 1,309
Interest in associates and joint ventures  – 22 17,875 – 284 18,181
Goodwill and intangible assets  – – – – 27,577 27,577
Deferred tax  – – – – 7,111 7,111
At 31 December 2014 145,748 684,371 1,005,531 517,919 280,570 2,634,139
   
Cash and balances at central banks  – 161,240 269 – 5,090 166,599
Items in the course of collection from other banks  – – – – 6,021 6,021
Hong Kong Government certificates of 
indebtedness  – – – – 25,220 25,220
Trading assets  99,326 142,211 14,654 20,438 26,563 303,192
–  Treasury and other eligible bills  3,402 17,976 206 – –  21,584
–  debt securities  83,563 57,850 – – 231  141,644
–  equity securities  8,373 55,156 363 – –  63,892
–  loans and advances to banks  1,796 2,813 6,151 5,263 11,861  27,884
–  loans and advances to customers  2,192 8,416 7,934 15,175 14,471  48,188
Financial assets designated at fair value  19 2,706 1,883 – 33,822 38,430
–  Treasury and other eligible bills  – – – – 50  50
–  debt securities  19 826 776 – 10,968  12,589
–  equity securities  – 1,874 1,103 – 22,734  25,711
–  loans and advances to banks and  
customers – 64 – 70  80
Derivatives  – – – 282,265 – 282,265
Loans and advances to banks 162 8,342 80,231 – 31,311 120,046
Loans and advances to customers 32,218 102,203 854,724 65 2,879 992,089
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading – – – 179,690 – 179,690
Financial investments  54,473 289,093 31,096 – 51,263 425,925
–  Treasury and other eligible bills  2,985 72,849 2,052 – 226  78,112
–  debt securities  51,488 210,516 25,720 – 50,949  338,673
–  equity securities  – 5,728 3,324 – 88  9,140
Prepayments, accrued income and 
other assets  1,028 16,788 24,619 – 34,407 76,842
Current tax assets  – – – – 985 985
Interest in associates and joint ventures  – 12 16,356 – 272 16,640
Goodwill and intangible assets  – – – – 29,918 29,918
Deferred tax  – – – – 7,456 7,456
At 31 December 2013 187,226 722,595 1,023,832 482,458 255,207 2,671,318
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
173 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The US$24bn (2013: US$32bn) of loans and advances to 
customers reported in the table above as encumbered 
have been pledged predominantly to support the 
issuance of secured debt instruments such as covered 
bonds and ABSs, including asset-backed commercial 
paper issued by consolidated multi-seller conduits. It also 
includes those pledged in relation to any other form of 
secured borrowing. 
In total, the Group pledged US$121bn (2013: US$150bn) 
of negotiable securities, predominantly as a result of 
market-making in securities financing to our clients. 
Additional contractual obligations 
Under the terms of our current collateral obligations 
under derivative contracts (which are ISDA compliant 
CSA contracts and contracts entered for pension 
obligations, and exclude the contracts entered for 
special purpose vehicles and additional termination 
events) and based on the positions at 31 December 
2014, we estimate that we could be required to post 
additional collateral of up to US$0.5bn (2013: US$0.7bn) 
in the event of a one-notch downgrade in credit ratings, 
which would increase to US$1.2bn (2013: US$1.2bn) in 
the event of a two-notch downgrade. 
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities 
(Audited) 
The balances in the table below do not agree directly 
with those in our consolidated balance sheet as the table 
incorporates, on an undiscounted basis, all cash flows 
relating to principal and future coupon payments (except 
for trading liabilities and derivatives not treated as 
hedging derivatives). Undiscounted cash flows payable 
in relation to hedging derivative liabilities are classified 
according to their contractual maturities. Trading 
liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging 
derivatives are included in the ‘On demand’ time bucket 
and not by contractual maturity.  
A maturity analysis of repos and debt securities in issue included 
in trading liabilities is presented in Note 31 on the Financial 
Statements. 
In addition, loans and other credit-related commitments 
and financial guarantees and similar contracts are 
generally not recognised on our balance sheet. The 
undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under 
financial guarantees and similar contracts are classified 
on the basis of the earliest date they can be called. 
 
Cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities 
(Audited) 
 
On 
 demand
 US$m 
Due within
 3 months
 US$m 
Due between 3
 and 12 months
US$m 
Due between 
 1 and 5 years  
 US$m  
 Due after
 5 years
 US$m 
Deposits by banks  52,682 17,337 3,600 3,580 390
Customer accounts  1,088,769 187,207 61,687 15,826 390
Repurchase agreements – non-trading  8,727 91,542 6,180 23 1,057
Trading liabilities  190,572 – – – –
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  365 2,201 9,192 28,260 39,397
Derivatives  335,168 375 1,257 4,231 1,517
Debt securities in issue  9 32,513 30,194 37,842 7,710
Subordinated liabilities  – 737 1,256 10,003 42,328
Other financial liabilities  41,517 23,228 4,740 1,893 988
 1,717,809 355,140 118,106 101,658 93,777
Loan and other credit-related commitments  406,561 101,156 64,582 62,312 16,769
Financial guarantees and similar contracts  13,166 6,306 13,753 9,575 4,278
At 31 December 2014 2,137,536 462,602 196,441 173,545 114,824
   
Deposits by banks  56,198 22,965 3,734 2,819 686
Customer accounts  1,097,159 196,048 57,243 15,520 726
Repurchase agreements – non-trading  37,117 112,621 14,177 – –
Trading liabilities  207,025 – – – –
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  18,689 1,967 3,223 39,554 64,144
Derivatives  269,554 456 1,684 6,099 1,638
Debt securities in issue  2,528 35,401 33,695 46,141 6,526
Subordinated liabilities  55 391 2,687 11,871 44,969
Other financial liabilities  31,996 30,706 6,564 2,376 1,300
 1,720,321400,555123,007124,380 119,989
Loan and other credit-related commitments  377,352 79,599 55,124 59,747 16,872
Financial guarantees and similar contracts  18,039 4,796 12,040 7,479 3,988
At 31 December 2013 2,115,712 484,950 190,171 191,606 140,849
  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Liquidity and funding / Market risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
174 
HSBC Holdings 
(Audited) 
Liquidity risk in HSBC Holdings is overseen by HALCO. 
Liquidity risk arises because of HSBC Holdings’ obligation 
to make payments to debt holders as they fall due. The 
liquidity risk related to these cash flows is managed by 
matching debt obligations with internal loan cash flows 
and by maintaining an appropriate liquidity buffer that 
is monitored by HALCO.  
At 31 December 2014, the Group had US$9.2bn of 
CRD IV compliant non-common equity capital instruments, 
of which US$3.5bn were classified as tier 2 and US$5.7bn 
were classified as additional tier 1 (for details on the 
additional tier 1 instruments issued during the year 
see Note 35 on the Financial Statements). 
The balances in the table below do not agree directly 
with those on the balance sheet of HSBC Holdings as the 
table incorporates, on an undiscounted basis, all cash 
flows relating to principal and future coupon payments 
(except for derivatives not treated as hedging 
derivatives). Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation 
to hedging derivative liabilities are classified according to 
their contractual maturities. Derivatives not treated as 
hedging derivatives are included in the ‘On demand’ 
time bucket. 
In addition, loan commitments and financial guarantees 
and similar contracts are generally not recognised on our 
balance sheet. The undiscounted cash flows potentially 
payable under financial guarantees and similar contracts 
are classified on the basis of the earliest date on which 
they can be called. 
 
Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities 
(Audited) 
 
 On 
 demand 
 Due within
 3 months 
Due between 
 3 and 12 
 months 
 Due between 
 1 and 5 years   
 Due after 
 5 years 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings  1,441 985 42 449 –
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  – 210 642 6,345 19,005
Derivatives  1,066 – – 103 –
Debt securities in issue  – 16 50 263 1,303
Subordinated liabilities  – 252 770 5,815 28,961
Other financial liabilities  – 1,132 158 – –
 2,507 2,595 1,662 12,975 49,269
Loan commitments  16 – – – –
Financial guarantees and similar contracts  52,023 – – – –
At 31 December 2014 54,546 2,595 1,662 12,975 49,269
  
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings  2,053 1,759 2,315 857 5,654
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  – 299 671 4,921 26,518
Derivatives  704 – – – –
Debt securities in issue  – 37 1,780 279 1,451
Subordinated liabilities  – 225 676 5,699 24,812
Other financial liabilities  – 885 284 – –
 2,7573,2055,72611,756 58,435
Loan commitments  1,245 – – – –
Financial guarantees and similar contracts  52,836 – – – –
At 31 December 2013 56,838 3,205 5,726 11,756 58,435
 
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
175 
Strategic Report Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Market risk 
 Page App
1
Tables Page
Market risk in 2014  176
Exposure to market risk 176 221
Overview of market risk in global businesses  221 Types of risk by global business 176
Market risk governance  222
Market risk measures  223
Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures 176 223
Sensitivity analysis 176 223
Value at risk 176 223
Stress testing  176 224 Market risk stress testing 176
Trading portfolios  176 225
Value at risk of the trading portfolios  176 Daily VaR (trading portfolios) 176
 Trading VaR 177
Back-testing 177 224 Back-testing of trading VaR against hypothetical  
profit and loss for the Group  177 
Gap risk  225
De-peg risk 225
ABS/MBS exposures  225
Non-trading portfolios  178 225
Value at risk of the non-trading portfolios  178 Daily VaR (non-trading portfolios) 178
 Non-trading VaR 178
Credit spread risk for available-for-sale debt 
securities (including SICs) 178 226   
Equity securities classified as available for sale  179 226 Fair value of equity securities 179
Market risk balance sheet linkages  179 Balances included and not included in trading VaR 179
 Market risk linkages to the accounting balance sheet 180
Structural foreign exchange exposures  181 226
Non-trading interest rate risk 181 226
Interest rate risk behaviouralisation  181 226
Balance Sheet Management 227
Third-party assets in Balance Sheet Management 181 Third-party assets in Balance Sheet Management 181
Sensitivity of net interest income  181 227 Sensitivity of projected net interest income  182
 Sensitivity of reported reserves to interest rate movements 183
Defined benefit pension schemes  183 228 HSBC’s defined benefit pension schemes  183
Additional market risk measures  
applicable only to the parent company  183 228 
 
 
Foreign exchange risk  183 HSBC Holdings – foreign exchange VaR  183
Sensitivity of net interest income  184 Sensitivity of HSBC Holdings net interest income to 
interest rate movements  184 
Interest rate repricing gap table  185 Repricing gap analysis of HSBC Holdings  185
1 Appendix to Risk – risk policies and practices.    Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Market risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
176 
Market risk is the risk that movements in market 
factors, including foreign exchange rates and 
commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads 
and equity prices, will reduce our income or the 
value of our portfolios. 
There were no material changes to our policies and 
practices for the management of market risk in 2014. 
Exposure to market risk 
Exposure to market risk is separated into two portfolios: 
• Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from 
market-making and warehousing of customer-derived 
positions. The interest rate risk on fixed-rate securities issued 
by HSBC Holdings is not included in Group VaR. The 
management of this risk is described on page 222. 
• Non-trading portfolios comprise positions that primarily 
arise from the interest rate management of our retail 
and commercial banking assets and liabilities, financial 
investments designated as available for sale and held 
to maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance 
operations (see page 225). 
Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures 
Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures 
while maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk 
appetite. 
We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk 
exposures, including: 
• Sensitivity analysis includes the sensitivity of net interest 
income and the sensitivity of structural foreign exchange, 
which are used to monitor the market risk positions within 
each risk type; 
• Value at risk (‘VaR’) is a technique that estimates the 
potential losses that could occur on risk positions as a result 
of movements in market rates and prices over a specified 
time horizon and to a given level of confidence; and 
• In recognition of VaR’s limitations we augment VaR with stress 
testing to evaluate the potential impact on portfolio values of 
more extreme, though plausible, events or movements in a 
set of financial variables. Examples of scenarios reflecting 
current market concerns are the slowdown in mainland China 
and the potential effects of a sovereign debt default, 
including its wider contagion effects. 
A summary of our market risk management framework including 
current policies is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 221. 
Market risk in 2014 
(Unaudited) 
Global financial markets were characterised by low 
inflation and weak global growth, leading monetary 
authorities to maintain accommodative policies, using 
measures such as low interest rates and asset purchases.  
With US data showing GDP growth, the US Federal 
Reserve's asset purchase programme came to an end. 
Despite this, US dollar bond yields fell further. Market 
focus switched to actions that the ECB can take to 
address the issues of low growth and deflation. A 
sustained period of deflation would have a severe 
detrimental impact on countries already in recession and 
with high debt to GDP ratios. 2014 can be characterised 
as a period of benign rates and equity markets in the G7 
group of countries. 
Against this backdrop, we maintained an overall 
defensive risk profile in our trading businesses. Defensive 
positions are characterised by low net open positions 
or the purchase of volatility protection via options 
trades. The lower trading VaR from defensive positioning 
was offset by an increase caused by lower diversification 
and regulatory changes to the calibrations used in 
calculating VaR. Non-trading VaR declined during the 
year as low interest rates, especially in US dollars, caused 
the duration of non-trading assets to decrease. 
Trading portfolios 
(Audited) 
Value at risk of the trading portfolios 
Trading VaR predominantly resides within Global 
Markets. This was higher at 31 December 2014 than at 
31 December 2013 due to an increase in interest rate 
trading VaR, the removal of diversification effects within 
risk not in VaR (‘RNIV’) and lower portfolio diversification 
benefit across asset classes.   
The daily levels of total trading VaR over the last year are 
set out in the graph below. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
177 
Strategic Report Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Daily VaR (trading portfolios), 99% 1 day (US$m) 
(Unaudited) 
 
The Group trading VaR for the year is shown in the table below. 
Trading VaR, 99% 1 day
34 
(Audited) 
 
 
Foreign exchange 
 
 Interest   Credit 
Portfolio 
 diversification   
   and commodity   rate Equity spread incl RNIV
35
  Total
36
   US$m   US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m
At 31 December 2014    9.8   45.4 7.3 12.5 (14.3)   60.7
Average    16.9   39.5 6.9 13.7 (17.8)   59.2
Maximum    34.2   50.6 15.6 20.9   77.8
       
At 31 December 2013    16.0   33.4 9.2 14.2 (20.7)   52.1
Average    15.2   33.4 5.1 16.5 (20.3)   49.9
Maximum    26.4   71.9 14.1 25.5   81.3
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Back-testing 
(Unaudited) 
In 2014, the Group experienced one loss exception and 
two profit exceptions.  
The loss exception was due primarily to losses from 
increased volatility in foreign exchange currencies and 
interest rates in some developed markets combined with 
flattening yield curves. 
The profit exceptions were driven by the tightening of 
spreads, and exposures to emerging market foreign 
exchange and interest rates. There is no evidence of 
model errors or control failures. 
The graph below shows the daily trading VaR against 
hypothetical profit and loss for the Group during 2014. 
It excludes exceptions that were exempted by the PRA 
for regulatory capital purposes. 
 
Back-testing of trading VaR against hypothetical profit and loss for the Group (US$m) 
(Unaudited) 
 
-50
-30
-10
10
30
50
70
90
Dec-13 Feb-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Oct-14 Dec-14
Trading VaR
IR trading
CS trading
FX trading
Equity trading
Diversification incl 
RNIV
-130
-80
-30
20
70
120
Jan 2014 Feb 2014 Mar 2014 May 2014 Jun 2014 Jul 2014 Sep 2014 Oct 2014 Nov 2014 Dec 2014
USDm
Back-testing exception Hypothetical profit and loss VaR (99%) Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Market risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
178 
Non-trading portfolios 
(Audited) 
Value at risk of the non-trading portfolios 
Non-trading VaR of the Group includes contributions 
from all global businesses. There is no commodity risk in 
the non-trading portfolios. The decrease of non-trading 
VaR during 2014 was due primarily to the shortening of 
the duration in the non-trading book from lower interest 
rates, especially in US dollars. The credit spread risks 
component also added to a lower non-trading VaR as a 
result of the reduction in the overall position combined 
with lower volatilities and credit spread baselines utilised 
in the VaR calculations. This movement included the 
reduction in credit spread risks relating to the Group’s 
holdings of available-for-sale debt securities (excluding 
those held in insurance operations which are discussed 
further on page 194. 
In the year, the decline in non-trading interest rate and 
credit spread VaR components was offset by a decrease 
in diversification benefit. 
The daily levels of total non-trading VaR over the last 
year are set out in the graph below. 
 
Daily VaR (non-trading portfolios), 99% 1 day (US$m) 
(Unaudited) 
 
The Group non-trading VaR for the year is shown in the table below.  
Non-trading VaR, 99% 1 day 
(Audited) 
 
Interest
 rate 
Credit
 spread 
Portfolio 
 diversification   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m   US$m
At 31 December 2014  88.2 62.5 (28.5)  122.2
Average  103.3 73.3 (37.4)  139.2
Maximum  147.7 91.9   189.0
   
At 31 December 2013  150.6 80.4 (76.4)   154.6
Average  145.7 106.6 (82.1)   170.2
Maximum  221.7 135.7   252.3
 
The management of interest rate risk in the banking 
book is described further in ‘Non-trading interest rate 
risk’ below, including the role of Balance Sheet 
Management (‘BSM’). 
Non-trading VaR excludes equity risk on available-for- 
sale securities, structural foreign exchange risk and 
interest rate risk on fixed rate securities issued by HSBC 
Holdings, the management of which is described in 
the relevant sections below. These sections together 
describe the scope of HSBC’s management of market 
risks in non-trading books. 
Credit spread risk for available-for-sale 
debt securities (including SICs) 
The effect of movements in VaR credit spreads on our 
available-for-sale debt securities was US$81m (2013: 
US$113m) at 31 December 2014. This sensitivity includes 
the gross exposure for the securities investment conduits 
(‘SICs’) consolidated within our balance sheet based on 
credit spread VaR. This sensitivity excludes losses which 
would have been absorbed by the capital note holders. 
The decrease in this sensitivity at 31 December 2014 
compared with 31 December 2013 was due mainly to 
reducing the overall positions and lower volatilities 
and credit spread baselines observed during the year. 
  
-120
-80
-40
0
40
80
120
160
200
240
280
Dec-13 Feb-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Oct-14 Dec-14
Non-trading VAR
Diversification
IR non-trading
CS non-trading  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
179 
Strategic Report Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Equity securities classified as available for sale 
Fair value of equity securities 
(Audited) 
 2014  2013
 US$bn  US$bn
Private equity holdings
37
   2.0 2.7
Investment to facilitate ongoing 
business
38
  
 
1.2  1.2 
Other strategic investments   7.5  5.2
At 31 December  10.7  9.1
For footnotes, see page 202. 
The fair value of equity securities classified as available 
for sale can fluctuate considerably. The table above sets 
out the maximum possible loss on shareholders’ equity 
from available-for-sale equity securities. The increase 
in other strategic investments was largely due to the 
increase in the market value of the Industrial Bank 
investment offsetting the decrease in private equity 
holdings from the disposal of various direct and private 
equity fund investments. 
Market risk balance sheet linkages 
(Unaudited) 
The information below and on page 180 aims to facilitate 
an understanding of linkages between line items in the 
balance sheet and positions included in our market risk 
disclosures, in line with recommendations made by the 
Enhanced Disclosure Task Force. 
 
Balances included and not included in trading VaR 
(Unaudited) 
 
Balance
sheet 
Balances
included in
trading VaR 
Balances not 
included in 
trading VaR 
Primary
market risk
sensitivities 
 US$m US$m US$m 
At 31 December 2014  
Assets   
Cash and balances at central banks  129,957 129,957 B
Trading assets  304,193 276,419 27,774  A
Financial assets designated at fair value  29,037 29,037  A
Derivatives  345,008 333,880 11,128  A
Loans and advances to banks  112,149 112,149  B
Loans and advances to customers 974,660 974,660  B
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 161,713 161,713  C
Financial investments  415,467 415,467  A
Liabilities   
Deposits by banks  77,426 77,426 B
Customer accounts  1,350,642 1,350,642 B
Repurchase agreements – non-trading 107,432 107,432 C
Trading liabilities  190,572 170,576 19,996  A
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  76,153 76,153  A
Derivatives  340,669 334,199 6,470  A
Debt securities in issue  95,947 95,947  C
The table represents account lines where there is some exposure to market risk according to the following asset classes: 
A Foreign exchange, interest rate, equity and credit spread. 
B Foreign exchange and interest rate. 
C Foreign exchange, interest rate and credit spread. 
The table above splits the assets and liabilities into two 
categories:  
• those that are included in the trading book and are 
measured by VaR; and  
• those that are not in the trading book and/or are not 
measured by VaR. 
The breakdown of financial instruments included and 
not included in trading VaR provides a linkage with 
market risk to the extent that it is reflected in our risk 
framework. However, it is important to highlight that 
the table does not reflect how we manage market risk, 
since we do not discriminate between assets and 
liabilities in our VaR model. 
The assets and liabilities included in trading VaR give 
rise to a large proportion of the income included in net 
trading income. As set out on page 49, HSBC’s net 
trading income in 2014 was US$6,760 (2013: 
US$8,690m). Adjustments to trading income such as 
valuation adjustments do not feed the trading VaR 
model. 
  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Market risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
180 
Market risk linkages to the accounting balance sheet 
Trading assets and liabilities 
The Group’s trading assets and liabilities are in almost all cases 
originated by GB&M. The assets and liabilities are classified as 
held for trading if they have been acquired or incurred principally 
for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term, or 
form part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that 
are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent 
pattern of short-term profit-taking. These assets and liabilities 
are treated as traded risk for the purposes of market risk 
management, other than a limited number of exceptions, 
primarily in Global Banking where the short-term acquisition 
and disposal of the assets are linked to other non-trading related 
activities such as loan origination. 
Financial assets designated at fair value 
Financial assets designated at fair value within HSBC are 
predominantly held within the Insurance entities. The majority 
of these assets are linked to policyholder liabilities for either 
unit-linked or insurance and investment contracts with DPF. The 
risks of these assets largely offset the market risk on the liabilities 
under the policyholder contracts, and are risk managed on 
a non-trading basis. 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value within HSBC are 
primarily fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC entities for 
funding purposes. An accounting mismatch would arise if the 
debt securities were accounted for at amortised cost because 
the derivatives which economically hedge market risks on the 
securities would be accounted for at fair value with changes 
recognised in the income statement. The market risks of these 
liabilities are treated as non-traded risk, the principal risks being 
interest rate and/or foreign exchange risks. We also incur 
liabilities to customers under investment contracts, where the 
liabilities on unit-linked contracts are based on the fair value of 
assets within the unit-linked funds. The exposures on these funds 
are treated as non-traded risk and the principal risks are those of 
the underlying assets in the funds. 
Derivative assets and liabilities 
We undertake derivative activity for three primary purposes; 
to create risk management solutions for clients, to manage the 
portfolio risks arising from client business and to manage and 
hedge our own risks. Most of our derivative exposures arise 
from sales and trading activities within GB&M and are treated 
as traded risk for market risk management purposes. 
Within derivative assets and liabilities there are portfolios of 
derivatives which are not risk managed on a trading intent basis 
and are treated as non-traded risk for VaR measurement  
purposes. These arise when the derivative was entered into in 
order to manage risk arising from non-traded exposures. They 
include non-qualifying hedging derivatives and derivatives 
qualifying for fair value and cash flow hedge accounting. The use 
of non-qualifying hedges whose primary risks relate to interest 
rate and foreign exchange exposure is described on page 181. 
Details of derivatives in fair value and cash flow hedge 
accounting relationships are given in Note 16 on the Financial 
Statements. Our primary risks in respect of these instruments 
relate to interest rate and foreign exchange risks.  
Loans and advances to customers 
The primary risk on assets within loans and advances to 
customers is the credit risk of the borrower. The risk of these 
assets is treated as non-trading risk for market risk management 
purposes. 
Financial investments 
Financial investments include assets held on an available-for-sale 
and held-to-maturity basis. An analysis of the Group’s holdings 
of these securities by accounting classification and issuer type is 
provided in Note 18 on the Financial Statements and by business
activity on page 60. The majority of these securities are mainly 
held within Balance Sheet Management (‘BSM’) in GB&M. The 
positions which are originated in order to manage structural 
interest rate and liquidity risk are treated as non-trading risk 
for the purposes of market risk management. Available-for-sale 
security holdings within insurance entities are treated as 
non-trading risk and are largely held to back non-linked 
insurance policyholder liabilities. 
The other main holdings of available-for-sale assets are the 
ABSs within GB&M’s legacy credit business, which are treated 
as non-trading risk for market risk management purposes, the 
principal risk being the credit risk of the obligor. 
The Group’s held-to-maturity securities are principally held 
within the Insurance business. Risks of held-to-maturity assets 
are treated as non-trading for risk management purposes. 
Repurchase (repo) and reverse repurchase (reverse repo) 
agreements non-trading 
Reverse repo agreements, classified as assets, are a form of 
collateralised lending. HSBC lends cash for the term of the 
reverse repo in exchange for receiving collateral (normally in 
the form of bonds). 
Repo agreements, classified as liabilities, are the opposite of 
reverse repo, allowing HSBC to obtain funding by providing 
collateral to the lender. 
Both transaction types are treated as non-trading risk for market 
risk management and the primary risk is counterparty credit risk.
For information on the accounting policies applied to financial instruments at fair value, see Note 13 on the Financial Statements. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
181 
Strategic Report Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Structural foreign exchange exposures  
(Unaudited) 
For our policies and procedures for managing structural foreign 
exchange exposures, see page 226 of the Appendix to Risk. 
For details of structural foreign exchange exposures see Note 33 
on the Financial Statements. 
Non-trading interest rate risk 
(Unaudited) 
For our policies regarding the funds transfer pricing process for 
non-trading interest rate risk and liquidity and funding risk, see 
pages 226 and 219, respectively, of the Appendix to Risk. 
Asset, Liability and Capital Management (‘ALCM’) 
is responsible for measuring and controlling non-trading 
interest rate risk under the supervision of the Risk 
Management Meeting. Its primary responsibilities are: 
• to define the rules governing the transfer of 
non-trading interest rate risk from the global 
businesses to BSM; 
• to define the rules governing the interest rate risk 
behaviouralisation applied to non-trading 
assets/liabilities (see below); 
• to ensure that all market interest rate risk that can be 
neutralised is transferred from the global businesses 
to BSM; and 
• to define the rules and metrics for monitoring the 
residual interest rate risk in the global businesses, 
including any market risk that cannot be neutralised. 
The different types of non-trading interest rate risk and 
the controls which we use to quantify and limit exposure 
to these risks can be categorised as follows: 
• risk which is transferred to BSM and managed by BSM 
within a defined market risk mandate, predominantly 
through the use of fixed rate liquid assets 
(government bonds) held in available-for-sale 
portfolios and/or interest rate derivatives which 
are part of fair value hedging or cash flow hedging 
relationships. This non-trading interest rate risk is 
reflected in non-trading VaR, as well as in our net 
interest income (see below) or economic value of 
equity (‘EVE’) sensitivity; 
• risk which remains outside BSM because it cannot be 
hedged or which arises due to our behaviouralised 
transfer pricing assumptions. This risk is not reflected 
in non-trading VaR, but is captured by our net interest 
income or EVE sensitivity and corresponding limits 
are part of our global and regional risk appetite 
statements for non-trading interest rate risk. A typical 
example would be margin compression created by 
unusually low rates in key currencies; 
• basis risk which is transferred to BSM when it can be 
hedged. Any residual basis risk remaining in the global 
businesses is reported to ALCO. This risk is not 
reflected in non-trading VaR, but is captured by our 
net interest income or EVE sensitivity. A typical 
example would be a managed rate savings product 
transfer-priced using a Libor-based interest rate curve; 
and 
• model risks which cannot be captured by non-trading 
VaR, net interest income or EVE sensitivity, but are 
controlled by our stress testing framework. A typical 
example would be prepayment risk on residential 
mortgages or pipeline risk. 
Interest rate risk behaviouralisation 
For our policies regarding interest risk behaviouralisation, see 
page 226 of the Appendix to Risk. 
Third-party assets in Balance Sheet Management 
(Unaudited) 
For our BSM governance framework, see page 227 of the 
Appendix to Risk. 
Third-party assets in BSM decreased by 9% during 2014. 
Deposits with central banks reduced by US$31bn, 
predominantly in Europe due to a combination of 
reduced repo activity and a decrease in balances with 
the ECB as deposit rates became negative. Loans and 
advances to banks decreased by US$6bn, mainly in Hong 
Kong and the rest of Asia. Financial investments reduced 
by US$8bn due to foreign exchange movements, net 
sales and maturities in Hong Kong and the Americas, 
partially offset by the increased deployment of funds 
into securities in Asia. 
Third-party assets in Balance Sheet Management 
(Unaudited) 
2014 2013
US$m US$m
Cash and balances at central banks  103,008 134,086
Trading assets 4,610 5,547
Financial assets designated at fair 
value  – 72 
Loans and advances
1
:  
– to banks 53,842 59,355
– to customers 1,931 2,146
Reverse repurchase agreements 59,172 58,968
Financial investments 306,763 314,427
Other 2,470 3,700
At 31 December 531,796 578,301
For footnote, see page 202. 
Sensitivity of net interest income 
(Unaudited) 
The table below sets out the effect on our future 
accounting net interest income (excluding insurance) of 
an incremental 25 basis points parallel rise or fall in all 
yield curves worldwide at the beginning of each quarter 
during the 12 months from 1 January 2015. The 
sensitivities shown represent the change in the base case 
projected net interest income that would be expected 
under the two rate scenarios assuming that all other 
non-interest rate risk variables remain constant, and 
there are no management actions. In deriving our base 
case net interest income projections the re-pricing rate 
of assets and liabilities used is derived from current yield 
curves. The interest rate sensitivities are indicative and 
based on simplified scenarios. The limitations of this 
analysis are discussed in the Appendix to Risk on 
page 227. 
Assuming no management response, a sequence of such 
rises (‘up-shock’) would increase planned net interest  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Market risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
182 
income for 2015 by US$885m (2014: US$938m), while 
a sequence of such falls (‘down-shock’) would decrease 
planned net interest income by US$2,089m (2014: 
US$1,734m). 
The net interest income (‘NII’) sensitivity of the Group 
can be split into three key components; the structural 
sensitivity arising from the four global businesses 
excluding BSM and Markets, the sensitivity of 
the funding of the trading book (Markets) and 
the sensitivity of BSM. 
The structural sensitivity is positive in a rising rate 
environment and negative in a falling rate environment. 
The sensitivity of the funding of the trading book is 
negative in a rising rate environment and positive in a 
falling rate environment, and in terms of the impact 
on profit the change in net interest income would be 
expected to be offset by a similar change in net trading 
income. The sensitivity of BSM will depend on its 
position. Typically, assuming no management response, 
the sensitivity of BSM is negative in a rising rate 
environment and positive in a falling rate environment. 
The NII sensitivity figures below also incorporate the 
effect of any interest rate behaviouralisation applied 
and the effect of any assumed repricing across products 
under the specific interest rate scenario. They do not 
incorporate the effect of any management decision 
to change the HSBC balance sheet composition. 
See page 227 in the Risk Appendix for more information about 
interest rate behaviouralisation and the role of BSM. 
The NII sensitivity in BSM arises from a combination of 
the techniques that BSM use to mitigate the transferred 
interest rate risk and the methods they use to optimise 
net revenues in line with their defined risk mandate. 
The figures in the table below do not incorporate the 
effect of any management decisions within BSM, but in 
reality it is likely that there would be some short-term 
adjustment in BSM positioning to offset the NII effects of 
the specific interest rate scenario where necessary. 
The NII sensitivity arising from the funding of the trading 
book is comprised of the expense of funding trading 
assets, while the revenue from these trading assets 
is reported in net trading income. This leads to an 
asymmetry in the NII sensitivity figures which is 
cancelled out in our global business results, where we 
include both net interest income and net trading income. 
It is likely, therefore, that the overall effect on profit 
before tax of the funding of the trading book will be 
much less pronounced than shown in the figures below. 
The up-shock sensitivity remained broadly unchanged 
in 2014. The down-shock sensitivity increased 
predominantly due to a change in BSM’s interest 
rate risk profile in US dollars. 
 
Sensitivity of projected net interest income
39
 
(Unaudited) 
 
US dollar
bloc
US$m 
Rest of
Americas 
bloc
US$m 
Hong Kong
dollar
bloc
US$m 
Rest of
Asia
bloc
US$m 
Sterling 
bloc 
US$m  
Euro 
bloc 
US$m  
Total
US$m 
Change in 2015 projected net  
interest income arising from  
a shift in yield curves of:          
+25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter  209 (9) 245 265 321  (146)  885
–25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter  (521) (1) (494) (259) (783)  (31)  (2,089)
Change in 2014 projected net interest income arising from a 
shift in yield curves of:          
+25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter  (107) 12 327 236 598  (128)  938
–25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter  (291) (23) (412) (233) (761)  (14)  (1,734)
For footnote, see page 202. 
We monitor the sensitivity of reported reserves 
to interest rate movements on a monthly basis by 
assessing the expected reduction in valuation of 
available-for-sale portfolios and cash flow hedges due to 
parallel movements of plus or minus 100bps in all yield 
curves. These particular exposures form only a part 
of our overall interest rate exposures. The accounting 
treatment of our remaining interest rate exposures, 
while economically largely offsetting the exposures 
shown in the below table, does not require revaluation 
movements to go to reserves. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
183 
Strategic Report Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
The table below describes the sensitivity of our reported 
reserves to the stipulated movements in yield curves and 
the maximum and minimum month-end figures during 
the year. The sensitivities are indicative and based on 
simplified scenarios.  The change in sensitivity of 
reported reserves is predominantly due to a reduction 
in the available-for-sale securities portfolio. 
 
Sensitivity of reported reserves to interest rate movements 
(Unaudited) 
 US$m 
Maximum 
impact 
US$m  
Minimum
impact
US$m 
At 31 December 2014   
+ 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves  (3,696) (5,212)  (3,696)
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity  (1.9%) (2.7%)  (1.9%)
– 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves  3,250 4,915  3,250
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity  1.7% 2.6%  1.7%
   
At 31 December 2013   
+ 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves  (5,762) (5,992)  (5,507)
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity  (3.2%) (3.3%)  (3.0%)
– 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves  5,634 5,786  4,910
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity  3.1% 3.2%  2.7%
 
Defined benefit pension schemes 
(Audited) 
Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension 
schemes to the extent that the obligations of the 
schemes are not fully matched by assets with 
determinable cash flows. 
HSBC’s defined benefit pension schemes 
(Audited) 
   2014   2013
   US$bn   US$bn
Liabilities (present value)    42.1   40.5
   %   %
Assets:      
Equities    18   18
Debt securities    68   70
Other (including property)    14   12
At 31 December   100   100
For details of our defined benefit schemes, see Note 6 on the 
Financial Statements, and for pension risk management see 
page 200. 
Additional market risk measures applicable 
only to the parent company 
(Audited) 
The principal tools used in the management of market 
risk are VaR for foreign exchange rate risk and the 
projected sensitivity of HSBC Holdings’ net interest 
income to future changes in yield curves and interest 
rate gap repricing tables for interest rate risk. 
Foreign exchange risk 
Total foreign exchange VaR arising within HSBC Holdings 
in 2014 was as follows: 
HSBC Holdings – foreign exchange VaR 
(Audited) 
  2014 
 US$m 
  2013
 US$m 
At 31 December  29.3   54.1
Average  42.1   51.1
Minimum  29.3   46.7
Maximum  50.0   64.1
The foreign exchange risk largely arises from loans to 
subsidiaries of a capital nature that are not denominated 
in the functional currency of either the provider or the 
recipient and which are accounted for as financial assets. 
Changes in the carrying amount of these loans due to 
foreign exchange rate differences are taken directly to 
HSBC Holdings’ income statement. These loans, and 
most of the associated foreign exchange exposures, 
are eliminated on consolidation. 
   Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Market risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
184 
Sensitivity of net interest income  
(Audited) 
HSBC Holdings monitors net interest income sensitivity 
over a five year time horizon reflecting the longer-term 
perspective on interest rate risk management 
appropriate to a financial services holding company. 
These sensitivities assume that any issuance where HSBC 
Holdings has an option to reimburse at a future call date 
is called at this date. The table below sets out the effect 
on HSBC Holdings’ future net interest income over a five 
year time horizon of incremental 25 basis point parallel 
falls or rises in all yield curves worldwide at the 
beginning of each quarter during the 12 months from 
1 January 2015. 
Assuming no management actions, a sequence of such 
rises would increase planned net interest income for 
the next five years by US$600m (2013: increase of 
US$602m), while a sequence of such falls would 
decrease planned net interest income by US$539m 
(2013: decrease of US$464m). 
 
Sensitivity of HSBC Holdings’ net interest income to interest rate movements
39
 
(Audited) 
 US dollar
 bloc 
Sterling
 bloc 
Euro 
 bloc   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m
Change in projected net interest income as at 31 December arising 
from a shift in yield curves  
 
2014  
of + 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter  
0-1 year  78 9 2 89
2-3 years  281 17 34 332
4-5 years  138 17 24 179
of – 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter  
0-1 year  (58) (9) (1) (68)
2-3 years  (276) (16) (12) (304)
4-5 years  (138) (17) (12) (167)
2013  
of + 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter  
0-1 year  104 (14) 2 92
2-3 years  382 (93) 38 327
4-5 years  245 (101) 38 182
of – 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter  
0-1 year  (53) 13 (2) (42)
2-3 years  (300) 91 (33) (242)
4-5 years  (243) 101 (38) (180)
For footnote, see page 202. 
The interest rate sensitivities tabulated above 
are indicative and based on simplified scenarios. The 
figures represent hypothetical movements in net interest 
income based on our projected yield curve scenarios, 
HSBC Holdings’ current interest rate risk profile and 
assumed changes to that profile during the next five 
years. Changes to assumptions concerning the risk 
profile over the next five years can have a significant 
impact on the net interest income sensitivity for that 
period. However, the figures do not take into account 
the effect of actions that could be taken to mitigate this 
interest rate risk. 
Interest rate repricing gap table 
The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued 
by HSBC Holdings is not included within the Group VaR 
but is managed on a repricing gap basis. The interest 
rate repricing gap table below analyses the full-term 
structure of interest rate mismatches within HSBC 
Holdings’ balance sheet. 
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
185 
Strategic Report Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Repricing gap analysis of HSBC Holdings 
(Audited) 
  
 Total 
Up to
 1 year 
From over 1
 to 5 years 
From over 5 
 to 10 years  
 More than 
 10 years 
 Non-interest
  bearing 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Cash at bank and in hand:   
– balances with HSBC undertakings  249 – – – – 249
Derivatives  2,771 – – – – 2,771
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings  43,910 41,603 290 1,093 – 924
Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 4,073 3,010 – 731 – 332
Investments in subsidiaries  96,264 – – – – 96,264
Other assets  597 – – – – 597
147 8641
Total assets  147,864 44,613 290 1,824 – 101,137
(1
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings  (2,892) (1,877) – – – (1,015)
Financial liabilities designated at fair values  (18,679) (850) (5,472) (5,400) (4,263) (2,694)
Derivatives  (1,169) – – – – (1,169)
Debt securities in issue  (1,009) – – (1,013) – 4
Other liabilities  (1,415) – – –  –  (1,415)
Subordinated liabilities  (17,255) (779) (3,766) (2,000) (10,195) (515)
Total equity  (105,445) – – – – (105,445)
(
Total liabilities and equity  (147,864) (3,506) (9,238) (8,413) (14,458) (112,249)
Off-balance sheet items attracting interest rate 
sensitivity  – (21,525) 7,295 7,400 5,763 1,067 
Net interest rate risk gap at 31 December 2014 – 19,582 (1,653) 811 (8,695) (10,045)
Cumulative interest rate gap  – 19,582 17,929 18,740 10,045 –
   
Cash at bank and in hand:   
– balances with HSBC undertakings  407 357 – – – 50
Derivatives  2,789 – – – – 2,789
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings  53,344 49,979 290 1,239 645 1,191
Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 1,210 300 – 731 – 179
Investments in subsidiaries  92,695 – – – – 92,695
Other assets  391 – – – – 391
Total assets  150,836 50,636 290 1,970 645 97,295
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings  (11,685) (10,865) – – – (820)
Financial liabilities designated at fair values  (21,027) (1,928) (4,655) (7,810) (4,325) (2,309)
Derivatives  (704) – – – – (704)
Debt securities in issue  (2,791) (1,722) – – (1,069) –
Other liabilities  (1,375) – – – – (1,375)
Subordinated liabilities  (14,167) – (3,030) (2,066) (8,912) (159)
Total equity  (99,087) – – – – (99,087)
Total liabilities and equity  (150,836) (14,515) (7,685) (9,876) (14,306) (104,454)
Off-balance sheet items attracting interest rate 
sensitivity  – (18,620) 4,382 9,876 4,421 (59)
Net interest rate risk gap at 31 December 2013 – 17,501 (3,013) 1,970 (9,240) (7,218)
Cumulative interest rate gap  – 17,501 14,488 16,458 7,218 –
  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Operational risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
186 
Operational risk 
(Unaudited) 
 Page App
1
 Tables Page
Operational risk  186 228
Operational risk management framework  186 Three lines of defence 186
 Operational risk management framework  187
Operational risk in 2014  187
Frequency and amount of operational risk losses  188 Frequency of operational risk incidents by risk category  189
  
Distribution of operational risk losses in US dollars by  
risk category  228 
Compliance risk  189 229
Legal risk  229
Global security and fraud risk 230
Systems risk  231
Vendor risk management  231
1 Appendix to Risk – risk policies and practices. 
 
Operational risk is relevant to every aspect of our 
business and covers a wide spectrum of issues, in 
particular legal, compliance, security and fraud. 
Losses arising from breaches of regulation and 
law, unauthorised activities, error, omission, 
inefficiency, fraud, systems failure or external 
events all fall within the definition of operational 
risk. 
Responsibility for minimising operational risk lies with 
HSBC’s management and staff. Each regional, global 
business, country, business unit and functional head is 
required to maintain oversight over the operational risks 
and internal controls of the business and operational 
activities for which they are responsible. 
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding 
operational risk is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 228. 
Operational risk management framework 
The Group Operational Risk function and the operational 
risk management framework (‘ORMF’) directs business 
management in discharging their responsibilities. 
The ORMF defines minimum standards and processes, 
and the governance structure for operational risk and 
internal control across the Group. To implement the 
ORMF a ‘three lines of defence’ model is used for the 
management of risk, as described below: 
Three lines of defence 
 
A diagrammatic representation of the ORMF is presented 
on page 187. 
Activity to embed the use of our operational risk 
management framework continued in 2014. At the same 
time, we are streamlining operational risk management 
processes and harmonising framework components and 
risk management processes. This is expected to lead to a 
stronger operational risk management culture and more 
forward-looking risk insights to enable businesses to 
determine whether material risks are being managed 
within the Group’s risk appetite and whether further 
action is required. In addition, the Security and Fraud 
Risk and Financial Crime Compliance functions have 
built a Financial Intelligence Unit (‘FIU’) which provides 
intelligence on the potential risks of financial crime 
posed by customers and business prospects to enable 
better risk management decision-making. The FIU 
provides context and expertise to identify, assess and 
understand financial crime risks holistically in clients, 
sectors and markets. 
Articulating our risk appetite for material operational 
risks helps the organisation understand the level of risk 
HSBC is willing to accept. The Group operational risk 
appetite statement is approved annually by the GRC. 
The Group risk appetite statement, which includes 
operational risk appetite metrics, was approved by the 
HSBC Holdings Board. Monitoring operational risk 
exposure against risk appetite on a regular basis and 
implementing our risk acceptance process drives risk 
awareness in a forward-looking manner. It assists 
management in determining whether further action 
is required.  
Operational risk and control assessments (‘RCAs’) are 
performed by individual business units and functions. 
The risk and control assessment process is designed to 
provide business areas and functions with a forward 
looking view of operational risks and an assessment of 
the effectiveness of controls, and a tracking mechanism 
for action plans so that they can proactively manage 
operational risks within acceptable levels. Risk and 
control assessments are reviewed and updated at least 
annually. 
Every employee at HSBC is responsible for the 
risks that are a part of their day to day jobs. 
The first line of defence ensures all key risks 
within their operations are identified, mitigated 
and monitored by appropriate internal controls 
within an overall control environment.
Consists of the global functions such as Risk, 
Finance and HR who are responsible for 
providing assurance, challenge and oversight 
of the activities conducted by the first line. 
Internal Audit provides independent assurance
over the first and second lines of defence.
First
line of
defence
Second
line of
defence
Third
line of
defence  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
187 
Strategic Report Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Operational risk management framework 
 
• RCAs are used to inform the evaluation of the effectiveness of controls over top risks. 
• Key Indicators are used to help monitor the risks and controls. 
• Scenarios provide management with a quantified view of our top and emerging operational risks. 
• Internal incidents are used to forecast typical losses. 
• External sources are used to inform the assessment of extreme scenarios. 
Appropriate means of mitigation and controls are 
considered. These include: 
• making specific changes to strengthen the internal 
control environment; 
• investigating whether cost-effective insurance cover 
is available to mitigate the risk; and 
• other means of protecting us from loss. 
In addition, an enhanced scenario analysis process has 
been implemented across material legal entities to 
improve the quantification and management of material 
risks. 
Operational risk in 2014 
During 2014, our operational risk profile continued to be 
dominated by compliance and legal risks as referred to 
under ‘Top and emerging risks’ on page 118. Losses were 
realised relating to events that occurred in previous 
years. These events included the possible historical 
mis-selling of payment protection insurance (‘PPI’) 
products in the UK (see Note 29 on the Financial 
Statements). A number of mitigating actions continue 
to be taken to prevent future mis-selling incidents. 
The incidence of regulatory and other proceedings 
against financial service firms is increasing. Proposed 
changes relating to capital and liquidity requirements, 
remuneration and/or taxes could increase our cost of 
doing business, reducing future profitability. We remain 
subject to a number of regulatory proceedings including 
investigations and reviews by various national regulatory, 
competition and enforcement authorities relating to 
certain past submissions made by panel banks and the 
process for making submissions in connection with the 
setting of Libor and other interbank offered and 
benchmark interest rates. There are also investigations 
into foreign exchange, precious metals and credit default 
swap-related activities in progress. In response, we 
have undertaken a number of initiatives, including the 
restructuring of our Compliance sub-functions, enhancing 
our governance and oversight, measures to implement 
Global Standards as described on page 26 and other 
measures put in place designed to ensure we have 
the appropriate people, processes and procedures to 
manage emerging risks and new products and business.  
For further details see 'Compliance risk' on page 189 and for 
details of the investigations and legal proceedings see Note 40 
on the Financial Statements.  
In November 2014, the UK FCA and the US Commodity 
Futures Trading Commission (‘CFTC’) each announced 
having concluded regulatory settlements with a number 
of banks, including HSBC Bank plc, in connection with 
their respective investigations of trading and other 
conduct involving foreign exchange benchmark rates. 
Under the settlement terms, HSBC Bank plc agreed to 
pay a financial penalty to the FCA and a civil monetary 
penalty to the CFTC and to undertake various remedial 
actions. For further information, see Note 40 on the 
Financial Statements. 
We have undertaken a review of our compliance with the 
fixed-sum unsecured loan agreement requirements of 
the UK Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’). A liability has been 
recognised within ‘Accruals, deferred income and other 
liabilities’ for the repayment of interest to customers 
where annual statements did not remind them of their 
right to partially prepay the loan, notwithstanding that 
the customer loan documentation did include this right.
Operational Risk Standards
• Regulatory Compliance
• Financial Crime Compliance
• Fiduciary
• Legal
• Information
• Accounting
• Tax
• External Fraud
• Internal Fraud
• People
• Political
• Physical
• Business Continuity
• Systems
• Operations
• Project
Reporting
and
Management
Actions
Risk Awareness and Culture
Governance Identify
Set Risk 
Appetite
Assess Control Report
Risk and Control Assessment
Capital Modelling
Scenario
Analysis
Key Indicators
Incidents/Internal Loss
External Events Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Operational risk 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
188 
There is uncertainty as to whether other technical 
requirements of the CCA have been met, for which 
we have assessed an additional contingent liability. For 
further details see Note 40 on the Financial Statements. 
We have settled claims by the US Federal Housing 
Finance Agency in relation to the purchase of mortgage 
backed securities by the Federal National Mortgage 
Associations (‘Fannie Mae’) and the Federal Home Loan 
Mortgage Association (‘Freddie Mac’) between 2005 
and 2007. For further information, see Note 40 on the 
Financial Statements. 
Other operational risks included: 
• fraud risks: the threat of fraud perpetrated by or 
against our customers, especially in retail and 
commercial banking, may grow during adverse 
economic conditions. We increased monitoring, 
analysed root causes and reviewed internal controls 
to enhance our defences against external attacks and 
reduce the level of loss in these areas. In addition, 
Group Security and Fraud Risk worked closely with the 
global businesses to continually assess these threats 
as they evolved and adapt our controls to mitigate 
these risks; 
• level of change creating operational complexity: 
the Global Risk function is engaged with business 
management in business transformation initiatives 
to ensure robust internal controls are maintained, 
including through participation in all relevant 
management committees. The Global Transactions 
Team has developed an enhanced risk management 
framework to be applied to the management of 
disposal risks;  
• information security: the security of our information 
and technology infrastructure is crucial for 
maintaining our banking services and protecting 
our customers and the HSBC brand. A failure of the 
control framework which protects this could have 
implications for the wider financial sector and result 
in direct financial loss and/or the loss of customer 
data and other sensitive information which could 
undermine both our reputation and our ability to 
retain the trust of our customers. Programmes of 
work have been ongoing to strengthen internal 
security controls to prevent unauthorised access to 
our systems which may affect live services or facilitate 
data loss or fraud. In common with other banks and 
multinational organisations, we continue to be a 
target of increasingly sophisticated cyber-attacks 
such as ‘distributed denial of service’ attacks which 
can affect the availability of customer-facing 
websites. In addition, reliance on standard internet 
technologies, protocols and services means we are 
subject to wide-scale remediation when flaws are 
reported in these technologies. Lessons learnt 
from attacks experienced within the industry and 
information sharing with other financial institutions, 
government agencies and external intelligence 
providers allows us to develop a better understanding 
of our own susceptibilities and to develop scenarios 
to test against. They will continue to be a focus 
of ongoing initiatives to strengthen the control 
environment. Significant investment has already been 
made in enhancing controls around data access, the 
heightened monitoring of potential cyber-attacks 
and continued training to raise staff awareness. This 
is an area that will require continual investment in 
our operational processes and contingency plans; 
• vendor risk management: we continue to focus on the 
management of vendor risks including making good 
progress with the implementation of the supplier 
performance management programme with our most 
important suppliers. Additional focus is put on the 
screening of suppliers to enable HSBC to identify if 
any suppliers are on a sanctions list and to exit such 
relationships. Vendor risk management is a core 
element of third party risk management; and 
• compliance with regulatory agreements and orders: 
Failure to implement our obligations under the DPAs 
could have a material adverse effect on our results 
and operations. Legal proceedings are discussed in 
Note 40 on the Financial Statements and further 
details regarding compliance risk are set out below. 
Other operational risks are also monitored and managed 
through the use of the ORMF. 
Further information on the nature of these risks is provided in 
‘Top and emerging risks’ on page 118. 
Frequency and amount of operational risk losses 
The profile of operational risk incidents and associated 
losses is summarised below, showing the distribution of 
operational risk incidents in terms of their frequency of 
occurrence and total loss amount in US dollars. 
Operational losses rose in 2014, driven by UK customer 
redress programme charges and settlements relating to 
legal and regulatory matters. 
As in 2013, the operational risk incident profile in 2014 
comprised both high frequency, low impact events and 
high impact events that occurred much less frequently. 
For example, losses due to external fraud incidents such 
as credit card fraud occurred more often than other 
types of event, but the amounts involved were often 
small in value. By contrast, operational risk incidents in 
the compliance category were relatively low frequency 
events, but the total cost was significant. 
The number of fraud cases was broadly unchanged 
during 2014 due to the continued strong control 
environment. 
Losses due to significant historical events, including the 
possible mis-selling of PPI products in the UK and the 
incidence of regulatory matters described in Note 40 
on the Financial Statements remained substantial in 
2014.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
189 
Strategic Report Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Frequency of operational risk incidents by risk category 
(individual loss >US$10k) 
 
Distribution of operational risk losses in US dollars by risk 
category 
 
 
Compliance risk 
(Unaudited) 
Compliance risk is the risk that we fail to observe 
the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, 
rules, regulations and standards of good market 
practice, and incur fines and penalties and suffer 
damage to our business as a consequence. 
In 2014, we completed the restructuring of our 
Compliance sub-function within Global Risk into two 
new sub-functions: Financial Crime Compliance and 
Regulatory Compliance, appropriately supported by 
shared Compliance Chief Operating Officer, Assurance 
and Reputational Risk Management teams. We continue 
to ensure that the Compliance sub-functions, through 
their operation and the execution of the Group strategy, 
including measures to implement Global Standards, are 
well positioned to meet increased levels of regulation 
and scrutiny from regulators and law enforcement 
agencies. In addition, the measures we have put in place 
are designed to ensure we have the appropriate people, 
processes and procedures to manage emerging risks and 
new products and business. 
Enhanced global AML and sanctions policies, 
incorporating risk appetite, were approved by the Board 
in January 2014. The policies adopt and seek to enforce 
the highest or most effective standards globally, 
including a globally consistent approach to knowing our 
customers.  
The policies are being implemented in phases through 
the development and application of procedures required 
to embed them in our day to day business operations 
globally. The overriding policy objective is for every 
employee to engage in only ‘the right kind of business, 
conducted in the right way’.  
HSBC has fulfilled all of the requirements imposed by the 
DANY DPA, which expired by its terms at the end of the 
two-year period of that agreement in December 2014. 
Breach of the US DPA at any time during its term may 
allow the DoJ to prosecute HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank 
USA in relation to the matters which are the subject of 
the US DPA. For further information, see ‘Regulatory 
commitments and consent orders’ on page 120.  
In May 2014, the Board approved a globally consistent 
approach to the management of regulatory conduct 
designed to ensure we deliver fair outcomes for our 
customers and conduct orderly and transparent 
operations in financial markets. Implementation of the 
global conduct approach is managed through the global 
lines of business and functions and covers all our 
business and operational activities. Examples of these 
activities are disclosed in ‘Conduct of business’ on 
page 121. 
It is clear that the level of inherent compliance risk that 
we face will continue to remain high for the foreseeable 
future. However, we consider that good progress is being 
made and will continue to be made in ensuring that we 
are well placed to effectively manage those risks. 
 
1%
0%
6%
39%
4%
23%
24%
2%
1%
0%
5%
39%
7%
22%
25%
1%
Accounting and Tax
Financial Crime Compliance
Regulatory Compliance
Fraud
Legal
Operations and Systems
People
Other
2014
2013
2%
0%
54%
6%
30%
7%
1%
0%
3%
0%
43%
16%
14%
22%
2%
0%
Accounting and Tax
Financial Crime Compliance
Regulatory Compliance
Fraud
Legal
Operations and Systems
People
Other
2014
2013 Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Risk management of insurance operations 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
190 
Risk management of insurance operations 
(Audited)  
 Page App
1
Tables Page
HSBC’s bancassurance model 190
Overview of insurance products  231
Nature and extent of risks  232
Risk management of insurance operations  
in 2014  191    
Asset and liability matching 191 Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries: 
 – by type of contract 191
 – by geographical region 193
 Movement in total equity of insurance operations  193
Financial risks  194 232 Financial assets held by insurance manufacturing 
subsidiaries  194 
Market risk  194 232 Financial return guarantees 195
 
Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance manufacturing  
subsidiaries to market risk factors  195 
Credit risk  196 234 Treasury bills, other eligible bills and debt securities in 
HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 
1
196 
 Reinsurers’ share of liabilities under insurance contracts 197
Liquidity risk  197 234 Expected maturity of insurance contract liabilities  197
 
Remaining contractual maturity of investment contract 
liabilities  197 
Insurance risk  198 235 
Analysis of insurance risk – liabilities under insurance 
contracts  198 
Sensitivities to non-economic assumptions 198 Sensitivity analysis 198
1 Appendix to Risk – policies and practices. 
  
 
The majority of the risk in our insurance 
business derives from manufacturing activities 
and can be categorised as insurance risk and 
financial risk. Insurance risk is the risk, other than 
financial risk, of loss transferred from the holder 
of the insurance contract to the issuer (HSBC). 
Financial risks include market risk, credit risk and 
liquidity risk. 
There were no material changes to our policies and 
practices for the management of risks arising in the 
insurance operations in 2014. 
A summary of HSBC’s policies and practice regarding the risk 
management of insurance operations and the main contracts we 
manufacture is provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 231. 
HSBC’s bancassurance model 
(Unaudited) 
We operate an integrated bancassurance model which 
provides insurance products principally for customers 
with whom we have a banking relationship. Insurance 
products are sold through all global businesses, but 
predominantly by RBWM and CMB through our branches 
and direct channels worldwide. 
The insurance contracts we sell relate to the underlying 
needs of our banking customers, which we can 
identify from our point-of-sale contacts and customer 
knowledge. The majority of sales are of savings and 
investment products and term and credit life contracts. 
By focusing largely on personal and SME lines of business 
we are able to optimise volumes and diversify individual 
insurance risks. 
Where we have operational scale and risk appetite, 
mostly in life insurance, these insurance products are 
manufactured by HSBC subsidiaries. Manufacturing 
insurance allows us to retain the risks and rewards 
associated with writing insurance contracts by keeping 
part of the underwriting profit, investment income and 
distribution commission within the Group. 
Where we do not have the risk appetite or operational 
scale to be an effective insurance manufacturer, we 
engage with a handful of leading external insurance 
companies in order to provide insurance products to 
our customers through our banking network and direct 
channels. These arrangements are generally structured 
with our exclusive strategic partners and earn the Group 
a combination of commissions, fees and a share of 
profits. 
We distribute insurance products in all of our 
geographical regions. We have core life insurance 
manufacturing entities, the majority of which are direct 
subsidiaries of legal banking entities, in seven countries 
(Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, France, the UK, Hong Kong 
and Singapore). There are also life insurance 
manufacturing subsidiaries in mainland China, Malaysia 
and Malta.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
191 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Risk management of insurance operations 
in 2014 
We measure the risk profile of our insurance 
manufacturing businesses using an economic capital 
approach, where assets and liabilities are measured on 
a market value basis and a capital requirement is held 
to ensure that there is less than a 1 in 200 chance of 
insolvency over the next year, given the risks that the 
businesses are exposed to. In 2014 we aligned the 
measurement approach for market, credit and 
insurance risks in the economic capital model to the 
new pan-European Solvency II insurance capital 
regulations, which are applicable from 2016.  
The risk profile of our life insurance manufacturing 
businesses did not change materially during 2014 and 
liabilities to policyholders on these contracts remained 
constant at US$74bn (2013: US$74bn). However, a 
notable change arose in the UK where HSBC Life (UK) Ltd 
entered into an agreement to sell its pensions business. 
The full effect will only be recognised once regulatory 
approval is received and the portfolio is transferred to 
the purchaser. 
Asset and liability matching 
(Audited) 
A principal tool used to manage exposures to both 
financial and insurance risk, in particular for life 
insurance contracts, is asset and liability matching. In 
many markets in which we operate it is neither possible 
nor appropriate to follow a perfect asset and liability 
matching strategy. For long-dated non-linked contracts, 
in particular, this results in a duration mismatch between 
assets and liabilities. We therefore structure portfolios to 
support projected liabilities from non-linked contracts. 
The tables below show the composition of assets 
and liabilities by contract and by geographical region and 
demonstrate that there were sufficient assets to cover 
the liabilities to policyholders in each case at the end 
of 2014. 
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by type of contract 
(Audited) 
 Insurance contracts Investment contracts    
 
With 
DPF 
 Unit-
linked Annuities Other
40
With
 DPF
41
 
Unit-
linked Other 
 Other 
 assets
42
 
 
Total 
 US$m  US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m
Financial assets  29,040 11,278 1,517 6,253 24,238 2,561 4,322 5,732 84,941
– trading assets  – – 3 – – – –  – 3
– financial assets designated at 
fair value  4,304 11,111 533 782 6,346 2,223 1,684  1,713 28,696 
– derivatives  12 1 – 1 101 1 10  73 199
– financial investments  21,152 – 886 5,167 15,677 – 1,807  3,812 48,501
– other financial assets  3,572 166 95 303 2,114 337 821  134 7,542
Reinsurance assets  190 262 – 617 – – – 2 1,071
PVIF
43
  – – – – – – – 5,307 5,307
Other assets and investment 
properties  698 328 23 107 831 7 26 7,383 9,403 
Total assets  29,928 11,868 1,540 6,977 25,069 2,568 4,348 18,424 100,722
Liabilities under investment 
contracts – – – – – 2,542 4,155  – 6,697 
– designated at fair value  – – – – – 2,542 3,770  – 6,312
– carried at amortised cost  – – – – – – 385  – 385
Liabilities under insurance 
contracts  29,479 11,820 1,473 6,021 25,068 – – – 73,861 
Deferred tax
44
  12 – 11 18 – – – 1,180 1,221
Other liabilities  – – – – – – – 8,577 8,577
Total liabilities  29,491 11,820 1,484 6,039 25,068 2,542 4,155 9,757 90,356
Total equity  – – – – – – – 10,366 10,366
Total liabilities and equity at  
31 December 2014
45
 29,491 11,820 1,484 6,039 25,068 2,542 4,155 20,123 100,722  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Risk management of insurance operations 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
192 
 Insurance contracts Investment contracts    
 
With 
DPF 
 Unit-
linked Annuities Other
40
With
DPF
41
Unit-
linked Other 
 Other 
assets
42
 
Total 
 US$m  US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m
Financial assets  26,382  13,348 1,651 4,728 25,676 9,720 4,375  5,846  91,726
– trading assets  –  – 3 – – – –  –  3
– financial assets designated at 
fair value  3,850  13,131 532 761 6,867 9,293 1,706  1,757  37,897 
– derivatives  1  3 – – 215 5 –  55  279
– financial investments  19,491  – 959 3,780 16,556 – 1,853  3,745  46,384
– other financial assets  3,040  214 157 187 2,038 422 816  289  7,163
Reinsurance assets  182  291 522 439 – – –  2  1,436
PVIF
43
  –  – – – – – –  5,335  5,335
Other assets and investment 
properties  757  284 23 113 791 19 31  546  2,564 
Total assets  27,321  13,923 2,196 5,280 26,467 9,739 4,406  11,729  101,061
Liabilities under investment 
contracts –  – – – – 9,730 4,209  –  13,939 
– designated at fair value  –  – – – – 9,730 3,761  –  13,491
– carried at amortised cost  –  – – – – – 448  –  448
Liabilities under insurance 
contracts  26,920  13,804 2,158 4,872 26,427 – –  –  74,181 
Deferred tax
44
  12  – 17 1 – – –  1,163  1,193
Other liabilities  –  – – – – – –  2,048  2,048
Total liabilities  26,932  13,804 2,175 4,873 26,427 9,730 4,209  3,211  91,361
Total equity  –  – – – – – –  9,700  9,700
Total liabilities and equity at  
31 December 2013
45
  26,932  13,804 2,175 4,873 26,427 9,730 4,209  12,911  101,061 
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Our most significant life insurance products are 
investment contracts with DPF issued in France, 
insurance contracts with DPF issued in Hong Kong and 
unit-linked contracts issued in Latin America, Hong Kong 
and the UK. 
Our exposure to financial risks arising in the above 
balance sheet varies depending on the type of contract 
issued. For unit-linked contracts, the policyholder bears 
the majority of the exposure to financial risks whereas, 
for non-linked contracts, the majority of financial risks 
are borne by the shareholder (HSBC). For contracts with 
DPF, the shareholder is exposed to financial risks to the 
extent that the exposure cannot be managed by utilising 
any discretionary participation (or bonus) features within 
the policy contracts issued. 
As noted above, during the year HSBC entered into an 
agreement to sell its UK pensions business, and the 
related balances are reported as a disposal group held 
for sale under IFRS 5 (and are therefore included within 
the ‘Other assets’ column in the table above). The 
disposal group comprises US$6.8bn of total liabilities, 
being liabilities under unit-linked investment contracts, 
unit-linked insurance contracts and annuity contracts. It 
also comprises US$6.8bn of total assets, being financial 
and reinsurance assets backing the liabilities, and the 
associated PVIF on these contracts. The transfer is 
subject to regulatory approvals and is expected to 
complete in the second half of 2015. As part of the 
transaction we also entered into a reinsurance 
agreement transferring certain risks and rewards of the 
business to the purchaser from 1 January 2014 until 
completion of the transaction. A gain of US$42m was 
recognised on entering into this reinsurance agreement.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
193 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by geographical region
46
 
(Audited) 
 
 Europe  Asia
6
Latin 
 America   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Financial assets  30,178 47,443 7,320 84,941 
– trading assets  – – 3 3
– financial assets designated at fair value  10,610 12,497 5,589 28,696
– derivatives  172 27 – 199 
– financial investments  16,947 30,010 1,544 48,501
– other financial assets  2,449 4,909 184 7,542 
Reinsurance assets  308 748 15 1,071 
PVIF
43
  711 4,175 421 5,307
Other assets and investment properties  7,650 1,145 608 9,403 
Total assets  38,847 53,511 8,364 100,722 
Liabilities under investment contracts:  
– designated at fair value  1,585 4,727 – 6,312
– carried at amortised cost  – – 385 385
Liabilities under insurance contracts  27,312 39,990 6,559 73,861
Deferred tax
44
  273 806 142 1,221
Other liabilities  7,932 460 185 8,577
Total liabilities  37,102 45,983 7,271 90,356
Total equity  1,745 7,528 1,093 10,366
Total liabilities and equity at 31 December 2014
45
  38,847 53,511 8,364 100,722
   
Financial assets  41,557 42,352 7,817 91,726
– trading assets  – – 3 3
– financial assets designated at fair value  20,742 11,420 5,735 37,897
– derivatives  272 7 – 279
– financial investments  18,080 26,505 1,799 46,384
– other financial assets  2,463 4,420 280 7,163
Reinsurance assets  823 596 17 1,436
PVIF
43
  1,156 3,730 449 5,335
Other assets and investment properties  868 1,101 595 2,564
Total assets  44,404 47,779 8,878 101,061
Liabilities under investment contracts:  
– designated at fair value  8,760 4,731 – 13,491
– carried at amortised cost  – – 448 448
Liabilities under insurance contracts  31,786 35,619 6,776 74,181
Deferred tax
44
  407 645 141 1,193
Other liabilities  1,474 371 203 2,048
Total liabilities  42,427 41,366 7,568 91,361
Total equity  1,977 6,413 1,310 9,700
Total liabilities and equity at 31 December 2013
45
  44,404 47,779 8,878 101,061
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Movement in total equity of insurance operations 
(Audited) 
 Total equity 
 2014  2013
 US$m   US$m
At 1 January  9,700 9,989
Change in PVIF of long-term insurance business
43
 261 525
Return on net assets  1,835 848
Capital transactions  (673) (590)
Disposals of subsidiaries/portfolios  1 (675)
Exchange differences and other (758) (397)
At 31 December  10,366 9,700
For footnote, see page 202.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Risk management of insurance operations 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
194 
Financial risks 
(Audited) 
Details on the nature of financial risks and how they are 
managed are provided in the Appendix to Risk on page 232. 
Financial risks can be categorised into:  
• market risk – risk arising from changes in the fair 
values of financial assets or their future cash flows 
from fluctuations in variables such as interest rates, 
credit spreads, foreign exchange rates and equity 
prices; 
• credit risk – the risk of financial loss following the 
failure of third parties to meet their obligations; and 
• liquidity risk – the risk of not being able to make 
payments to policyholders as they fall due as there 
are insufficient assets that can be realised as cash. 
The following table analyses the assets held in our 
insurance manufacturing subsidiaries at 31 December 
2014 by type of contract, and provides a view of the 
exposure to financial risk. For unit-linked contracts, which 
pay benefits to policyholders determined by reference to 
the value of the investments supporting the policies, we 
typically designate assets at fair value; for non-linked 
contracts, the classification of the assets is driven by the 
nature of the underlying contract.
 
Financial assets held by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 
(Audited) 
 Unit-linked Non-linked Other  
 contracts
47
contracts
48
assets
49
 Total
 US$m US$m US$m US$m
Trading assets  
Debt securities  – 3 – 3
Financial assets designated at fair value  13,334 13,649 1,713 28,696
Treasury bills  – 40 16 56
Debt securities  4,589 3,507 618 8,714
Equity securities  8,745 10,102 1,079 19,926
Financial investments  
Held-to-maturity: debt securities  – 21,789 2,494 24,283
Available-for-sale:  – 22,899 1,319 24,218
– debt securities  – 22,899 1,290 24,189
– equity securities  – – 29 29
Derivatives  2 124 73 199
Other financial assets
49
  503 6,905 134 7,542
Total financial assets at 31 December 2014
45
  13,839 65,369 5,733 84,941
  
Trading assets  
Debt securities  – 3 – 3
Financial assets designated at fair value  22,424 13,716 1,757 37,897
Treasury bills  – – 50 50
Debt securities  7,809 3,910 546 12,265
Equity securities  14,615 9,806 1,161 25,582
Financial investments  
Held-to-maturity: debt securities  – 21,784 2,142 23,926
Available-for-sale:  – 20,855 1,603 22,458
– debt securities  – 20,855 1,594 22,449
– equity securities  – – 9 9
Derivatives  8 216 55 279
Other financial assets
49
  636 6,238 289 7,163
Total financial assets at 31 December 2013
45
  23,068 62,812 5,846 91,726
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Approximately 67% of financial assets were invested in 
debt securities at 31 December 2014 (2013: 64%) with 
24% (2013: 28%) invested in equity securities. 
Under unit-linked contracts, premium income less 
charges levied is invested in a portfolio of assets. We 
manage the financial risks of this product on behalf 
of the policyholders by holding appropriate assets in 
segregated funds or portfolios to which the liabilities are 
linked. These assets represented 16% (2013: 25%) of the 
total financial assets of our insurance manufacturing 
subsidiaries at the end of 2014. The reduction of 
US$9.3bn in the value of assets backing unit-linked 
contracts is largely due to the classification of US$6.3bn 
of assets relating to the UK pensions business as held for 
sale (see page 192) and the transfer of US$2.9bn assets 
backing other unit-linked investment contracts to a third 
party during the year. 
The remaining financial risks are managed either solely 
on behalf of the shareholder, or jointly on behalf of the 
shareholder and policyholders where DPF exist. 
Market risk 
(Audited) 
Market risk arises when mismatches occur between 
product liabilities and the investment assets which back 
them. For example, mismatches between asset and 
liability yields and maturities give rise to interest rate 
risk.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
195 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Our current portfolio of assets includes debt securities 
issued at a time when yields were higher than those 
observed in the current market. As a result, yields on 
extant holdings of debt securities exceed those available 
on current issues. 
Long-term insurance or investment products may 
incorporate benefits that are guaranteed. Fixed 
guaranteed benefits, for example for annuities in 
payment, are reserved for as part of the calculation 
of liabilities under insurance contracts. 
The risk of shareholder capital being required to meet 
liabilities to policyholders increases in products that 
offer guaranteed financial returns where current yields 
fall below guaranteed levels for a prolonged period. 
Reserves are held against the cost of guarantees, 
calculated by stochastic modelling. Where local rules 
require, these reserves are held through policyholder 
liabilities. Any remainder is accounted for as a deduction 
to PVIF on the relevant product. The table below shows 
the total reserve held for the cost of guarantees, the 
range of investment returns on assets supporting these 
products and the implied investment return that would 
enable the business to meet the guarantees. 
The financial guarantees offered on some portfolios 
exceeded the current yield on the assets that back them. 
The cost of guarantees increased to US$777m (2013: 
US$575m) primarily because of falling yields in France 
throughout 2014. As these yields fell, the cost of 
guarantees on closed portfolios reported in the 2.1%-
4.0% and 4.1%-5.0% categories increased, driven by 
reduced reinvestment yield assumptions. In addition, 
there was a closed portfolio in Hong Kong with a 
guaranteed rate of 5.0% compared with the current 
yield of 4.1%. We reduced short-term bonus rates paid 
to policyholders on certain DPF contracts to manage the 
immediate strain on the business. 
 
Financial return guarantees
45,50
 
(Audited) 
  2014 2013 
 
  Investment
 returns
  implied by
  guarantee
 Current
yields
 Cost of
guarantees
 Investment
 returns
  implied by
guarantee
 Current 
  yields  
 Cost of
 guarantees
  % % US$m % %   US$m
Capital    0.0 0.0 – 3.5 81 0.0 0.0 – 4.4  57
Nominal annual return    0.1 – 2.0 3.6 – 3.6 6 0.1 –2.0 4.1 – 4.1  9
Nominal annual return
51
    2.1 – 4.0 3.5 – 4.1 646 2.1 –4.0 4.2 – 4.4  471
Nominal annual return    4.1 – 5.0 3.5 – 4.1 30 4.1 –5.0 4.1 – 4.4  25
Real annual return
52 
   0.0 – 6.0 4.7 – 7.5 14 0.0 –6.0 6.4 – 6.4  13
At 31 December   777  575
For footnotes, see page 202. 
In addition to the above, a deduction from PVIF of 
US$53m (2013: US$134m) is made in respect of the 
modelled cost of guaranteed annuity options attached 
to certain unit-linked pension products in Brazil. 
The following table illustrates the effects of selected 
interest rate, equity price and foreign exchange rate 
scenarios on our profit for the year and the total 
equity of our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.  
Where appropriate, we include the impact of the stress 
on the PVIF in the results of the sensitivity tests. The 
relationship between the profit and total equity and 
the risk factors is non-linear and, therefore, the results 
disclosed should not be extrapolated to measure 
sensitivities to different levels of stress. The sensitivities 
are stated before allowance for management actions 
which may mitigate the effect of changes in market 
rates. The sensitivities presented allow for adverse 
changes in policyholder behaviour that may arise in 
response to changes in market rates.  
The effects of +/-100 basis points parallel shifts in yield 
curves have increased from 2013 to 2014, driven mainly 
by falling yields and a flattening of the yield curve in 
France during 2014. In the low yield environment the 
projected cost of options and guarantees described 
above is particularly sensitive to yield curve movements. 
The market value of available-for-sale bonds is also 
sensitive to yield curve movements hence the larger 
opposite stresses on equity. 
 
Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors 
(Audited) 
 2014 2013 
 
 Effect on 
 profit
after tax
 Effect on
 total
equity
 Effect on 
 profit 
 after tax  
 Effect on
 total
 equity
US$m US$m US$m   US$m
+ 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves  290 (345) 151  (199)
– 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves
53
  (549) 214 (230) 139 
10% increase in equity prices  180 180 149  149 
10% decrease in equity prices  (153) (153) (129) (129)
10% increase in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies 54 54 21  21 
10% decrease in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies (54) (54) (21) (21) Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Risk management of insurance operations 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
196 
Credit risk 
(Audited) 
Credit risk can give rise to losses through default and 
can lead to volatility in our income statement and 
balance sheet figures through movements in credit 
spreads, principally on the US$53bn (2013: US$51bn) 
bond portfolio supporting non-linked contracts and 
shareholders’ funds. 
The sensitivity of the profit after tax of our insurance 
subsidiaries to the effects on asset values of increases 
in credit spreads was a reduction of US$7m (2013: 
US$21m). The sensitivity of total equity was a reduction 
of US$9m (2013: US$46m). The sensitivities are relatively 
small because the vast majority of the debt securities 
held by our insurance subsidiaries are classified as either 
held to maturity or available for sale, and consequently 
any changes in the fair value of these financial 
investments, absent impairment, would have no effect 
on the profit after tax (or to total equity in the case 
of the held-to-maturity securities). We calculate the 
sensitivity based on a one-day movement in credit 
spreads over a two-year period. A confidence level 
of 99%, consistent with our Group VaR, is applied. 
Credit quality 
(Audited) 
The following table presents an analysis of treasury 
bills, other eligible bills and debt securities within our 
insurance business by measures of credit quality. 
Only assets supporting liabilities under non-linked 
insurance and investment contracts and shareholders’ 
funds are included in the table as financial risk on assets 
supporting unit-linked liabilities is predominantly borne 
by the policyholder. 84.8% (2013: 83.4%) of the assets 
included in the table are invested in investments rated 
as ‘strong’. 
For a definition of the five credit quality classifications, see page 207. 
 
Treasury bills, other eligible bills and debt securities in HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 
(Audited) 
 Neither past due nor impaired  
 Strong Good Satisfactory Sub-standard Total
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Supporting liabilities under non-linked insurance and 
investment contracts 
 
Trading assets – debt securities 3 – – – 3
Financial assets designated at fair value  2,550 530 214 255 3,549
– treasury and other eligible bills 5 – – 35 40
– debt securities  2,545 530 214 220 3,509
Financial investments – debt securities  38,515 4,312 1,662 200 44,689
 41,068 4,842 1,876 455 48,241
Supporting shareholders’ funds
54
 
Financial assets designated at fair value  214 322 30 69 635
– treasury and other eligible bills  – – – 16 16
– debt securities  214 322 30 53 619
Financial investments – debt securities  3,378 196 154 54 3,782
 3,592 518 184 123 4,417
Total
45
  
Trading assets – debt securities 3 – – – 3
Financial assets designated at fair value  2,764 852 244 324 4,184
– treasury and other eligible bills  5 – – 51 56
– debt securities  2,759 852 244 273 4,128
Financial investments – debt securities  41,893 4,508 1,816 254 48,471
At 31 December 2014 44,660 5,360 2,060 578 52,658
Supporting liabilities under non-linked insurance and 
investment contracts 
 
Trading assets – debt securities 3 – – – 3
Financial assets designated at fair value  2,780 691 224 215 3,910
– debt securities  2,780 691 224 215 3,910
Financial investments – debt securities  36,113 4,596 1,699 231 42,639
 38,8965,2871,923446 46,552
Supporting shareholders’ funds
54
 
Financial assets designated at fair value  191 298 73 34 596
– treasury and other eligible bills  50 – – – 50
– debt securities  141 298 73 34 546
Financial investments – debt securities  3,356 176 139 65 3,736
 3,54747421299 4,332
Total
45
  
Trading assets – debt securities 3 – – – 3
Financial assets designated at fair value  2,971 989 297 249 4,506
– treasury and other eligible bills  50 – – – 50
– debt securities  2,921 989 297 249 4,456
Financial investments – debt securities  39,469 4,772 1,838 296 46,375
At 31 December 2013 42,443 5,761 2,135 545 50,884
For footnotes, see page 202.   
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
197 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Credit risk also arises when assumed insurance risk is 
ceded to reinsurers. The split of liabilities ceded to 
reinsurers and outstanding reinsurance recoveries, 
analysed by credit quality, is shown below. Our exposure 
to third parties under the reinsurance agreements 
described in the Appendix to Risk on page 235 is included 
in this table. 
 
Reinsurers’ share of liabilities under insurance contracts
45
 
(Audited) 
  Neither past due nor impaired  Past due but   
   Strong Good Satisfactory Sub-standard   not impaired   Total
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Unit-linked insurance 75 185 – – – 260
Non-linked insurance
55
  751 11 10 – – 772
At 31 December 2014 826 196 10 – – 1,032
Reinsurance debtors  11 6 – – 21 38
   
Unit-linked insurance 72 218 – – – 290
Non-linked insurance
55
  1,103 8 7 – – 1,118
At 31 December 2013 1,175 226 7 – – 1,408
Reinsurance debtors  17 1 – – 10 28
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Liquidity risk 
(Audited) 
The following tables show the expected undiscounted 
cash flows for insurance contract liabilities and the 
remaining contractual maturity of investment contract 
liabilities at 31 December 2014. The liquidity risk 
exposure is borne in conjunction with policyholders 
for the majority of our business, and wholly borne by 
the policyholder in the case of unit-linked business. 
The profile of the expected maturity of the insurance 
contracts at 31 December 2014 remained comparable 
with 2013. 
Expected maturity of insurance contract liabilities
45
 
(Audited) 
  Expected cash flows (undiscounted) 
  Within 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years Over 15 years  Total
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Unit-linked insurance  709 3,280 9,243 14,544 27,776
Non-linked insurance
55
  3,504 12,718 29,905 33,108 79,235
At 31 December 2014 4,213 15,998 39,148 47,652 107,011
  
Unit-linked insurance  1,106 3,609 9,757 13,725 28,197
Non-linked insurance
55
  3,977 11,731 26,848 31,306 73,862
At 31 December 2013 5,083 15,340 36,605 45,031 102,059
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Remaining contractual maturity of investment contract liabilities 
(Audited) 
 Liabilities under investment contracts issued 
by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries
46
 
 Unit-linked 
 investment 
 contracts 
Investment
 contracts
 with DPF 
Other 
 investment 
 contracts 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m   US$m
Remaining contractual maturity: 
– due within 1 year  151 – 389 540
– due over 1 year to 5 years  133 – – 133
– due over 5 years to 10 years 194 – – 194
– due after 10 years  766 – – 766
– undated
56
  1,298 25,068 3,765 30,131
At 31 December 2014 2,542 25,068 4,154 31,764
  
Remaining contractual maturity: 
– due within 1 year  232 – 454 686
– due over 1 year to 5 years  778 – – 778
– due over 5 years to 10 years 852 – – 852
– due after 10 years  2,254 – – 2,254
– undated
56
  5,614 26,427 3,755 35,796
At 31 December 2013 9,730 26,427 4,209 40,366
For footnotes, see page 202.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Risk management of insurance operations / Other material risks 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
198 
Insurance risk 
Insurance risk is principally measured in terms of 
liabilities under the contracts in force. 
A principal risk we face is that, over time, the cost of 
acquiring and administering a contract, claims and 
benefits may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums 
received and investment income. The cost of claims and 
benefits can be influenced by many factors, including 
mortality and morbidity experience, lapse and surrender 
rates and, if the policy has a savings element, the 
performance of the assets held to support the liabilities. 
The following table analyses our life insurance risk 
exposures by geographical region and by type of 
business. The insurance risk profile and related 
exposures remain largely consistent with those observed 
at 31 December 2013. 
 
Analysis of insurance risk – liabilities under insurance contracts
46
 
(Audited) 
 
Europe Asia 
Latin 
America  Total 
 US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Non-linked insurance
55
  829 34,261 1,883 36,973
Insurance contracts with DPF
57
367 29,112 – 29,479
Credit life  56 87 – 143
Annuities  71 127 1,275 1,473
Other  335 4,935 608 5,878
Unit-linked insurance  1,415 5,729 4,676 11,820
Investment contracts with DPF
41,57
 25,068 – – 25,068
Liabilities under insurance contracts at 31 December 2014 27,312 39,990 6,559 73,861
   
Non-linked insurance
55
  1,383 30,554 2,013 33,950
Insurance contracts with DPF
57
380 26,540 – 26,920
Credit life  130 74 – 204
Annuities  622 129 1,407 2,158
Other  251 3,811 606 4,668
Unit-linked insurance   3,976 5,065 4,763 13,804
Investment contracts with DPF
41,57
 26,427 – – 26,427
Liabilities under insurance contracts at 31 December 2013 31,786 35,619 6,776 74,181
For footnotes, see page 202. 
Our most significant life insurance products are 
insurance contracts with DPF issued in Hong Kong, 
investment contracts with DPF issued in France and unit-
linked contracts issued in Latin America, Hong Kong and 
the UK. 
Sensitivities to non-economic assumptions 
(Audited) 
Policyholder liabilities and PVIF for life manufacturers are 
determined by reference to non-economic assumptions 
including mortality and/or morbidity, lapse rates and 
expense rates. The table below shows the sensitivity of 
profit and total equity to reasonably possible changes in 
these non-economic assumptions at that date across all 
our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries. 
Mortality and morbidity risk is typically associated 
with life insurance contracts. The effect on profit of an 
increase in mortality or morbidity depends on the type 
of business being written. Our largest exposures to 
mortality and morbidity risk exist in Brazil, France and 
Hong Kong. 
Sensitivity to lapse rates depends on the type 
of contracts being written. For insurance contracts, 
claims are funded by premiums received and income 
earned on the investment portfolio supporting the 
liabilities. For a portfolio of term assurance, an increase 
in lapse rates typically has a negative effect on profit 
due to the loss of future premium income on the lapsed 
policies. However, some contract lapses have a positive 
effect on profit due to the existence of policy surrender 
charges. Brazil, France, Hong Kong and the UK are where 
we are most sensitive to a change in lapse rates. 
Expense rate risk is the exposure to a change in the 
cost of administering insurance contracts. To the 
extent that increased expenses cannot be passed on to 
policyholders, an increase in expense rates will have a 
negative effect on our profits. 
Sensitivity analysis 
(Audited) 
  2014   2013
  US$m   US$m
Effect on profit after tax and 
total equity at 31 December 
 
 
  
10% increase in mortality and/or 
morbidity rates  
 
 (65) 
 
 (76)
10% decrease in mortality and/or 
morbidity rates  
 
 72 
 
 79
10% increase in lapse rates
57
  (108)   (119)
10% decrease in lapse rates
57
  122   133
10% increase in expense rates   (106)   (101)
10% decrease in expense rates   106   100
For footnote, see page 202. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
199 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Other material risks 
 Page App
1
Tables Page 
Reputational risk  199 235
Fiduciary risk  200
Pension risk  200 236
The principal plan  200 The principal plan – target asset allocation  200
 Benefit payments (US$m) 201
Future developments  201
Defined contribution plans 201
Sustainability risk  201 237
1 Appendix to Risk – risk policies and practices.    
Reputational risk 
(Unaudited) 
Reputational risk is the failure to meet 
stakeholder expectations as a result of any event, 
behaviour, action or inaction, either by HSBC 
itself, our employees or those with whom we 
are associated, that might cause stakeholders 
to form a negative view of HSBC. 
Reputational risk relates to perceptions, whether based 
on fact or otherwise. Stakeholders’ expectations are 
constantly changing and thus reputational risk is dynamic 
and varies between geographies, groups and individuals. 
As a global bank, HSBC shows unwavering commitment 
to operating, and to be seen to be operating, to the high 
standards we have set for ourselves in every jurisdiction. 
Reputational risk might result in financial or non-financial 
impacts, loss of confidence, adverse effects on our ability 
to keep and attract customers, or other consequences. 
Any lapse in standards of integrity, compliance, customer 
service or operating efficiency represents a potential 
reputational risk.  
A number of measures to address the requirements of the 
US DPA and otherwise to enhance our AML, sanctions and 
other regulatory compliance frameworks have been taken 
and/or are ongoing. These measures, which should also 
serve over time to enhance our reputational risk 
management, include the following: 
• simplifying our business through the progressive 
implementation of our Group strategy, including the 
adoption of a global financial crime risk filter, which 
should help to standardise our approach to doing 
business in higher risk countries;  
• an increase in reputational risk resources in each 
region in which we operate and the introduction of 
a central case management and tracking process for 
reputational risk and client relationship matters;  
• the creation of combined reputational risk and client 
selection committees within the global businesses 
with a clear process to escalate and address matters 
at the appropriate level;  
• the continued roll-out of training and communication 
about the HSBC Values Programme that defines the 
way everyone in the Group should act and seeks to 
ensure that the Values are embedded into our 
operations; and  
• the continuous development and implementation 
of the Global Standards around financial crime 
compliance, which underpin our businesses. This 
includes ensuring globally consistent application of 
policies that govern AML and sanctions compliance 
programmes. 
In July 2014, the new reputational risk and customer 
selection policies were issued which define a consistent 
and structured approach to managing these risks: 
• Reputational risk (new policy): defines reputational 
risk and sets out HSBC’s approach to managing it; 
• Customer selection and business acceptance (new 
policy): outlines the risk factors to be considered 
when a new customer relationship is identified; 
• Customer selection and exit management: establishes 
the globally sustainable approach to customer 
selection and exit management for all accounts and 
relationships in all business lines. This details the 
criteria under which escalation or approval is 
required; and 
• Sixth filter: customers operating in high risk 
jurisdictions carry particular financial crime risks and 
may require specific approvals, or be considered for 
an exit, if the relationship exceeds HSBC’s global risk 
appetite. 
HSBC has zero tolerance for knowingly engaging in 
any business, activity or association where foreseeable 
reputational damage has not been considered and 
mitigated. There must be no barriers to open discussion 
and the escalation of issues that could affect the Group 
negatively. While there is a level of risk in every aspect of 
business activity, appropriate consideration of potential 
harm to HSBC’s good name must be a part of all business 
decisions. 
Detecting and preventing illicit actors’ access to the 
global financial system calls for constant vigilance 
and we will continue to cooperate closely with all 
governments to achieve success. This is integral to 
the execution of our strategy, to HSBC Values and 
to preserving and enhancing our reputation. 
   Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Other material risks 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
200 
Fiduciary risk 
(Unaudited) 
Fiduciary risk is the risk to the Group of breaching 
our fiduciary duties when we act in a fiduciary 
capacity as trustee or investment manager or as 
mandated by law or regulation. 
A fiduciary duty is one where HSBC holds, manages, 
oversees or has responsibility for assets for a third party 
that involves a legal and/or regulatory duty to act with 
a high standard of care and with good faith. A fiduciary 
must make decisions and act in the interests of the third 
party and must place the wants and needs of the client 
first, above the needs of the Group. 
We may be held liable for damages or other penalties 
caused by failure to act in accordance with these duties. 
Fiduciary duties may also arise in other circumstances, 
such as when we act as an agent for a principal, unless 
the fiduciary duties are specifically excluded (e.g. under 
the agency appointment contract). 
Our principal fiduciary businesses (the ‘designated 
businesses’) have developed fiduciary risk appetite 
statements for their various fiduciary roles and have put 
in place key indicators to monitor their related risks. 
Pension risk 
(Audited) 
We operate a number of defined benefit and 
defined contribution pension plans throughout 
the world. The majority of pension risk arises 
from the Group’s defined benefit plans of which 
the largest is the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension 
Scheme (‘the principal plan’). 
During 2014, a new global pension risk framework was 
established, with accompanying new global policies on 
the management of risks related to defined benefit and 
defined contribution plans. In addition, a new Global 
Pensions Oversight Committee was established to 
oversee the running of all pension plans sponsored by 
HSBC around the world.  
At 31 December 2014, the Group’s aggregate defined 
benefit pension plan obligation was US$42bn and the 
net asset was US$2.7bn (2013: US$40bn and US$0.1bn, 
respectively). The increase in the net asset was mainly 
due to the increase in the principal plan’s assets 
exceeding the increase in its benefit obligation. Of the 
Group total amounts, the principal plan contributed 
US$30bn to the defined benefit obligation and US$4.8bn 
to the net asset. The principal plan is the largest 
contributor to pension risk in the Group. 
The principal plan 
(Audited) 
The principal plan is overseen by a corporate trustee 
who has fiduciary responsibility for the operation of the 
pension scheme. The principal plan comprises a defined 
benefit section and a defined contribution section. 
Unless stated otherwise, this narrative relates to the 
defined benefit section. 
The investment strategy of the principal plan is to hold 
the majority of assets in bonds, with the remainder in 
a more diverse range of investments, and includes a 
portfolio of interest rate and inflation swaps in order to 
reduce interest rate risk and inflation risk (see Note 41 in 
the Financial Statements). The target asset allocation of 
the principal plan at the year-end is shown below. HSBC 
and the trustee have developed a general framework 
which, over time, will see the plan’s asset strategy evolve 
to be less risky: this is described in further detail below. 
The principal plan – target asset allocation 
  2014   2013
  %   %
Equities
58
  19.4   19.4
Bonds   64.5   64.5
Alternative assets
59
  10.6   10.6
Property   5.5   5.5
Cash
60
  –   –
At 31 December  100.0   100.0
For footnotes, see page 202. 
The latest actuarial valuation of the principal plan was 
made as at 31 December 2011 by C G Singer, Fellow of 
the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, of Towers Watson 
Limited. At that date, the market value of the plan’s 
assets was £18bn (US$28bn) (including assets relating to 
both the defined benefit and defined contribution plans, 
and additional voluntary contributions). The market 
value of the plan assets represented 100% of the amount 
expected to be required, on the basis of the assumptions 
adopted, to provide the benefits accrued to members 
after allowing for expected future increases in earnings 
under the projected unit method. There was therefore 
no resulting surplus/deficit and hence no recovery plan 
was required. 
The expected cash flows from the principal plan were 
projected by reference to the Retail Price Index (‘RPI’) 
swap break-even curve at 31 December 2011. Salary 
increases were assumed to be 0.5% per annum above 
RPI and inflationary pension increases, subject to a 
minimum of 0% and a maximum of 5% (maximum of 3% 
per annum in respect of service accrued since 1 July 
2009), were assumed to be in line with RPI. The 
projected cash flows were discounted at the Libor 
swap curve at 31 December 2011 plus a margin for the 
expected return on the investment strategy of 160bps 
per annum. The mortality experience of the principal 
plan’s pensioners over the six-year period (2006-2011) 
was analysed and, on the basis of this analysis, the 
mortality assumptions were set, based on the SAPS S1 
series of tables adjusted to reflect the pensioner 
experience. Allowance was made for future improvements 
to mortality rates in line with the Continuous Mortality 
Investigation core projections with a long-run 
improvement rate set at 2% for males and 1.5% for 
females. The benefits expected to be payable from the 
defined benefit plan from 2015 are shown in the chart 
below.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
201 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Future benefit payments (US$m) 
 
As part of the 31 December 2011 valuation, calculations 
were also made of the amount of assets that might be 
needed to meet the liabilities if the principal plan was 
discontinued and the members’ benefits bought out 
with an insurance company (although in practice this 
may not be possible for a plan of this size) or the Trustee 
continued to run the plan without the support of HSBC. 
The amount required under this approach was estimated 
to be £26bn (US$41bn) as at 31 December 2011. In 
arriving at this estimation, a more prudent assumption 
about future mortality was made than for the 
assessment of the ongoing position and it was assumed 
that the Trustee would alter the investment strategy to 
be an appropriately matched portfolio of UK government 
bonds. An explicit allowance for expenses was also 
included. 
HSBC and the trustee have developed a general 
framework which, over time, will see the principal plan’s 
asset strategy evolve to be less risky and further aligned 
to the expected future cash-flows, referred to as the 
Target Matching Portfolio (‘TMP’). The TMP would 
therefore contain sufficient assets, the majority of which 
will be bond-like in nature, which are more closely 
aligned to the liability profile. Progress towards the 
TMP can be achieved by asset returns in excess of that 
assumed and/or additional funding. In 2013, HSBC 
agreed to make general framework contributions of 
£64m (US$100m) in each of the calendar years 2013, 
2014 and 2015 as well as £128m (US$200m) in 2016. 
Further contributions have been agreed to be made in 
future years, which are linked to the continued 
implementation of the general framework. 
HSBC Bank is also making contributions to the principal 
plan in respect of the accrual of benefits of defined 
benefit section members. Since April 2013, HSBC has 
paid contributions at the rate of 43% of pensionable 
salaries (less member contributions).Contribution levels 
will be reviewed as part of the next actuarial valuation, 
which has an effective date of 31 December 2014. The 
results of this valuation are expected to be included in 
the Annual Report and Accounts 2015. 
Future developments 
(Unaudited) 
Future service accrual for active members of the defined 
benefit section will cease with effect from 30 June 2015. 
All active members of the defined benefit section will 
become members of the defined contribution section 
from 1 July 2015, and their accrued defined benefit 
pensions based on service to 30 June 2015 will continue 
to be linked to final salary on retirement (underpinned 
by increases in CPI). The defined benefit service cost 
will therefore reduce to zero from 1 July 2015 and the 
defined contribution service cost will increase. 
Defined contribution plans 
Our global strategy is to move from defined benefit 
pension provisions to defined contribution, dependent 
on local legislative requirements and emerging practice. 
In defined contribution pension plans, the sponsor 
contributions are known, while the ultimate benefit 
will vary, typically with investment returns achieved by 
employee investment choices. While the market risk of 
defined contribution plans is significantly less than that 
of defined benefit plans, the Bank is still exposed to 
operational and reputational risk. 
Sustainability risk 
(Unaudited) 
Assessing the environmental and social impacts 
of providing finance to our customers is integral 
to our overall risk management processes. 
In 2014, we issued new policies on forestry, agricultural 
commodities, World Heritage Sites and Ramsar 
Wetlands, following an extensive internal and external 
review of our previous forestry policy. The results of 
two independent reviews into the content and 
implementation of our previous policy were published 
on www.hsbc.com. 
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding 
reputational risk, pension risk and sustainability risk is provided 
in the Appendix to Risk on page 235. 
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
1,800
2015
2021
2027
2033
2039
2045
2051
2057
2063
2069
2075
2081
2087
2093
2099
2105 Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Footnotes 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
202 
Footnotes to Risk 
Credit risk 
  1 From 1 January 2014, non-trading reverse repos and repos are presented as separate lines in the balance sheet. Previously, non-
trading reverse repos were included within ‘Loans and advances to banks’ and ‘Loans and advances to customers’ and non-trading 
repos were included within ‘Deposits by banks’ and ‘Customer accounts’. Comparative data have been re-presented accordingly. 
  2 At 31 December 2014, the credit quality of financial guarantees and similar contracts was: US$17bn strong, US$16bn good, US$12bn 
satisfactory, and US$2bn sub-standard. 
  3 The amount of the loan commitments reflects, where relevant, the expected level of take-up of pre-approved loan offers made by 
mailshots to personal customers. In addition to those amounts, there is a further maximum possible exposure to credit risk of US$71bn 
(2013: US$34bn), reflecting the full take-up of loan commitments. The take-up of such offers is generally at modest levels. At 
31 December 2014, the credit quality of loan and other credit-related commitments was: US$322bn strong, US$191bn good, 
US$127bn satisfactory, US$10bn sub-standard and US$0.8bn impaired. 
  4 From 1 January 2014, the geographical region ‘Asia’ replaced the geographical regions previously reported as ‘Hong Kong’ and ‘Rest of 
Asia-Pacific’ (see Note 23 on the Financial Statements for further details). Comparative data have been re-presented to reflect this 
change. 
  5 ‘Financial’ includes loans and advances to banks. 
  6 ‘First lien residential mortgages’ include Hong Kong Government Home Ownership Scheme loans of US$3.4bn at 31 December 2014 
(2013: US$3.2bn). Where disclosed, earlier comparatives were 2012: US$3.2bn; 2011: US$3.3bn; 2010: US$3.5bn. 
  7 ‘Other personal lending’ includes second lien mortgages and other property-related lending. 
  8 ‘Other commercial loans and advances’ include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities. 
  9 Impairment allowances are not reported for financial instruments, for which the carrying amount is reduced directly for impairment 
and not through the use of an allowance account. 
10 Impairment is not measured for assets held in trading portfolios or designated at fair value as assets in such portfolios are managed 
according to movements in fair value, and the fair value movement is taken directly to the income statement. Consequently, we report 
all such balances under ‘Neither past due nor impaired’. 
11 ‘Loans and advances to customers’ includes asset-backed securities that have been externally rated as strong (2014: US$1.2bn; 2013: 
US$1.7bn), good (2014: US$256m; 2013: US$255m), satisfactory (2014: US$332m; 2013: US$200m), sub-standard (2014: US$94m; 
2013: US$283m) and impaired (2014: US$128m; 2013: US$252m). 
12 ‘Collectively assessed impairment allowances’ are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking 
the allowances or provisions.  
13 Included within ‘Exchange and other movements’ is US$0.4bn of impairment allowances reclassified to held for sale (2013: US$0.2bn). 
14 Of the US$2,724m (2013: US$3,580m) of renegotiated loans, US$608m (2013: US$716m) were neither past due nor impaired, US$1m 
(2013: US$52m) was past due but not impaired and US$2,115m (2013: US$2,812m) were impaired. 
15 French Banking Federation Master Agreement Relating to Transactions on Forward Financial Instruments plus CSA equivalent. 
16 The German Master Agreement for Financial Derivative Transactions. 
17 HSBC Finance lending is shown on a management basis and includes loans transferred to HSBC USA Inc. which are managed by HSBC 
Finance. 
18 Property acquired through foreclosure is initially recognised at the lower of the carrying amount of the loan or its fair value less 
estimated costs to sell (‘initial foreclosed property carrying amount’). The average gain/loss on sale of foreclosed properties is 
calculated as cash proceeds less the initial foreclosed properties carrying amount divided by the unpaid loan principal balance prior to 
write-down (excluding any accrued finance income) plus certain other ancillary disbursements that, by law, are reimbursable from the 
cash proceeds (e.g. real estate tax advances) and were incurred prior to our taking title to the property. This ratio represents the 
portion of our total loss on foreclosed properties that occurred after we took title to the property. 
19 The average total gain/loss on foreclosed properties includes both the gain/loss on sale of the foreclosed property as discussed in 
footnote 18 and the cumulative write-downs recognised on the loans up to the time we took title to the property.  
20 Included in this category are loans of US$1.5bn (2013: US$1.9bn) that have been re-aged once and were less than 60 days past due at 
the point of re-age. These loans are not classified as impaired following re-age due to the overall expectation that these customers will 
perform on the original contractual terms of their borrowing in the future. 
21 ‘Currency translation’ is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates of 
exchange applicable in the current year. 
22 Negative numbers are favourable: positive numbers are unfavourable. 
23 Carrying amount of the net principal exposure. 
24 Total includes holdings of ABSs issued by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. 
Liquidity and funding  
25 The most favourable metrics are smaller advances to core funding and larger stressed one-month and three-month coverage ratios. 
26 The HSBC UK entity shown comprises four legal entities; HSBC Bank plc (including all overseas branches, and SPEs consolidated by 
HSBC Bank plc for Financial Statement purposes), Marks and Spencer Financial Services Limited, HSBC Private Bank (UK) Ltd and HSBC 
Trust Company (UK) Limited, managed as a single operating entity, in line with the application of UK liquidity regulation as agreed 
with the UK PRA. 
27  The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation represents the Group in Hong Kong, including its overseas branches. Each branch is 
monitored and controlled for liquidity and funding risk purposes as a stand-alone operating entity. 
28 The HSBC USA principal entity shown represents the HSBC USA Inc consolidated group; predominantly HSBC USA Inc and HSBC Bank 
USA, NA. The HSBC USA Inc consolidated group is managed as a single operating entity. 
29 The total shown for other principal HSBC operating entities represents the combined position of all the other operating entities 
overseen directly by the Risk Management Meeting of the GMB. 
30 Estimated liquidity value represents the expected realisable value of assets prior to management assumed haircuts. 
31 The undrawn balance for the five largest committed liquidity facilities provided to customers other than facilities to conduits.  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
203 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
32 The undrawn balance for the total of all committed liquidity facilities provided to the largest market sector, other than facilities to 
conduits. 
33 The residual contractual maturity profile of the balance sheet is set out on in Note 31 on the Financial Statements. 
Market risk 
34 Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from the market-making and warehousing of customer-derived positions. 
35 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types. It represents the 
reduction in unsystematic market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types, for example, interest rate, equity 
and foreign exchange, together in one portfolio. It is measured as the difference between the sum of the VaR by individual risk type 
and the combined total VaR. A negative number represents the benefit of portfolio diversification. As the maximum occurs on different 
days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit for these measures. For presentation 
purposes, portfolio diversification within the trading portfolio includes VaR-based RNIV. 
36 The total VaR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects. 
37 Investments in private equity are primarily made through managed funds that are subject to limits on the amount of investment. Potential 
new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels 
for the portfolio as a whole. Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments within the portfolio.  
38 Investments held to facilitate ongoing business include holdings in government-sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges. 
39 Instead of assuming that all interest rates move together, we group our interest rate exposures into currency blocs whose rates are 
considered likely to move together. See ‘Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements’. 
Risk management of insurance operations 
40 Other includes term assurance, credit life insurance, universal life insurance and remaining non-life insurance. 
41 Although investment contracts with discretionary participation features (‘DPF’) are financial investments, HSBC continues to account 
for them as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4. 
42 The Other assets column shows shareholder assets as well as assets and liabilities classified as held for sale. The majority of the assets 
for insurance businesses classified as held for sale are reported as ‘Other assets and investment properties’ and totalled US$6.8bn at 
31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: nil). The majority of these assets were debt and equity securities. All liabilities for insurance 
businesses classified as held for sale are reported in ‘Other liabilities’ and totalled US$6.8bn at 31 December 2014 (31 December 2013: 
nil). The majority of these liabilities were liabilities under insurance contracts and liabilities under investment contracts. 
43 Present value of in-force long-term insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF. 
44 Deferred tax includes the deferred tax liabilities arising on recognition of PVIF. 
45 Does not include associated insurance company SABB Takaful Company or joint venture insurance company Canara HSBC Oriental 
Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited. 
46 HSBC has no insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in the Middle East and North Africa or North America. 
47 Comprise unit-linked life insurance contracts and linked long-term investment contracts. 
48 Comprise non-linked insurance contracts and non-linked long-term investment contracts. 
49 Comprise mainly loans and advances to banks, cash and intercompany balances with other non-insurance legal entities. 
50 The cost of guarantees figure presented comprises the modelled cost of guarantees under products manufactured by our insurance 
subsidiaries, including both the cost of guarantees reserved for through policyholder liabilities and the amount accounted for as a 
deduction to PVIF. This is considered to provide more relevant information than the total liabilities to policyholders established for 
guaranteed products manufactured by our insurance subsidiaries as disclosed in prior periods. 
51 A block of contracts in France with guaranteed nominal annual returns in the range 1.25%-3.72% are reported entirely in the 2.1%-
4.0% category in line with the average guaranteed return of 2.7% offered to policyholders by these contracts. 
52 Real annual return guarantees provide the policyholder a guaranteed return in excess of the rate of inflation, and are supported by 
inflation-linked debt securities with yields that are also expressed in real terms. 
53 Where a –100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve would result in a negative interest rate, the effects on profit after tax and 
total equity have been calculated using a minimum rate of 0%. 
54 Shareholders’ funds comprise solvency and unencumbered assets. 
55 Non-linked insurance includes remaining non-life business. 
56 In most cases, policyholders have the option to terminate their contracts at any time and receive the surrender values of their policies. 
These may be significantly lower than the amounts shown. 
57 Insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF can give policyholders the contractual right to receive, as a supplement to their 
guaranteed benefits, additional benefits that may be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits, but whose amount and 
timing are determined by HSBC. These additional benefits are contractually based on the performance of a specified pool of contracts 
or assets, or the profit of the company issuing the contracts. 
Pension risk  
58 In 2014, option overlay strategies which are expected to improve the risk/return profile of the equity allocation were implemented.  
59 Alternative assets includes ABSs, MBSs and infrastructure assets. 
60 Whilst there is no target cash allocation, the amount of cash is expected to vary between 0-5% depending upon the liquidity 
requirements of the scheme, which will affect the actual allocation of bonds correspondingly. 
  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
204 
Appendix to Risk 
Risk policies and practices 
This appendix describes the significant policies and practices employed by HSBC in managing our credit risk, liquidity and funding, 
market risk, operational risk (including compliance risk, legal risk and fiduciary risk), insurance risk, reputational risk, pension risk and 
sustainability risk. 
Risk governance 
(Unaudited) 
Our strong risk governance reflects the importance placed by the Board and the Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) on shaping 
the Group’s risk strategy and managing risks effectively. It is supported by a clear policy framework of risk ownership, a 
risk appetite process through which the types and levels of risk that we are prepared to accept in executing our strategy 
are articulated and monitored, performance scorecards cascaded from the GMB that align business and risk objectives, 
and the accountability of all staff for identifying, assessing and managing risks within the scope of their assigned 
responsibilities. This personal accountability, reinforced by the governance structure, mandatory learning and our 
approach to remuneration, helps to foster a disciplined and constructive culture of risk management and control 
throughout HSBC. 
The executive and non-executive risk governance structures and their interactions are set out in the following table. 
Each major operating subsidiary has established a board committee with non-executive responsibility for oversight of 
risk-related matters and an executive committee with responsibility for risk-related matters. 
Governance structure for the management of risk 
Authority Membership Responsibilities include: 
Board  Executive and non-executive Directors • Approving risk appetite, strategy and performance targets for the 
Group 
• Approving appointment of chief risk officers of subsidiary 
companies 
• Encouraging a strong risk governance culture which shapes the 
Group’s attitude to risk 
GRC  Independent non-executive Directors • Advising the Board on: 
– risk appetite and alignment with strategy 
– alignment of remuneration with risk appetite (through advice 
to the Group Remuneration Committee) 
– risks associated with proposed strategic acquisitions and 
disposals 
• Overseeing high-level risk related matters 
• Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of risk 
management and internal controls (other than over financial 
reporting) 
• Overseeing the maintenance and development of a supportive 
culture in relation to the management of risk 
Financial System 
Vulnerabilities Committee 
 
Non-executive Directors, including the 
Chairman of the Group 
Remuneration Committee, and co-
opted non-director members 
• Overseeing controls and procedures designed to identify areas of 
exposure to financial crime or system abuse 
• Overseeing matters relating to anti-money laundering, sanctions, 
terrorist financing and proliferation financing 
• Reviewing policies and procedures to ensure continuing obligations 
to regulatory and law enforcement agencies are met 
Conduct & Values 
Committee 
 Independent non-executive Directors • Ensuring that in the conduct of its business, HSBC treats all 
stakeholders fairly 
• Advising the Board on HSBC policies, procedures and standards to 
ensure that the Group conducts business responsibly and 
consistently adheres to the HSBC Values 
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
205 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Authority Membership Responsibilities include: 
Risk Management Meeting 
of the GMB  
 
 
 
 Group Chief Risk Officer
Chief Legal Officer 
Group Chief Executive 
Group Finance Director 
All other Group Managing Directors 
 
 
• Formulating high-level global risk policy 
• Exercising delegated risk management authority 
• Overseeing implementation of risk appetite and controls 
• Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate 
mitigating action  
• Promoting a supportive Group culture in relation to risk 
management and conduct 
• Implementing Global Standards throughout the Group 
Global Risk Management 
Board 
 Group Chief Risk Officer
Chief Risk Officers of HSBC’s global 
businesses and regions 
Heads of Global Risk sub-functions  
• Supporting the Risk Management Meeting and the Group Chief 
Risk Officer in providing strategic direction for the Global Risk 
function, setting priorities and overseeing their execution 
• Overseeing consistent approach to accountability for, and 
mitigation of, risk across the Global Risk function  
Global Business Risk 
Management 
Committees 
 Global Business Chief Risk Officer
Global Business Chief Executive 
Global Business Chief Financial Officer 
Heads of Global Risk sub-functions, as 
appropriate 
 
• Forward looking assessment of changes in Global Business 
activities or the markets in which it operates, analysing the 
possible risk impact and taking appropriate action 
• Overseeing the implementation of Global Business risk appetite 
and controls 
• Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate 
mitigating actions 
• Promoting a strong risk culture 
Regional Risk Management 
Committees 
 Regional Chief Risk Officer
Regional Chief Executive Officer 
Regional Chief Financial Officer 
Regional Global Business Chief  
Heads of Global Risk sub-functions, 
as appropriate 
• Formulating regional specific risk policy 
• Overseeing the implementation of regional risk appetite and 
controls 
• Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate 
mitigating actions 
• Promoting a strong risk culture 
Subsidiary board 
committees responsible 
for risk-related matters 
and global business risk 
committees 
 Independent non-executive directors 
and/or HSBC employees with no 
line or functional responsibility for 
the activities of the relevant 
subsidiary or global business, as 
appropriate 
• Providing reports to the GRC or intermediate risk committee 
on risk-related matters and internal controls (other than over 
financial reporting) of relevant subsidiaries or businesses, as 
requested 
The governance framework also defines the required structure of committees for Risk sub-functions, stress testing and 
other key areas at Group, global business, regional and country level. 
Risk appetite 
(Unaudited) 
Our risk appetite framework is underpinned by the following core characteristics. These are applied to define the risk 
appetite statements on Group-wide, global business and regional levels. 
• Strong capital position: defined by a strong CET1 ratio and overall capital structure, both from a regulatory and 
internal perspective, which is not overly leveraged; 
• Conservative liquidity management: defined by a diversified funding structure and a conservative discipline whereby 
subsidiaries plan their contingency liquidity requirements on the assumption that there is no ‘lender of last resort’, 
either in the form of local supervisory intervention or via support from HSBC Holdings; 
• Strong balance sheet: core to HSBC’s philosophy, generating a resilient stream of earnings; 
• Strong brand: our brand – ‘the world’s leading international bank’ – is of paramount importance as is the Group’s 
reputation and the quality of its business ethics; 
• Risk must be commensurate with returns: returns should be generated in line with the risk taken and in alignments 
with strategic plans and risk management policies; 
• Robust Group structure of separate legal entities: the legal entity structure provides the potential for firewalls to 
mitigate liquidity and capital contagion in crisis situations; 
• The global business mix should produce sustainable long-term earnings growth: our global businesses should be 
suitably diversified to provide a stream of non-volatile, predictable earnings;    Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
206 
• Risk diversification: the globally diverse nature of our activities produces significant risk diversification benefits which 
must be closely assessed on an ongoing basis and reflected in our capital requirements; and 
• Financial crime risk: our overarching approach and appetite to financial crime risk is that the Group will not tolerate 
operating without systems and controls in place aimed at preventing and detecting financial crime and will not conduct 
business with individuals or entities we believe are engaged in illicit behaviour. 
Credit risk 
Credit risk management 
(Audited) 
The role of an independent credit control unit is fulfilled by the Global Risk function. Credit approval authorities are 
delegated by the Board to certain executive officers of HSBC Holdings. Similar credit approval authorities are delegated by 
the boards of subsidiary companies to executive officers of the relevant subsidiaries. In each major subsidiary, a Chief Risk 
Officer reports to the local Chief Executive Officer on credit-related issues, while maintaining a direct functional reporting 
line to the Group Chief Risk Officer in Global Risk. Details of the roles and responsibilities of the credit risk management 
function and the policies and procedures for managing credit risk are set out below. There were no significant changes in 
2014. 
The high-level oversight and management of credit risk provided globally by the Credit Risk function in Global Risk 
• to formulate Group credit policy. Compliance, subject to approved dispensations, is mandatory for all operating companies which must 
develop local credit policies consistent with Group policies;  
• to guide operating companies on our appetite for credit risk exposure to specified market sectors, activities and banking products and 
controlling exposures to certain higher-risk sectors; 
• to undertake an independent review and objective assessment of risk. Global Risk assesses all commercial non-bank credit facilities 
and exposures over designated limits, prior to the facilities being committed to customers or transactions being undertaken; 
• to monitor the performance and management of portfolios across the Group; 
• to control exposure to sovereign entities, banks and other financial institutions, as well as debt securities which are not held solely for 
the purpose of trading; 
• to set Group policy on large credit exposures, ensuring that concentrations of exposure by counterparty, sector or geography do not 
become excessive in relation to our capital base, and remain within internal and regulatory limits; 
• to control our cross-border exposures (see page 207); 
• to maintain and develop our risk rating framework and systems, the governance of which is under the general oversight of the Group 
Model Oversight Committee (‘MOC’). The Group MOC meets bi-monthly and reports to the Risk Management Meeting. It is chaired by 
the risk function and its membership is drawn from Global Risk and relevant global functions or businesses; 
• to report to the Risk Management Meeting, the GRC and the Board on high risk portfolios, risk concentrations, country limits and 
cross-border exposures, large impaired accounts, impairment allowances, stress testing results and recommendations and retail 
portfolio performance; and 
• to act on behalf of HSBC Holdings as the primary interface, for credit-related issues, with the Bank of England, the PRA, local regulators, 
rating agencies, analysts and counterparts in major banks and non-bank financial institutions. 
Principal objectives of our credit risk management 
• to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible lending and a robust risk policy and control framework;  
• to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining, implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite 
under actual and scenario conditions; and  
• to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, their costs and their mitigation. 
Concentration of exposure 
(Audited) 
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of counterparties or exposures have comparable economic 
characteristics or such counterparties are engaged in similar activities or operate in the same geographical areas or 
industry sectors so that their collective ability to meet contractual obligations is uniformly affected by changes in 
economic, political or other conditions. We use a number of controls and measures to minimise undue concentration of 
exposure in our portfolios across industry, country and global business. These include portfolio and counterparty limits, 
approval and review controls, and stress testing. 
Wrong-way risk occurs when a counterparty’s exposures are adversely correlated with its credit quality. There are two 
types of wrong-way risk: 
• general wrong-way risk occurs when the probability of counterparty default is positively correlated with general risk 
factors such as, for example, where the counterparty is resident and/or incorporated in a higher-risk country and seeks 
to sell a non-domestic currency in exchange for its home currency; and   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
207 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
• specific wrong-way risk occurs when the exposure to a particular counterparty is positively correlated with the 
probability of counterparty default, such as a reverse repo on the counterparty’s own bonds. It is HSBC policy that 
specific wrong-way transactions are approved on a case-by-case basis.  
We use a range of tools to monitor and control wrong-way risk, including requiring the business to obtain prior approval 
before undertaking wrong-way risk transactions outside pre-agreed guidelines.  
Cross-border exposures  
We assess the vulnerability of countries to foreign currency payment restrictions, including economic and political factors, 
when considering impairment allowances on cross-border exposures. Impairment allowances are assessed in respect of all 
qualifying exposures within vulnerable countries unless these exposures and the inherent risks are: 
• performing, trade-related and of less than one year’s maturity;  
• mitigated by acceptable security cover which is, other than in exceptional cases, held outside the country concerned;  
• in the form of securities held for trading purposes for which a liquid and active market exists, and which are measured 
at fair value daily; and 
• performing facilities with a principal (excluding security) of US$1m or below and/or with maturity dates shorter than 
three months. 
Credit quality of financial instruments 
(Audited) 
Our credit risk rating systems and processes differentiate exposures in order to highlight those with greater risk factors 
and higher potential severity of loss. In the case of individually significant accounts that are predominantly within our 
wholesale businesses, risk ratings are reviewed regularly and any amendments are implemented promptly. Within our 
retail businesses, risk is assessed and managed using a wide range of risk and pricing models to generate portfolio data. 
Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings – based approach under the Basel framework adopted by the Group 
to support calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement. Our credit quality classifications are defined 
below. 
Special attention is paid to problem exposures in order to accelerate remedial action. When appropriate, our operating 
companies use specialist units to provide customers with support to help them avoid default wherever possible. 
Group and regional Credit Review and Risk Identification teams regularly review exposures and processes in order 
to provide an independent, rigorous assessment of credit risk across the Group, reinforce secondary risk management 
controls and share best practice. Internal audit, as a tertiary control function, focuses on risks with a global perspective 
and on the design and effectiveness of primary and secondary controls, carrying out oversight audits via the sampling of 
global and regional control frameworks, themed audits of key or emerging risks and project audits to assess major change 
initiatives. 
The five credit quality classifications defined below each encompass a range of granular internal credit rating grades 
assigned to wholesale and retail lending businesses and the external ratings attributed by external agencies to debt 
securities.  
Credit quality classification 
(Unaudited) 
  Debt securities 
and other bills 
 
Wholesale lending
and derivatives Retail lending 
 
 
 External 
 credit rating  
 Internal 
 credit rating 
12 month 
 probability of 
 default % 
 Internal 
 credit rating
1
  
 Expected 
 loss % 
Quality classification      
Strong   A– and above  CRR
2
1 to CRR2 0 – 0.169 EL
3
1 to EL2  0 – 0.999
Good   BBB+ to BBB–  CRR3 0.170 – 0.740 EL3  1.000 – 4.999
Satisfactory   BB+ to B and 
unrated 
 
CRR4 to CRR5 0.741 – 4.914 EL4 to EL5  5.000 – 19.999 
Sub-standard   B- to C  CRR6 to CRR8 4.915 – 99.999 EL6 to EL8  20.000 – 99.999
Impaired  Default  CRR9 to CRR10 100 EL9 to EL10  100+ or defaulted
4
1 We observe the disclosure convention that, in addition to those classified as EL9 to EL10, retail accounts classified EL1 to EL8 that are delinquent 
by 90 days or more are considered impaired, unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired (see page 136, ‘Past due but not 
impaired gross financial instruments’). 
2 Customer risk rating. 
3 Expected loss. 
4 The EL percentage is derived through a combination of PD and LGD, and may exceed 100% in circumstances where the LGD is above 100% 
reflecting the cost of recoveries. 
   Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
208 
Quality classification definitions 
• ‘Strong’ exposures demonstrate a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, with negligible or low probability of default and/or 
low levels of expected loss. Retail accounts operate within product parameters and only exceptionally show any period of delinquency.
• ‘Good’ exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate a good capacity to meet financial commitments, with low default risk. 
Retail accounts typically show only short periods of delinquency, with any losses expected to be minimal following the adoption of 
recovery processes. 
• ‘Satisfactory’ exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate an average to fair capacity to meet financial commitments, with 
moderate default risk. Retail accounts typically show only short periods of delinquency, with any losses expected to be minor following 
the adoption of recovery processes. 
• ‘Sub-standard’ exposures require varying degrees of special attention and default risk is of greater concern. Retail portfolio segments 
show longer delinquency periods of generally up to 90 days past due and/or expected losses are higher due to a reduced ability to 
mitigate these through security realisation or other recovery processes. 
• ‘Impaired’ exposures have been assessed as impaired. These include wholesale exposures where the bank considers that either the 
customer is unlikely to pay its credit obligations in full, without recourse by the bank to the actions such as realising security if held, or 
the customer is past due more than 90 days on any material credit obligation; retail accounts include loans and advances classified as 
EL9 to EL10, and for those classified EL1 to EL8 they are greater than 90 days past due unless individually they have been assessed as 
not impaired; and renegotiated loans that have met the requirements to be disclosed as impaired and have not yet met the criteria to 
be returned to the unimpaired portfolio (see below). 
The customer risk rating (‘CRR’) 10-grade scale summarises a more granular underlying 23-grade scale of obligor 
probability of default (‘PD’). All HSBC customers are rated using the 10 or 23-grade scale, depending on the degree of 
sophistication of the Basel II approach adopted for the exposure. 
Each CRR band is associated with an external rating grade by reference to long-run default rates for that grade, 
represented by the average of issuer-weighted historical default rates. This mapping between internal and external 
ratings is indicative and may vary over time. 
The expected loss (‘EL’) 10-grade scale for retail business summarises a more granular underlying EL scale for this 
customer segment; this combines obligor and facility/product risk factors in a composite measure.  
For debt securities and certain other financial instruments, external ratings have been aligned to the five quality 
classifications based upon the mapping of related CRR to external credit grade. The most recent mapping review resulted 
in ‘B‘ being mapped to CRR5. Accordingly ‘B‘ ratings are now mapped to ‘Satisfactory’. This represents a change in 
disclosure mapping unrelated to changes in counterparty creditworthiness.  
Renegotiated loans and forbearance 
(Audited) 
A range of forbearance strategies is employed in order to improve the management of customer relationships, maximise 
collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid default, foreclosure or repossession. They include extended payment 
terms, a reduction in interest or principal repayments, approved external debt management plans, debt consolidations, 
the deferral of foreclosures and other forms of loan modifications and re-ageing. 
Our policies and practices are based on criteria which enable local management to judge whether repayment is likely to 
continue. These typically provide a customer with terms and conditions that are more favourable than those provided 
initially. Loan forbearance is only granted in situations where the customer has showed a willingness to repay their loan 
and is expected to be able to meet the revised obligations.  
Identifying renegotiated loans  
The contractual terms of a loan may be modified for a number of reasons including changing market conditions, customer 
retention and other factors not related to the current or potential credit deterioration of a customer. When the 
contractual payment terms of a loan are modified because we have significant concerns about the borrower’s ability to 
meet contractual payments when due, these loans are classified as ‘renegotiated loans’. 
For retail lending our credit risk management policy sets out restrictions on the number and frequency of renegotiations, 
the minimum period an account must have been opened before any renegotiation can be considered and the number of 
qualifying payments that must be received. The application of this policy varies according to the nature of the market, the 
product and the management of customer relationships through the occurrence of exceptional events. When considering 
whether there is significant concern regarding a customer’s ability to meet contractual loan repayments when due, we 
assess the customer’s delinquency status, account behaviour, repayment history, current financial situation and continued 
ability to repay. If the customer is not meeting contractual repayments or it is evident that they will be unable to do so 
without the renegotiation, there will be a significant concern regarding their ability to meet contractual payments, and 
the loan will be disclosed as impaired, unless the concession granted is insignificant as discussed below.  
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
209 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
For loan restructurings in wholesale lending, indicators of significant concerns regarding a borrower’s ability to pay 
include: 
• the debtor is currently in default on any of its debt; 
• the debtor has declared or is in the process of declaring bankruptcy or entering into a similar process; 
• there is significant doubt as to whether the debtor will continue to be a going concern; 
• currently, the debtor has securities that have been delisted, are in the process of being delisted, or are under threat of 
being delisted from an exchange as a result of trading or financial difficulties; 
• based on estimates and projections that only encompass current business capabilities, the Group forecasts that 
the debtor’s entity-specific cash flows will be insufficient to service the debt (both interest and principal) in accordance 
with the contractual terms of the existing agreement through maturity. In this instance, actual payment default may 
not yet have occurred; and 
• absent the modification, the debtor cannot obtain funds from sources other than its existing creditors at an effective 
interest rate equal to the current market interest rate for similar debt for a non-distressed debtor. 
Where the modification of a loan’s contractual payment terms represents a concession for economic or legal reasons 
relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, and is a concession that we would not otherwise consider, then the 
renegotiated loan is disclosed as impaired in accordance with our impaired loan disclosure convention described in more 
detail on page 212, unless the concession is insignificant and there are no other indicators of impairment. Insignificant 
concessions are primarily restricted to our CML portfolio in HSBC Finance, where loans which are in the early stages of 
delinquency (less than 60 days delinquent) and typically have the equivalent of two payments deferred for the first time, 
are excluded from our impaired loan classification, as the contractual payment deferrals are deemed to be insignificant 
compared with payments due on the loan as a whole. For details of HSBC Finance’s loan renegotiation programmes and 
portfolios, see pages 154 and 155. 
Credit quality classification of renegotiated loans 
(Audited) 
Under IFRSs, an entity is required to assess whether there is objective evidence that financial assets are impaired at the 
end of each reporting period. A loan is impaired and an impairment allowance is recognised when there is objective 
evidence of a loss event that has an effect on the cash flows of the loan which can be reliably estimated. Granting a 
concession to a customer that we would not otherwise consider, as a result of their financial difficulty, is objective 
evidence of impairment and impairment losses are measured accordingly. 
A renegotiated loan is presented as impaired when:  
• there has been a change in contractual cash flows as a result of a concession which the lender would otherwise not 
consider, and 
• it is probable that without the concession, the borrower would be unable to meet contractual payment obligations 
in full. 
This presentation applies unless the concession is insignificant and there are no other indicators of impairment.  
The renegotiated loan will continue to be disclosed as impaired until there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a 
significant reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows, and there are no other indicators of impairment. 
For loans that are assessed for impairment on a collective basis, the evidence typically comprises a history of payment 
performance against the original or revised terms, as appropriate to the circumstances. For loans that are assessed for 
impairment on an individual basis, all available evidence is assessed on a case-by-case basis.  
For retail lending the minimum period of payment performance required depends on the nature of loans in the portfolio, 
but is typically not less than six months. Where portfolios have more significant levels of forbearance activity, such as 
that undertaken by HSBC Finance, the minimum repayment performance period required may be substantially more 
(for further details on HSBC Finance see page 153). Payment performance periods are monitored to ensure they remain 
appropriate to the levels of recidivism observed within the portfolio. These performance periods are in addition to a 
minimum of two payments which must be received within a 60-day period for the customer to initially qualify for the 
renegotiation (in the case of HSBC Finance, in certain circumstances, for example where debt has been restructured in 
bankruptcy proceedings, fewer or no qualifying payments may be required). The qualifying payments are required in 
order to demonstrate that the renegotiated terms are sustainable for the borrower. For corporate and commercial loans, 
which are individually assessed for impairment and where non-monthly payments are more commonly agreed, the history 
of payment performance will depend on the underlying structure of payments agreed as part of the restructuring. 
Renegotiated loans are classified as unimpaired where the renegotiation has resulted from significant concern about 
a borrower’s ability to meet their contractual payment terms but the renegotiated terms are based on current market 
rates and contractual cash flows are expected to be collected in full following the renegotiation. Unimpaired renegotiated 
loans also include previously impaired renegotiated loans that have demonstrated satisfactory performance over a period 
of time or have been assessed based on all available evidence as having no remaining indicators of impairment.   Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
210 
Loans that have been identified as renegotiated retain this designation until maturity or derecognition. When a loan is 
restructured as part of a forbearance strategy and the restructuring results in derecognition of the existing loan, such as in 
some debt consolidations, the new loan is disclosed as renegotiated. 
When determining whether a loan that is restructured should be derecognised and a new loan recognised, we consider 
the extent to which the changes to the original contractual terms result in the renegotiated loan, considered as a whole, 
being a substantially different financial instrument. The following are examples of circumstances that, individually or in 
aggregate, are likely to result in this test being met and derecognition accounting being applied:  
• an uncollateralised loan becomes fully collateralised; 
• the addition or removal of cross-collateralisation provisions; 
• removal or addition of conversion features attached to the loan agreement; 
• a change in the currency in which the principal or interest is denominated;  
• a change in the liquidation preference or ranking of the instrument; or 
• the contract is altered in any other manner so that the terms under the new or modified contract are substantially 
different from those under the original contract. 
The following are examples of factors that we consider may indicate that the revised loan is a substantially different 
financial instrument, but are unlikely to be conclusive in themselves: 
• changes in guarantees or loan covenants provided; 
• less significant changes to collateral arrangements; or 
• the addition of repayment provisions or prepayment premium clauses. 
Renegotiated loans and recognition of impairment allowances 
(Audited) 
For retail lending, renegotiated loans are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for collective impairment 
assessment to reflect the higher rates of losses often encountered in these segments. When empirical evidence indicates 
an increased propensity to default and higher losses on such accounts, such as for re-aged loans in the US, the use of roll-
rate methodology ensures these factors are taken into account when calculating impairment allowances by applying roll 
rates specifically calculated on the pool of loans subject to forbearance. When the portfolio size is small or when 
information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate methodology, a basic formulaic approach based on 
historical loss rate experience is used. As a result of our roll-rate methodology, we recognise collective impairment 
allowances on homogeneous groups of loans, including renegotiated loans, where there is historical evidence that there is 
a likelihood that loans in these groups will progress through the various stages of delinquency, and ultimately prove 
irrecoverable as a result of events occurring before the balance sheet date. This treatment applies irrespective of whether 
or not those loans are presented as impaired in accordance with our impaired loans disclosure convention. When we 
consider that there are additional risk factors inherent in the portfolios that may not be fully reflected in the statistical roll 
rates or historical experience, these risk factors are taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived 
solely from statistical or historical experience. For further details of the risk factor adjustments see Note 1k on the 
Financial Statements. 
In the corporate and commercial sectors, renegotiated loans are typically assessed individually. Credit risk ratings are 
intrinsic to the impairment assessment. A distressed restructuring is classified as an impaired loan. The individual 
impairment assessment takes into account the higher risk of the non-payment of future cash flows inherent in 
renegotiated loans. 
Corporate and commercial forbearance 
 (Unaudited) 
In the corporate and commercial sectors, forbearance activity is undertaken selectively where it has been identified that 
repayment difficulties against the original terms have already materialised, or are very likely to materialise. These cases 
are treated as impaired loans where: 
• the customer is experiencing, or is very likely to experience, difficulty in meeting a payment obligation to the Group 
(i.e. due to current credit distress); and 
• the Group is offering to the customer revised payment arrangements which constitute a concession (i.e. it is offering 
terms it would not normally be prepared to offer). 
These cases are described as distressed restructurings. The agreement of a restructuring which meets the criteria above 
requires all loans, advances and counterparty exposures to the customer to be treated as impaired. Against the 
background of this requirement, as a customer approaches the point at which it becomes clear that there is an increasing 
risk that a restructuring of this kind might be necessary, the exposures will typically be regarded as sub-standard to reflect 
the deteriorating credit risk profile and will be graded as impaired when the restructure is proposed for approval, or 
sooner if there is sufficient concern regarding the customer’s likeliness to pay.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
211 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
For the purposes of determining whether changes to a customer’s agreement should be treated as a distressed 
restructuring the following types of modification are regarded as concessionary:  
• transfers from the customer of receivables from third parties, real estate, or other assets to satisfy fully or partially 
a debt; 
• issuance or other granting of an equity interest to satisfy fully or partially a debt unless the equity interest is granted 
pursuant to existing terms for converting the debt into an equity interest; and 
• modification of the terms of a debt, such as one or more of the following: 
– reduction (absolute or contingent) of the stated interest rate for the remaining original life of the debt; 
– extension of the maturity date or dates at a stated interest rate lower than the current market rate for new debt 
with similar risk; 
– reduction (absolute or contingent) of the face amount or maturity amount of the debt; and 
– reduction (absolute or contingent) of accrued interest. 
Modifications that are unrelated to payment arrangements, such as the restructuring of collateral or security 
arrangements or the waiver of rights under covenants within documentation, are not regarded by themselves to be 
evidence of credit distress affecting payment capacity. Typically, covenants are in place to give the Group rights of 
repricing or acceleration, but they are frequently set at levels where payment capacity has yet to be affected, providing 
rights of action at earlier stages of credit deterioration. Such concessions do not directly affect the customer’s ability to 
service the original contractual debt and are not reported as renegotiated loans. However, where a customer requests a 
non-payment related covenant waiver, the significance of the underlying breach of covenant will be considered together 
with any other indicators of impairment, and where there is a degree of severity of credit distress indicating uncertainty of 
payment, all available evidence will be considered in determining whether a loss event has occurred. The waiver will not, 
however, trigger classification as a renegotiated loan as payment terms have not been modified. 
When both payment-related and non-payment related modifications are made together as a result of significant concerns 
regarding the payment of contractual cash flows, the loan is treated as a distressed restructuring and disclosed as a 
renegotiated loan. 
Within corporate and commercial business segments, modifications of several kinds are frequently agreed for a customer 
contemporaneously. Transfer to an interest-only arrangement is the most common type of modification granted in the 
UK, whether in isolation or in combination with other concessions. Throughout the rest of the world, term extensions 
occur more frequently with other types of concession such as interest rate changes occurring less often. 
In assessing whether payment-related forbearance is a satisfactory and sustainable strategy, the customer’s entire 
exposure and facilities will be reviewed and their ability to meet the terms of both the revised obligation and other credit 
facilities not amended in the renegotiation is assessed. Should this assessment identify that a renegotiation will not deal 
with a customer’s payment capacity issues satisfactorily, other special management options may be applied. This process 
may identify the need to provide assistance to a customer specifically to restructure their business operations and 
activities so as to restore satisfactory payment capacity. 
When considering acceptable restructuring terms we consider the ability of the customer to be able to service the revised 
interest payments as a necessity. When principal payment modifications are considered, again we require the customer 
to be able to comply with the revised terms as a necessary pre-condition for the restructuring to proceed. When principal 
payments are modified resulting in permanent forgiveness, or when it is otherwise considered that there is no longer 
a realistic prospect of recovery of outstanding principal, the affected balances are written off. When principal repayments 
are postponed, it is expected that the customer will be capable of paying in line with the renegotiated terms, including 
instances when the postponed principal repayment is expected from refinancing. In all cases, a loan renegotiation is only 
granted when the customer is expected to be able to meet the revised terms. 
Modifications may be made on a temporary basis when time is needed for the customer to make arrangements for 
payment, when deterioration in payment capacity is expected to be acute but short lived, or when more time is needed to 
accommodate discussions regarding a more permanent accommodation with other bankers, for example in syndicated 
facilities where multilateral negotiation commonly features. 
If a restructuring proceeds and the customer demonstrates satisfactory performance over a period of time, the case may 
be returned to a non-impaired grade (CRR1-8) provided no other indicators of impairment remain. Such a case cannot be 
returned to a non-impaired grade when a specific impairment allowance remains against any of the customer’s credit 
facilities. The period of performance will vary depending on the frequency of payments to be made by the customer under 
the amended agreement and the extent to which the customer’s financial position is considered to have improved.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
212 
Impairment assessment 
(Audited) 
It is our policy that each operating company in HSBC creates impairment allowances for impaired loans promptly and 
appropriately, when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or portfolio of loans has occurred. 
For details of our impairment policies on loans and advances and financial investments, see Note 1k on the Financial 
Statements. 
Impairment and credit risk mitigation 
The existence of collateral has an effect when calculating impairment on individually assessed impaired loans. When we 
no longer expect to recover the principal and interest due on a loan in full or in accordance with the original terms and 
conditions, it is assessed for impairment. If exposures are secured, the current net realisable value of the collateral will be 
taken into account when assessing the need for an impairment allowance. No impairment allowance is recognised in 
cases where all amounts due are expected to be settled in full on realisation of the security. 
Personal lending portfolios are generally assessed for impairment on a collective basis as the portfolios typically consist of 
large groups of homogeneous loans. Two methods are used to calculate allowances on a collective basis: a roll-rate 
methodology or a more basic formulaic approach based on historical losses. In 2014, we reviewed the impairment 
allowance methodology used for retail banking and small business portfolios across the Group to ensure that the 
assumptions used in our collective assessment models continued to appropriately reflect the period of time between a 
loss event occurring and the account proceeding to delinquency and eventual write-off. 
• The historical loss methodology is typically used to calculate collective impairment allowances for secured or low 
default portfolios such as mortgages until the point at which they are individually identified and assessed as impaired. 
For loans which are collectively assessed using historical loss methodology, the historical loss rate is derived from the 
average contractual write-off net of recoveries over a defined period. The net contractual write-off rate is the actual 
amount of loss experienced after the realisation of collateral and receipt of recoveries. 
• A roll-rate methodology is more commonly adopted for unsecured portfolios when there are sufficient volumes of 
empirical data to develop robust statistical models. In certain circumstances mortgage portfolios have a statistically 
significant number of defaults and losses available, enabling reliable roll rates to be generated. In these cases a roll-
rate methodology is applied until the point at which the loans are individually identified and assessed as impaired, and 
the average loss rate for each delinquency bucket is adjusted to reflect the average loss expected following realisation 
of security and receipt of recoveries. The average loss expected is derived from average historical collateral realisation 
values. 
The nature of the collective allowance assessment prevents individual collateral values or LTV ratios from being included 
within the calculation. However, the loss rates used in the collective assessment are adjusted for the collateral realisation 
experiences which will vary depending on the LTV composition of the portfolio. For example, mortgage portfolios under a 
historical loss rate methodology with lower LTV ratios will typically experience lower loss history and consequently a 
lower net contractual write-off rate. 
For wholesale collectively assessed loans, historical loss methodologies are applied to measure loss event impairments 
which have been incurred but not reported. Loss rates are derived from the observed contractual write-off net of 
recoveries over a defined period, typically no less than 60 months. The net contractual write-off rate is the actual or 
expected amount of loss experienced after realisation of collateral and receipt of recoveries. These historical loss rates are 
adjusted by an economic factor which amends the historical averages to better represent current economic conditions 
affecting the portfolio. In order to reflect the likelihood of a loss event not being identified and assessed an emergence 
period assumption is applied which reflects the period between a loss occurring and its identification. The emergence 
period is estimated by management for each identified portfolio. The factors that may influence this estimation include 
economic and market conditions, customer behaviour, portfolio management information, credit management 
techniques and collection and recovery experiences in the market. The emergence period is assessed empirically on a 
periodic basis and may vary over time as these factors change. 
Write-off of loans and advances 
 (Audited) 
For details of our policy on the write-off of loans and advances, see Note 1k on the Financial Statements. 
In HSBC Finance, the carrying amounts of residential mortgage and second lien loans in excess of net realisable value 
are written off at or before the time foreclosure is completed or settlement is reached with the borrower. If there is no 
reasonable expectation of recovery, and foreclosure is pursued, the loan is normally written off no later than the end of 
the month in which the loan becomes 180 days contractually past due. We regularly obtain new appraisals for these 
collateral dependent loans (every 180 days) and adjust carrying values to the most recent appraisal if they have improved 
or deteriorated as the best estimate of the cash flows that will be received on the disposal of the collateral. 
Unsecured personal facilities, including credit cards, are generally written off at between 150 and 210 days past due, the 
standard period being the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days contractually delinquent. Write-off   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
213 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
periods may be extended, generally to no more than 360 days past due but, in very exceptional circumstances, to longer 
than that figure in a few countries where local regulation or legislation constrain earlier write-off or where the realisation 
of collateral for secured real estate lending takes this time.  
In retail lending, final write-off should occur within 60 months of the default at the latest.  
In the event of bankruptcy or analogous proceedings, write-off may occur earlier than at the periods stated above. 
Collections procedures may continue after write-off. 
Impairment methodologies 
(Audited) 
To identify objective evidence of impairment for available-for-sale ABSs, an industry standard valuation model is normally 
applied which uses data with reference to the underlying asset pools and models their projected future cash flows. The 
estimated future cash flows of the securities are assessed at the specific financial asset level to determine whether any of 
them are unlikely to be recovered as a result of loss events occurring on or before the reporting date.  
The principal assumptions and inputs to the models are typically the delinquency status of the underlying loans, the 
probability of delinquent loans progressing to default, the prepayment profiles of the underlying assets and the loss severity 
in the event of default. However, the models utilise other variables relevant to specific classes of collateral to forecast future 
defaults and recovery rates. Management uses externally available data and applies judgement when determining the 
appropriate assumptions in respect of these factors. We use a modelling approach which incorporates historically observed 
progression rates to default to determine if the decline in aggregate projected cash flows from the underlying collateral will 
lead to a shortfall in contractual cash flows. In such cases, the security is considered to be impaired. 
In respect of CDOs, expected future cash flows for the underlying collateral are assessed to determine whether there is 
likely to be a shortfall in the contractual cash flows of the CDO.  
When a security benefits from a contract provided by a monoline insurer that insures payments of principal and interest, 
the expected recovery on the contract is assessed in determining the total expected credit support available to the ABS. 
Loan Management Unit 
(Unaudited) 
The HSBC Loan Management Unit (‘LMU’) is a front line customer contact department within Wholesale Credit and 
Market Risk that assumes responsibility for managing business customer relationships requiring intensive and close 
control where the bank's lending is at risk. LMU operates on a regional basis across the Group and is independent of the 
originating business management units. It reports locally to the chief credit officer position. Customers are identified and 
transferred to LMU by business management or the Wholesale Credit and Market Risk approval teams. 
Customers managed by LMU are normally operating outside the Group’s risk appetite. They typically show symptoms of 
significant financial difficulty, the management team displays limited experience of managing a business in distress and 
the management and financial information provided to the bank is insufficient and unreliable. 
The levels of customer exposure under management and the size of the LMU team varies between countries depending 
on the breadth of business undertaken locally but LMU will always manage highly distressed situations where individual 
customer exposure exceeds US$1.5m. 
The primary focus of LMU is to protect the bank's capital and minimise losses by working consensually with customers 
to promote and support viable recovery strategies wherever achievable, with the ultimate intention of returning the 
customer to front line relationship management. In some cases, rehabilitation is not possible and LMU will consider 
a range of options to protect the bank's exposure and solvency of the customer. On occasion, it is not possible to find a 
satisfactory solution and the customer may file for insolvency or local equivalent. In all outcomes, LMU seeks to treat 
customers fairly, sympathetically and positively, in a professional way with transparent processes and procedures. 
Remediation and restructuring strategies available in the business and LMU include granting a customer various types of 
concessions while seeking to enhance the ability of the customer to ultimately repay the Group which could include 
enhancing the overall security available to the bank. Any decision to approve a concession will be a function of the 
region's specific country and sector appetite, the key metrics of the customer, the market environment, the loan structure 
and security. Internal reviews on customers managed directly by LMU are performed on a scheduled basis in accordance 
with relevant accounting guidelines, credit policies and national banking regulations. Under certain circumstances, 
concessions granted may result in the loan being classified as a renegotiated loan. 
Collateral and other credit enhancements held 
(Audited) 
Loans and advances held at amortised cost  
The Group’s practice is to lend on the basis of customers’ ability to meet their obligations out of cash flow resources 
rather than rely on the value of security offered. Depending on a customer’s standing and the type of product, facilities 
may be provided without security. For other lending, a charge over collateral is obtained and considered in determining 
the credit decision and pricing. In the event of default, the bank may utilise the collateral as a source of repayment.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
214 
Depending on its form, collateral can have a significant financial effect in mitigating our exposure to credit risk. 
Additionally, risk may be managed by employing other types of collateral and credit risk enhancements such as second 
charges, other liens and unsupported guarantees, but the valuation of such mitigants is less certain and their financial 
effect has not been quantified. 
Refinance risk 
(Audited) 
Many types of lending require the repayment of a significant proportion of the principal at maturity. Typically, 
the mechanism of repayment for the customer is through the acquisition of a new loan to settle the existing debt. 
Refinance risk arises where a customer is unable to repay such term debt on maturity, or to refinance debt at commercial 
rates. When there is evidence that this risk may apply to a specific contract, HSBC may need to refinance the loan on 
concessionary terms that it would not otherwise have considered, in order to recoup the maximum possible cash flows 
from the contract and potentially avoid the customer defaulting on the repayment of principal. When there is sufficient 
evidence that borrowers, based on their current financial capabilities, may fail at maturity to repay or refinance their 
loans, these loans are disclosed as impaired with recognition of a corresponding impairment allowance where 
appropriate. 
Nature of HSBC’s securitisation and other structured exposures 
(Audited) 
Mortgage-backed securities (‘MBS’s) are securities that represent interests in groups of mortgages and provide investors 
with the right to receive cash from future mortgage payments (interest and/or principal). An MBS which references 
mortgages with different risk profiles is classified according to the highest risk class. 
Collateralised debt obligations (‘CDO’s) are securities backed by a pool of bonds, loans or other assets such as asset-
backed securities (‘ABS’s). CDOs may include exposure to sub-prime or Alt-A mortgage assets where these are part of the 
underlying assets or reference assets. As there is often uncertainty surrounding the precise nature of the underlying 
collateral supporting CDOs, all CDOs supported by residential mortgage-related assets are classified as sub-prime. Our 
holdings of ABSs and CDOs and direct lending positions, and the categories of mortgage collateral and lending activity, are 
described overleaf. 
Our exposure to non-residential mortgage-related ABSs includes securities with collateral relating to commercial property 
mortgages, leveraged finance loans, student loans, and other assets such as securities with other receivable-related 
collateral. 
Definitions and classifications of ABSs and CDOs 
Categories of  
ABSs and CDOs Definition Classification 
Sub-prime Loans to customers who have limited credit histories, 
modest incomes or high debt-to-income ratios or have 
experienced credit problems caused by occasional 
delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other 
credit-related actions. 
For US mortgages, a FICO score of 620 or less has 
primarily been used to determine whether a loan is 
sub-prime. For non-US mortgages, management 
judgement is used. 
US Home Equity Lines of 
Credit (‘HELoC’s) 
(categorised within 
‘Sub-prime’) 
A form of revolving credit facility provided to 
customers, which is supported in the majority of 
circumstances by a second lien or lower ranking charge 
over residential property. 
Holdings of HELoCs are classified as sub-prime.
US Alt-A Lower risk loans than sub-prime, but they share higher 
risk characteristics than lending under fully conforming 
standard criteria. 
US credit scores and the completeness of 
documentation held (such as proof of income), are 
considered when determining whether an Alt-A 
classification is appropriate. Non sub-prime mortgages 
in the US are classified as Alt-A if they are not eligible 
for sale to the major US Government mortgage 
agencies or sponsored entities. 
US Government agency 
and sponsored 
enterprises mortgage-
related assets 
Securities that are guaranteed by US Government 
agencies such as the Government National Mortgage 
Association (‘Ginnie Mae’), or by US Government 
sponsored entities including Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac. 
Holdings of US Government agency and US 
Government sponsored enterprises’ mortgage-related 
assets are classified as prime exposures. 
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
215 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Categories of  
ABSs and CDOs Definition Classification 
UK non-conforming 
mortgages (categorised 
within ‘Sub-prime’) 
UK mortgages that do not meet normal lending 
criteria. Examples include mortgages where the 
expected level of documentation is not provided (such 
as income with self-certification), or where poor credit 
history increases risk and results in pricing at a higher 
than normal lending rate. 
UK non-conforming mortgages are treated as sub-
prime exposures. 
Other residential 
mortgages 
Residential mortgages, including prime mortgages, 
that do not meet any of the classifications described 
above. 
Prime residential mortgage-related assets are included 
in this category. 
 
Liquidity and funding 
(Audited) 
The management of liquidity and funding is primarily undertaken locally (by country) in our operating entities in 
compliance with the Group’s liquidity and funding risk management framework (the ‘LFRF’), and with practices and limits 
set by the GMB through the Risk Management Meeting and approved by the Board. These limits vary according to the 
depth and the liquidity of the markets in which the entities operate. Our general policy is that each defined operating 
entity should be self-sufficient in funding its own activities. Where transactions exist between operating entities, they are 
reflected symmetrically in both entities.  
As part of our Asset, Liability and Capital Management (‘ALCM’) structure, we have established ALCOs at Group level, in 
the regions and in operating entities. The terms of reference of all ALCOs include the monitoring and control of liquidity 
and funding. 
The primary responsibility for managing liquidity and funding within the Group’s framework and risk appetite resides with 
the local operating entities’ ALCOs. Our most significant operating entities are overseen by regional ALCOs, Group ALCO 
and the Risk Management Meeting. The remaining smaller operating entities are overseen by regional ALCOs, with 
appropriate escalation of significant issues to Group ALCO and the Risk Management Meeting. 
Operating entities are predominately defined on a country basis to reflect our local management of liquidity and funding. 
Typically, an operating entity will be defined as a single legal entity. However, to take account of the situation where 
operations in a country are booked across multiple subsidiaries or branches: 
• an operating entity may be defined as a wider sub-consolidated group of legal entities if they are incorporated in the 
same country, liquidity and funding are freely fungible between the entities and permitted by local regulation, and the 
definition reflects how liquidity and funding are managed locally; or  
• an operating entity may be defined more narrowly as a principal office (branch) of a wider legal entity operating in 
multiple countries, reflecting the local country management of liquidity and funding. 
The Risk Management Meeting reviews and agrees annually the list of entities it directly oversees and the composition of 
these entities. 
Primary sources of funding 
(Audited) 
Customer deposits in the form of current accounts and savings deposits payable on demand or at short notice form 
a significant part of our funding, and we place considerable importance on maintaining their stability. For deposits, 
stability depends upon maintaining depositor confidence in our capital strength and liquidity, and on competitive and 
transparent pricing. 
We also access wholesale funding markets by issuing senior secured and unsecured debt securities (publically and 
privately) and borrowing from the secured repo markets against high quality collateral, in order to obtain funding for non-
banking subsidiaries that do not accept deposits, to align asset and liability maturities and currencies and to maintain a 
presence in local wholesale markets.  
The management of liquidity and funding risk 
(Audited) 
Inherent liquidity risk categorisation 
We place our operating entities into one of two categories (low and medium) to reflect our assessment of their inherent 
liquidity risk considering political, economic and regulatory factors within the host country and factors specific to the 
operating entities themselves, such as their local market, market share and balance sheet strength. The categorisation 
involves management judgement and is based on the perceived liquidity risk of an operating entity relative to other 
entities in the Group. The categorisation is intended to reflect the possible impact of a liquidity event, not the probability 
of an event, and forms part of our risk appetite. It is used to determine the prescribed stress scenario that we require our 
operating entities to be able to withstand and manage to.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
216 
Core deposits 
A key element of our internal framework is the classification of customer deposits into core and non-core based on our 
expectation of their behaviour during periods of liquidity stress. This characterisation takes into account the inherent 
liquidity risk categorisation of the operating entity originating the deposit, the nature of the customer and the size and 
pricing of the deposit. No deposit is considered to be core in its entirety unless it is contractually collateralising a loan. The 
core deposit base in each operating entity is considered to be a long-term source of funding and therefore is assumed 
not to be withdrawn in the liquidity stress scenario that we use to calculate our principal liquidity risk metrics. 
The three filters considered in assessing whether a deposit in any operating entity is core are: 
• price: any deposit priced significantly above market or benchmark rates is generally treated as entirely non-core; 
• size: depositors with total funds above certain monetary thresholds are excluded. Thresholds are established by 
considering the business line and inherent liquidity risk categorisation; and 
• line of business: the element of any deposit remaining after the application of the price and size filters is assessed on 
the basis of the line of business with which the deposit is associated. The proportion of any customer deposit that can 
be considered core under this filter is between 35% and 90%. 
Repo transactions and bank deposits cannot be classified as core deposits. 
Advances to core funding ratio  
Core customer deposits are an important source of funding to finance lending to customers, and mitigate against reliance 
on short-term wholesale funding. Limits are placed on operating entities to restrict their ability to increase loans and 
advances to customers without corresponding growth in core customer deposits or long-term debt funding with a residual 
maturity beyond one year; this measure is referred to as the ‘advances to core funding’ ratio. 
Advances to core funding ratio limits are set by the Risk Management Meeting for the most significant operating entities, 
and by regional ALCOs for smaller operating entities, and are monitored by ALCM teams. The ratio describes loans and 
advances to customers as a percentage of the total of core customer deposits and term funding with a remaining term to 
maturity in excess of one year. In general, customer loans are assumed to be renewed and are included in the numerator 
of the ratio, irrespective of the contractual maturity date. Reverse repo arrangements are excluded from the advances to 
core funding ratio. 
Stressed coverage ratios 
Stressed coverage ratios are derived from stressed cash flow scenario analyses and express stressed cash inflows as a 
percentage of stressed cash outflows over one-month and three-month time horizons.  
The stressed cash inflows include: 
• inflows (net of assumed haircuts) expected to be generated from the realisation of liquid assets; and 
• contractual cash inflows from maturing assets that are not already reflected as a utilisation of liquid assets. 
In line with the approach adopted for the advances to core funding ratio, customer loans are generally assumed not to 
generate any cash inflows under stress scenarios and are therefore excluded from the numerator of the stressed coverage 
ratio, irrespective of the contractual maturity date. 
A stressed coverage ratio of 100% or higher reflects a positive cumulative cash flow under the stress scenario being 
monitored. Group operating entities are required to maintain a ratio of 100% or more out to three months under the 
combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenario defined by the inherent liquidity risk categorisation of the 
operating entity concerned. 
Compliance with operating entity limits is monitored by ALCM teams and reported monthly to the Risk Management 
Meeting for the main operating entities and to regional ALCOs for the smaller operating entities. 
Stressed scenario analysis 
(Unaudited) 
We use a number of standard Group stress scenarios designed to model: 
• combined market-wide and HSBC-specific liquidity crisis scenarios; and 
• market-wide liquidity crisis scenario. 
These scenarios are modelled by all operating entities. The appropriateness of the assumptions for each scenario is 
reviewed by ALCM regularly and formally approved by the Risk Management Meeting and the Board annually as part of 
the liquidity and funding risk appetite approval process. 
Stressed cash outflows are determined by applying a standard set of prescribed stress assumptions to the Group’s cash 
flow model. Our framework prescribes the use of two market-wide scenarios and two further combined market-wide and 
HSBC-specific stress scenarios of increasing severity. In addition to our standard stress scenarios, individual operating 
entities are required to design their own scenarios to reflect specific local market conditions, products and funding bases.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
217 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The two combined market-wide and HSBC-specific scenarios model a more severe scenario than the market-wide 
scenario. The relevant combined market-wide and HSBC-specific stress scenario that an operating entity manages to is 
based upon its inherent liquidity risk categorisation. The key assumptions factored into the two combined market-wide 
and HSBC-specific stress scenarios are summarised as follows: 
• all non-core deposits are deemed to be withdrawn within three months (80% within one month), with the level of non-
core deposits dependent on the operating entity’s inherent liquidity risk categorisation; 
• the ability to access interbank funding and unsecured term debt markets ceases for the duration of the scenario; 
• the ability to generate funds from illiquid asset portfolios (securitisation and secured borrowing) is restricted to 25-75% 
of the lower of issues in the last six months or expected issues in the next six months. The restriction is based on 
current market conditions and is dependent on the operating entity’s inherent liquidity risk categorisation; 
• the ability to access repo funding ceases for any asset not classified as liquid under our liquid asset policy for 
the duration of the scenario; 
• drawdowns on committed lending facilities must be consistent with the severity of the market stress being modelled 
and dependent on the inherent liquidity risk categorisation of the operating entity; 
• outflows are triggered by a defined downgrade in long-term ratings. We maintain an ongoing assessment 
of the appropriate number of notches to reflect; 
• customer loans are assumed to be renewed at contractual maturity; 
• interbank loans and reverse repos are assumed to run off contractually; and 
• assets defined as liquid assets are assumed to be realised in cash ahead of their contractual maturity, after applying a 
defined stressed haircut of up to 20%. 
Liquid assets of HSBC’s principal operating entities 
(Audited) 
Stressed scenario analysis and the numerator of the coverage ratio include the assumed cash inflows that would be 
generated from the realisation of liquid assets, after applying the appropriate stressed haircut. These assumptions are 
made on the basis of management’s expectation of when an asset is deemed to be realisable. 
Liquid assets are unencumbered assets that meet the Group’s definition of liquid assets and are either held outright or as 
a consequence of a reverse repo transaction with a residual contractual maturity beyond the time horizon of the stressed 
coverage ratio being monitored. Any unencumbered asset held as a result of reverse repo transactions with a contractual 
maturity within the time horizon of the stressed coverage ratio being monitored is excluded from the stock of liquid assets 
and is instead reflected as a contractual cash inflow. 
Our framework defines the asset classes that can be assessed locally as high quality and realisable within one month and 
between one month and three months. Each local ALCO has to be satisfied that any asset which may be treated as liquid 
in accordance with the Group’s liquid asset policy will remain liquid under the stress scenario being managed to. 
Inflows from the utilisation of liquid assets within one month can generally only be based on confirmed withdrawable 
central bank deposits or the sale or repo of government and quasi-government exposures generally restricted to those 
denominated in the sovereign’s domestic currency. High quality ABSs (predominantly US MBSs) and covered bonds are 
also included but inflows assumed for these assets are capped. 
Inflows after one month are also reflected for high quality non-financial and non-structured corporate bonds and equities 
within the most liquid indices. 
Internal categorisation Cash inflow recognised Asset classes 
Level 1 Within one month • Central government 
• Central bank (including confirmed withdrawable reserves) 
• Supranationals 
• Multilateral development banks 
• Coins and banknotes 
Level 2 Within one month but capped • Local and regional government 
• Public sector entities 
• Secured covered bonds and pass-through ABSs 
• Gold 
Level 3 From one to three months • Unsecured non-financial entity securities 
• Equities listed on recognised exchanges and within liquid indices 
Any entity owned and controlled by central or local/regional government but not explicitly guaranteed is treated as a 
public sector entity. 
Any exposure explicitly guaranteed is reflected as an exposure to the ultimate guarantor.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
218 
In terms of the criteria used to ensure liquid assets are of a high quality, the Group’s liquid asset policy sets out the 
following additional criteria: 
1. Central bank and central government exposures denominated in the domestic currency of the related sovereign and 
held onshore in the domestic banking system qualify as level 1 liquid assets. 
2. Central bank and central government exposures denominated in the domestic currency of the related sovereign and 
held offshore must be risk weighted 20% or lower under the Basel standardised risk weighting methodology to qualify 
as level 1 liquid assets. 
3. Central bank and central government exposures denominated in a currency other than the currency of the related 
sovereign (i.e. foreign currency) must be risk weighted 20% or lower under the Basel standardised risk weighting 
methodology and issued in a limited number of major currencies to qualify as level 1 liquid assets. 
The treatment of eurozone countries using the euro as their domestic currency depends on whether the exposures 
are held onshore in the domestic banking system or offshore. Central bank and central government exposures held 
onshore in the domestic banking system qualify as level 1 liquid assets under criteria 1, but central bank and central 
government exposures held offshore are considered to be denominated in a foreign currency under criteria 3. 
4. Local/regional government exposures held onshore and considered by the local regulator to be the same risk as central 
government exposures can be considered central government exposures. 
5. Supranationals and multilateral development banks must be 0% risk weighted under the Basel standardised risk- 
weighting methodology to qualify as level 1 liquid assets. 
6. To qualify as a level 2 liquid asset, the exposure must be risk weighted 20% or lower under the Basel standardised risk-
weighting methodology. 
7. To qualify as a level 3 liquid asset, an unsecured non-financial corporate debt exposure must satisfy a minimum 
internal rating requirement. 
On a case-by-case basis, operating entities are permitted to treat other assets as liquid if these assets are realistically 
assessed to be liquid under stress. These liquid assets are reported as ‘Other’, separately from level 1, level 2 and level 3 
liquid assets. 
Net cash flow arising from interbank and intragroup loans and deposits 
Under the LFRF, a net cash inflow within three months arising from interbank and intra-Group loans and deposits will give 
rise to a lower liquid asset requirement. Conversely, a net cash outflow within three months arising from interbank and 
intra-Group loans and deposits will give rise to a higher liquid assets requirement. 
Net cash flow arising from reverse repo, repo, stock borrowing, stock lending and outright short positions (including 
intra-Group) 
A net cash inflow represents liquid resources in addition to liquid assets because any unencumbered asset held as a 
consequence of a reverse repo transaction with a residual contractual maturity within the stressed coverage ratio time 
period is not reflected as a liquid asset. 
The impact of net cash outflow depends on whether the underlying collateral encumbered as a result will qualify as a 
liquid asset when released at the maturity of the repo. The majority of the Group’s repo transactions are collateralised 
by liquid assets and, as such, any net cash outflow shown is offset by the return of liquid assets, which are excluded from 
the liquid asset table above. 
Wholesale debt monitoring 
(Unaudited) 
Where wholesale debt term markets are accessed to raise funding, ALCO is required to establish cumulative rolling three-
month and 12-month debt maturity limits to ensure no concentration of maturities within these timeframes. 
Liquidity behaviouralisation 
(Unaudited) 
Liquidity behaviouralisation is applied to reflect our assessment of the expected period for which we are confident that 
we will have access to our liabilities, even under a severe liquidity stress scenario, and the expected period for which we 
must assume that we will need to fund our assets. Behaviouralisation is applied when the contractual terms do not reflect 
the expected behaviour. Liquidity behaviouralisation is reviewed and approved by local ALCO in compliance with policies 
set by the Risk Management Meeting. Our approach to liquidity risk management will often mean different approaches 
are applied to assets and liabilities. For example, management may assume a shorter life for liabilities and a longer-term 
funding requirement for assets. All core deposits are assumed under the Group’s core/non-core and advances to core 
funding frameworks to have a liquidity behaviouralised life beyond one year and to represent a homogeneous source of 
core funding. The behaviouralisation of assets is far more granular and seeks to differentiate the period for which we must 
assume that we will need to fund the asset.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
219 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Funds transfer pricing 
(Unaudited) 
Our funds transfer pricing policies give rise to a two-stage funds transfer pricing approach, reflecting the fact that 
we separately manage interest rate risk and liquidity and funding risk under different assumptions. They have been 
developed to be consistent with our risk management frameworks. Each operating entity is required to apply the Group’s 
transfer pricing policy framework to determine for each material currency the most appropriate interest rate risk transfer 
pricing curve, a liquidity premium curve (which is the spread over the interest rate risk transfer pricing curve) and a 
liquidity recharge assessment (which is the spread under or over the interest rate risk transfer pricing curve). 
The interest rate risk transfer pricing policy seeks to ensure that all market interest rate risk arising structurally from non-
trading (banking book) assets and liabilities which is capable of being neutralised externally in the market or neutralised 
internally by off-setting transfers, is transferred to BSM to be managed centrally as non-trading market risk. For each 
material currency each operating entity employs a single interest rate risk transfer pricing curve. The transfer price curve 
used for this purpose reflects how BSM in each operating entity is best able to neutralise the interest rate risk in the 
market at the point of transfer. Where basis risk can be identified between the re-pricing basis of an external asset or 
external liability and the re-pricing basis of the interest rate risk transfer pricing curve, this basis risk may be transferred 
to BSM provided it can neutralise the basis risk in the market. 
Liquidity and funding risk is transfer priced independently from interest rate risk because the liquidity and funding risk of 
an operating entity is transferred to ALCO to be managed centrally. ALCO monitors and manages the advances to core 
funding ratio and delegates the management of the liquid asset portfolio and execution of the wholesale term debt 
funding plan to BSM. This assists ALCO in ensuring the Group’s stressed coverage ratios remain above 100% out to three 
months. 
The liquidity and funding risk transfer price consists of two components: 
• Liquidity recharge: the cost of holding the benchmark liquid asset (the yield under the transfer price) to meet stressed 
cash outflows. The benchmark liquid asset is decided by ALCO and based on the weighted average duration that can be 
achieved by investing in level 1 liquid assets, with a residual duration of up to one year. 
• Liquidity premium: the assessed cost/value of term funding (the yield over the transfer price) to pay for term debt and 
core deposits. 
The assessed cost of holding liquid assets is allocated to the outflows modelled by the Group’s internal stressed coverage 
ratio framework. 
Liquidity premium is charged to any asset that affects our three-month stressed coverage ratios based on the assessed 
behaviouralised liquidity life of the asset, with any asset affecting the Group’s advances to core funding metric required to 
have a minimum behaviouralised life of at least one year, and the prevailing liquidity premium curve rate set by ALCO and 
calibrated in line with Group’s calibration principles. Core deposits therefore share equally in the liquidity premiums 
charged to the assets they support, after deducting the cost of any term funding. 
Repos and stock lending 
GB&M provides collateralised security financing services to its clients, providing them with cash financing or specific 
securities. When cash is provided to clients against collateral in the form of securities, the cash provided is recognised on 
the balance sheet as a reverse repo. When securities are provided to clients against cash collateral the cash received is 
recognised on the balance sheet as a repo or, if the securities are equity securities, as stock lending. 
Each operating entity manages its collateral through a central collateral pool, in line with the LFRF. When specific 
securities need to be delivered and the entity does not have them currently available within the central collateral pool, 
the securities are borrowed on a collateralised basis. When securities are borrowed against cash collateral the cash 
provided is recognised on the balance sheet as a reverse repo or, if the securities are equity securities, as stock borrowing. 
Operating entities may also borrow cash against collateral in the form of securities, using the securities available in the 
central collateral pool. Repos and stock lending can be used in this way to fund the cash requirement arising from 
securities owned outright by Markets to facilitate client business, and the net cash requirement arising from financing 
client securities activity. 
Reverse repos, stock borrowing, repos and stock lending are reported net when the IFRSs offsetting criteria are met. In 
some cases transactions to borrow or lend securities are collateralised using securities. These transactions are off-balance 
sheet. 
Any security accepted as collateral for a reverse repo or stock borrowing transaction must be of very high quality and its 
value subject to an appropriate haircut. Securities borrowed under reverse repo or stock borrowing transactions can only 
be recognised as part of the liquidity asset buffer for the duration of the transactions and only if the security received is 
eligible under the liquid asset policy within the LFRF. 
Credit controls are in place to ensure that the fair value of any collateral received remains appropriate to collateralise the 
cash or fair value of securities given.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
220 
The effect of active collateral management 
Collateral is managed on an operating entity basis, consistent with the approach adopted in managing liquidity and 
funding. Available collateral held by each operating entity is managed as a single collateral pool. In deciding which 
collateral to pledge, each operating entity seeks to optimise the use of the available collateral pool within the confines 
of the LFRF, irrespective of whether the collateral pledged is recognised on-balance sheet or was received in respect of 
reverse repo, stock borrowing or derivative transactions. 
Managing collateral in this manner affects the presentation of asset encumbrance in that we may encumber on-balance 
sheet holdings while maintaining available unencumbered off-balance sheet holdings, even though we are not seeking to 
directly finance the on-balance sheet holdings pledged. 
In quantifying the level of encumbrance of negotiable securities, the encumbrance is analysed by individual security. 
When a particular security is encumbered and we hold the security both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet with the 
right to repledge, we assume for the purpose of this disclosure that the off-balance sheet holding received from the third 
party is encumbered ahead of the on-balance sheet holding. 
An on-balance sheet encumbered and off-balance sheet unencumbered asset will occur, for example, if we receive a 
specific security as a result of a reverse repo/stock borrowing transaction, but finance the cash lent by pledging a generic 
collateral basket, even if the security received is eligible for the collateral basket pledged. It will also occur if we receive a 
generic collateral basket as a result of a reverse repo transaction but finance the cash lent by pledging specific securities, 
even if the securities pledged are eligible for the collateral basket. 
Encumbered and unencumbered assets 
Definitions of the categories included in the table ‘Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets’: 
• Encumbered assets are assets on our balance sheet which have been pledged as collateral against an existing liability, and as a result 
are assets which are unavailable to the bank to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce potential future funding 
requirements. 
• Unencumbered – readily realisable assets are assets regarded by the bank to be readily realisable in the normal course of business to 
secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, and are not subject to any 
restrictions on their use for these purposes. 
• Unencumbered – other realisable assets are assets where there are no restrictions on their use to secure funding, meet collateral 
needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, but they are not readily realisable in the normal course of business 
in their current form. 
• Unencumbered – reverse repo/stock borrowing receivables and derivative assets are assets related specifically to reverse repo, stock 
borrowing and derivative transactions. They are shown separately as these on-balance sheet assets cannot be pledged but often give 
rise to the receipt of non-cash assets which are not recognised on the balance sheet, and can additionally be used to raise secured 
funding, meet additional collateral requirements or be sold. 
• Unencumbered – cannot be pledged as collateral are assets that have not been pledged and which we have assessed could not be 
pledged and therefore could not be used to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding 
requirements. An example is assets held by the Group’s insurance subsidiaries that back liabilities to policyholders and support the 
solvency of these entities.  
Historically, the Group has not recognised any contingent liquidity value for assets other than those assets defined under the LFRF as 
being liquid assets, and any other negotiable instruments that under stress are assumed to be realisable after three months, even though 
they may currently be realisable. This approach has generally been driven by our risk appetite not to place any reliance on central banks. 
In a few cases, we have recognised the contingent value of discrete pools of assets, but the amounts involved are insignificant. As a 
result, we have reported the majority of our loans and advances to customers and banks in the category ‘Other realisable assets’ as 
management would need to perform additional actions in order to make the assets transferable and readily realisable. 
Additional information 
The amount of assets pledged to secure liabilities reported in Note 19 on the Financial Statements may be greater than 
the book value of assets reported as being encumbered in the table on page 172. Examples of where such differences 
occur are: 
• ABSs and covered bonds, where the amount of liabilities issued plus the required mandatory over-collateralisation 
is lower than the book value of assets pledged to the pool. Any difference is categorised in the table above as 
‘Unencumbered – readily realisable assets’; 
• negotiable securities held by custodians or settlement agents, where a floating charge has been given over the entire 
holding to secure intra-day settlement liabilities, are only reported as encumbered to the extent that we have a liability 
to the custodian or settlement agent at the reporting date, with the balance reported as ‘Unencumbered – readily 
realisable assets’; and 
• assets pre-positioned with central banks or government agencies are only reported as encumbered to the extent that 
we have secured funding with the collateral. The unutilised pre-positioned collateral is reported as ‘Unencumbered – 
readily realisable assets’.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
221 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Securities reflected on the balance sheet that are pledged as collateral against an existing liability or lent are reflected as 
encumbered for the duration of the transaction. When securities are received as collateral or borrowed, and when we 
have the right to sell or re-pledge these securities, they are reflected as available and unencumbered for the duration of 
the transaction, unless re-pledged or sold. Further analysis regarding the encumbrance of securities resulting from repos 
and stock lending and available unencumbered assets arising from reverse repos and stock borrowing is provided under 
the heading ‘Encumbered and unencumbered assets’ on page 171. 
In the normal course of business we do not seek to utilise repo financing as a source of funding to finance customer 
assets, beyond the collateralised security financing activities within Markets described above. 
The original contractual maturity of reverse repo, stock borrowing, repo and stock lending is short term with the vast 
majority of transactions being for less than 90 days. 
Management of cross-currency liquidity and funding risk 
(Unaudited) 
Our liquidity and funding risk framework also considers the ability of each entity to continue to access foreign exchange 
markets under stress when a surplus in one currency is used to meet a deficit in another currency, for example, by the use 
of the foreign currency swap markets. Where appropriate, operating entities are required to monitor stressed coverage 
ratios and advances to core funding ratios for non-local currencies. 
HSBC Holdings 
(Audited) 
HSBC Holdings’ primary sources of cash are dividends received from subsidiaries, interest on and repayment of intra-
group loans and interest earned on its own liquid funds. HSBC Holdings also raises ancillary funds in the debt capital 
markets through subordinated and senior debt issuance. Cash is primarily used for the provision of capital to subsidiaries, 
interest payments to debt holders and dividend payments to shareholders.  
HSBC Holdings is also subject to contingent liquidity risk by virtue of loan and other credit-related commitments and 
guarantees and similar contracts issued. Such commitments and guarantees are only issued after due consideration of 
HSBC Holdings’ ability to finance the commitments and guarantees and the likelihood of the need arising.  
HSBC Holdings actively manages the cash flows from its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at the holding 
company level. The ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other 
things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, statutory reserves, and financial and operating 
performance. During 2014 and 2013, none of the Group’s subsidiaries experienced significant restrictions on paying 
dividends or repaying loans and advances. Also, there are no foreseen restrictions envisaged by our subsidiaries on paying 
dividends or repaying loans and advances. None of the subsidiaries which are excluded from our regulatory consolidation 
has capital resources below its minimum regulatory requirement. 
Market risk 
Market risk is the risk that movements in market factors, including foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, interest 
rates, credit spreads and equity prices, will reduce our income or the value of our portfolios. 
Market risk exposures (including graphs and tables) are provided under Market Risk on page 175. 
Exposure to market risk 
(Unaudited) 
Exposure to market risk is separated into two portfolios: 
• Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from market-making and the warehousing of customer-derived positions. 
• Non-trading portfolios comprise positions that primarily arise from the interest rate management of our retail and 
commercial banking assets and liabilities, financial investments designated as available for sale and held to maturity, 
and exposures arising from our insurance operations. 
Where appropriate, we apply similar risk management policies and measurement techniques to both trading and non-
trading portfolios. Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures in order to optimise return on risk while 
maintaining a market profile consistent with our status as one of the world’s largest banking and financial services 
organisations. 
The nature of the hedging and risk mitigation strategies performed across the Group corresponds to the market risk 
management instruments available within each operating jurisdiction. These strategies range from the use of traditional 
market instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to more sophisticated hedging strategies to address a combination of risk 
factors arising at portfolio level.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
222 
Overview of market risk in global businesses 
(Unaudited) 
The diagram below illustrates the main business areas where trading and non-trading market risks reside and market risk 
measures to monitor and limit exposures. 
 
1 The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings is not included in the Group VaR. The management of this risk is 
described on page 181. 
Market risk governance 
(Audited) 
Market risk is managed and controlled through limits approved by the Risk Management Meeting of the GMB for HSBC 
Holdings and our various global businesses. These limits are allocated across business lines and to the Group’s legal 
entities.  
 
The management of market risk is principally undertaken in Global 
Markets, where 77% of the total value at risk of HSBC (excluding 
insurance) and almost all trading VaR resides, using risk limits 
approved by the GMB. VaR limits are set for portfolios, products 
and risk types, with market liquidity being a primary factor in 
determining the level of limits set.  
Group Risk, an independent unit within Group Head Office, 
is responsible for our market risk management policies and 
measurement techniques. Each major operating entity has an 
independent market risk management and control function which 
is responsible for measuring market risk exposures in accordance 
with the policies defined by Group Risk, and monitoring and 
reporting these exposures against the prescribed limits on a 
daily basis. The market risk limits are governed according to the 
framework illustrated to the left. 
Each operating entity is required to assess the market risks arising 
on each product in its business and to transfer them to either its 
local Markets unit for management, or to separate books managed 
under the supervision of the local ALCO. 
Our aim is to ensure that all market risks are consolidated within 
operations that have the necessary skills, tools, management and 
governance to manage them. In certain cases where the market 
risks cannot be fully transferred, we identify the impact of varying 
scenarios on valuations or on net interest income resulting from 
any residual risk positions. Further details on the control and 
management process for residual risks are provided on page 224. 
Model risk is governed through Model Oversight Committees (‘MOC’s) at the regional and global Wholesale Credit and 
Market Risk levels. They have direct oversight and approval responsibility for all traded risk models utilised for risk 
measurement and management and stress testing. The MOCs prioritise the development of models, methodologies and 
practices used for traded risk management within the Group and ensure that they remain within our risk appetite and 
business plans. The Markets MOC reports into the Group MOC, which oversees all model risk types at Group level. Group 
MOC informs the Group Risk Management Meeting about material issues at least on a bi-annual basis. The Risk 
Management Meeting is the Group’s ‘Designated Committee’ according to regulatory rules and has delegated day-to-day 
governance of all traded risk models to the Markets MOC. 
Trading risk Non-trading risk
Risk types
– Foreign exchange & commodities
– Interest rates
– Credit spreads
– Equities
– Structural foreign exchange
– Interest rates
1
– Credit spreads
Risk measure VaR | Sensitivity  | Stress testing VaR | Sensitivity  | Stress testing
Global businesses
GB&M, incl BSM GB&M, incl BSM GPB CMB RBWM
Chairman/CEO
Risk Management Meeting
of the GMB
HSBC Holdings Board
Entity Risk
Management Committee
Principal Office Manager
Business/Desk/Trader
Group Traded Risk
General measures Specific measures  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
223 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Our control of market risk in the trading and non-trading portfolios is based on a policy of restricting individual operations 
to trading within a list of permissible instruments authorised for each site by Group Risk, of enforcing new product 
approval procedures, and of restricting trading in the more complex derivative products only to offices with appropriate 
levels of product expertise and robust control systems. 
Market risk measures 
(Audited) 
Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures 
Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures while maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk 
appetite. 
We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures including sensitivity analysis, value at risk and stress 
testing. 
Sensitivity analysis 
(Unaudited) 
Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of individual market factor movements on specific instruments or portfolios, 
including interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices, such as the effect of a one basis point change in yield. 
We use sensitivity measures to monitor the market risk positions within each risk type. Sensitivity limits are set 
for portfolios, products and risk types, with the depth of the market being one of the principal factors in determining 
the level of limits set. 
Value at risk 
(Audited) 
Value at risk (‘VaR’) is a technique that estimates the potential losses on risk positions as a result of movements in market 
rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence. The use of VaR is integrated into market 
risk management and is calculated for all trading positions regardless of how we capitalise those exposures. Where there 
is not an approved internal model, we use the appropriate local rules to capitalise exposures.  
In addition, we calculate VaR for non-trading portfolios in order to have a complete picture of risk. Our models are 
predominantly based on historical simulation. VaR is calculated at a 99% confidence level for a one-day holding period. 
Where we do not calculate VaR explicitly, we use alternative tools as summarised in the Market Risk Stress Testing table 
found in the Stress testing section below. 
Our VaR models derive plausible future scenarios from past series of recorded market rates and prices, taking into 
account inter-relationships between different markets and rates such as interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The 
models also incorporate the effect of option features on the underlying exposures. 
The historical simulation models used incorporate the following features: 
• historical market rates and prices are calculated with reference to foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, 
interest rates, equity prices and the associated volatilities;  
• potential market movements utilised for VaR are calculated with reference to data from the past two years; and 
• VaR measures are calculated to a 99% confidence level and use a one-day holding period.  
The nature of the VaR models means that an increase in observed market volatility will lead to an increase in VaR without 
any changes in the underlying positions.  
We are committed to the ongoing development of our in-house risk models. 
VaR model limitations 
Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations. For example: 
• the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events may not encompass all potential events, particularly 
those which are extreme in nature; 
• the use of a holding period assumes that all positions can be liquidated or the risks offset during that period. This may 
not fully reflect the market risk arising at times of severe illiquidity, when the holding period may be insufficient to 
liquidate or hedge all positions fully; 
• the use of a 99% confidence level, by definition, does not take into account losses that might occur beyond this level of 
confidence; 
• VaR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the close of business and therefore does not necessarily 
reflect intra-day exposures; and 
• VaR is unlikely to reflect loss potential on exposures that only arise under conditions of significant market movement.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
224 
Risk not in VaR framework 
(Unaudited) 
Our VaR model is designed to capture significant basis risks such as credit default swap versus bond, asset swap spreads 
and cross-currency basis. Other basis risks which are not completely covered in VaR, such as the Libor tenor basis, are 
complemented by our risk not in VaR (‘RNIV’) calculations, and are integrated into our capital framework.  
The RNIV framework therefore aims to capture and capitalise material market risks that are not adequately covered in 
the VaR model. An example of this is Libor-overnight index swap basis risk for minor currencies. In such instances the RNIV 
framework uses stress tests to quantify the capital requirement. On average in 2014, the capital requirement derived 
from these stress tests represented 2.6% of the total internal model-based market risk requirement. 
Risks covered by RNIV represent 18% of market risk RWAs for models with regulatory approval and include those resulting 
from underlying risk factors which are not observable on a daily basis across asset classes and products, such as dividend 
risk and correlation risks.  
Risk factors are reviewed on a regular basis and either incorporated directly in the VaR models, where possible, or 
quantified through the VaR-based RNIV approach or a stress test approach within the RNIV framework. The severity of 
the scenarios is calibrated to be in line with the capital adequacy requirements. The outcome of the VaR-based RNIV is 
included in the VaR calculation and back-testing; a stressed VaR RNIV is also computed for the risk factors considered in 
the VaR-based RNIV approach. 
In 2014, we modified our RNIV model on a non-diversified basis across risk factors to comply with new PRA CRD IV 
implementation guidelines. 
Level 3 assets 
The fair values of Level 3 assets and liabilities in trading portfolios are disclosed on page 380, and represent only a small 
proportion of the overall trading portfolio. Market risk arising from Level 3 instruments is managed by various market risk 
techniques such as stress testing and notional limits. The table on page 384 shows the movement in Level 3 financial 
instruments. 
Back-testing 
We routinely validate the accuracy of our VaR models by back-testing them against both clean and hypothetical profit and 
loss against the corresponding VaR numbers. Hypothetical profit and loss excludes non-modelled items such as fees, 
commissions and revenues of intra-day transactions.  
We would expect on average to see two or three profits and two or three losses in excess of VaR at the 99% confidence 
level over a one-year period. The actual number of profits or losses in excess of VaR over this period can therefore be 
used to gauge how well the models are performing. To ensure a conservative approach to calculating our risk exposures, 
it is important to note that profits in excess of VaR are only considered when back-testing the accuracy of our models and 
are not used to calculate the VaR numbers used for risk management or capital purposes. 
We back-test our Group VaR at various levels which reflect a full legal entity scope of HSBC, including entities that do not 
have local permission to use VaR for regulatory purposes. 
Stress testing 
(Unaudited) 
Stress testing is an important tool that is integrated into our market risk management tool to evaluate the potential 
impact on portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible, events or movements in a set of financial variables. 
In such abnormal scenarios, losses can be much greater than those predicted by VaR modelling. 
Stress testing is implemented at legal entity, regional and overall Group levels. A standard set of scenarios is utilised 
consistently across all regions within the Group. Scenarios are tailored to capture the relevant events or market 
movements at each level. The risk appetite around potential stress losses for the Group is set and monitored against 
referral limits. 
 
Market Risk Stress Testing
Sensitivities Technical Hypothetical Historical
Reverse 
Stress 
Testing
Impact of a single risk 
factor e.g. break of a 
currency peg
Impact of the largest 
move in each risk factor 
without consideration 
of any underlying 
market correlation
Impact of potential 
macroeconomic events, 
e.g. slowdown in 
mainland China
Scenarios that 
incorporate historical 
observations of market  
movements e.g. Black 
Monday 1987 for 
equities  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
225 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Market risk reverse stress tests are undertaken on the premise that there is a fixed loss. The stress test process identifies 
which scenarios lead to this loss. The rationale behind the reverse stress test is to understand scenarios which are beyond 
normal business settings that could have contagion and systemic implications. 
Stressed VaR and stress testing, together with reverse stress testing and the management of gap risk, provide 
management with insights regarding the ‘tail risk’ beyond VaR for which HSBC’s appetite is limited. 
Trading portfolios 
(Audited) 
Gap risk 
Certain products are structured in such a way that they give rise to enhanced gap risk, being the risk that loss is incurred 
upon occurrence of a gap event. A gap event is a significant and sudden change in market price with no accompanying 
trading opportunity. Such movements may occur, for example, when, in reaction to an adverse event or unexpected news 
announcement, some parts of the market move far beyond their normal volatility range and become temporarily illiquid. 
In 2014 gap risk principally arose from non-recourse loan transactions, mostly for corporate clients, where the collateral 
against the loan is limited to the posted shares. Upon occurrence of a gap event, the value of the equity collateral could 
fall below the outstanding loan amount. 
Given their characteristics, these transactions make little or no contribution to VaR nor to traditional market risk 
sensitivity measures. We capture their risks within our stress testing scenarios and monitor gap risk on an ongoing basis. 
We did not incur any notable gap loss in 2014. 
De-peg risk 
For certain currencies (pegged or managed) the spot exchange rate is pegged at a fixed rate (typically to USD or EUR), or 
managed within a predefined band around a pegged rate. De-peg risk is the risk of the peg or managed band changing or 
being abolished, and moving to a floating regime. 
HSBC has considerable experience in managing fixed and managed currency regimes. Using stressed scenarios on spot 
rates, we are able to analyse how de-peg events would impact the positions held by HSBC. We monitor such scenarios to 
pegged or managed currencies, such as the Hong Kong dollar, renminbi, Middle Eastern currencies and the Swiss franc 
with appreciation capped against the euro during 2014, and limit any potential losses that would occur. This complements 
traditional market risk metrics, such as historical VaR, which may not fully capture the risk involved in holding positions in 
pegged or managed currencies. Historical VaR relies on past events to determine the likelihood of potential profits or 
losses. However, pegged or managed currencies may not have experienced a de-peg event during the historical timeframe 
being considered. 
ABS/MBS exposures 
The ABS/MBS exposures within the trading portfolios are managed within sensitivity and VaR limits as described on 
page 176, and are included within the stress testing scenarios described above. 
Non-trading portfolios 
(Audited) 
Most of the Group’s non-trading VaR relates to Balance Sheet Management (‘BSM’) or local treasury management 
functions. Contributions to Group non-trading VaR are driven by interest rates and credit spread risks arising from all 
global businesses. There is no commodity market risk in the non-trading portfolios. 
Non-trading VaR also includes the interest rate risk of non-trading financial instruments held by the global businesses and 
transferred into portfolios managed by BSM or local treasury functions. In measuring, monitoring and managing risk in our 
non-trading portfolios, VaR is just one of the tools used. The management of interest rate risk in the banking book is 
described further in ‘Non-trading interest rate risk’ below, including the role of BSM. 
Non-trading VaR excludes equity risk on available-for-sale securities, structural foreign exchange risk, and interest rate 
risk on fixed rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings, the scope and management of which are described in the relevant 
sections below. 
Our control of market risk in the non-trading portfolios is based on transferring the assessed market risk of non-trading 
assets and liabilities created outside BSM or Markets, to the books managed by BSM, provided the market risk can be 
neutralised. The net exposure is typically managed by BSM through the use of fixed rate government bonds (liquid assets 
held in available-for-sale books) and interest rate swaps. The interest rate risk arising from fixed rate government bonds 
held within available-for-sale portfolios is reflected within the Group’s non-traded VaR. Interest rate swaps used by BSM 
are typically classified as either a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge and are included within the Group’s non-traded 
VaR. Any market risk that cannot be neutralised in the market is managed by local ALCO in segregated ALCO books. 
   Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
226 
Credit spread risk for available-for-sale debt instruments 
The risk associated with movements in credit spreads is primarily managed through sensitivity limits, stress testing and 
VaR. The VaR shows the effect on income from a one-day movement in credit spreads over a two-year period, calculated 
to a 99% confidence interval. 
Equity securities classified as available for sale 
Potential new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations remain 
within acceptable levels for the portfolio. Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments 
within the portfolio and investments held to facilitate ongoing business, such as holdings in government-sponsored 
enterprises and local stock exchanges. 
Structural foreign exchange exposures 
(Unaudited) 
Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, the functional 
currencies of which are currencies other than the US dollar. An entity’s functional currency is that of the primary 
economic environment in which the entity operates. 
Exchange differences on structural exposures are recognised in ‘Other comprehensive income’. We use the US dollar 
as our presentation currency in our consolidated financial statements because the US dollar and currencies linked to it 
form the major currency bloc in which we transact and fund our business. Our consolidated balance sheet is, therefore, 
affected by exchange differences between the US dollar and all the non-US dollar functional currencies of underlying 
subsidiaries. 
We hedge structural foreign exchange exposures only in limited circumstances. Our structural foreign exchange exposures 
are managed with the primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our consolidated capital ratios and the capital 
ratios of individual banking subsidiaries are largely protected from the effect of changes in exchange rates. This is usually 
achieved by ensuring that, for each subsidiary bank, the ratio of structural exposures in a given currency to risk-weighted 
assets denominated in that currency is broadly equal to the capital ratio of the subsidiary in question. 
We may also transact hedges where a currency in which we have structural exposures is considered likely to revalue 
adversely, and it is possible in practice to transact a hedge. Any hedging is undertaken using forward foreign exchange 
contracts which are accounted for under IFRSs as hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, or by financing with 
borrowings in the same currencies as the functional currencies involved.  
Non-trading interest rate risk 
(Unaudited) 
Non-trading interest rate risk in non-trading portfolios arises principally from mismatches between the future yield on 
assets and their funding cost, as a result of interest rate changes. Analysis of this risk is complicated by having to make 
assumptions on embedded optionality within certain product areas such as the incidence of mortgage prepayments, and 
from behavioural assumptions regarding the economic duration of liabilities which are contractually repayable on demand 
such as current accounts, and the re-pricing behaviour of managed rate products. These assumptions around behavioural 
features are captured in our interest rate risk behaviouralisation framework, which is described below. 
We aim, through our management of market risk in non-trading portfolios, to mitigate the effect of prospective interest 
rate movements which could reduce future net interest income, while balancing the cost of such hedging activities on the 
current net revenue stream. 
Analysis of interest rate risk is complicated by having to make assumptions on embedded optionality within certain 
product areas such as the incidence of mortgage prepayments. 
Our funds transfer pricing policies give rise to a two stage funds transfer pricing approach. For details see page 219. 
Interest rate risk behaviouralisation 
Unlike liquidity risk, which is assessed on the basis of a very severe stress scenario, non-trading interest rate risk is 
assessed and managed according to ‘business-as-usual’ conditions. In many cases the contractual profile of non-trading 
assets/liabilities arising from assets/liabilities created outside Markets or BSM does not reflect the behaviour observed. 
Behaviouralisation is therefore used to assess the market interest rate risk of non-trading assets/liabilities and this 
assessed market risk is transferred to BSM, in accordance with the rules governing the transfer of interest rate risk from 
the global businesses to BSM. 
Behaviouralisation is applied in three key areas: 
• the assessed re-pricing frequency of managed rate balances; 
• the assessed duration of non-interest bearing balances, typically capital and current accounts; and 
• the base case expected prepayment behaviour or pipeline take-up rate for fixed rate balances with embedded 
optionality.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
227 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Interest rate behaviouralisation policies have to be formulated in line with the Group’s behaviouralisation policies and 
approved at least annually by local ALCO, regional ALCM and Group ALCM, in conjunction with local, regional and Group 
market risk monitoring teams. 
The extent to which balances can be behaviouralised is driven by: 
• the amount of the current balance that can be assessed as ‘stable’ under business-as-usual conditions; and 
• for managed rate balances, the historic market interest rate re-pricing behaviour observed; or 
• for non-interest bearing balances, the duration for which the balance is expected to remain under business-as-usual 
conditions. This assessment is often driven by the re-investment tenors available to BSM to neutralise the risk through 
the use of fixed rate government bonds or interest rate derivatives, and for derivatives the availability of cash flow 
hedging capacity. 
Balance Sheet Management  
Effective governance across BSM is supported by the dual reporting lines it has to the CEO of GB&M and to the Group 
Treasurer. In each operating entity, BSM is responsible for managing liquidity and funding under the supervision of the 
local ALCO (which usually meets on a monthly basis). It also manages the non-trading interest rate positions transferred to 
it within a Global Markets limit structure.  
In executing the management of the liquidity risk on behalf of ALCO, and managing the non-trading interest rate positions 
transferred to it, BSM invests in highly-rated liquid assets in line with the Group’s liquid asset policy. The majority of the 
liquidity is invested in central bank deposits and government, supranational and agency securities with most of the 
remainder held in short-term interbank and central bank loans. 
Withdrawable central bank deposits are accounted for as cash balances. Interbank loans, statutory central bank reserves 
and loans to central banks are accounted for as loans and advances to banks. BSM’s holdings of securities are accounted 
for as available-for-sale or, to a lesser extent, held-to-maturity assets.  
Statutory central bank reserves are not recognised as liquid assets. The statutory reserves that would be released in line with 
the Group’s stressed customer deposit outflow assumptions are reflected as stressed inflows. 
BSM is permitted to use derivatives as part of its mandate to manage interest rate risk. Derivative activity is 
predominantly through the use of vanilla interest rate swaps which are part of cash flow hedging and fair value hedging 
relationships.  
Credit risk in BSM is predominantly limited to short-term bank exposure created by interbank lending, exposure to central 
banks and high quality sovereigns, supranationals or agencies which constitute the majority of BSM’s liquidity portfolio. 
BSM does not manage the structural credit risk of any Group entity balance sheets.  
BSM is permitted to enter into single name and index credit derivatives activity, but it does so to manage credit risk on the 
exposure specific to its securities portfolio in limited circumstances only. The risk limits are extremely limited and closely 
monitored. At 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013, BSM had no open credit derivative index risk. 
VaR is calculated on both trading and non-trading positions held in BSM. It is calculated by applying the same 
methodology used for the Markets business and utilised as a tool for market risk control purposes. 
BSM holds trading portfolio instruments in only very limited circumstances. Positions and the associated VaR were not 
significant during 2014 and 2013. 
Sensitivity of net interest income 
(Unaudited) 
A principal part of our management of market risk in non-trading portfolios is to monitor the sensitivity of projected net 
interest income under varying interest rate scenarios (simulation modelling). This monitoring is undertaken at an entity 
level by local ALCOs. 
Entities apply a combination of scenarios and assumptions relevant to their local businesses, and standard scenarios 
which are required throughout HSBC. The latter are consolidated to illustrate the combined pro forma effect on our 
consolidated net interest income. 
Projected net interest income sensitivity figures represent the effect of the pro forma movements in net interest income 
based on the projected yield curve scenarios and the Group’s current interest rate risk profile. This effect, however, does 
not incorporate actions which would probably be taken by BSM or in the business units to mitigate the effect of interest 
rate risk. In reality, BSM seeks proactively to change the interest rate risk profile to minimise losses and optimise net 
revenues. The net interest income sensitivity calculations assume that interest rates of all maturities move by the same 
amount in the ‘up-shock’ scenario. Rates are not assumed to become negative in the ‘down-shock’ scenario which may, in 
certain currencies, effectively result in non-parallel shock. In addition, the net interest income sensitivity calculations take 
account of the effect on net interest income of anticipated differences in changes between interbank interest rates and 
interest rates over which the entity has discretion in terms of the timing and extent of rate changes.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
228 
Defined benefit pension schemes 
(Audited) 
Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension schemes to the extent that the obligations of the schemes are 
not fully matched by assets with determinable cash flows. Pension scheme obligations fluctuate with changes in long-term 
interest rates, inflation, salary levels and the longevity of scheme members. Pension scheme assets include equities and 
debt securities, the cash flows of which change as equity prices and interest rates (and credit risk) vary. There is a risk 
that market movements in equity prices and interest rates could result in asset values which, taken together with regular 
ongoing contributions, are insufficient over time to cover the level of projected obligations and these, in turn, could 
increase with a rise in inflation and members living longer. Management and, in certain instances, trustees (who act 
on behalf of the pension schemes’ beneficiaries) assess these risks using reports prepared by independent external 
consultants, take action and, where appropriate, adjust investment strategies and contribution levels accordingly. 
HSBC Holdings 
(Audited) 
As a financial services holding company, HSBC Holdings has limited market risk activity. Its activities predominantly involve 
maintaining sufficient capital resources to support the Group’s diverse activities; allocating these capital resources across 
our businesses; earning dividend and interest income on its investments in our businesses; providing dividend payments 
to HSBC Holdings’ equity shareholders and interest payments to providers of debt capital; and maintaining a supply of 
short-term capital resources for deployment under extraordinary circumstances. It does not take proprietary trading 
positions. 
The main market risks to which HSBC Holdings is exposed are non-trading interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. 
Exposure to these risks arises from short-term cash balances, funding positions held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in 
long-term financial assets and financial liabilities including debt capital issued. The objective of HSBC Holdings’ market risk 
management strategy is to reduce exposure to these risks and minimise volatility in capital resources, cash flows and 
distributable reserves. Market risk for HSBC Holdings is monitored by HSBC Holdings ALCO in accordance with its risk 
appetite statement. 
HSBC Holdings uses interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk and foreign 
currency risk arising from its long-term debt issues. 
Operational risk 
(Unaudited) 
The objective of our operational risk management is to manage and control operational risk in a cost effective manner 
within targeted levels of operational risk consistent with our risk appetite, as defined by the GMB. 
Operational risk is organised as a specific risk discipline within Global Risk, and a formal governance structure provides 
oversight over its management. The Global Operational Risk function reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer and supports 
the Global Operational Risk Committee. It is responsible for establishing and maintaining the operational risk management 
framework (‘ORMF’) and monitoring the level of operational losses and the effectiveness of the control environment. It is 
also responsible for operational risk reporting at Group level, including the preparation of reports for consideration by the 
Risk Management Meeting and Group Risk Committee. The Global Operational Risk Committee meets at least quarterly to 
discuss key risk issues and review the effective implementation of the ORMF. 
The ORMF defines minimum standards and processes and the governance structure for the management of operational 
risk and internal control in our geographical regions, global businesses and global functions. The ORMF has been codified 
in a high level standards manual supplemented with detailed policies which describes our approach to identifying, 
assessing, monitoring and controlling operational risk and gives guidance on mitigating action to be taken when 
weaknesses are identified. 
Business managers throughout the Group are responsible for maintaining an acceptable level of internal control 
commensurate with the scale and nature of operations, and for identifying and assessing risks, designing controls and 
monitoring the effectiveness of these controls. The ORMF helps managers to fulfil these responsibilities by defining a 
standard risk assessment methodology and providing a tool for the systematic reporting of operational loss data. 
A centralised database is used to record the results of the operational risk management process. Operational risk 
and control self-assessments are input and maintained by business units. Business and functional management and 
Business Risk and Control Managers monitor the progress of documented action plans to address shortcomings. To ensure 
that operational risk losses are consistently reported and monitored at Group level, all Group companies are required to 
report individual losses when the net loss is expected to exceed US$10,000, and to aggregate all other operational risk 
losses under US$10,000. Losses are entered into the Group Operational Risk database and are reported to the Risk 
Management Meeting on a monthly basis. 
For further details, see the Pillar 3 Disclosures 2014 report.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
229 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Compliance risk 
(Unaudited) 
Compliance risk falls within the definition of operational risk. All Group companies are required to observe the letter 
and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and standards of good market practice. These rules, regulations, 
standards and Group policies include those relating to anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and corruption, counter-
terrorist and proliferation financing, sanctions compliance, conduct of business, market conduct and other financial 
regulations. 
The two Compliance sub-functions: Financial Crime Compliance (‘FCC’) and Regulatory Compliance (‘RC’), are 
appropriately supported by shared Compliance Chief Operating Officer, Assurance and Reputational Risk Management 
teams. The Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance and the Global Head of Regulatory Compliance both report to the 
Group Chief Risk Officer.  
There are compliance teams in each of the countries where we operate and in all global businesses. These compliance 
teams are principally overseen by Heads of Financial Crime Compliance and Regulatory Compliance located in Europe, 
the US, Canada, Latin America, Asia and the Middle East and North Africa. The effectiveness of the regional and global 
business compliance teams are reviewed by the Assurance team. 
Global policies and procedures require the prompt identification and escalation to Financial Crime Compliance or 
Regulatory Compliance of all actual or suspected breaches of any law, rule, regulation, policy or other relevant 
requirement. These escalation procedures are supplemented by a requirement for the submission of compliance 
certificates at the half-year and year-end by all Group companies and functions detailing any known breaches as above. 
The contents of these escalation and certification processes are reported to the Risk Management Meeting, the Group 
Risk Committee and the Board. They are disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report, as appropriate. 
Our focus on compliance and conduct issues is further reinforced by the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, which 
reports to the Board on matters relating to financial crime and financial system abuse and provides a forward-looking 
perspective on financial crime risk. In addition, the Conduct & Values Committee reports to the Board on matters relating 
to the responsible conduct of business and adherence to HSBC’s Values. 
In 2014, the new enhanced global AML and sanctions policies and a globally consistent approach to the management of 
conduct were approved by the Board as described in ‘Compliance risk’ on page 189. 
Legal risk 
(Unaudited) 
Each legal department is required to have processes and procedures in place to manage legal risk that conform to Group 
standards. 
Legal risk falls within the definition of operational risk and includes: 
• contractual risk, which is the risk of a member of HSBC suffering financial loss, legal or regulatory action or reputational 
damage because its rights and/or obligations under a contract to which it is a party are technically defective; 
• dispute risk, which is the risk of a member of HSBC suffering financial loss or reputational damage due to an adverse 
dispute environment or a failure to take appropriate steps to defend, prosecute and/or resolve actual or threatened 
legal claims brought against or by a Group member;  
• legislative risk, which is the risk that an HSBC company fails to adhere to the laws of the jurisdictions in which it 
operates; and  
• non-contractual rights risk, which is the risk that a Group member’s assets are not properly owned or protected or 
are infringed by others or the infringement by a Group member of another party’s rights.  
Our global legal function assists management in controlling legal risk. There are legal departments in 49 of the countries 
in which we operate. In addition to the Group Legal function, there are regional legal functions in each of Europe, North 
America, Latin America, the Middle East and North Africa and Asia headed by regional General Counsels, and a global 
General Counsel responsible for each of the global businesses. 
Global security and fraud risk 
(Unaudited) 
Security and fraud risk issues are managed at Group level by Global Security and Fraud Risk. This unit, which 
has responsibility for information, fraud, contingency, financial intelligence, physical and geopolitical risks is fully 
integrated within the central Group Risk function. This enables management to identify and mitigate the permutations of 
these and other non-financial risks to its business lines across the jurisdictions in which we operate. 
The Information Security Risk function is responsible for defining the strategy and policy by which the organisation 
protects its information assets and services from compromise, corruption or loss, whether caused deliberately or 
inadvertently by internal or external parties. It provides independent advice, guidance and oversight to the business about 
the effectiveness of information security controls and practices in place or being proposed.   Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
230 
The Fraud Risk function is responsible for ensuring that effective prevention, detection and investigation measures are in 
place against all forms of fraudulent activity, whether initiated internally or externally, and is available to support any part 
of the business. To achieve that and to attain the level of integration needed to face the threat, the management of all 
types of fraud (e.g. card fraud, non-card fraud and internal fraud, including investigations) is established within one 
management structure and is part of the Global Risk function. 
We use technology extensively to prevent and detect fraud. For example, customers’ credit and debit card spending is 
monitored continuously and suspicious transactions are highlighted for verification, internet banking sessions are 
reviewed and transactions monitored in a similar way and all new account applications are screened for fraud. We have a 
fraud systems strategy which is designed to provide minimum standards and allow easier sharing of best practices to 
detect fraud and minimise false alerts. 
We have developed a holistic and effective anti-fraud strategy which, in addition to the use of advanced technology, 
includes fraud prevention policies and practices, the implementation of strong internal controls, investigations response 
teams and liaison with law enforcement where appropriate. 
The Contingency Risk function is responsible for ensuring that the group’s critical systems, processes and functions have 
the resilience to maintain continuity in the face of major disruptive events. 
Within this wider risk, Business Continuity Management covers the pre-planning for recovery, seeking to minimise the 
adverse effects of major business disruption, either globally, regionally or within country, against a range of actual or 
emerging risks. The pre-planning concentrates on the protection of customer services, our staff, revenue generation, 
the integrity of data and documents and meeting regulatory requirements. 
Each business has its own recovery plan, which is developed following the completion of a Business Impact Analysis. This 
determines how much time the business could sustain an outage before the level of losses becomes unacceptable, i.e. its 
criticality. These plans are reviewed and tested every year. The planning is undertaken against Group policy and standards 
and each business confirms in an annual compliance certificate that all have been met. Should there be exceptions, these 
are raised and their short-term resolution is overseen by Group and regional business continuity teams. 
It is important that plans are dynamic and meet all risks, particularly those of an emerging nature such as possible 
pandemics and cyber-attacks. The ORMF is used to measure our resilience to these risks, and is confirmed to Group and 
regional risk committees. 
Resilience is managed through various risk mitigation measures. These include agreeing with IT acceptable recovery times 
of systems, ensuring our critical buildings have the correct infrastructure to enable ongoing operations, requiring critical 
vendors to have their own recovery plans and arranging with Group Insurance appropriate cover for business interruption 
costs. 
The Financial Intelligence Unit is jointly administered by Security and Fraud Risk and Financial Crime Compliance. It uses 
advanced analytics and subject matter expertise to detect indicators of financial crime in the Group’s clients and counter-
parties. 
The Physical Security function develops practical physical, electronic and operational counter-measures to ensure that the 
people, property and assets managed by the Group are protected from crime, theft, attack and groups hostile to HSBC’s 
interests. 
Geopolitical risk unit provides both regular and ad hoc reporting to business executives and senior Security and Fraud Risk 
management on geopolitical risk profiles and evolving threats in countries in which the Group operates. This both 
enhances strategic business planning and provides an early view into developing security risks. Security travel controls and 
guidance are also maintained. 
Systems risk 
(Unaudited) 
Systems risk is the risk of failure or other deficiency in the automated platforms that support the Group’s daily execution 
(application systems) and the systems infrastructure on which they reside (data centres, networks and distributed 
computers). 
The management of systems risk is overseen globally by the HSBC Technology and Services (‘HTS’) organisation. Oversight 
is provided through monthly risk management committee meetings that provide a comprehensive overview of existing 
and emerging top risks.  
HTS line management manages the control environment over systems risks using risk and control assessments and 
scenario analysis. Key risk indicators are used to assure a consistent basis of risk evaluation across geographical and line of 
business boundaries. Material risks are monitored through the periodic testing of associated key controls. 
Business-critical services have been identified through a central, global oversight body. Quantitative scorecards, called risk 
appetite statements, are used for monitoring performance, and have been established for each of these services.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
231 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Service Resilience and Systems Continuity Planning functions are in place to ensure systems meet agreed target service 
levels and, in the event of major disruptive events, can be recovered within recovery time objectives agreed with the 
business. 
Vendor risk management 
(Unaudited) 
Our vendor risk management (‘VRM’) programme is a global framework for managing risk with third party vendors, 
especially where we are reliant on outsourced agreements to provide critical services to our customers. VRM contains a 
rigorous process to identify material contracts and their key risks and ensure controls are in place to manage and mitigate 
these risks. Global and regional governance structures have been implemented to oversee vendor third party service 
providers. 
Risk management of insurance operations 
Overview of insurance products 
(Audited) 
HSBC manufactures the following main classes of contract: 
• life insurance contracts with discretionary participation features (‘DPF’);  
• credit life insurance business; 
• annuities; 
• term assurance and critical illness policies; 
• linked life insurance; 
• investment contracts with DPF; 
• unit-linked investment contracts; and 
• other investment contracts (including pension contracts written in Hong Kong). 
We additionally write a small amount of non-life insurance business primarily covering personal and commercial property. 
Nature and extent of risks 
(Audited) 
The majority of the risks in our Insurance business derive from manufacturing activities and can be categorised between 
financial risks and insurance risk; financial risks include market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. Operational and 
sustainability risks are also present and are covered by the Group’s respective overall risk management processes. 
The following sections describe how financial risks and insurance risk are managed. The assets of insurance manufacturing 
subsidiaries are included within the consolidated risk disclosures on pages 111 to 203, although separate disclosures in 
respect of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are provided in the ‘Risk management of insurance operations’ section 
on pages 190 to 198. 
Insurance manufacturers establish control procedures complying with the guidelines and requirements issued by Group 
Insurance and local regulatory requirements. Country level oversight is exercised by local risk management committees. 
Country Chief Risk Officers have direct reporting lines into local Insurance Chief Executive Officers and functional 
reporting lines into the Group Insurance Chief Risk Officer, who has overall accountability for risk management in 
insurance operations globally. The Group Insurance Executive Committee oversees the control framework globally and 
is accountable to the RBWM Risk Management Committee on risk matters. 
In addition, local ALCOs monitor and review the duration and cash flow matching of insurance assets and liabilities. 
All insurance products, whether manufactured internally or by a third party, are subjected to a product approval process 
prior to introduction. 
Financial risks 
(Audited) 
Our insurance businesses are exposed to a range of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. 
Market risk includes interest rate, equity and foreign exchange risks. The nature and management of these risks is 
described below.  
Manufacturing subsidiaries are exposed to financial risks when, for example, the proceeds from financial assets are not 
sufficient to fund the obligations arising from insurance and investment contracts. In many jurisdictions, local regulatory 
requirements prescribe the type, quality and concentration of assets that these subsidiaries must maintain to meet 
insurance liabilities. These requirements complement Group-wide policies.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
232 
Market risk 
(Audited) 
Description of market risk 
The main features of products manufactured by our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries which generate market risk, 
and the market risk to which these features expose the subsidiaries, are discussed below. 
Interest rate risk arises to the extent that yields on the assets are lower than the investment returns implied by the 
guarantees payable to policyholders by insurance manufacturing subsidiaries. When the asset yields are below 
guaranteed yields, products may be closed to new business, repriced or restructured. A list of the different types of 
guarantees within our insurance contracts is outlined below. 
Categories of guaranteed benefits 
• annuities in payment;  
• deferred/immediate annuities: these consist of two phases – the savings and investing phase and the retirement income phase; 
• annual return: the annual return is guaranteed to be no lower than a specified rate. This may be the return credited to the 
policyholder every year, or the average annual return credited to the policyholder over the life of the policy, which may occur on the 
maturity date or the surrender date of the contract; and 
• capital: policyholders are guaranteed to receive no less than the premiums paid plus declared bonuses less expenses. 
The proceeds from insurance and investment products with DPF are primarily invested in bonds with a proportion 
allocated to other asset classes in order to provide customers with the potential for enhanced returns. Subsidiaries 
with portfolios of such products are exposed to the risk of falls in market prices which cannot be fully reflected in 
the discretionary bonuses. An increase in market volatility could also result in an increase in the value of the guarantee 
to the policyholder. 
Long-term insurance and investment products typically permit the policyholder to surrender the policy or let it lapse at 
any time. When the surrender value is not linked to the value realised from the sale of the associated supporting assets, 
the subsidiary is exposed to market risk. In particular, when customers seek to surrender their policies when asset values 
are falling, assets may have to be sold at a loss to fund redemptions. 
A subsidiary holding a portfolio of long-term insurance and investment products, especially with DPF, may attempt to 
reduce exposure to its local market by investing in assets in countries other than that in which it is based. These assets 
may be denominated in currencies other than the subsidiary’s local currency. Where the foreign exchange exposure 
associated with these assets is not hedged, for example because it is not cost effective to do so, this exposes the 
subsidiary to the risk of its local currency strengthening against the currency of the related assets.  
For unit-linked contracts, market risk is substantially borne by the policyholder, but market risk exposure typically remains 
as fees earned for management are related to the market value of the linked assets. 
Asset and liability matching 
It is not always possible to match asset and liability durations, partly because there is uncertainty over policyholder 
behaviour which introduces uncertainty over the receipt of all future premiums and the timing of claims, and partly 
because the forecast payment dates of liabilities may exceed the duration of the longest dated investments available.  
We use models to assess the effect of a range of future scenarios on the values of financial assets and associated 
liabilities, and ALCOs employ the outcomes in determining how to best structure asset holdings to support liabilities. The 
scenarios include stresses applied to factors which affect insurance risk such as mortality and lapse rates. Of particular 
importance is assessing the expected pattern of cash inflows against the benefits payable on the underlying contracts, 
which can extend for many years. 
Our current portfolio of assets includes debt securities issued at a time when yields were higher than those observed in the 
current market. As a result, yields on extant holdings of debt securities exceed those available on current issues. We reduced 
short-term bonus rates paid to policyholders on certain participating contracts to manage the immediate strain on the 
business. Should interest rates and yield curves remain low further reductions may be necessary. 
How market risk is managed 
All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk mandates which specify the investment instruments in 
which they are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of market risk which they may retain. They manage 
market risk by using some or all of the techniques listed below, depending on the nature of the contracts they write. 
Techniques for managing market risk 
• for products with DPF, adjusting bonus rates to manage the liabilities to policyholders. The effect is that a significant portion of the 
market risk is borne by the policyholder; 
• structuring asset portfolios to support projected liability cash flows; 
• using derivatives, to a limited extent, to protect against adverse market movements or better match liability cash flows;   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
233 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
• for new products with investment guarantees, considering the cost when determining the level of premiums or the price structure;  
• periodically reviewing products identified as higher risk, which contain investment guarantees and embedded optionality features 
linked to savings and investment products; 
• including features designed to mitigate market risk in new products, such as charging surrender penalties to recoup losses incurred 
when policyholders surrender their policies;  
• exiting, to the extent possible, investment portfolios whose risk is considered unacceptable; and 
• repricing of premiums charged to policyholders. 
In the product approval process, the risks embedded in new products are identified and assessed. When, for example, 
options and guarantees are embedded in new products, the due diligence process ensures that complete and appropriate 
risk management procedures are in place. For all but the simplest of guaranteed benefits the assessment is undertaken by 
Group Insurance. Management reviews certain exposures more frequently when markets are more volatile to ensure that 
any matters arising are dealt with in a timely fashion. 
How the exposure to market risk is measured 
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries monitor exposures against mandated limits regularly and report them to Group 
Insurance. Exposures are aggregated and reported on a quarterly basis to senior risk management forums in Group 
Insurance. 
In addition, large insurance manufacturing subsidiaries perform a high-level monthly assessment of market risk exposure 
against risk appetite. This is submitted to Group Insurance and a global assessment presented to the RBWM Risk 
Management Committee. 
Standard measures for quantifying market risks 
• for interest rate risk, the sensitivities of the net present values of asset and expected liability cash flows, in total and by currency, to a 
one basis point parallel shift in the discount curves used to calculate the net present values; 
• for equity price risk, the total market value of equity holdings and the market value of equity holdings by region and country; and 
• for foreign exchange risk, the total net short foreign exchange position and the net foreign exchange positions by currency. 
The standard measures are relatively straightforward to calculate and aggregate, but they have limitations. The most 
significant one is that a parallel shift in yield curves of one basis point does not capture the non-linear relationships 
between the values of certain assets and liabilities and interest rates. Non-linearity arises, for example, from investment 
guarantees and product features which enable policyholders to surrender their policies. We bear the shortfall if the yields 
on investments held to support contracts with guaranteed benefits are less than the investment returns implied by the 
guaranteed benefits. 
We recognise these limitations and augment our standard measures with stress tests which examine the effect of a range 
of market rate scenarios on the aggregate annual profits and total equity of our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, 
after taking into consideration tax and accounting treatments where material and relevant. The results of these tests are 
reported to Group Insurance and risk committees every quarter. 
The table, ‘Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors’ on page 195, indicates the 
sensitivity of insurance manufacturers profit and total equity to market risk factors. 
Credit risk 
(Audited) 
Description of credit risk 
Credit risk arises in two main areas for our insurance manufacturers: 
(i) risk of default by debt security counterparties after investing premiums to generate a return for policyholders and 
shareholders; and 
(ii) risk of default by reinsurance counterparties and non-reimbursement for claims made after ceding insurance risk. 
How credit risk is managed 
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are responsible for the credit risk, quality and performance of their investment 
portfolios. Our assessment of the creditworthiness of issuers and counterparties is based primarily upon internationally 
recognised credit ratings and other publicly available information. 
Investment credit exposures are monitored against limits by our local insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, and are 
aggregated and reported to Group Insurance Credit Risk and Group Credit Risk. Stress testing is performed by Group 
Insurance on the investment credit exposures using credit spread sensitivities and default probabilities.  Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
234 
We use a number of tools to manage and monitor credit risk. These include a Credit Watch Report which contains a 
watch-list of investments with current credit concerns and is circulated fortnightly to senior management in Group 
Insurance and the individual Country Chief Risk Officers to identify investments which may be at risk of future impairment. 
Liquidity risk 
(Audited) 
Description of liquidity risk 
It is an inherent characteristic of almost all insurance contracts that there is uncertainty over the amount of claims 
liabilities that may arise and the timing of their settlement, and this creates liquidity risk. 
There are three aspects to liquidity risk. The first arises in normal market conditions and is referred to as funding liquidity 
risk; specifically, the capacity to raise sufficient cash when needed to meet payment obligations. Secondly, market 
liquidity risk arises when the size of a particular holding may be so large that a sale cannot be completed around the 
market price. Finally, standby liquidity risk refers to the capacity to meet payment terms in abnormal conditions. 
How liquidity risk is managed 
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries primarily fund cash outflows arising from claim liabilities from the following 
sources of cash inflows: 
• premiums from new business, policy renewals and recurring premium products; 
• interest and dividends on investments and principal repayments of maturing debt investments; 
• cash resources; and 
• the sale of investments. 
They manage liquidity risk by utilising some or all of the following techniques: 
• matching cash inflows with expected cash outflows using specific cash flow projections or more general asset and 
liability matching techniques such as duration matching; 
• maintaining sufficient cash resources; 
• investing in good credit-quality investments with deep and liquid markets to the degree to which they exist; 
• monitoring investment concentrations and restricting them where appropriate, for example, by debt issues or issuers; 
and 
• establishing committed contingency borrowing facilities. 
Each of these techniques contributes to mitigating the three types of liquidity risk described above. 
Every quarter, our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are required to complete and submit liquidity risk reports 
to Group Insurance for collation and review. Liquidity risk is assessed in these reports by measuring changes in expected 
cumulative net cash flows under a series of stress scenarios designed to determine the effect of reducing expected 
available liquidity and accelerating cash outflows. This is achieved, for example, by assuming new business or renewals are 
lower, and surrenders or lapses are greater, than expected. 
Insurance risk 
(Audited) 
Insurance risk is the risk, other than financial risk, of loss transferred from the holder of the insurance contract to 
the issuer (HSBC). The principal risk we face in manufacturing insurance contracts is that, over time, the cost of acquiring 
and administering a contract, claims and benefits may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums received and 
investment income. 
The cost of claims and benefits can be influenced by many factors, including mortality and morbidity experience, lapse 
and surrender rates and, if the policy has a savings element, the performance of the assets held to support the liabilities. 
Insurance risks are controlled by high-level policies and procedures set both centrally and locally, taking into account 
where appropriate local market conditions and regulatory requirements. Formal underwriting, reinsurance and claims-
handling procedures designed to ensure compliance with regulations are applied, supplemented with stress testing. 
As well as exercising underwriting controls, we use reinsurance as a means of mitigating exposure to insurance risk. 
Where we manage our exposure to insurance risk through the use of third-party reinsurers, the associated revenue and 
manufacturing profit is ceded to the reinsurers. Although reinsurance provides a means of managing insurance risk, such 
contracts expose us to credit risk, the risk of default by the reinsurer. 
The principal drivers of our insurance risk are described below. The liabilities for long-term contracts are set by reference 
to a range of assumptions around these drivers. These typically reflect the issuers’ own experiences. The type and 
quantum of insurance risk arising from life insurance depends on the type of business, and varies considerably. 
• mortality and morbidity: the main contracts which generate exposure to these risks are term assurance, whole 
life products, critical illness and income protection contracts and annuities. The risks are monitored on a regular basis,   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
235 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
and are primarily mitigated by underwriting controls and reinsurance and by retaining the ability in certain cases to 
amend premiums in the light of experience; 
• lapses and surrenders: the risks associated with this are generally mitigated by product design, the application 
of surrender charges and management actions, for example, managing the level of bonus payments to policyholders. 
A detailed persistency analysis at a product level is carried out at least on an annual basis; and  
• expense risk is mitigated by pricing, for example, retaining the ability in certain cases to amend premiums and/or 
policyholder charges based on experience, and cost management discipline. 
Liabilities are affected by changes in assumptions (see ‘Sensitivity analysis’ on page 198). 
Reputational risk 
(Unaudited) 
We regularly review our policies and procedures for safeguarding against reputational risk. This is an evolutionary process 
which takes account of relevant developments, industry guidance, best practice and societal expectations.  
We have always aspired to the highest standards of conduct and, as a matter of routine, take account of reputational risks 
to our business. Reputational risks can arise from a wide variety of causes. As a banking group, our good reputation 
depends not only upon the way in which we conduct our business, but also by the way in which clients to whom we 
provide financial services, and our vendors, conduct themselves.  
The Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance and the Global Head of Regulatory Compliance are the risk stewards for 
reputational risk. The development of policies, and an effective control environment for the identification, assessment, 
management and mitigation of reputational risk, is co-ordinated through the Group Reputational Risk Policy Committee 
(‘GRRPC’), which is chaired by the Group Chairman. The primary role of the GRRPC is to consider areas and activities 
presenting significant reputational risk and, where appropriate, to make recommendations to the Group Risk 
Management Meeting for policy or procedural changes to mitigate such risk. Each of the Group’s geographical regions is 
required to ensure that reputational risks are also considered at a regional level, either through a special section of their 
respective Regional Risk Management Committee meetings, or a Regional Reputational Risk Policy Committee. A summary 
of the minutes from the regional meetings is tabled at GRRPC. Significant issues posing reputational risk are reported to 
Group Risk Committee and the Holdings Board and, where appropriate, to the Conduct & Values Committee. 
In July 2014, the new Reputational Risk and Customer Selection policies were issued which define a consistent and 
structured approach to managing these risks. For further details, see ‘Reputational risk’ on page 199. Each of the global 
businesses and functions is required to have a procedure to assess and address reputational risks potentially arising from 
proposed business transactions and client activity. These are supported by a central team which ensures that issues are 
directed to the appropriate forum, that decisions taken are implemented and that management information is collated 
and actions reported to senior management. In 2014, the combined Reputational Risk and Client Selection committees 
were created within the global businesses with a clear process to escalate and address matters at the appropriate level. 
The global functions manage and escalate reputational risks within established operational risk frameworks. 
Standards on all major aspects of business are set for HSBC and for individual subsidiaries, businesses and functions. 
Reputational risks, including environmental, social and governance matters, are considered and assessed by the Board, 
the GMB, the Risk Management Meeting, the Global Standards Steering Meeting, subsidiary company boards, Board 
committees and senior management during the formulation of policy and the establishment of our standards. These 
policies, which form an integral part of the internal control system (see page 288), are communicated through manuals 
and statements of policy and are promulgated through internal communications and training. The policies set out our 
risk appetite and operational procedures in all areas of reputational risk, including money laundering deterrence, counter-
terrorist financing, environmental impact, anti-bribery and corruption measures and employee relations. The policy 
manuals address risk issues in detail and co-operation between Group departments and businesses is required to ensure 
a strong adherence to our risk management system and our sustainability practices. 
Fiduciary risk 
(Unaudited) 
Business activities in which fiduciary risk is inherent are only permitted within designated lines of business. Fiduciary risk is 
managed within the designated businesses via a comprehensive policy framework and monitoring of key indicators. The 
Group’s principal fiduciary businesses and activities (‘designated businesses and activities’) are: 
• HSBC Securities Services, which is exposed to fiduciary risk via its Funds Services and Corporate Trust and loan agency 
activities; 
• HSBC Global Asset Management, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via its investment management activities on behalf 
of clients; 
• HSBC Global Private Banking, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via its private trust division and discretionary 
investment management;   Report of the Directors: Risk (continued) 
Appendix to Risk – Policies and practices 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
236 
• HSBC Insurance, which is exposed to fiduciary risks via the investment management activities it undertakes when 
providing insurance products and services;  
• RBWM Trust Investment Wrappers, required by regulation for the provision of normal RBWM Wealth Management 
products and services; and 
• HSBC Employee Pension Scheme activities, where fiduciary duties may arise as part of carrying out a function of 
discretion or control over an HSBC employee pension scheme's operations.  
The Group’s requirements for the management of fiduciary risk are laid down in the fiduciary section of the Global Risk 
Functional Instruction Manual, which is owned by Global Operational Risk. No business other than the designated 
businesses may undertake fiduciary activities without notifying Global Operational Risk and receiving specific 
dispensations from the relevant fiduciary policy requirements. 
Other policies around the provision of advice, including investment advice and corporate advisory, and the management 
of potential conflicts of interest, also mitigate our fiduciary risks. 
Pension risk 
(Audited) 
We operate a number of pension plans throughout the world, as described in the Pension risk section on page 200 and 
below. 
In order to fund the benefits associated with defined benefit plans, sponsoring Group companies (and, in some instances, 
employees) make regular contributions in accordance with advice from actuaries and in consultation with the scheme’s 
trustees (where relevant). The defined benefit plans invest these contributions in a range of investments designed to 
meet their long-term liabilities. 
The level of these contributions has a direct impact on HSBC’s cash flow and would normally be set to ensure that there 
are sufficient funds to meet the cost of the accruing benefits for the future service of active members. However, higher 
contributions will be required when plan assets are considered insufficient to cover the existing pension liabilities. 
Contribution rates are typically revised annually or triennially, depending on the plan. The agreed contributions to the 
principal plan are revised triennially. 
A deficit in a defined benefit plan may arise from a number of factors, including: 
• investments delivering a return below that required to provide the projected plan benefits. This could arise, for example, when there is 
a fall in the market value of equities, or when increases in long-term interest rates cause a fall in the value of fixed income securities 
held; 
• the prevailing economic environment leading to corporate failures, thus triggering write-downs in asset values (both equity and debt); 
• a change in either interest rates or inflation which causes an increase in the value of the scheme liabilities; and 
• scheme members living longer than expected (known as longevity risk). 
A plan’s investment strategy is determined after taking into consideration the market risk inherent in the investments and 
its consequential impact on potential future contributions. The long-term investment objectives of both HSBC and, where 
relevant and appropriate, the trustees are:  
• to limit the risk of the assets failing to meet the liabilities of the plans over the long-term; and 
• to maximise returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk so as to control the long-term costs of the defined 
benefit plans. 
In pursuit of these long-term objectives, a benchmark is established for the allocation of the defined benefit plan assets 
between asset classes. In addition, each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such as stock market or property 
valuation indices and, where relevant, desired levels of out-performance. The benchmarks are reviewed at least triennially 
within 18 months of the date at which an actuarial valuation is made, or more frequently if required by local legislation or 
circumstances. The process generally involves an extensive asset and liability review. 
Ultimate responsibility for investment strategy rests with either the trustees or, in certain circumstances, a management 
committee. The degree of independence of the trustees from HSBC varies in different jurisdictions.  
Defined contribution plans result in far less exposure to market risk for the bank, but remain exposed to operational and 
reputational risks as they place the responsibility and flexibility more directly with employees. To manage these risks, the 
performance of defined contribution investment funds are monitored and local engagement with employees is actively 
promoted to ensure they are provided with sufficient information about the options available to them. 
Pension plans in the UK 
The HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (the principal plan) has both defined benefit and defined contribution sections. The 
defined benefit section accounts for approximately 72% of our total defined benefit obligations around the world. The 
defined benefit section was closed to new entrants in 1996 and from 1 July 2015 it will be closed to further accrual for   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
237 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
current employees who are in that section, who will join the defined contribution section for future pensions. All new 
employees have joined the defined contribution section since 1996. The principal plan is overseen by an independent 
corporate trustee who has a fiduciary responsibility for the operation of the pension plan. The trustee is responsible for 
monitoring and managing the investment strategy and administration of scheme benefits. The principal plan holds a 
diversified portfolio of investments to meet future cash flow liabilities arising from accrued benefits as they fall due to be 
paid. The trustee of the principal plan is required to produce a written Statement of Investment Principles which governs 
decision-making about how investments are made and the need for adequate diversification is taken into account in the 
choice of asset allocation and manager structure in the defined benefit section. Longevity risk in the principal plan is 
assessed as part of the measurement of the pension liability and managed through the funding process of the plan.  
Sustainability risk 
(Unaudited) 
Sustainability risks arise from the provision of financial services to companies or projects which run counter to the needs 
of sustainable development; in effect, this risk arises when the environmental and social effects outweigh economic 
benefits. Within Group Head Office, a separate function, Global Corporate Sustainability, is mandated to manage these 
risks globally working through local offices as appropriate. Sustainability Risk Managers have regional or national 
responsibilities for advising on and managing environmental and social risks. Global Corporate Sustainability’s risk 
management responsibilities include: 
• formulating sustainability risk policies. This includes overseeing our sustainability risk standards, our application of 
the Equator Principles and our sustainability policies (covering agricultural commodities, chemicals, defence, energy, 
forestry, freshwater infrastructure, mining and metals, and World Heritage Sites and Ramsar Wetlands); undertaking 
an independent review of transactions where sustainability risks are assessed to be high; and supporting our operating 
companies to assess similar risks of a lower magnitude; 
• building and implementing systems-based processes to ensure consistent application of policies, reduce the costs of 
sustainability risk reviews and capture management information to measure and report on the effect of our lending 
and investment activities on sustainable development; and 
• providing training and capacity building within our operating companies to ensure sustainability risks are identified and 
mitigated consistently to either our own standards, international standards or local regulations, whichever is higher. 
  Report of the Directors: Capital (continued) 
Overview / Risk-weighted assets 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
238 
Capital 
Page App
1
Tables Page
Capital overview  239 Capital ratios 239
Capital management  257 Total regulatory capital and risk-weighted assets 239
Approach and policy  257
Stress testing  257
Risks to capital  257
Risk-weighted asset targets 257
Capital generation  258
Capital measurement and allocation  258
Regulatory capital  258
Pillar 1 capital requirements 258
Pillar 2 capital requirements 259
Pillar 3 disclosure requirements  260
Risk-weighted assets  239 RWAs by risk type 240
 RWAs by global businesses 240
 RWAs by geographical regions 240
Credit risk RWAs  240 Credit risk exposure – RWAs by geographical region 240
 Credit risk exposure – RWAs by global businesses 240
   
RWA movement by geographical regions by key driver – 
credit risk – IRB only 242 
   
RWA movement by global businesses by key driver –  
credit risk – IRB only 242 
Counterparty credit risk and market risk RWAs  243 Counterparty credit risk RWAs 243
 
 
RWA movement by key driver – counterparty  
credit risk – advanced approach 243 
 Market risk RWAs 244
 
 
RWA movement by key driver – market risk –  
internal model based  244 
   
Capital and RWA movements by major driver – CRD IV 
end point basis 245 
Operational risk RWAs 244
RWA movement by key driver – basis of 
preparation and supporting notes   260   
Credit risk drivers – definitions and quantifications 260
Counterparty risk drivers – definitions and 
quantifications  261   
Market risk drivers – definitions and 
quantifications  261   
Capital structure  245 Source and application of total regulatory capital  245
 Composition of regulatory capital  246
 
Reconciliation of regulatory capital from transitional basis 
to an estimated CRD IV end point basis 247 
Regulatory balance sheet 248 Reconciliation of balance sheets – financial accounting to 
regulatory scope of consolidation 249 
Regulatory and accounting consolidations  248
Leverage ratio  251 Estimated leverage ratio 251
Leverage ratio: basis of preparation  261
Regulatory developments  252
Regulatory capital buffers  252 Capital requirements framework 254
Regulatory stress testing   254
RWA developments 254
Leverage ratio proposals 255
Banking structural reform and recovery and 
resolution planning 
255
  
Other regulatory updates 256
1 Appendix to Capital. 
  
  
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
239 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Our objective in the management of Group 
capital is to maintain appropriate levels of capital 
to support our business strategy and meet 
our regulatory and stress testing related 
requirements. 
Capital highlights 
• The transitional CET1 ratio of 10.9% was up from 10.8% at 
the end of 2013 as a result of continued capital generation 
and management initiatives offset by RWA growth, foreign 
exchange movements and regulatory changes. 
• The end point CET1 ratio of 11.1% was up from 10.9% at the 
end of 2013 as a result of similar drivers. 
Capital overview 
(Unaudited) 
Capital ratios 
(Unaudited) 
  At 31 December
  2014  2013
  %  %
CRD IV transitional    
Common equity tier 1 ratio  10.9  10.8
Tier 1 ratio  12.5  12.0
Total capital ratio  15.6  14.9
CRD IV end point    
Common equity tier 1 ratio  11.1  10.9
Basel 2.5    
Core tier 1 ratio  n/a  13.6
Tier 1 ratio  n/a  14.5
Total capital ratio  n/a  17.8
 
Total regulatory capital and risk-weighted assets 
(Unaudited) 
   CRD IV   CRD IV   
 
  transitional 
 at  
 transitional 
 estimated at 
 
 Basel 2.5 at 
   31 Dec 2014   31 Dec 2013   31 Dec 2013
   US$m   US$m   US$m
Common equity tier 1 
capital 
 
133,200 131,233  
Core tier 1 capital    149,051
Additional tier 1 capital  19,539 14,408 9,104
Tier 2 capital  37,991 35,538 35,854
Total regulatory capital  190,730 181,179 194,009
Risk-weighted assets  1,219,765 1,214,939 1,092,653
On 1 January 2014, CRD IV came into force and capital 
and RWAs at 31 December 2014 are calculated and 
presented on the Group’s interpretation of final CRD IV 
legislation and final rules issued by the PRA. Prior to 
1 January 2014, RWAs and capital were calculated and 
presented in accordance with the previous regime under 
CRD III, also referred to as ‘Basel 2.5’. As a result, unless 
otherwise stated, comparatives for capital and RWAs at 
31 December 2013 are on a Basel 2.5 basis. 
The capital and RWAs on a CRD IV basis incorporate 
the effect of the PRA’s final rules as set out in the PRA 
Rulebook. This transposed various areas of national 
discretion within the final CRD IV legislation into UK law. 
In its final rules, the PRA did not adopt most of the CRD IV 
transitional provisions available, instead opting for an 
acceleration of the CRD IV end point definition of 
common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital. However, CRD IV 
transitional provisions for unrealised gains were applied, 
such that unrealised gains on investment property and 
available-for-sale securities are not recognised for capital 
until 1 January 2015. As a result, our transitional capital 
ratio in 2014 is slightly lower than the comparable end 
point capital ratio. 
In April 2014, the PRA published its rules and supervisory 
statements implementing some of the CRD IV provisions 
relating to capital buffers, further details of which are 
provided in the ‘Regulatory capital buffers’ section on 
page 252. 
In June 2014, the PRA published its revised expectations 
in relation to capital ratios for major UK banks and 
building societies, namely that from 1 July 2014 we are 
expected to meet a 7% CET1 ratio using the CRD IV end 
point definition. This applies alongside CRD IV 
requirements. 
Despite the rules published to date, there remains 
continued uncertainty around the amount of capital that 
UK banks will be required to hold. This relates specifically 
to the quantification and interaction of capital buffers 
and Pillar 2. The PRA is currently consulting on their 
revised approach to Pillar 2, the PRA buffer and its 
interaction with the CRD IV buffers. Furthermore, there 
are a significant number of draft and unpublished EBA 
technical and implementation standards due in 2015. 
Our approach to managing Group capital is designed to 
ensure that we exceed current regulatory requirements 
and that we respect the payment priority of our capital 
providers. Throughout 2014, we complied with the PRA’s 
regulatory capital adequacy requirements, including 
those relating to stress testing. We are also well placed to 
meet our expected future capital requirements. 
During 2014, we managed our capital position to meet 
an internal target CET1 ratio on an end point basis 
of greater than 10%. This has since been reviewed, and 
in 2015 we expect to manage Group capital to meet a 
medium-term target for return on equity of more than 
10%. This is modelled on a CET1 ratio on an end point 
basis in the range of 12% to 13%.  
A summary of our policies and practices regarding capital 
management, measurement and allocation is provided in 
the Appendix to Capital on page 257. 
Risk-weighted assets 
(Unaudited) 
CRD IV contributed to an increased capital requirement.  
The key changes introduced were: 
• securitisation positions which were previously 
deducted 50% from core tier 1 and 50% from total 
capital, are now included in RWAs at 1,250%; 
• an additional capital charge to cover the risk of mark-
to-market losses on expected counterparty risk 
referred to as credit valuation adjustment (‘CVA’) risk; 
• deferred tax assets and significant investments, 
subject to thresholds, are now risk weighted at 250%;  Report of the Directors: Capital (continued) 
Risk weighted-assets 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
240 
• increased risk weights on exposures to financial 
institutions, referred to as asset value correlation 
(‘AVC’); and 
• new requirements for exposures to central 
counterparties (‘CCP’). There are enhanced incentives 
for clearing OTC derivative transactions through CCP. 
RWAs by risk type 
(Unaudited) 
 
 CRD IV transitional 
and end point 
Basel 2.5
basis 
  2014  2013 2013
  US$bn  US$bn US$bn
Credit risk   955.3  936.5 864.3
Standardised approach  356.9  358.6 329.5
IRB foundation approach  16.8  13.5 13.6
IRB advanced approach  581.6  564.4 521.2
Counterparty credit risk   90.7  95.8 45.8
Standardised approach  25.2  36.6 3.6
Advanced approach  65.5  59.2 42.2
Market risk   56.0  63.4 63.4
Operational risk   117.8  119.2 119.2
At 31 December  1,219.8  1,214.9 1,092.7
Of which:     
US run-off portfolios   99.2  142.3 104.9
Legacy credit in GB&M   44.1  63.7 26.4
US CML and Other   55.1  78.6 78.5
Card and Retail Services
1 
  –  1.1 1.1
For footnotes, see page 256. 
RWAs by global businesses 
(Unaudited) 
 
CRD IV 
transitional 
and end point  
Basel 2.5
basis 
2014  2013
US$bn  US$bn
Retail Banking and Wealth 
Management  205.1  233.5 
Commercial Banking 432.4  391.7
Global Banking and Markets 516.1  422.3
Global Private Banking 20.8  21.7
Other 45.4  23.5
At 31 December 1,219.8  1,092.7
 
RWAs by geographical regions
2
 
(Unaudited) 
 
CRD IV 
transitional 
and end point  
Basel 2.5
basis 
2014  2013
US$bn  US$bn
Europe 375.4  300.1
Asia 499.8  430.7
Middle East and North Africa 63.0  62.5
North America 221.4  223.8
Latin America 88.8  89.5
At 31 December 1,219.8  1,092.7
For footnote, see page 256. 
 
Credit risk RWAs 
(Unaudited) 
Credit risk exposure – RWAs by geographical region 
 Europe Asia
3
MENA 
North
America 
Latin 
America Total 
 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn
CRD IV basis      
IRB approach   216.1 213.1 15.6 142.0 11.6  598.4
IRB advanced approach    203.3 213.1 11.6 142.0 11.6  581.6
IRB foundation approach    12.8 – 4.0 – –  16.8
Standardised approach    47.1 186.0 39.0 29.6 55.2  356.9
RWAs at 31 December 2014   263.2 399.1 54.6 171.6 66.8  955.3
Basel 2.5 basis      
IRB advanced approach    157.1 182.9 11.2 161.5 8.5   521.2
IRB foundation approach    9.8 – 3.8 – –   13.6
Standardised approach    44.5 165.9 40.0 22.7 56.4   329.5
RWAs at 31 December 2013   211.4 348.8 55.0 184.2 64.9   864.3
For footnote, see page 256. 
Credit risk exposure – RWAs by global businesses 
 
 
Principal 
RBWM  
RBWM
(US run-off
portfolio) 
Total
RBWM CMB GB&M GPB  Other  Total 
  US$bn  US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn  US$bn  US$bn
CRD IV basis        
IRB approach  55.9  47.3 103.2 217.4 255.6 10.2  12.0  598.4
IRB advanced approach  55.9  47.3 103.2 209.4 248.1 10.0  10.9  581.6
IRB foundation approach  –  – – 8.0 7.5 0.2  1.1  16.8
Standardised approach   60.4  4.8 65.2 181.8 70.1 6.6  33.2  356.9
RWAs at 31 December 2014  116.3  52.1 168.4 399.2 325.7 16.8  45.2  955.3
Basel 2.5 basis        
IRB advanced approach   58.4  72.6 131.0 183.2 192.8 10.4  3.8  521.2
IRB foundation approach   –  – 6.3 5.8 0.1  1.4  13.6
Standardised approach   60.6  3.1 63.7 169.3 71.6 6.9  18.0  329.5
RWAs at 31 December 2013  119.0  75.7 194.7 358.8 270.2 17.4  23.2  864.3
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
241 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Credit risk RWAs are calculated using three approaches, 
as permitted by the PRA. For consolidated Group 
reporting, we have adopted the advanced internal 
ratings-based (‘IRB’) approach for the majority of our 
business, with a small proportion being on the 
foundation IRB approach and the remaining portfolios 
on the standardised approach. 
Standardised approach 
For portfolios treated under the standardised approach, 
credit risk RWAs increased by US$27.4bn, which 
reflected a reduction of US$13.6bn due to foreign 
exchange movements. 
Corporate growth in Asia, Europe, North America and 
Latin America, including term and trade-related lending, 
increased RWAs by US$25.0bn, of which growth in our 
associate, BoCom, accounted for US$6.4bn. 
The move to a CRD IV basis increased RWAs on 1 January 
2014 by US$7.1bn. This movement mainly comprised 
material holdings and deferred tax asset amounts in 
aggregate below the capital threshold risk-weighted at 
250% US$28.3bn, partially offset by the reclassification of 
non-credit obligation assets to the IRB approach for 
reporting purposes US$16.3bn and the netting of 
collective impairments against exposure at default under 
the standardised approach US$3.5bn. 
During the year, several individually immaterial 
portfolios moved from the IRB approach to the 
standardised approach, increasing standardised RWAs by 
US$6.0bn and reducing IRB RWAs by US$4.8bn. 
The disposal of our operations in Jordan, Pakistan, 
Colombia and Kazakhstan reduced RWAs by US$1.0bn. 
In Asia, movement in the fair value of our material 
holdings, mainly in Industrial Bank, resulted in an 
increase in RWAs of US$5.9bn. This was partially offset 
by the reclassification of Vietnam Technological and 
Commercial Joint Stock Bank from an associate to an 
investment, which reduced RWAs by US$1.1bn. 
Internal ratings-based approach 
Credit risk RWA movements by key driver for portfolios 
treated under the IRB approach are set out in the tables 
on page 242 and 243. For basis of preparation on Credit 
risk, Counterparty credit risk and Market risk RWA flow, 
see Annual Reports and Accounts Appendix to Capital on 
page 257. For portfolios treated under the IRB approach, 
credit risk RWAs increased by US$63.6bn which reflected 
a reduction of US$20.1bn due to foreign exchange 
movements driven by the strengthening of the US dollar 
against other currencies. 
Acquisitions and disposals 
In GB&M, the sale of ABSs in North America reduced 
RWAs by US$4.2bn. Additionally, GB&M continued to 
manage down the securitisation positions held through 
the sale of certain structured investment conduit 
positions, lowering RWAs by US$3.0bn in Europe. 
The disposal of our businesses in Kazakhstan, Colombia, 
Pakistan and Jordan resulted in a reduction in RWAs of 
US$1.2bn in Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and 
North Africa. 
Book size 
Book size movement reflected higher corporate lending, 
including term and trade-related lending, increasing 
RWAs by US$40.3bn in Asia, Europe and North America 
for CMB and GB&M. Sovereign book growth in GB&M 
increased RWAs by US$3.3bn, mainly in Asia, Latin 
America, the Middle East and North Africa. 
In North America, in RBWM, continued run-off of the 
US CML retail mortgage portfolios resulted in a RWA 
reduction of US$6.9bn. 
Book quality 
RWAs reduced by US$8.5bn in the US run-off portfolio, 
primarily due to continued run-off which resulted in an 
improvement in the book quality of the residual 
portfolio. 
Book quality improvements in the Principal RBWM 
business of US$5.9bn related to model recalibrations 
reflecting improving property prices in the US and 
favourable changes in portfolio mix reducing RWAs 
in Europe. 
A ratings upgrade for securitisation portfolio resulted in 
a decrease in RWAs of US$3.2bn. 
This was partially offset by adverse movements in 
average customer credit quality in corporate, sovereign 
and institutional portfolios in Europe, North America, 
Middle East, North Africa, Asia and Latin America 
increased RWAs by US$7.6bn. 
Model updates 
In Europe, a loss given default (‘LGD’) floor applied to UK 
corporate portfolios resulted in an increase in RWAs of 
US$19.0bn in CMB and GB&M. 
This was partially offset by model updates in North 
America, primarily the implementation of new risk 
models for the US mortgage run-off portfolio, resulting 
in a decrease in RWAs of US$6.2bn. 
Methodology and policy changes 
Methodology and policy updates increased RWAs by 
US$52.2bn. 
CRD IV impact 
The rise related to the implementation of CRD IV rules at 
1 January 2014, which increased RWAs by US$48.2bn. 
The main CRD IV movements arose from securitisation 
positions that were previously deducted from capital and 
are now included as a part of credit risk RWAs and risk-
weighted at 1250%, resulting in a US$40.2bn increase in 
GB&M, primarily Europe. CRD IV also introduced an 
asset valuation correlation multiplier for financial 
counterparties, producing a US$9.2bn increase in 
RWAs primarily in GB&M in Asia and Europe.  Report of the Directors: Capital (continued) 
Risk-weighted assets 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
242 
Internal updates 
A decrease in RWAs of US$9.2bn arose from the set-off of 
negative AFS reserves against EAD for GB&M legacy credit 
portfolios. 
In Asia, internal methodology changes associated with 
trade finance products accounted for a reduction in 
RWAs of US$4.9bn. 
Additionally, the transfer of individually immaterial 
portfolios moving to the standardised approach reduced 
IRB RWAs by US$4.8bn in Principal RBWM and CMB in 
most regions and increased RWAs in the standardised 
approach by US$6.0bn.  
The reclassification of part of the mortgage portfolio led 
to a decrease in RWAs of US$4.5bn in North America, of 
which US$4.1bn was in the run-off portfolio. 
External updates 
Selected portfolios with a low default history, mainly in 
Europe, Asia and North America, were subjected to 
external updates with the introduction of LGD floors 
applied to corporates and institutions, increasing RWAs 
by US$9.8bn. A further RWA floor was introduced on 
retail mortgages in Asia, resulting in an increase of 
US$1.7bn. 
Non-credit obligation assets 
The reclassification of non-credit obligation assets from 
the standardised to the IRB approach for reporting 
purposes increased RWAs under the latter approach 
by US$16.3bn and reduced the STD RWAs by the same 
amount. 
 
RWA movement by geographical regions by key driver – credit risk – IRB only 
(Unaudited) 
 
 
Europe Asia MENA 
North
America 
Latin  
America  Total 
  US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn  US$bn
RWAs at 1 January 2014 on  
Basel 2.5 basis 
 
166.9 182.9 15.0 161.5 8.5  534.8 
Foreign exchange movement   (11.6) (4.0) (0.2) (2.4) (1.9)  (20.1)
Acquisitions and disposals   (3.5) – (0.7) (4.2) (0.1)  (8.5)
Book size   11.4 19.5 1.8 2.9 2.0  37.6
Book quality   (1.5) – (0.8) (10.3) 1.4  (11.2)
Model updates   19.4 0.3 – (6.1) –  13.6
New/updated models   19.4 0.3 – (6.1) –  13.6
Methodology and policy   35.0 14.4 0.5 0.6 1.7  52.2
Internal updates   (11.7) (5.2) (0.2) (6.4) (0.1)  (23.6)
External updates   2.2 8.5 (0.2) 0.7 0.1  11.3
CRD IV impact   37.0 5.7 0.4 4.9 0.2  48.2
NCOA moving from STD to IRB 7.5 5.4 0.5 1.4 1.5  16.3
Total RWA movement   49.2 30.2 0.6 (19.5) 3.1  63.6
RWAs at 31 December 2014 on 
CRD IV basis 
 
216.1 213.1 15.6 142.0 11.6  598.4 
    
RWAs at 1 January 2013 on  
Basel 2.5 basis 
 
 150.7  162.3  12.6  187.1  11.2   523.9 
Foreign exchange movement    3.3 (4.5) (0.5) (1.9) (1.0)  (4.6)
Acquisitions and disposals    (1.5) – – (8.6) (1.7)  (11.8)
Book size    2.1 21.2 1.4 (10.6) 0.2  14.3
Book quality    (1.5) 5.3 1.3 (10.8) (0.3)  (6.0)
Model updates   11.6 – 0.1 (0.2) –  11.5
Portfolios moving onto IRB approach    13.4 – – – –  13.4
New/updated models    (1.8) – 0.1 (0.2) –  (1.9)
Methodology and policy   2.2 (1.4) 0.1 6.5 0.1  7.5
Internal updates    (0.2) (7.8) 0.1 (0.6) 0.1  (8.4)
External updates    2.4 6.4 – 7.1 –  15.9
Total RWA movement    16.2 20.6 2.4 (25.6) (2.7)  10.9
RWAs at 31 December 2013 on 
Basel 2.5 basis 
 
 166.9  182.9  15.0  161.5  8.5  534.8 
For footnote, see page 256. 
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
243 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
RWA movement by global businesses by key driver – credit risk – IRB only 
(Unaudited) 
 
  Principal 
 RBWM  
 RBWM
 (US run-off)
Total
 RBWM  CMB  GB&M  GPB   Other   Total 
 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn
RWAs at 1 January 2014 on 
Basel 2.5 basis  
 
58.4  72.6 131.0 189.5 198.5 10.6  5.2  534.8 
Foreign exchange movement  (2.6)  – (2.6) (8.7) (8.1) (0.2)  (0.5)  (20.1)
Acquisitions and disposals   –  – – – (8.2) –  (0.3)  (8.5)
Book size   1.8  (6.9) (5.1) 23.2 21.1 (0.5)  (1.1)  37.6
Book quality   (5.7)  (8.6) (14.3) 2.8 (0.2) (0.3)  0.8  (11.2)
Model updates  0.6  (6.2) (5.6) 12.2 7.0 –  –  13.6
New/updated models   0.6  (6.2) (5.6) 12.2 7.0 –  –  13.6
Methodology and policy   3.4  (3.6) (0.2) (1.6) 45.5 0.6  7.9  52.2
Internal updates   (3.0)  (3.9) (6.9) (5.0) (11.2) (0.5)  –  (23.6)
External updates   1.8  – 1.8 2.5 6.3 0.5  0.2  11.3
CRD IV impact   –  – – (0.7) 48.6 0.2  0.1  48.2
NCOA moving from STD to IRB 4.6  0.3 4.9 1.6 1.8 0.4  7.6  16.3
Total RWA movement  (2.5)  (25.3) (27.8) 27.9 57.1 (0.4)  6.8  63.6
RWAs at 31 December 2014 on 
CRD IV basis 
 
55.9  47.3 103.2 217.4 255.6 10.2  12.0  598.4 
 
 
RBWM
US$bn 
CMB
US$bn 
GB&M
US$bn 
GPB
US$bn 
Other 
US$bn 
Total
US$bn 
RWAs at 1 January 2013 on 
Basel 2.5 basis 
 
 163.1  169.0  177.7  9.6  4.5   523.9 
Foreign exchange movement   (0.4) (1.5) (2.7) 0.1 (0.1)   (4.6)
Acquisitions and disposals    (10.1) (0.1) (1.6) – –   (11.8)
Book size    (12.7) 14.5 13.5 (0.7) (0.3)   14.3
Book quality    (6.4) 3.5 (3.4) 0.3 –   (6.0)
Model updates    (0.2) 10.1 (1.0) 2.6 –   11.5
Portfolios moving onto IRB approach    – 10.0 0.8 2.6 –   13.4
New/updated models    (0.2) 0.1 (1.8) – –   (1.9)
Methodology and policy    (2.3) (6.0) 16.0 (1.3) 1.1   7.5
Internal updates    (2.3) (3.4) (0.6) (2.1) –   (8.4)
External updates    – (2.6) 16.6 0.8 1.1   15.9
Total RWA movement    (32.1) 20.5 20.8 1.0 0.7   10.9
RWAs at 31 December 2013 on 
Basel 2.5 basis  
 
 131.0  189.5  198.5  10.6  5.2   534.8 
 
Counterparty credit risk and market risk 
RWAs 
(Unaudited) 
Counterparty credit risk RWAs 
(Unaudited) 
 CRD IV basis  Basel 2.5 basis
 2014  2013
 US$bn  US$bn
Advanced approach 65.5  42.2
CCR IRB approach 62.0  42.2
CVA 3.5  –
Standardised approach 25.2  3.5 
CCR standardised approach 4.4  3.5 
CVA 18.0  – 
CCP 2.8  – 
RWAs at 31 December 90.7  45.7 
 
RWA movement by key driver – counterparty credit risk – 
advanced approach 
(Unaudited) 
CRD IV basis  Basel 2.5 basis
2014  2013
US$bn  US$bn
RWAs at 1 January  42.2  45.7 
0
Book size  1.6  (0.9)
Book quality (0.6)  (2.7)
Model updates  0.1  – 
Methodology and policy 22.2  0.1
Internal updates (3.8)  0.1
External regulatory updates 9.0  –
CRD IV impact 17.0  –
Total RWA movement  23.3  (3.5)
RWAs at 31 December 65.5  42.2
 
   Report of the Directors: Capital (continued) 
Risk-weighted assets / Capital structure 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
244 
Market risk RWAs 
(Unaudited) 
 CRD IV basis  Basel 2.5 basis
 2014  2013
 US$bn  US$bn
Internal model based    
VaR  7.3   4.9 
Stressed VaR  10.4   9.4 
Incremental risk charge  20.1   23.1 
Comprehensive risk measure  –   2.6 
Other VaR and stressed VaR  6.8   12.2 
Internal model based  44.6   52.2 
Standardised approach  11.4   11.2 
At 31 December  56.0   63.4 
 
RWA movement by key driver – market risk – 
internal model based 
(Unaudited) 
 CRD IV basis  Basel 2.5 basis
 2014  2013
 US$bn  US$bn
RWAs at 1 January  52.2  44.5 
Acquisitions and disposals (2.2)  – 
Movement in risk levels  (4.2)  (14.5)
Model updates  –  17.6 
Methodology and policy (1.2)  4.6
Internal updates  (3.8)  4.6
External updates  2.6  –
Total RWA movement  (7.6)  7.7 
RWAs at 31 December  44.6  52.2
 
Counterparty credit risk RWAs  
Counterparty credit risk RWAs increased by US$45.0bn, 
in 2014. The RWA increase of US$21.7bn 
for the standardised approach mainly relates to the 
implementation of CRD IV on 1 January 2014, which 
introduced CVA and CCP RWAs. 
Advanced approach 
Book size 
The increase in book size was mainly driven by business 
movements and the impact of the strengthening of the 
US dollar against other currencies on the mark to market 
of derivatives contracts. 
Model updates 
In Europe, an LGD floor applied to UK corporate 
portfolios resulted in an increase in RWAs of US$2.2bn. 
This was offset by a decrease in RWAs of US$2.0bn due 
to model updates to the Internal Model Method (‘IMM’) 
used for selected portfolios in London. 
Methodology and policy changes 
The CVA and AVC multiplier for financial counterparties 
introduced by the implementation of CRD IV increased 
RWAs by US$6.8bn and US$10.2bn, respectively, on 
1 January 2014. 
Within external regulatory and policy updates, selected 
portfolios were subject to PRA LGD floors, which increased 
RWAs by US$7.5bn, mainly in Europe and Asia. 
Additionally, guidance received in the fourth quarter 
of 2014 led to the application of a ‘potential future 
exposure’ charge on sold options, contributing to a 
US$1.5bn increase in RWAs.  
Decreases in RWAs from internal methodology updates 
were mainly driven by additional CVA exemptions 
following internal due diligence and review alongside a 
more efficient allocation of collateral in Europe, which 
decreased RWAs by US$3.8bn. 
Market risk RWAs 
Total market risk RWAs decreased by US$7.4bn in 2014. 
Standardised approach 
The market risk RWA movements for portfolios not 
within the scope of modelled approaches resulted 
in an increase of US$0.2bn. The increase in RWAs of 
US$2.6bn related to CRD IV treatment of trading book 
securitisation positions that were previously deducted 
from capital. This was offset by reductions in RWAs of 
US$2.5bn for interest rate position risk, primarily in Latin 
America due to the introduction of the scenario matrix 
method for options and a general reduction in positions 
in Latin America and the US. 
Internal model based  
Acquisitions and disposals 
The sale of our correlation trading portfolio, reduced 
comprehensive risk measure RWAs by US$2.0bn. 
The disposal of our business in Kazakhstan resulted 
in a reduction of US$0.2bn in RWAs. 
Movement in risk levels 
Movement in risk levels reflected a decrease mainly in 
VaR and Stressed VaR as a result of reduced FX and 
Equity trading positions. 
Methodology and policy changes 
The increase in RWAs from external updates related 
mainly to the introduction, for collateralised 
transactions, of the basis between the currency of 
trade and the currency of collateral into the VaR 
calculation and the removal of the diversification benefit 
from Risks not in VaR (‘RNIV’) calculations, driving an 
increase of US$6.7bn. 
This was partially offset by decreases in RWAs of 
US$4.3bn from Internal updates, mainly due to 
refinements in the RNIV calculation for the Equities 
and Rates desks.  
Further decreases in RWAs following regulatory approval 
for a change in the basis of consolidation for modelled 
market risk charges delivered a reduction in RWAs of 
US$4.1bn. 
Operational risk RWAs 
The reduction in operational risk RWAs of US$1.4bn was 
due to the full amortisation of operational risk RWAs for 
the US CRS portfolio disposed of in May 2012, combined 
with a lower three-year average operating income.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
245 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Capital and RWA movements by major driver – CRD IV 
end point basis 
(Unaudited) 
 CET1   
 capital   RWAs
 US$bn   US$bn
CRD IV end point basis at  
1 January 2014
4 
 132.5  1,214.9 
Accounting profit for the period 13.7  –
Regulatory adjustments to 
accounting profit (1.0)  – 
Dividends net of scrip
5
 (7.5)  –
Regulatory change: LGD floors   38.6
Corporate lending growth  –  64.8
Management initiatives: 2.2  (66.3)
–  legacy reduction and 
run-off 2.2  (43.0)
–  portfolio and entity 
disposals –  (5.2)
–  RWA initiatives –  (18.1)
Exchange differences  (8.4)  (33.6)
Other movements 4.5  1.4
CRD IV end point basis at 
31 December 2014 136.0  1,219.8 
 
RWAs increased in the year, primarily from corporate 
lending growth and regulatory change. These have been 
largely offset by management initiatives and foreign 
exchange movements. Management initiatives include 
legacy reduction and run-off, portfolio and entity disposals 
and a number of other initiatives including a better 
alignment of VaR scope to management’s view of risk, 
improved collateral allocation, increased use of IMM and a 
review of product mappings to regulatory categories. 
 
Capital structure  
Source and application of total regulatory capital  
(Audited) 
CRD IV
 transitional 
 
 Basel 2.5 
Year to 
 31 Dec 2014 
 US$m 
  Year to
 31 Dec 2013
 US$m 
Movement in total regulatory capital   
Opening common equity/core tier 1 capital
4
 131,233 138,789
Contribution to common equity/core tier 1 capital from profit for the period 12,678 17,124
Consolidated profits attributable to shareholders of the parent company 13,688 16,204
Removal of own credit spread net of tax  (328) 920
Debit valuation adjustment 254 
Deconsolidation of insurance entities and SPE entities (936) 
Net dividends including foreseeable net dividends
5
 (7,541) (6,987)
Dividends net of scrip recognised under Basel 2.5   (6,987)
Update for fourth interim dividend scrip take-up in excess of plan 1,108 
First interim dividend net of scrip  (1,766) 
Second interim dividend net of scrip (1,686) 
Third interim dividend net of scrip (1,835) 
Fourth foreseeable interim dividend  (4,131) 
Add back: planned scrip take-up  769 
Decrease in goodwill and intangible assets deducted  2,424 535
Ordinary shares issued  267 297
Foreign currency translation differences  (8,356) (1,294)
Other, including regulatory adjustments  2,495 587
Closing common equity/core tier 1 capital  133,200 149,051
Opening additional/other tier 1 capital
4
 14,408 12,259
Issued hybrid capital securities net of redemptions 4,961 (1,151)
Unconsolidated investments 17 (2,004)
Other, including regulatory adjustments  153 –
Closing tier 1 capital  152,739 158,155
Opening other tier 2 capital
4
 35,538 29,758
Issued tier 2 capital securities net of redemptions  2,414 1,609
Unconsolidated investments 26 6,447
Other, including regulatory adjustments  13 (1,960)
Closing total regulatory capital 190,730 194,009
For footnotes, see page 256.  Report of the Directors: Capital (continued) 
Capital structure 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
246 
Internal capital generation contributed US$5.1bn to 
common equity tier 1 capital, being profits attributable 
to shareholders of the parent company after regulatory 
adjustment for own credit spread, debit valuation 
adjustment, deconsolidation of insurance entities 
and net of dividends. The 2014 fourth interim dividend is 
net of planned scrip. 
 
Composition of regulatory capital 
 CRD IV transitional  Basel 2.5
 Ref 
At
 31 Dec 2014
 (Audited)
 US$m 
Estimated at 
 31 Dec 2013 
 (Unaudited) 
 US$m  
 At
 31 Dec 2013
 (Audited)
 US$m 
Tier 1 capital  
Shareholders’ equity  166,617 164,057  173,449
Shareholders’ equity per balance sheet
6
 a 190,447 181,871  181,871
Foreseeable interim dividend
5
(3,362) (3,005)  
Preference share premium  b (1,405) (1,405)  (1,405)
Other equity instruments  c (11,532) (5,851)  (5,851)
Deconsolidation of special purpose entities
7
 a (323) (1,166)  (1,166)
Deconsolidation of insurance entities  a (7,208) (6,387)  
Non-controlling interests  4,640 3,644  4,955
Non-controlling interests per balance sheet  d 9,531 8,588  8,588
Preference share non-controlling interests  e (2,127) (2,388)  (2,388)
Non-controlling interests transferred to tier 2 capital f (473) (488)  (488)
Non-controlling interests in deconsolidated subsidiaries d (851) (757)  (757)
Surplus non-controlling interests disallowed in CET1 (1,440) (1,311)  
Regulatory adjustments to the accounting basis  (6,309) (2,230)  480
Unrealised (gains)/losses in available-for-sale debt and equities
8
(1,378) –  1,121
Own credit spread
9
 767 1,112  1,037
Debit valuation adjustment  (197) (451)  
Defined benefit pension fund adjustment
10
 g (4,069) (1,731)  (518)
Reserves arising from revaluation of property  (1,375) (1,281)  (1,281)
Cash flow hedging reserve  (57) 121  121
Deductions  (31,748) (34,238)  (29,833)
Goodwill and intangible assets h (22,475) (24,899)  (25,198)
Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability  
(excludes those arising from temporary differences)  n (1,036) (680)   
Additional valuation adjustment (referred to as PVA) (1,341) (2,006)  
Investments in own shares through the holding of composite products 
of which HSBC is a component (exchange traded funds, derivatives  
and index stock)  (1,083) (677)   
50% of securitisation positions   (1,684)
50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses    151
Negative amounts resulting from the calculation of expected loss amounts i (5,813) (5,976)  (3,102)
Common equity/core tier 1 capital  133,200 131,233  149,051
   
Additional tier 1 capital   
Other tier 1 capital before deductions  19,687 14,573  16,110
Preference share premium  b 1,160 1,160  1,405
Preference share non-controlling interests  e 1,955 1,955  2,388
Allowable non-controlling interest in AT1  d 884 731  
Hybrid capital securities  j 15,688 10,727  12,317
Deductions  (148) (165)  (7,006)
Unconsolidated investments
11
(148) (165)  (7,157)
50% of tax credit adjustment for expected losses    151
Tier 1 capital  152,739 145,641  158,155
   
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
247 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 CRD IV transitional  Basel 2.5
 Ref 
At
 31 Dec 2014
 (Audited)
 US$m 
Estimated at 
 31 Dec 2013 
 (Unaudited) 
 US$m  
 At
 31 Dec 2013
 (Audited)
 US$m 
Tier 2 capital   
Total qualifying tier 2 capital before deductions  38,213 35,786  47,812
Reserves arising from revaluation of property and unrealised gains 
in available-for-sale equities     2,755 
Collective impairment allowances  k  2,616
Allowable non-controlling interest in tier 2  d 99 86  
Perpetual subordinated debt l 2,218 2,218  2,777
Term subordinated debt  m 35,656 33,242  39,364
Non-controlling interests in tier 2 capital  f 240 240  300
240
Total deductions other than from tier 1 capital  (222) (248)  (11,958)
Unconsolidated investments
11
(222) (248)  (7,157)
50% of securitisation positions   (1,684)
50% negative amounts resulting from the calculation of expected loss 
amounts 
i
  (3,102) 
Other deductions    (15)
Total regulatory capital 190,730 181,179  194,009
For footnotes, see page 256. 
The references (a) – (n) identify balance sheet components on page 249 which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital. 
Reconciliation of regulatory capital from transitional basis to an estimated CRD IV end point basis 
(Unaudited) 
 
At  
 31 Dec 2014 
  Estimated at
 31 Dec 2013 
 US$m   US$m
Common equity tier 1 capital on a transitional basis  133,200 131,233
Unrealised gains arising from revaluation of property 1,375 1,281
Unrealised gains in available for sale reserves  1,378 –
Common equity tier 1 capital end point basis  135,953 132,514
Additional tier 1 capital on a transitional basis  19,539 14,408
Grandfathered instruments: 
Preference share premium  (1,160) (1,160)
Preference share non-controlling interests  (1,955) (1,955)
Hybrid capital securities  (10,007) (10,727)
Transitional provisions:  
Allowable non-controlling interest in AT1  (487) (366)
Unconsolidated investments 148 165
Additional tier 1 capital end point basis  6,078 365
Tier 1 capital end point basis 142,031 132,879
  
Tier 2 capital on a transitional basis  37,991 35,538
Grandfathered instruments:  
Perpetual subordinated debt (2,218) (2,218)
Term subordinated debt  (21,513) (21,513)
Transitional provisions:  
Non-controlling interest in tier 2 capital  (240) (240)
Allowable non-controlling interest in tier 2  396 345
Unconsolidated investments (148) (165)
Tier 2 capital end point basis 14,268 11,747
Total regulatory capital end point basis 156,299 144,626
  Report of the Directors: Capital (continued) 
Regulatory balance sheet 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
248 
The capital position presented on a CRD IV transitional 
basis follows the CRD IV legislation as implemented in 
the UK via the PRA’s final rules in the Policy Statement 
(‘PS 7/13’) issued in December 2013, and as incorporated 
in the PRA Rulebook. 
The effects of draft EBA technical standards are not 
generally captured in our numbers. These could have 
additional effects on our capital position and RWAs. 
Whilst CRD IV allows for the majority of regulatory 
adjustments and deductions from CET1 to be 
implemented on a gradual basis from 1 January 2014 to 
1 January 2018, the PRA has largely decided not to make 
use of these transitional provisions. Due to the exclusion 
of unrealised gains on investment property and 
available-for-sale securities which are only capable of 
being recognised in CET1 capital from 1 January 2015, 
and PRA acceleration of unrealised losses on these items, 
our CET1 capital and ratio is lower on a transitional basis 
than it is on an end point basis. 
For additional tier 1 and tier 2 capital, the PRA followed 
the transitional provisions timing as set out in CRD IV 
to apply the necessary regulatory adjustments and 
deductions. The effect of these adjustments is being 
phased in at 20% per annum from 1 January 2014 to 
1 January 2018. 
Furthermore, non-CRD IV compliant additional tier 1 and 
tier 2 instruments benefit from a grandfathering period. 
This progressively reduces the eligible amount by 10% 
annually, following an initial reduction of 20% on 
1 January 2014, until they are fully phased out by 
1 January 2022. 
Under CRD IV, as implemented in the UK, banks are 
required to meet a minimum CET1 ratio of 4.0% of RWAs 
(increasing to 4.5% from 1 January 2015), a minimum 
tier 1 ratio of 5.5% of RWAs (increasing to 6% from 
1 January 2015) and a total capital ratio of 8% of RWAs. 
Alongside CRD IV requirements, from 1 July 2014, the 
PRA expects major UK banks and building societies 
to meet a 7% CET1 ratio using the CRD IV end point 
definition. Going forward, as the grandfathering 
provisions fall away, we intend to meet these regulatory 
minima in an economically efficient manner by 
issuing non-common equity capital as necessary. 
At 31 December 2014, the Group had US$19.8bn 
of CRD IV compliant non-common equity capital 
instruments, of which US$3.5bn of tier 2 and US$5.7bn 
of additional tier 1 were issued during the year (for 
details on the additional tier 1 instruments issued during 
the year see Note 35 on the Financial Statements). At 
31 December 2014, the Group also had US$37.1bn of 
non-common equity capital instruments qualifying as 
eligible capital under CRD IV by virtue of the application 
of the grandfathering provisions, after applying the 20% 
reduction outlined above. 
Regulatory balance sheet 
Regulatory and accounting consolidations 
(Unaudited) 
The basis of consolidation for the purpose of financial 
accounting under IFRS, described in Note 1 on the 
Financial Statements, differs from that used for 
regulatory purposes as described in ‘Structure of the 
regulatory group’ on page 13 of the Pillar 3 Disclosures 
2014 report. The table below provides a reconciliation of 
the financial accounting balance sheet to the regulatory 
scope of consolidation. 
Interests in banking associates are equity accounted in 
the financial accounting consolidation, whereas their 
exposures are proportionally consolidated for regulatory 
purposes in accordance with PRA’s application of EU 
legislation. 
Subsidiaries engaged in insurance activities are excluded 
from the regulatory consolidation, leaving the investment 
to be recorded at cost. In prior years, the investment of 
these insurance subsidiaries was recorded at the net 
asset value. This change in treatment from 1 January 
2014 has been aligned to the capital treatment under 
CRD IV where we have excluded post-acquisition 
reserves from our CET1 capital and the investment to 
be deducted from CET1 (subject to thresholds) valued 
at cost. 
The regulatory consolidation does not include special 
purpose entities (‘SPEs’) where significant risk has been 
transferred to third parties. Exposures to these SPEs are 
risk-weighted as securitisation positions for regulatory 
purposes. 
Entities in respect of which the basis of consolidation 
for financial accounting purposes differs from that used 
for regulatory purposes can be found in table 5 of the 
Pillar 3 Disclosures 2014 report.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
249 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Reconciliation of balance sheets – financial accounting to regulatory scope of consolidation 
(Unaudited) 
  At 31 December 2014 
 
 
Accounting
balance
sheet 
Deconsolidation
of insurance/ 
other entities 
Consolidation 
 of banking 
associates  
Regulatory
balance
sheet
 Ref US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Assets   
Cash and balances at central banks 129,957 – 30,731  160,688
Items in the course of collection from other banks 4,927 – 80  5,007
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness 27,674 – –  27,674
Trading assets  304,193 (720) 2,357  305,830
Financial assets designated at fair value 29,037 (28,791) 3,312  3,558
Derivatives 345,008 (94) 353  345,267
Loans and advances to banks  112,149 (2,727) 7,992  117,414
Loans and advances to customers 974,660 (10,809) 116,484  1,080,335
of which:   
– impairment allowances on IRB portfolios  i (6,942) – – (6,942)
– impairment allowances on standardised portfolios (5,395) – (2,744) (8,139)
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 161,713 (30) 7,510  169,193
Financial investments  415,467 (50,420) 33,123  398,170
Capital invested in insurance and other entities  – 2,542 –  2,542
Current tax assets 1,309 (16) –  1,293
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 75,176 (5,295) 8,501  78,382
of which:   
– goodwill and intangible assets of disposal groups 
held for sale  h 8 – – 8
– retirement benefit assets g (5,028) – – (5,028)
– impairment allowances on assets held for sale  (16) – – (16)
of which:   
– IRB portfolios  i (16) – – (16)
– standardised portfolios  – – 
Interests in associates and joint ventures  18,181 – (17,479)  702
of which:   
– positive goodwill on acquisition  h 621 – (606) 15
Goodwill and intangible assets  h 27,577 (5,593) 571  22,555
Deferred tax assets n 7,111 163 474  7,748
Total assets  2,634,139 (101,790) 194,009  2,726,358
Liabilities and equity   
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation 27,674 – –  27,674
Deposits by banks 77,426 (21) 40,530  117,935
Customer accounts  1,350,642 (535) 141,858  1,491,965
Repurchase agreements – non-trading 107,432 – –  107,432
Items in course of transmission to other banks 5,990 (3) –  5,987
Trading liabilities  190,572 (42) 50  190,580
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  76,153 (6,317) –  69,836
of which:    
– term subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital m 21,822 – – 21,822
– hybrid capital securities included in tier 1 capital j 1,495 – – 1,495
Derivatives 340,669 37 331  341,037
Debt securities in issue 95,947 (7,797) 3,720  91,870
Current tax liabilities  1,213 (138) 317  1,392
Liabilities under insurance contracts 73,861 (73,861) –  –
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 53,396 (3,659) 5,145  54,882
of which:   
– retirement benefit liabilities 3,208 (2) 56 3,262
– contingent liabilities and contractual commitments 234 – – 234
of which:    
– credit-related provisions on IRB portfolios  i 132 – – 132
– credit-related provisions on standardised portfolios 102 – – 102
Provisions  4,998 (63) –  4,935
Deferred tax liabilities 1,524 (1,009) 2  517
Subordinated liabilities  26,664 – 2,056  28,720
of which:   
– hybrid capital securities included in tier 1 capital j 2,761 – – 2,761
– perpetual subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital l 2,773 – – 2,773
– term subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital m 21,130 – – 21,130
   Report of the Directors: Capital (continued) 
Regulatory balance sheet / Leverage ratio 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
250 
  At 31 December 2014 
 
 
Accounting
balance
sheet 
Deconsolidation
  of insurance/ 
 other entities 
Consolidation 
 of banking 
associates  
Regulatory
balance
sheet 
 Ref US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Total shareholders’ equity  a 190,447 (7,531) –  182,916
of which:   
– other equity instruments included in tier 1 capital c, j 11,532 – – 11,532
– preference share premium included in tier 1 capital b 1,405 – – 1,405
Non-controlling interests  d 9,531 (851) –  8,680
of which:   
– non-cumulative preference shares issued by subsidiaries 
included in tier 1 capital  e 2,127 – – 2,127 
– non-controlling interests included in tier 2 capital, cumulative 
preferred stock  f 300 – – 300 
– non-controlling interests attributable to holders of 
ordinary shares in subsidiaries included in tier 2 capital  f, m 173 – – 173 
Total liabilities and equity at 31 December 2014 2,634,139 (101,790) 194,009  2,726,358
 
  At 31 December 2013 
 
 
Accounting
balance
sheet  
Deconsolidation
  of insurance/ 
 other entities 
 Consolidation 
  of banking 
 associates 
Regulatory
balance
sheet 
 Ref US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Assets  
Trading assets  303,192 32 1,686 304,910
Loans and advances to customers 1,080,304 (13,182) 110,168 1,177,290
of which:  
–  impairment allowances on IRB portfolios  i (9,476) – – (9,476)
–  impairment allowances on standardised portfolios k (5,667) – (2,465) (8,132)
Financial investments  425,925 (52,680) 31,430 404,675
Capital invested in insurance and other entities  – 9,135 – 9,135
Interests in associates and joint ventures  16,640 – (15,982) 658
of which:  
–  positive goodwill on acquisition h 608 – (593) 15
Goodwill and intangible assets  h 29,918 (5,369) 631 25,180
Other assets  815,339 (37,634) 57,477 835,182
of which:  
–  goodwill and intangible assets of disposal groups held for sale h 3 – – 3
–  retirement benefit assets g 2,140 – – 2,140
– impairment allowances on assets held for sale  (111) – – (111)
of which:  
– IRB portfolios  i – – – –
– standardised portfolios  k (111) – – (111)
Total assets at 31 December 2013 2,671,318 (99,698) 185,410 2,757,030
Liabilities and equity  
Deposits by banks  129,212 (193) 33,296 162,315
Customer accounts  1,482,812 (711) 142,924 1,625,025
Trading liabilities  207,025 (129) 161 207,057
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  89,084 (13,471) – 75,613
of which:   
–  term subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital m 18,230 – – 18,230
–  hybrid capital securities included in tier 1 capital j 3,685 – – 3,685
Debt securities in issue  104,080 (9,692) 1,021 95,409
Retirement benefit liabilities  g 2,931 (11) 56 2,976
Subordinated liabilities  28,976 2 2,961 31,939
of which:  
–  hybrid capital securities included in tier 1 capital j 2,873 – – 2,873
–  perpetual subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital l 2,777 – – 2,777
–  term subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital m 23,326 – – 23,326
Other liabilities  436,739 (73,570) 4,991 368,160
of which:  
– contingent liabilities and contractual commitments 177 – – 177
of which:   
– credit-related provisions on IRB portfolios  i 155 – – 155
– credit-related provisions on standardised portfolios k 22 – – 22  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
251 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
  At 31 December 2013 
 
 
Accounting
balance
sheet  
Deconsolidation
  of insurance/ 
 other entities 
 Consolidation 
  of banking 
 associates 
Regulatory
balance
sheet 
 Ref US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Total shareholders’ equity  a 181,871 (1,166) – 180,705
of which:  
–  other equity instruments included in tier 1 capital c, j 5,851 – – 5,851
–  preference share premium included in tier 1 capital b 1,405 – – 1,405
Non-controlling interests  d 8,588 (757) – 7,831
of which:  
–  non-cumulative preference shares issued by subsidiaries 
included in tier 1 capital  e 2,388  – – 2,388
–  non-controlling interests included in tier 2 capital, cumulative 
preferred stock  f 300  – – 300
–  non-controlling interests attributable to holders of 
ordinary shares in subsidiaries included in tier 2 capital  f, m 188  – – 188
Total liabilities and equity at 31 December 2013 2,671,318 (99,698) 185,410 2,757,030
The references (a) – (n) identify balance sheet components which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital on page 246. 
Leverage ratio 
(Unaudited) 
For a detailed basis of preparation of the leverage ratio, see the Appendix to Capital, page 261. 
Estimated leverage ratio 
(Unaudited) 
 
EU Delegated Act  
 basis at 
 31 Dec 2014 
  Basel III 2010
 basis at
 31 Dec 2013 
 US$bn   US$bn
Total assets per accounting balance sheet  2,634 2,671
Deconsolidation of insurance/other entities  (104) 
Capital invested in insurance entities 2 
Consolidation of banking associates  194 
Total assets per regulatory/accounting balance sheet 2,726 2,671
Adjustment to reverse netting of loans and deposits allowable under IFRS 38 93
Reversal of accounting values:  (525) (482)
Derivatives  (345) (282)
Repurchase agreement and securities finance  (180) (200)
Replaced with values after applying regulatory rules:  
Derivatives: 166 239
     Mark-to-market value  81 69
Deductions of receivables assets for cash variation margin (82) 
Add-on amounts for potential future exposure  148 170
Exposure amount resulting from the additional treatment for written credit derivatives 19 
Repurchase agreement and securities finance:  188 147
Gross securities financing transactions assets  269 
Netted amounts of cash payables and cash receivables of gross securities financing 
transactions assets  
(89) 
Securities financing transactions assets netted under Basel III 2010 framework 147
Measurement of counterparty risk  8 
Addition of off balance sheet commitments and guarantees: 396 388
Guarantees and contingent liabilities  67 85
Commitments  321 295
Other 8 8
Exclusion of items already deducted from the capital measure (36) (28)
Exposure measure after regulatory adjustments  2,953 3,028
Tier 1 capital under CRD IV (end point)  142 133
Estimated leverage ratio (end point)  4.8%   4.4%
 
In January 2014, the Basel Committee published its 
finalised leverage ratio framework, along with public 
disclosure requirements applicable from 1 January 2015, 
updating its 2010 recommendations. 
In June 2014, the PRA published its revised expectations 
in relation to the leverage ratio for major UK banks and 
building societies, namely that from 1 July 2014, we are 
expected to meet a 3% end point tier 1 leverage ratio,  Report of the Directors: Capital (continued) 
Regulatory developments 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
252 
calculated using the CRD IV definition of capital for the 
numerator and the Basel 2014 exposure measure for 
the denominator.  
In October 2014, the European Commission adopted a 
delegated act to establish a common definition of the 
leverage ratio for EU banks (based on the Basel revised 
definition). This was published in the EU’s Official Journal 
in January 2015.  
Under CRD IV, the legislative proposals and final 
calibration of the leverage ratio are expected to be 
determined following a review of the revised Basel 
proposals and the basis of the EBA’s assessment of the 
impact and effectiveness of the leverage ratio during a 
monitoring period between 1 January 2014 and 30 June 
2016. 
In January 2015, the PRA issued a letter setting out the 
approach to be taken for calculating the leverage ratio 
for 2014 year end disclosures. While the numerator 
continues to be calculated using the final CRD IV end 
point tier 1 capital definition, the exposure measure is 
now calculated based on the EU delegated act (rather 
than the Basel 2014 definition used in the Interim 
Report 2014). Reporting on the basis of the EU Delegated 
Act (rather than the Basel 2014 definition) results in an 
immaterial 2bps positive difference. 
Our leverage ratio for 2013 as disclosed above and in our 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 was based on the 
Basel 2010 text at the direction of the PRA. The change 
to reporting on the EU Delegated Act from the Basel 
2010 text contributes a US$115bn increase in the 
exposure measure. Key changes include:  
• A change to the regulatory scope of consolidation 
increases the exposure measure by US$132bn. 
• The netting of securities financing transactions (SFTs) 
is based on the accounting criteria and an additional 
add-on for counterparty risk increases the exposure 
measure by US$66bn. 
• The inclusion of written credit derivatives at a 
notional amount increases the exposure measure by 
US$23bn.  
• Revision to permit the offsetting of cash variation 
margin against derivative assets and liabilities results 
in a decrease in the exposure measure of US$65bn. 
• A change to the Credit Conversion Factors (CCFs) 
applied to off-balance sheet exposures decreases the 
exposure measure by US$41bn. 
For further details on the basis of preparation, see page 261. 
It should be noted that the UK specific leverage ratio 
proposals published in October 2014 by the Financial 
Policy Committee (‘FPC’) are conceptually different to 
the Basel and CRD IV leverage frameworks and are not 
yet in place. Further details of the UK proposals can be 
found under ‘Leverage ratio proposals’ on page 255. 
Regulatory developments 
(Unaudited) 
Regulatory capital buffers 
CRD IV establishes a number of capital buffers, to be 
met with CET1 capital, broadly aligned with the Basel III 
framework. CRD IV contemplates that these will be 
phased in from 1 January 2016, subject to national 
discretion. 
Automatic restrictions on capital distributions apply if 
a bank’s CET1 capital falls below the level of its CRD IV 
combined buffer. This is defined as the total of the 
capital conservation buffer (‘CCB’), the countercyclical 
capital buffer (‘CCyB’), the global systemically important 
institutions (‘G-SII’s) buffer and the systemic risk buffer 
(‘SRB’) as these become applicable. The PRA have 
proposed that the use of the PRA buffer will not result 
in automatic restrictions on capital distributions. 
In April 2014, HM Treasury published the statutory 
instrument ‘Capital Requirements (Capital Buffers 
and Macro-Prudential Measures) Regulations 2014’ 
transposing into UK legislation the main provisions in 
CRD IV related to capital buffers, with the exception 
of the SRB. In January 2015, HM Treasury published 
amendments to this statutory instrument in order to 
transpose the SRB. 
The PRA is the designated authority for the G-SIIs buffer, 
the other systemically important institutions (‘O-SII’s) 
buffer and the CCB. In April 2014, they published rules 
and supervisory statements implementing the main 
CRD IV provisions in relation to these buffers. The Bank 
of England is the designated authority for the CCyB and 
other macro prudential measures. Whilst the PRA is the 
designated authority for applying and determining the 
SRB, the FPC is responsible for creating the SRB 
framework for calibration. 
G-SII buffer 
The G-SII buffer (which is the EU implementation of 
the Basel G-SIB buffer) is to be met with CET1 capital and 
will be phased in from 1 January 2016. In October 2014, 
finalised technical standards on the methodology for 
identification of G-SIIs were published in the EU’s Official 
Journal and came into effect from 1 January 2015. 
In November 2014, the FSB and the Basel Committee 
updated the list of G-SIBs, using end-2013 data. The 
add-on of 2.5% previously assigned to HSBC was left 
unchanged.  
Following direction from the PRA to UK banks in its 
Supervisory Statement issued in April 2014, and in 
accordance with the EBA final draft Implementing 
Technical Standards (‘ITS’) and guidelines published in 
June 2014, we published the EBA template in July 2014. 
This disclosed the information used for the identification 
and scoring process which underpins our G-SIB 
designation. The final ITS for disclosure requirements 
were published in September 2014, and will form the 
basis of our future 2015 disclosure of G-SII indicators.  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
253 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Capital conservation buffer 
The CCB was designed to ensure banks build up capital 
outside periods of stress that can be drawn down when 
losses are incurred and is set at 2.5% of RWAs. The 
PRA will phase-in this buffer from 1 January 2016 to 
1 January 2019. 
Countercyclical and other macro-prudential 
buffers 
CRD IV contemplates a countercyclical buffer in line 
with Basel III, in the form of an institution-specific CCyB 
and the application of increased requirements to address 
macro-prudential or systemic risk. 
In January 2014, the FPC issued a policy statement on its 
powers to supplement capital requirements, through the 
use of the CCyB and the Sectoral Capital Requirements 
(‘SCR’) tools. The CCyB is expected to be set in the range 
of 0-2.5% of relevant credit exposures RWAs, although it 
is uncapped. Under UK legislation, the FPC is required to 
determine whether to recognise any CCyB rates set by 
other EEA countries before 2016. 
In June 2014, the FPC set the CCyB rate for UK exposures 
at 0%. At its September 2014 meeting, the FPC left the 
CCyB rate for UK exposures unchanged at 0% and 
recognised the 1% CCyB rates introduced by Norway and 
Sweden to become effective from 3 October 2015. In 
January 2015, the HKMA announced the application of a 
CCyB rate of 0.625% to Hong Kong exposures, to apply 
from 1 January 2016. In accordance with UK legislation 
and PRA supervisory statement PS 3/14, this rate will 
directly apply to the calculation of our institution-specific 
CCyB rate from 1 January 2016.   
The institution-specific CCyB rate for the Group will be 
based on the weighted average of the CCyB rates that 
apply in the jurisdictions where relevant credit exposures 
are located. Currently the Group’s institution specific 
CCyB is zero. The SCR tool is not currently deployed in 
the UK. 
Systemic risk buffer 
In addition to the measures above, CRD IV sets out an 
SRB for the financial sector as a whole, or one or more 
sub-sectors, to be deployed as necessary by each EU 
member state with a view to mitigating structural 
macro-prudential risk. 
In January 2015, the legislative changes necessary to 
transpose the SRB were implemented. The SRB is to be 
applied to ring fenced banks and building societies (over 
a certain threshold), which are together defined as ‘SRB 
institutions’. The SRB can be applied on an individual, 
sub-consolidated or consolidated basis and is applicable 
from 1 January 2019.  By 31 May 2016, the FPC is 
required to create a framework for identifying the extent 
to which the failure or distress of SRB institutions will 
pose certain long-term non-cyclical systemic or macro-
prudential risks. The PRA will apply this framework to 
determine whether specific SRB institutions would be 
subject to an SRB rate, and the level at which the buffer 
would be applied, and is able to exercise supervisory 
judgement to determine what the rate should be. Where 
applicable, the buffer rate must be set in the range of 
1% to 3%. The buffer rate would apply to all the SRB 
institution’s exposures unless the PRA has recognised 
a buffer rate set in another member state. If the SRB is 
applied on a consolidated basis it is expected that the 
higher of the G-SII or SRB would apply, in accordance 
with CRD IV. 
Pillar 2 and the ‘PRA buffer’ 
Under the Pillar 2 framework, banks are already required 
to hold capital in respect of the internal capital adequacy 
assessment and supervisory review which leads to a final 
determination by the PRA of individual capital guidance 
under Pillar 2A and Pillar 2B. Pillar 2A was previously met 
by total capital, but since 1 January 2015, in accordance 
with the PRA supervisory statement SS 5/13, is met with 
at least 56% CET1. 
Pillar 2A guidance is a point in time assessment of the 
amount of capital the PRA considers that a bank should 
hold to meet the overall financial adequacy rule. It is 
therefore subject to change pending annual assessment 
and the supervisory review process. During 2014, the 
Group Pillar 2A guidance amounted to 1.5% of RWAs, of 
which 0.9% was to be met by CET1. In February 2015, this 
was revised to 2.0% of RWAs, of which 1.1% is to be met 
by CET1 and is effective immediately. 
In January 2015, the PRA published a consultation on the 
Pillar 2 Framework. This set out the methodologies that 
the PRA proposed to use to inform its setting of firms’ 
Pillar 2 capital requirements, including proposing new 
approaches for determining Pillar 2 requirements for 
credit risk, operational risk, credit concentration risk 
and pension obligation risk.  
As part of CRD IV implementation, the PRA proposed to 
introduce a PRA buffer, to replace the capital planning 
buffer (‘CPB’) (known as Pillar 2B), also to be held in the 
form of CET1 capital. This was reconfirmed in the recent 
PRA consultation on the Pillar 2 framework. It is 
proposed that a PRA buffer will avoid duplication with 
CRD IV buffers and will be set for a particular firm 
depending on its vulnerability in a stress scenario or 
where the PRA has identified risk management and 
governance failings. In order to address weaknesses in 
risk management and governance, the PRA propose a 
scalar applied to firms’ CET1 Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A capital 
requirements. Where the PRA considers there is overlap 
between the CRD IV buffers and the PRA buffer 
assessment, the PRA proposes to set the PRA buffer as 
the excess capital required over and above the CCB and 
relevant systemic buffers. The PRA buffer will, however, 
be in addition to the CCyB and sectoral capital 
requirements.  
The PRA expects to finalise the Pillar 2 framework in July 
2015, with implementation expected from 1 January 
2016. Until this consultation is finalised and revised rules 
and guidance issued, there remains uncertainty as to the 
exact buffer rate requirements, and their ultimate capital 
impact. Report of the Directors: Capital (continued) 
Regulatory developments 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
254 
Overall capital requirements 
Following the developments outlined above, details 
are beginning to emerge of the various elements of the 
capital requirements framework. However, there 
remains residual uncertainty as to what HSBC’s precise 
end point CET1 capital requirement will be. Elements 
of the capital requirements that are known or quantified 
to date are set out in the diagram below. Time-varying 
elements such as the macro-prudential tools, the Pillar 2 
requirements, and systemic buffers are subject to 
change. 
Capital requirements framework (end point) 
 
In addition to the capital requirements tabulated above, 
we will need to consider the effect of FSB proposals 
published in November 2014 in relation to total loss 
absorbing capacity (‘TLAC’) requirements. For further 
details, see page 256. 
Regulatory stress testing 
The Group is subject to supervisory stress testing in 
many jurisdictions. These supervisory requirements are 
increasing in frequency and in the granularity with which 
results are required. As such, stress testing represents a 
key focus for the Group. 
In October 2013, the Bank of England published an initial 
discussion paper ‘A framework for stress testing the UK 
banking system’. The framework replaces the current 
stress testing for the capital planning buffer with annual 
concurrent stress tests, the results of which are expected 
to inform the setting of the PRA buffer, the CCyB, sectoral 
capital requirements and other FPC recommendations to 
the PRA. In April 2014, the Bank of England published 
details of the UK stress testing exercise, which the Group 
subsequently participated in. The results of this exercise 
were published in December 2014. 
Throughout 2014, the Group participated in various 
stress testing exercises in a number of different 
jurisdictions. For further details on all stress testing 
exercises, see page 122. 
RWA developments 
Throughout 2014, regulators issued a series of 
recommendations and consultations designed to revise 
the various components of the RWA regime and increase 
related reporting and disclosures. 
UK 
In March 2014, the FPC published that it was minded to 
recommend that firms report and disclose capital ratios 
using the standardised approach to credit risk as soon 
as practicable in 2015 following a Basel review of the 
standardised approach. 
In June 2014, the PRA issued its consultation CP12/14, 
which proposed changes to the credit risk rules in two 
areas. Firstly, a proposal that exposures on the advanced 
internal ratings-based (‘AIRB’) approach for central 
governments, public sector entities, central banks 
and financial sector entities would be moved to the 
foundation approach from June 2015. Secondly, a 
proposal to introduce stricter criteria for the application 
of the standardised risk weight for certain commercial 
real estate (‘CRE’) exposures located in non-EEA 
countries, which would be dependent upon loss rates 
in these jurisdictions over a representative period. In 
October, the PRA published a policy statement (‘PS 
10/14’) containing final rules on the second proposal, 
which introduces more stringent criteria for the 
application of risk weights to non-EEA CRE exposures 
from April 2015. 
EU 
In May 2014, the EBA published a consultation on 
benchmarks of internal approaches for calculating own 
funds requirements for credit and market risk exposures 
in RWAs. This follows a series of benchmarking exercises 
run in 2013 to better understand the drivers of 
differences observed in RWAs across EU institutions. 
The future annual benchmarking exercise outlined in the 
consultation paper aims to improve the comparability of 
capital requirements calculated using internal modelled 
approaches and will be used by regulators to inform 
their policy decisions. 
In June 2014, the EBA published a consultation on 
thresholds for the application of the standardised 
approach for exposures treated under permanent partial 
use and the IRB roll-out plan. The finalised Regulatory 
Technical Standards (‘RTS’) is yet to be published. 
In December 2014, the list of non-EEA countries deemed 
to have equivalent regulatory regimes for CRD IV 
purposes was published in the EU’s Official Journal, and 
became effective on 1 January 2015. This equivalence 
evaluation affects the treatment of exposures across 
PRA buffer  (illustrative)
Capital 
conservation 
buffer
Systemic
buffers
(SRB/G-SIIB)
Pillar 2A/ICG
Pillar 1
(CET1) (CET1)(CET1)
(CET1)(CET1, AT1
and T2)
PRA buffer
assessment
(replaces CPB)
(CET1, 
AT1
and 
T2)
2.5%
2.5%
2.0%
(of which 1.1% CET1)
8%
(of which 4.5% CET1)
Macro-prudential tools
(Countercyclical capital buffer/
sectoral capital requirements)  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
255 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
a number of different areas in CRD IV, such as the 
treatment of exposures to third country investment 
firms, credit institutions and exchanges; standardised 
risk weights applicable to exposures to central 
governments, central banks, regional governments, 
local authorities and public sector entities; and the 
calculation of RWAs for exposures to corporates, 
institutions, central governments and central banks 
under the IRB approach.  
International  
Throughout 2014, the Basel Committee published 
proposals across all Pillar 1 risk types, to update 
standardised, non-modelled approaches for calculating 
capital requirements and to provide the basis for the 
application of a capital floor.   
In particular, in March 2014, the Basel Committee 
published finalised proposals for the standardised 
approach for calculating counterparty credit risk 
exposures for OTC derivatives, exchange traded 
derivatives and long settlement transactions. Following 
this, another technical paper on the foundations of the 
new standard was published in August 2014. The new 
approach is proposed to replace both the current 
exposure measure and the standardised method and 
is expected to come into effect on 1 January 2017. 
In October 2014, the Basel Committee also published 
a consultation and a Quantitative Impact Study (‘QIS’) 
to revise the standardised approach for calculating 
operational risk. The proposals seek to establish a new 
unitary standardised approach to replace the current 
non-model-based approaches, which comprise the 
basic indicator approach and the standardised approach, 
including its variant the alternative standardised 
approach. An implementation date is yet to be proposed. 
In December 2014, the Basel Committee undertook a 
further consultation on its fundamental review of the 
trading book. This included revisions to the market 
risk framework that was published for consultation in 
October 2013. The Committee intends to carry out a 
further QIS in early 2015 to inform finalised proposals 
expected at the end of 2015. 
In December 2014, the Basel Committee published a 
revised framework for securitisation risk, which will 
come into effect on 1 January 2018.  
In December 2014, the Basel Committee also published 
a consultation paper on revisions to the Standardised 
Approach for credit risk. Proposals include a reduced 
reliance on external credit ratings; increased granularity 
and risk sensitivity; and updated risk weight calibrations. 
Proposed calibration for risk weights are indicative only 
and will be further informed by responses from this 
consultation and results from a QIS.  
Additionally, in December 2014, the Basel Committee 
published a consultation on the design of a capital floor 
framework, which will replace the Basel I floor. The 
calibration of the floor is, however, outside the scope of 
this consultation. The Committee has stated its intention 
to publish final proposals including calibration and 
implementation timelines by the end of 2015. 
All finalised Basel Committee proposals for standardised 
approaches for calculating risk requirements and the 
introduction of a revised capital floor would need to be 
transposed into EU requirements before coming into 
legal effect. 
Leverage ratio proposals  
In October 2014, the FPC published final recommendations 
on the design of a UK specific leverage ratio framework 
and calibration. This followed an earlier FPC consultation 
in July 2014 on the design of the framework. The FPC 
finalised recommendations included a minimum leverage 
ratio of 3% to be implemented as soon as practicable for 
UK G-SIBs and major UK banks and building societies, 
a supplementary leverage ratio buffer applied to 
systemically important firms of 35% of the relevant 
risk-weighted systemic risk buffer rates, and a further 
countercyclical leverage ratio buffer (‘CCLB’) of 35% of 
the relevant risk-weighted CCyB. The minimum leverage 
ratio is to be met 75% with CET1 and 25% with AT1, and 
both the supplementary leverage ratio buffer and CCLB 
are to be met 100% with CET1. The FPC recommended 
that HM Treasury provide the FPC with the necessary 
powers to direct the PRA to set leverage ratio 
requirements implementing the above mentioned 
calibration and framework. 
HM Treasury published a consultation paper in 
November 2014, which responded to and agreed with 
the FPC recommendations in relation to the design of 
the leverage ratio framework. Specifically, HM Treasury 
agreed that the FPC should be granted powers to direct 
the PRA on a minimum requirement, additional leverage 
ratio buffer (for G-SIBs, major UK banks and building 
societies, including ring fenced banks) and a CCLB. HM 
Treasury did not, however, provide any views on the 
calibration. The consultation paper included legislative 
changes to provide the FPC with new powers. In 
February 2015, HM Treasury published a summary of 
responses, alongside the draft instrument which was 
laid before Parliament. 
Banking structural reform and recovery and 
resolution planning 
In the EU, the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive 
(‘BRRD’) was finalised and published in June 2014. This 
came into effect from 1 January 2015, with the option to 
delay implementation of bail-in provisions until 1 January 
2016. Regardless of this, the UK introduced bail-in 
powers from 1 January 2015. The UK transposition of the 
BRRD builds on the resolution framework already in 
place in the UK. In January 2015, the PRA published a 
policy statement containing updated requirements for 
recovery and resolution planning which revises PRA rules 
that have been in force since 1 January 2014. In addition, 
the EBA has produced a number of RTS, some of which 
are yet to be finalised, that will further inform the BRRD 
requirements.
  Report of the Directors: Capital (continued) 
Regulatory developments / Appendix to Capital 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
256 
In December 2013, the UK’s Financial Services (Banking 
Reform) Act 2013 received royal assent, which implements 
ring-fencing recommendations of the ICB. This has been 
supplemented though secondary legislation which 
was finalised in July 2014. In October 2014, the PRA 
published a consultation paper on ring-fencing rules. 
The PRA intends to undertake further consultation 
and finalise ring-fencing rules in due course, with 
implementation by 1 January 2019. 
In January 2014, the European Commission also 
published legislative proposals on ring-fencing trading 
activities from deposit taking and a prohibition on 
proprietary trading in financial instruments and 
commodities. This is currently under discussion in 
the European Parliament and the Council.  
For further details of the policy background and the Group’s 
approach to recovery and resolution planning, see page 14. 
Total loss absorbing capacity proposals 
In November 2014, as part of the ‘too big to fail’ agenda, 
the FSB published proposals for total loss absorbing 
capacity (‘TLAC’) for G-SIBs.  
The FSB proposals include a minimum TLAC requirement 
in the range of 16-20% of RWAs and a TLAC leverage 
ratio of at least twice the Basel III tier 1 leverage ratio. 
The TLAC requirement is to be applied in accordance 
with individual resolution strategies, as determined by 
the G-SIB’s crisis management group. A QIS is currently 
underway, the results of which will inform finalised 
proposals. The conformance period for the TLAC 
requirement will also be influenced by the QIS, but 
will not be before 1 January 2019. Once finalised, it is 
expected that any new TLAC standard should be met 
alongside the Basel III minimum capital requirements.  
The draft proposals require G-SIBs to be subject to 
a minimum TLAC requirement with the precise 
requirement to be informed by the QIS. There are 
a number of requirements relating to the types 
of liabilities which can be used to meet the TLAC 
requirement, the composition of TLAC, and the 
location of liabilities within a banking group, in 
accordance with its resolution strategy. The TLAC 
proposals are expected to be finalised in 2015 and will 
then need to be implemented into national legislation. 
Other regulatory updates  
In January 2015, the EBA published revised final draft 
RTS on prudent valuation. Finalised requirements will 
need to be adopted by the European Commission and 
published in the EU’s Official Journal before coming 
into effect. 
In June 2014, the EBA and Basel Committee each 
issued a consultation on the Pillar 3 disclosures. The 
final EBA guidelines were issued in December 2014 and 
entail additional process and governance around the 
Pillar 3 report, as well as semi-annual or quarterly 
disclosure of key capital, ratio, RWA, leverage and risk 
model information, exceeding the scope of our current 
interim disclosures. The guidelines are subject to 
implementation by national supervisors and are 
expected to enter into force in 2015. 
The final Basel standards on ‘Revised Pillar 3 disclosure 
requirements’ were issued in January 2015. They 
mandate extensive use of standardised templates to 
enhance comparability between banks’ disclosures as 
well as requiring a considerable volume of disclosures 
to be produced semi-annually, rather than annually as 
hitherto. The revised framework calls for disclosure at 
the latest from 2016 year-ends, concurrently with 
financial reports. 
 
Footnotes to Capital 
  1 Operational risk RWAs, under the standardised approach, are calculated using an average of the last three years’ revenues. For business 
disposals, the operational risk RWAs are not removed immediately on disposal, but diminish over a period of time. The RWAs for the CRS 
business represent the remaining operational risk RWAs for the business. 
  2 RWAs are non-additive across geographical regions due to market risk diversification effects within the Group. 
  3 From 1 January 2014, the geographical region ‘Asia’ replaced the geographical regions previously reported as ‘Hong Kong’ and ‘Rest of Asia-
Pacific’ (see Note 23 on the Financial Statements for further details). Comparative data have been re-presented to reflect this change. 
  4 CRD IV opening balances as at December 2013 were estimated based on the Group’s interpretation of final CRD IV legislation and final rules 
issued by the PRA, details of which can be found in the basis of preparation on page 324 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013. 
  5 This includes dividends on ordinary shares, quarterly dividends on preference shares and coupons on capital securities, classified as equity. 
  6 Includes externally verified profits for the year to 31 December 2014. 
  7 Mainly comprise unrealised gains/losses in available-for-sale debt securities related to SPEs. 
  8 Unrealised gains/losses in available-for-sale securities are net of tax. 
  9 Includes own credit spread on trading liabilities. 
10 Under Basel 2.5 rules, any defined benefit asset is derecognised and a defined benefit liability may be substituted with the additional funding 
that will be paid into the relevant schemes over the following five-year period. 
11 Mainly comprise investments in insurance entities. 
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
257 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Appendix to Capital 
Capital management 
(Audited) 
Approach and policy 
Our approach to capital management is driven by our strategic and organisational requirements, taking into account the 
regulatory, economic and commercial environment in which we operate. Pre-tax return on risk-weighted assets (‘RoRWA’) 
is an operational metric by which the global businesses are managed on a day-to-day basis. The metric combines return 
on equity and regulatory capital efficiency objectives. It is our objective to maintain a strong capital base to support the 
risks inherent in our business and invest in accordance with our six filters framework, exceeding both consolidated and 
local regulatory capital requirements at all times. 
Our policy on capital management is underpinned by a capital management framework which enables us to manage our 
capital in a consistent manner. The framework, which is approved by the GMB annually, incorporates a number of 
different capital measures including market capitalisation, invested capital, economic capital and regulatory capital. Given 
that CRD IV has been in effect since 1 January 2014, during 2014 we managed our internal capital ratio target on an end 
point CRD IV CET1 basis of greater than 10%. We have since reviewed this and in 2015 expect to manage group capital to 
meet a medium-term target for return on equity of more than 10%. This is modelled on CET1 ratio on an end point basis in 
the range of 12% to 13%. 
Capital measures 
• market capitalisation is the stock market value of HSBC;  
• invested capital is the equity capital invested in HSBC by our shareholders, adjusted for certain reserves and goodwill previously 
amortised or written off; 
• economic capital is the internally calculated capital requirement which we deem necessary to support the risks to which we are 
exposed; and 
• regulatory capital is the capital which we are required to hold in accordance with the rules established by the PRA for the consolidated 
Group and by our local regulators for individual Group companies. 
Our assessment of capital adequacy is aligned to our assessment of risks, including: credit, market, operational, interest 
rate risk in the banking book, pensions, insurance, structural foreign exchange risk and residual risks. 
Stress testing 
In addition to our internal stress tests, the Group is subject to supervisory stress testing in many jurisdictions. Supervisory 
requirements are increasing in frequency and in the granularity with which the results are required. These exercises 
include the programmes of the PRA, the FRB, the EBA, the ECB and the HKMA, as well as stress tests undertaken in other 
jurisdictions. We take into account the results of all such regulatory stress testing when assessing our internal capital 
requirements. 
Risks to capital 
Outside the stress-testing framework, a list of top and emerging risks is regularly evaluated for their effect on our CET1 
capital ratio. In addition, other risks may be identified which have the potential to affect our RWAs and/or capital position. 
These risks are also included in the evaluation of risks to capital. The downside or upside scenarios are assessed against 
our capital management objectives and mitigating actions are assigned as necessary. The responsibility for global capital 
allocation principles and decisions rests with the GMB. Through our internal governance processes, we seek to maintain 
discipline over our investment and capital allocation decisions and seek to ensure that returns on investment meet the 
Group’s management objectives.  Our strategy is to allocate capital to businesses and entities on the basis of their ability 
to achieve established RoRWA objectives and their regulatory and economic capital requirements. 
Risk-weighted asset targets 
RWA targets for our global businesses are established in accordance with the Group’s strategic direction and risk appetite, 
and approved through the Group’s annual planning process. As these targets are deployed to lower levels of 
management, action plans for implementation are developed. These may include growth strategies; active portfolio 
management; restructuring; business and/or customer-level reviews; RWA accuracy and allocation initiatives and risk 
mitigation. Our capital management process is articulated in the annual Group capital plan which forms part of the Annual 
Operating Plan that is approved by the Board. 
Business performance against RWA targets is monitored through regular reporting to the Group ALCO. The management 
of capital deductions is also addressed in the RWA monitoring framework through additional notional charges for these 
items.  Report of the Directors: Capital (continued) 
Appendix to Capital 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
258 
Analysis is undertaken within the RWA monitoring framework to identify the key drivers of movements in the position, 
such as book size and book quality. Particular attention is paid to identifying and segmenting items within the day-to-day 
control of the business and those items that are driven by changes in risk models or regulatory methodology. 
Capital generation 
HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and also provides them with non-equity capital 
where necessary. These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings’ own capital issuance and profit retention. 
As part of its capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the composition 
of its capital and its investment in subsidiaries. 
Capital measurement and allocation 
(Unaudited) 
The PRA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis and therefore receives information on the capital adequacy of, and sets 
capital requirements for, the Group as a whole. Individual banking subsidiaries are directly regulated by their local banking 
supervisors, who set and monitor their capital adequacy requirements. In 2013, we calculated capital at a Group level 
using the Basel II framework as amended for CRD III, commonly known as Basel 2.5, and also estimated capital on an end 
point CRD IV basis. From 1 January 2014, our capital at Group level is calculated under CRD IV and supplemented by PRA 
rules to effect the transposition of directive requirements. 
Our policy and practice in capital measurement and allocation at Group level is underpinned by the CRD IV rules. 
However, local regulators are at different stages of implementation and some local reporting is still on a Basel I basis, 
notably in the US for the reporting of RWAs for some institutions during 2014. In most jurisdictions, non-banking financial 
subsidiaries are also subject to the supervision and capital requirements of local regulatory authorities. 
The Basel III framework, similarly to Basel II, is structured around three ‘pillars’: minimum capital requirements, 
supervisory review process and market discipline. The CRD IV legislation implemented Basel III in the EU and, in the UK, 
the ‘PRA rulebook CRR Firms Instrument 2013’ transposed the various national discretions under the CRD IV legislation 
into UK law. The CRD IV and PRA legislation came into force on 1 January 2014. 
Regulatory capital 
For regulatory purposes, our capital base is divided into three main categories, namely common equity tier 1, additional 
tier 1 and tier 2, depending on their characteristics. 
• Common equity tier 1 capital is the highest quality form of capital, comprising shareholders’ equity and related non-
controlling interests (subject to limits). Under CRD IV various capital deductions and regulatory adjustments are made 
against these items which are treated differently for the purposes of capital adequacy – these include deductions for 
goodwill and intangible assets, deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability, negative amounts resulting from the 
calculation of expected loss amounts under IRB, holdings of capital securities of financial sector entities and surplus 
defined benefit pension fund assets. 
• Additional tier 1 capital comprises eligible non-common equity capital securities and any related share premium; it also 
includes qualifying securities issued by subsidiaries subject to certain limits. Holdings of additional tier 1 securities of 
financial sector entities are deducted.  
• Tier 2 capital comprises eligible capital securities and any related share premium and qualifying tier 2 capital securities 
issued by subsidiaries subject to limits. Holdings of tier 2 capital securities of financial sector entities are deducted.  
Pillar 1 capital requirements 
Pillar 1 covers the capital resources requirements for credit risk, market risk and operational risk. Credit risk includes 
counterparty credit risk and securitisation requirements. These requirements are expressed in terms of RWAs. 
Credit risk capital requirements 
CRD IV applies three approaches of increasing sophistication to the calculation of Pillar 1 credit risk capital requirements. 
The most basic, the standardised approach, requires banks to use external credit ratings to determine the risk weightings 
applied to rated counterparties. Other counterparties are grouped into broad categories and standardised risk weightings 
are applied to these categories. The next level, the internal ratings-based (‘IRB’) foundation approach, allows banks to 
calculate their credit risk capital requirements on the basis of their internal assessment of a counterparty’s probability of 
default (‘PD’), but their estimates of exposure at default (‘EAD’) and loss given default (‘LGD’) are subject to standard 
supervisory parameters. Finally, the IRB advanced approach allows banks to use their own internal assessment in both 
determining PD and quantifying EAD and LGD. 
The capital resources requirement, which is intended to cover unexpected losses, is derived from a formula specified in 
the regulatory rules which incorporates PD, LGD, EAD and other variables such as maturity and correlation. Expected 
losses under the IRB approaches are calculated by multiplying PD by EAD and LGD. Expected losses are deducted from 
capital to the extent that they exceed total accounting impairment allowances.    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
259 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
For credit risk we have adopted the IRB advanced approach for the majority of our portfolios, with the remainder on 
either IRB foundation or standardised approaches. 
Under our CRD IV rollout plans, a number of our Group companies and portfolios are in transition to advanced 
IRB approaches. At the end of 2014, global models for sovereigns, banks, large corporates and portfolios in most of 
Europe, Asia and North America were on advanced IRB approaches. Others remain on the standardised or foundation 
approaches pending definition of local regulations or model approval, or under exemptions from IRB treatment. In some 
instances, regulators have allowed us to transition from advanced to standardised approaches for a limited number of 
portfolios. 
• Counterparty credit risk 
Counterparty credit risk (‘CCR’) arises for OTC derivatives and securities financing transactions. It is calculated in both 
the trading and non-trading books and is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction may default before completing 
the satisfactory settlement of the transaction. Three approaches to calculating CCR and determining exposure values 
are defined by CRD IV: standardised, mark-to-market and internal model method. These exposure values are used to 
determine capital requirements under one of the credit risk approaches: standardised, IRB foundation and IRB 
advanced. 
We use the mark-to-market and internal model method approaches for CCR. Our longer-term aim is to migrate more 
positions from the mark-to-market to the internal model method approach. 
In addition, CRD IV applies a capital requirement for CVA risk. Where we have both specific risk VaR approval and 
internal model method approval for a product, the CVA VaR approach has been used to calculate the CVA capital 
charge. Where we do not hold both approvals, the standardised approach has been applied. 
• Securitisation 
Securitisation positions are held in both the trading and non-trading books. For non-trading book securitisation 
positions, CRD IV specifies two methods for calculating credit risk requirements, the standardised and the IRB 
approaches. Both rely on the mapping of rating agency credit ratings to risk weights, which range from 7% to 1,250%. 
Within the IRB approach, we use the ratings-based method for the majority of our non-trading book securitisation 
positions, and the internal assessment approach for unrated liquidity facilities and programme-wide enhancements for 
asset-backed securitisations. 
The majority of securitisation positions in the trading book are treated for capital purposes as if they are held in the 
non-trading book under the standardised or IRB approaches. Other traded securitisation positions, known as 
correlation trading, are treated under an internal model approach approved by the PRA. 
Market risk capital requirement 
The market risk capital requirement is measured using internal market risk models where approved by the PRA, or the 
standard rules of the EU Capital Requirement Regulation. Our internal market risk models comprise VaR, stressed VaR and 
the incremental risk charge. Since the sale of our correlation portfolio in September 2014, there is no market risk capital 
requirement associated with the comprehensive risk measure. 
Operational risk capital requirement 
CRD IV includes a capital requirement for operational risk, again utilising three levels of sophistication. The capital 
required under the basic indicator approach is a simple percentage of gross revenues, whereas under the standardised 
approach it is one of three different percentages of total operating income less insurance premiums allocated to each of 
eight defined business lines. Both these approaches use an average of the last three financial years’ revenues. Finally, the 
advanced measurement approach uses banks’ own statistical analysis and modelling of operational risk data to determine 
capital requirements. We have adopted the standardised approach in determining our operational risk capital 
requirements. 
Pillar 2 capital requirements 
We conduct an internal capital adequacy assessment process (‘ICAAP’) to determine a forward looking assessment of our 
capital requirements given our business strategy, risk profile, risk appetite and capital plan. This process incorporates the 
Group’s risk management processes and governance framework. A range of stress tests are applied to our base capital 
plan. These, coupled with our economic capital framework and other risk management practices, are used to assess our 
internal capital adequacy requirements. 
The ICAAP is examined by the PRA as part of its supervisory review and evaluation process, which occurs periodically to 
enable the regulator to define the individual capital guidance or minimum capital requirements for HSBC and our capital 
planning buffer where required. 
   Report of the Directors: Capital (continued) 
Appendix to Capital 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
260 
Pillar 3 disclosure requirements 
Pillar 3 of the Basel regulatory framework is related to market discipline and aims to make firms more transparent by 
requiring them to publish, at least annually, wide-ranging information on their risks and capital, and how these are 
managed. Our Pillar 3 Disclosures 2014 are published on our website, www.hsbc.com, under Investor Relations. 
RWA movement by key driver – basis of preparation and supporting notes 
(Unaudited) 
Credit risk drivers – definitions and quantification  
The causal analysis of RWA movements splits the total movement in IRB RWAs into six drivers, described below. The first 
four relate to specific, identifiable and measurable changes. The remaining two, book size and book quality, are derived 
after accounting for movements in the first four specific drivers. 
1. Foreign exchange movements  
This is the movement in RWAs as a result of changes in the exchange rate between the functional currency of the HSBC 
company owning each portfolio and US dollars, being our presentation currency for consolidated reporting. Our structural 
foreign exchange exposures are managed with the primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our consolidated 
capital ratios and the capital ratios of individual banking subsidiaries are largely protected from the effect of changes in 
exchange rates. This is usually achieved by ensuring that, for each subsidiary bank, the ratio of structural exposures in a 
given currency to risk-weighted assets denominated in that currency is broadly equal to the capital ratio of the subsidiary 
in question. We hedge structural foreign exchange exposures only in limited circumstances. 
2. Acquisitions and disposals 
This is the movement in RWAs as a result of the disposal or acquisition of business operations. This can be whole 
businesses or parts of a business. The movement in RWAs is quantified based on the credit risk exposures as at the end of 
the month preceding a disposal or following an acquisition.  
3. Model updates 
New/updated models 
RWA movements arising from the implementation of new models and from changes to existing parameter models are 
allocated to this driver. This figure will also include changes which arise following review of modelling assumptions. Where 
a model recalibration reflects an update to more recent performance data, the resulting RWA changes are not assigned 
here, but instead reported under book quality.  
RWA changes are estimated based on the impact assessments made in the testing phase prior to implementation. These 
values are used to simulate the effect of new or updated models on the portfolio at the point of implementation, 
assuming there were no major changes in the portfolio from the testing phase to implementation phase.  
Portfolios moving onto IRB approach 
Where a portfolio moves from the standardised approach to the IRB approach, the RWA movement by key driver 
statement shows the increase in IRB RWAs, but does not show the corresponding reduction in standardised approach 
RWAs as its scope is limited to IRB only. 
The movement in RWAs is quantified at the date at which the IRB approach is applied, and not during the testing phase as 
with a new/updated model. 
4. Methodology and policy 
Internal regulatory updates 
This captures the effect on RWAs of changing the internal treatment of exposures. This may include, but is not limited to, 
a portfolio or a part of one moving from an existing IRB model onto a standardised model, identification of netting and 
credit risk mitigation.  
External regulatory updates 
This specifies the effect of additional or changing regulatory requirements. This includes, but is not limited to, regulatory-
prescribed changes to the RWA calculation. The movement in RWAs is quantified by comparing the RWAs calculated for 
that portfolio under the old and the new requirements.  
5. Book size 
RWA movements attributed to this driver are those we would expect to experience for the given movement in exposure, 
as measured by EAD, assuming a stable risk profile. These RWA movements arise in the normal course of business, such as 
growth in credit exposures or reduction in book size from run-offs and write-offs.  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
261 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The RWA movement is quantified as follows: 
• RWA and EAD changes captured in the four drivers above are excluded from the total movements to create an 
adjusted movement in EAD and RWA for the period.  
• The average RWA to EAD percentage is calculated for the opening position and is applied to the adjusted movement in 
EAD. This results in an estimated book size RWA movement based on the assumption that the EAD to RWA percentage 
is constant throughout the period.  
As the calculation relies on averaging, the output is dependent upon the degree of portfolio aggregation and the number 
of discrete time periods for which the calculation is undertaken. For each quarter of 2014 this calculation was performed 
for each HSBC company with an IRB portfolio by global businesses, split by the main Basel categories of credit exposures, 
as described in the table below: 
Basel categories of IRB credit exposures within HSBC 
Central governments and central banks Corporate foundation IRB Qualifying revolving retail exposures  
Institutions Other advanced IRB Retail SME 
Corporate advanced IRB Retail mortgages Other retail 
The total of the results is shown in book size within the RWA movement by key driver table. 
6. Book quality 
This represents RWA movements resulting from changes in the underlying credit quality of customers. These are caused 
by changes to IRB risk parameters which arise from actions such as, but not limited to, model recalibration, change in 
counterparty external rating, or the influence of new lending on the average quality of the book. The change in RWAs 
attributable to book quality is calculated as the balance of RWA movements after taking account of all drivers described 
above. 
The RWA movement by key driver statement includes only movements which are calculated under the IRB approach. 
Certain classes of credit risk exposure are treated as capital deductions and therefore reductions are not shown in this 
statement. If the treatment of a credit risk exposure changes from RWA to capital deduction in the period, then only the 
reduction in RWAs would appear in the RWA movement by key driver tables. In this instance, a reduction in RWAs does 
not necessarily indicate an improvement in the capital position. 
Counterparty risk drivers – definitions and quantification 
The RWA movement by key driver for counterparty credit risk calculates the credit risk drivers 5 and 6 at a more granular 
level, by using transaction level details provided by regional sites. ‘Foreign exchange movement’ is not a reported layer for 
counterparty risk drivers, as there is cross currency netting across the portfolio. 
Market risk drivers – definitions and quantification 
The RWA movement by key driver for market risk combines the credit risk drivers 5 and 6 into a single driver called 
‘Movements in risk levels’.  
Leverage ratio: basis of preparation 
(Unaudited) 
The numerator, capital measure, is calculated using the ‘end point’ definition of tier 1 capital applicable from 1 January 
2022, which is set out in the final CRD IV rules. This is supplemented with the EBA’s Own Funds’ RTS to the extent that 
these have been published in the EU’s Official Journal of the European Commission as at the reporting date, as well as 
making reference to the PRA Rulebook where appropriate. The denominator, exposure measure, is calculated on the basis 
of the Leverage Ratio Delegated Act adopted by the European Commission in October 2014 and published in the EU’s 
Official Journal in January 2015, which is aligned to the Basel 2014 leverage ratio framework. This follows the same scope 
of regulatory consolidation used for the risk-based capital framework, which differs to the 2010 Basel text that required 
banks to include items using their accounting balance sheet. The exposure measure generally follows the accounting 
value, adjusted as follows: 
• on-balance sheet, non-derivative exposures are included in the exposure measure net of specific provisions or 
accounting valuation adjustments (e.g. accounting credit valuation adjustments); 
• loans are not netted with deposits; 
• the scope of netting for derivatives is extended to all scenarios where we would recognise a netting agreement for 
regulatory purposes; 
• the scope for offsetting of cash variation margin against derivative assets and liabilities is extended subject to certain 
additional conditions including the requirement that the margin be exchanged daily and be in the same currency as the 
currency of settlement of the derivative contract. For these purposes we have considered this to include any currency  Report of the Directors: Capital / Corporate Governance 
Appendix to Capital / Letter from the Group Chairman 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
262 
that can be used to make payments under the derivative contract, the governing qualifying master netting agreement, 
or its associated credit support annex. Such offsetting is not permitted under the Basel 2010 text;  
• the approach to netting securities financing transactions (‘SFT’s) is aligned to that permitted under IFRS, though for the 
purposes of the leverage ratio there is an additional counterparty credit risk add-on to the extent that an SFT is under 
collateralised. This represents a stricter requirement compared with the Basel 2010 text; 
• there is an add-on for potential future exposure for both OTC and exchange-traded derivatives; 
• the notional amount of written credit derivatives is included in the exposure measure, subject to offsets for purchased 
protection. This represents a stricter requirement compared with the Basel 2010 text; 
• off-balance sheet items are converted into credit exposure equivalents through the use of credit conversion factors 
(‘CCF’s). Depending on the risk category of the exposure a CCF of 10%, 20%, 50% or 100% is applied. In contrast, the 
Basel 2010 text requires that off-balance sheet items are included in full except for commitments that are 
unconditionally cancellable at any time by HSBC without prior notice, where only 10% of the exposures are included; 
and 
• items deducted from the end point tier 1 capital such as goodwill and intangible assets, are excluded.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
263 
Strategic Report Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Corporate Governance 
Page  App
1
   
Corporate Governance Report  263   
Letter from the Group Chairman  263   
Directors  264   
Secretary  268   
Group Managing Directors  268   
Board of Directors  270   
Directors  270   
Corporate governance codes  275   
Board committees  276   
Group Management Board  276   
Group Audit Committee  277   
Group Risk Committee  280   
Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee  282   
Group Remuneration Committee  284   
Nomination Committee  284   
Conduct & Values Committee 286   
Chairman’s Committee 288   
Philanthropic and Community Investment 
Oversight Committee 288 
  
Internal control  288   
Going concern  290   
Employees  291   
Reward  291   
Employee relations  291   
Diversity and inclusion  291   
Employee development  291   
Employment of disabled persons  291   
Health and safety  291   
Remuneration policy  292   
Employee share plans  292   
Other disclosures  293   
Share capital    294 
Directors’ interests    297 
Dividends and shareholders    298 
2014 Annual General Meeting  293   
1 Appendix to Report of the Directors.    
 
Corporate Governance 
Report 
The statement of corporate governance practices set 
out on pages 263 to 333 and information incorporated by 
reference constitutes the Corporate Governance Report 
of HSBC Holdings. The reports of Board Committees are 
contained within the Corporate Governance Report. 
Letter from the Group 
Chairman 
Dear Shareholder 
This year, 2015, marks the 150th anniversary of our foundation 
in Hong Kong and Shanghai. In these days of companies 
ascending to the top ranks of valuation within a decade or so of 
being formed and often descending as rapidly, we should reflect 
positively on the enormous skill and foresight of those who built 
this firm sustainably from modest beginnings to its position as 
one of the leading international banking groups in the world. 
Given the history of the world over this period and the episodic 
intensity of financial market crises, this could not have been 
achieved without strong governance and a prudent character. It 
is among the Board’s primary responsibilities to ensure that the 
firm’s governance and character are such as to underpin its 
continuing success. Describing what good governance and a 
prudent character look like is relatively simple; understanding 
how to embed these and to measure success in so doing is the 
greater challenge and one which lies firmly within the Board’s 
accountability.  
At the heart of good governance lie three responsibilities 
reserved to the Board. Firstly, selection of the appropriate 
business model and countries within which to pursue all or 
elements of that model; secondly, determining the appropriate 
risk appetite of the firm across the variety of risks to which each 
business line is exposed; and finally, and most importantly, 
ensuring that the composition of the management team is best 
placed to deliver the right outcome for all stakeholders, is 
aligned in its incentives with the interests of shareholders and is 
committed to building long-term sustainable success, including 
in planning for its own succession.  
Over the last four years, as the industry emerged from the 
global financial crisis and fresh regulatory requirements were 
determined, the Board has engaged actively with management 
on all these areas. Through this governance process, the Board 
has been able to endorse the progressive redefinition and 
clarity brought to HSBC’s business model, its geographic 
representation and its risk appetite proposed by Stuart Gulliver 
and his management team. At the same time, the Board has 
been able to assess the composition and quality of the most 
senior management team; the Board continued to be impressed 
by their dedication and commitment as well as their success in 
meeting the objectives set for them by the Board. 
The Board also has a critical role in overseeing the performance 
of management, including oversight of the transformation 
agenda which is underway to simplify and control more 
effectively the management of the Group. This agenda reflects 
HSBC’s three strategic priorities: to implement Global 
Standards, grow the business and simplify and streamline 
processes. At each of its meetings and through its committees, 
the Board reviews progress made on implementation of this 
agenda, challenging management over the speed of delivery 
against agreed milestones and seeking insight into options 
considered but rejected.  
Finally, governance is also about ensuring that the lessons of 
unexpected outcomes, of mistakes and of control failings are 
both acknowledged and responded to in a timely and effective 
manner. More importantly, it imposes a responsibility to ensure 
actions are taken to ensure that repetition is remote and that 
pre-emptive controls are established to warn, so far as is 
possible, of emerging areas of concern. 
During 2014, regrettably, there were further instances of legal 
and regulatory proceedings that reinforced the need for greater 
governance oversight over conduct and financial crime risk. 
Indeed 2014 saw a sustained focus on conduct and behaviour  Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Biographies 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
264 
risks with the establishment of the Banking Standards Review 
Council, the setting up of an enquiry by the UK Chancellor into 
Fair and Effective Markets and an update statement by former 
members of the Parliamentary Commission on Banking 
Standards. 
HSBC has progressively enhanced its own governance oversight 
capabilities in these areas through the establishment in 2013 
of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee to address 
financial crime matters and, in 2014, the Conduct & Values 
Committee, demonstrating the importance we place on 
adhering to high behavioural standards and ‘doing the right 
thing’. Reports from these committees can be found on pages 
282 to 283 and 286 to 287, respectively. 
Ensuring we have a diverse balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience on the Board is a fundamental aspect of successful 
corporate governance. Since my letter of last year the Board 
was strengthened by the appointments during 2014 of Jonathan 
Symonds and Heidi Miller as non-executive Directors on 14 April 
and 1 September, respectively, and Phil Ameen as of 1 January, 
2015. These fresh appointments have added considerable 
experience in financial and governance matters and also in the 
case of Heidi Miller detailed banking expertise at the top level 
gained over more than 30 years in the industry. Biographies for 
all Directors can be found on pages 264 to 268. 
Good governance has to extend throughout the Group, not just 
at the top company level. We address this by bringing together 
annually non-executives from our major subsidiaries in an NED 
forum to discuss governance issues and share best practices. 
Additionally, the chairmen of HSBC’s principal subsidiary 
company committees with responsibility for non-executive 
oversight of financial reporting and risk-related matters meet 
each year to share issues and to reinforce consistent standards. 
As we view the year ahead, we will see finalisation of the new 
Senior Managers Regime brought in by the Financial Services 
(Banking Reform) Act 2013, which is likely to include specific 
responsibilities in respect of non-executive Directors. Also in 
this coming year, an update to the UK Corporate Governance 
Code will apply encompassing certain changes to its principles 
and provisions relating to remuneration, engagement with 
shareholders, risk management and going concern. The 
Board unreservedly supports the evolution of best practice, 
recognising that good governance is key both to sustainable 
success and to capturing the business growth opportunities 
that our distinctive business model affords us. 
Douglas Flint  
Group Chairman 
23 February 2015 
Directors 
Douglas Flint, CBE, 59 
Group Chairman 
Skills and experience: Douglas has extensive board-level 
experience and knowledge of governance, including 
experience gained through membership of the Boards 
of HSBC and BP p.l.c. He has considerable knowledge 
of finance and risk management in banking, 
multinational financial reporting, treasury and securities 
trading operations. He joined HSBC as Group Finance 
Director in 1995. 
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of Scotland and the Association of Corporate Treasurers 
and also a fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants. In 2006 he was honoured 
with a CBE in recognition of his services to the finance 
industry. 
Appointed to the Board: 1995. Group Chairman since 
2010. 
Current appointments include: Douglas is a director of 
The Hong Kong Association and Chairman of the Institute 
of International Finance. He is a member of the Mayor of 
Beijing’s International Business Leaders’ Advisory Council 
as well as the Mayor of Shanghai’s International Business 
Leaders’ Advisory Council and the International Advisory 
Board of the China Europe International Business School, 
Shanghai. He is also an independent external member 
of the UK Government’s Financial Services Trade and 
Investment Board, a British Business Ambassador and 
was appointed a director of the Peterson Institute for 
International Economics on 10 December 2014. 
Former appointments include: Douglas was formerly 
Group Finance Director, Chief Financial Officer and 
Executive Director, Risk and Regulation of HSBC and non-
executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee 
of BP p.l.c. He has chaired and been a member of highly 
influential bodies which set standards for taxation, 
governance, accounting and risk management. Douglas 
served as a partner in KPMG.  
Stuart Gulliver, 55 
Group Chief Executive 
Chairman of the Group Management Board 
Skills and experience: Stuart joined HSBC in 1980. He 
is a career banker with over 30 years’ international 
experience. He has held a number of key roles in the 
Group’s operations worldwide, including in London, 
Hong Kong, Tokyo, Kuala Lumpur and the United Arab 
Emirates. Stuart played a leading role in developing and 
expanding Global Banking and Markets. 
Appointed to the Board: 2008. Group Chief Executive 
since 2011. 
Current appointments include: Stuart is Chairman of 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited and of the Group Management Board. He is 
a member of the Monetary Authority of Singapore   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
265 
Strategic Report Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
International Advisory Panel and the International 
Advisory Council of the China Banking Regulatory 
Commission. 
Former appointments include: Stuart served as 
Chairman of Europe, Middle East and Global Businesses 
and of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, 
HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA and HSBC 
France and Deputy Chairman of HSBC Trinkaus & 
Burkhardt AG and a member of its supervisory board. He 
was Head of Global Banking and Markets; Co-Head 
of Global Banking and Markets; Head of Global Markets; 
and Head of Treasury and Capital Markets in Asia-Pacific. 
Phillip Ameen, 66 
Independent non-executive Director 
Member of the Group Audit Committee with effect from 
1 January 2015. 
Skills and experience: As a Certified Public Accountant 
with extensive financial and accounting experience, Phil 
served as Vice President, Comptroller, and Principal 
Accounting Officer of General Electric Capital Co. Prior to 
joining GE, he was a partner of KPMG. He also has a 
depth of technical knowledge from his participation in 
accounting standards setting.  
Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2015 
Current appointments include: A non-executive director 
of HSBC North America Holdings Inc., HSBC Bank USA, 
HSBC Finance Corporation and HSBC USA Inc. He is a 
non-executive director of Skyonic Corporation and R3 
Fusion, Inc. and is a member of the Advisory Board of 
the Business School, University of North Carolina. 
Former appointments include: Vice President, 
Comptroller and Principal Accounting Officer of General 
Electric Corp; a technical audit partner at Peat Marwick 
Mitchell & Co (now KPMG). He served on the 
International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee of the International Accounting Standards 
Board, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of 
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, 
the Financial Accounting Standards Board Emerging 
Issues Task Force, was Chair of the Committee on 
Corporate Reporting of Financial Executives International 
and was a Trustee of the Financial Accounting 
Foundation. 
Kathleen Casey, 48 
Independent non-executive Director 
Member of the Group Audit Committee and the Financial System 
Vulnerabilities Committee. 
Skills and experience: Kathleen has extensive financial 
regulatory policy experience. She is a former 
Commissioner of the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission, acting as the regulator’s principal 
representative in multilateral and bilateral regulatory 
dialogues, the G-20 Financial Stability Board and the 
International Organisation of Securities Commissions.  
Appointed to the Board: 1 March 2014 
Current appointments include: Kathleen is the Chairman 
of the Alternative Investment Management Association 
and a senior adviser to Patomak Global Partners. She is a 
member of the Board of Trustees of Pennsylvania State 
University, the Trust Fund Board of the Library of 
Congress and the Advisory Council of the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board. 
Former appointments include: Kathleen was a Staff 
Director and Counsel of the United States Senate 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and 
Legislative Director and Chief of Staff for a US Senator. 
Safra Catz, 53 
Independent non-executive Director 
Skills and experience: Safra has a background in 
international business leadership, having helped 
transform Oracle into the largest producer of business 
management software and the world’s leading supplier 
of software for information management. 
Appointed to the Board: 2008 
Current appointments include: Safra was appointed 
joint Chief Executive Officer of Oracle Corporation on 
18 September 2014, having previously been President 
and Chief Financial Officer. She joined Oracle in 1999 and 
was appointed to the board of directors in 2001. 
Former appointments include: Safra was Managing 
Director of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.  
Laura Cha, GBS, 65 
Independent non-executive Director 
Chairman of the Philanthropic and Community Investment 
Oversight Committee since 5 December 2014 and a member of 
the Conduct & Values Committee and the Nomination 
Committee. 
Skills and experience: Laura has extensive regulatory and 
policy making experience in the finance and securities 
sector in Hong Kong and mainland China. She is the 
former Vice Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory 
Commission, being the first person outside mainland 
China to join the Central Government of the People’s 
Republic of China at vice-ministerial rank. Laura was 
awarded Gold and Silver Bauhinia Stars by the Hong Kong 
Government for public service. 
Appointed to the Board: 2011 
Current appointments include: Laura is a non-executive 
Deputy Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation Limited and non-official member 
of the Executive Council of Hong Kong SAR. She is a 
Hong Kong Delegate to the 12th National People’s 
Congress of China and a non-executive director of China 
Telecom Corporation Limited, Unilever PLC and Unilever 
N.V. Laura is also a Senior International Adviser for 
Foundation Asset Management Sweden AB and a 
member of the State Bar of California and the China 
Banking Regulatory Commission’s International Advisory 
Council. She is Chairman of the Financial Services 
Development Council of Hong Kong SAR and Vice 
Chairman of the International Advisory Council of the  Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Biographies 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
266 
China Securities Regulatory Commission.  
Former appointments include: Laura was a non-
executive director of Bank of Communications Co., Ltd., 
Baoshan Iron and Steel Co. Limited, Johnson Electric 
Holdings Limited, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing 
Limited and Tata Consultancy Services Limited. She 
served as Chairman of the University Grants Committee 
in Hong Kong and the ICAC Advisory Committee on 
Corruption. Laura also served as Deputy Chairman of the 
Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong and was 
a member of the Advisory Board of the Yale School of 
Management. 
Lord Evans of Weardale, 57 
Independent non-executive Director 
Chairman of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and 
a member of the Conduct & Values Committee and Philanthropic 
and Community Investment Oversight Committee since 
5 December 2014. 
Skills and experience: Jonathan has extensive experience 
in national security policy and operations. Formerly 
Director General of MI5 with responsibility for 
the leadership, policy and strategy of the Security 
Service, including international and domestic counter-
terrorism, counter-espionage and counter-proliferation 
activities and cyber security. 
Appointed to the Board: 2013 
Current appointments include: Jonathan is a non-
executive director of the UK National Crime Agency and 
a Senior Adviser of Accenture plc. He is a member of the 
advisory board of Darktrace Limited and of Facewatch 
Limited. 
Former appointments include: Jonathan has held various 
positions in the UK Security Service over a 30-year career 
with responsibility for the oversight of the Joint Terrorist 
Analysis Centre and the Centre for the Protection of 
National Infrastructure and attended the National 
Security Council. 
Joachim Faber, 64 
Independent non-executive Director 
Chairman of the Group Risk Committee. 
Skills and experience: Joachim has experience in banking 
and asset management with significant international 
experience, having worked in Germany, Tokyo, New York 
and London. He is a former Chief Executive Officer 
of Allianz Global Investors AG and member of 
the management board of Allianz SE. He has 14 years’ 
experience with Citigroup Inc. holding positions in 
Trading and Project Finance and as Head of Capital 
Markets for Europe, North America and Japan.  
Appointed to the Board: 2012 
Current appointments include: Joachim is Chairman of 
the supervisory board of Deutsche Börse AG and of the 
Shareholder Committee of Joh A. Benckiser SARL. He is 
an independent director of Coty Inc. and a director 
of Allianz France S.A. Joachim is also a member of the 
advisory board of the European School for Management 
and Technology; and council member of The Hongkong – 
Europe Business Council. 
Former appointments include: Joachim served as 
Chairman of various Allianz subsidiaries. He was a 
member of the supervisory board of Bayerische B ӧrse 
AG, and of the supervisory board and Chairman of the 
audit and risk committee of OSRAM Licht AG. He was 
also a member of the German Council for Sustainable 
Development and a member of the advisory board of the 
Siemens Group Pension Board. 
Rona Fairhead, CBE, 53 
Independent non-executive Director 
Member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and 
the Nomination Committee. 
Skills and experience: Rona has a background in 
international industry, publishing, finance and general 
management. She was a former Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer of the Financial Times Group Limited 
responsible for its strategy, management and operations 
and Finance Director of Pearson plc with responsibility for 
overseeing the day-to-day running of the finance function 
and directly responsible for global financial reporting and 
control, tax and treasury. 
Appointed to the Board: 2004 
Current appointments include: Rona is Chairman of 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. She is a non-executive 
director of PepsiCo Inc. Rona is also a British Business 
Ambassador and, since 8 October 2014, Chairman of the 
BBC Trust.  
Former appointments include: Rona was an Executive 
Vice President, Strategy and Group Control of Imperial 
Chemical Industries plc and Chairman and director of 
Interactive Data Corporation. She was a member of 
the board of the UK Government’s Cabinet Office until 
1 September 2014 and a non-executive director of The 
Economist Newspaper Limited until 1 July 2014. 
Sam Laidlaw, 59 
Independent non-executive Director 
Member of the Group Remuneration Committee and the 
Nomination Committee. 
Skills and experience: Sam has international experience, 
particularly in the energy sector, having had responsibility 
for businesses in four continents. He is a qualified solicitor 
with a Master’s in Business Administration.  
Appointed to the Board: 2008 
Former appointments include: Sam was the Chief 
Executive Officer of Centrica plc and the lead non-
executive board member of the UK Department for 
Transport until 31 December 2014. Sam was also an 
Executive Vice President of Chevron Corporation, non-
executive director of Hanson PLC, Chief Executive Officer 
of Enterprise Oil plc, President and Chief Operating 
Officer of Amerada Hess Corporation, and a member 
of the UK Prime Minister’s Business Advisory Group.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
267 
Strategic Report Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
John Lipsky, 68 
Independent non-executive Director 
Member of the Group Risk Committee, the Nomination 
Committee and the Group Remuneration Committee. 
Skills and experience: John has international 
experience having worked in Chile, New York, 
Washington and London and interacted with financial 
institutions, central banks and governments in many 
countries. He served at the International Monetary Fund 
as First Deputy Managing Director, Acting Managing 
Director and as Special Adviser.  
Appointed to the Board: 2012 
Current appointments include: John is a Senior Fellow, 
Foreign Policy Institute at the Paul H. Nitze School of 
Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins 
University. He is co-chairman of the Aspen Institute 
Program on the World Economy and a director of the 
National Bureau of Economic Research and the Center 
for Global Development. John is a member of 
the advisory board of the Stanford Institute for Economic 
Policy Research and the Council on Foreign Relations. He 
is Chairman of the World Economic Forum’s Global 
Agenda Council on the International Monetary System. 
Former appointments include: John served as Vice 
Chairman of JPMorgan Investment Bank; a director of the 
American Council on Germany and the Japan Society; a 
trustee of the Economic Club of New York, and a Global 
Policy Adviser for Anderson Global Macro, LLC. 
Rachel Lomax, 69 
Independent non-executive Director 
Chairman of the Conduct & Values Committee and a member of 
the Group Audit Committee and the Group Risk Committee. 
Skills and experience: Rachel has experience in both the 
public and private sectors and a deep knowledge of the 
operation of the UK government and financial system. 
Appointed to the Board: 2008 
Current appointments include: Rachel is Chairman of the 
International Regulatory Strategy Group. She is a director 
of TheCityUK and Bruegel, a Brussels-based European 
think tank; a non-executive director of Arcus European 
Infrastructure Fund GP LLP and Heathrow Airport Holdings 
Limited. Rachel is also a member of the Council of Imperial 
College, London and President of the Institute of Fiscal 
Studies, a Trustee of the Ditchley Foundation, and a non-
executive director and chairman of the corporate 
responsibility committee of Serco Group plc.  
Former appointments include: Rachel served as Deputy 
Governor, Monetary Stability, at the Bank of England and 
member of the Monetary Policy Committee, Permanent 
Secretary at the UK Government Departments for 
Transport and Work and Pensions and the Welsh Office, 
and Vice President and Chief of Staff to the President of 
the World Bank. She was a non-executive director of 
Reinsurance Group of America Inc. and The Scottish 
American Investment Company PLC. 
Iain Mackay, 53 
Group Finance Director 
Skills and experience: Iain joined HSBC in 2007 as Chief 
Financial Officer of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 
He has extensive financial and international experience, 
having worked in London, Paris, US, Africa and Asia. Iain 
is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
Scotland.  
Appointed to the Board: 2010 
Current appointments include: Iain is a member of the 
Group Management Board and was also appointed as 
a member of the audit committee of the British Heart 
Foundation on 4 December 2014. 
Former appointments include: Iain served as a director 
of Hang Seng Bank Limited, Chief Financial Officer, Asia-
Pacific, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GE 
Global Consumer Finance and Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer of GE Healthcare – Global Diagnostic 
Imaging. 
Heidi Miller, 61 
Independent non-executive Director 
Member of the Group Risk Committee and Conduct & Values 
Committee since 1 September 2014. 
Skills and experience: Heidi has extensive international 
banking and finance experience. She is a former 
President of International at JPMorgan Chase, and 
was responsible for leading the global expansion and 
international business strategy across the investment 
bank, asset management, and treasury and securities 
services divisions.  
Appointed to the Board: 1 September 2014 
Current appointments include: Heidi is a non-executive 
director of First Data Corporation and General Mills Inc. 
She is a Trustee of the International Financial Reporting 
Standards Foundation.  
Former appointments include: Heidi served as non-
executive director of Merck & Co. Inc. and also 
Progressive Corp until 1 August 2014. She was an 
Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer, 
Treasury and Securities Services at JPMorgan Chase & 
Co.; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
of Bank One Corporation; Senior Executive Vice President 
of Priceline.com Inc.; and Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer of Citigroup Inc. 
Marc Moses, 57 
Group Chief Risk Officer 
Skills and experience: Marc joined HSBC in 2005 as Chief 
Financial and Risk Officer, Global Banking and Markets. 
He has extensive risk management and financial 
experience. Marc is a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.  
Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2014 
Current appointments include: Marc is a member of the 
Group Management Board. A director of HSBC Private  Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Biographies 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
268 
Bank (Suisse) SA and of HSBC Private Banking Holdings 
(Suisse) SA. 
Former appointments include: Marc served as Chief 
Financial and Risk Officer, Global Banking and Markets 
and a director of HSBC Insurance (Bermuda) Limited. He 
was a European chief financial officer at JP Morgan and 
audit partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
Sir Simon Robertson, 73 
Deputy Chairman and senior independent  
non-executive Director 
Chairman of the Nomination Committee and the Group 
Remuneration Committee. Member of the Financial System 
Vulnerabilities Committee. 
Skills and experience: Simon has a background in 
international corporate advisory work with a wealth 
of experience in mergers and acquisitions, merchant 
banking, investment banking and financial markets. He 
was honoured with a knighthood in recognition of his 
services to business. Simon has extensive international 
experience having worked in France, Germany, the UK 
and the US. 
Appointed to the Board: 2006. Senior Independent non-
executive Director since 2007 and Deputy Chairman since 
2010. 
Current appointments include: Simon is the founding 
member of Simon Robertson Associates LLP . He is a 
non-executive director of Berry Bros. & Rudd Limited, 
The Economist Newspaper Limited and Troy Asset 
Management. He is also a trustee of the Eden Project 
Trust and the Royal Opera House Endowment Fund. 
Former appointments include: Simon served as non-
executive Chairman of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc, 
Managing Director of Goldman Sachs International, 
Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, and non-
executive director of Royal Opera House, Covent Garden 
Limited and NewShore Partners Limited. 
Jonathan Symonds, CBE, 55 
Independent non-executive Director 
Chairman of the Group Audit Committee since 1 September 
2014. A member of the Group Remuneration Committee from 
14 April 2014 until 1 September 2014 and a member of the 
Conduct & Values Committee. 
Skills and experience: Jonathan has extensive 
international financial experience, having worked in the 
UK, US and Switzerland. He served as Chief Financial 
Officer of Novartis AG and AstraZeneca plc. Jonathan is a 
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in 
England and Wales. 
Appointed to the Board: 14 April 2014 
Current appointments include: Jonathan is Chairman of 
HSBC Bank plc and of Innocoll AG. He is a non-executive 
director of Genomics England Limited and of Proteus 
Digital Health Inc. 
Former appointments include: Jonathan was a partner 
and managing director of Goldman Sachs, and a partner 
of KPMG. He was a non-executive director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee of Diageo plc. 
Secretary 
Ben Mathews, 48 
Group Company Secretary 
Ben joined HSBC in June 2013 and became Group 
Company Secretary in July 2013. He is a Fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. 
Former appointments include: Group Company Secretary 
of Rio Tinto plc and of BG Group plc. 
Group Managing Directors 
Ann Almeida, 58 
Group Head of Human Resources and Corporate Sustainability
(due to retire 31 May 2015) 
Ann joined HSBC in 1992. A Group Managing Director 
since 2008. Former HSBC appointments include: Global 
Head of Human Resources for Global Banking and 
Markets, Global Private Banking, Global Transaction 
Banking and HSBC Amanah. 
Samir Assaf, 54 
Chief Executive, Global Banking and Markets 
Samir joined HSBC in 1994. A Group Managing Director 
since 2011. He is Chairman of the Global Financial 
Markets Association and of HSBC France, a director 
of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and of HSBC Bank plc 
since 28 March 2014. Former appointments include: 
director of HSBC Global Asset Management Limited and 
of HSBC Bank Egypt S.A.E., Head of Global Markets, and 
Head of Global Markets for Europe, Middle East and 
Africa. 
Peter Boyles, 59 
Chief Executive of Global Private Banking 
Peter joined HSBC in 1975. A Group Managing Director 
since October 2013. He is Chairman of HSBC Private Bank 
(Monaco) SA. Former appointments include: Chief 
Executive of HSBC France and Continental Europe. A 
director of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Malta p.l.c. and of 
HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG. Peter ceased to be a 
director of HSBC Global Asset Management Limited on 
29 September 2014.    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
269 
Strategic Report Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Simon Cooper, 47 
Chief Executive, Global Commercial Banking 
Simon joined HSBC in 1989. A Group Managing Director 
and Chief Executive of Global Commercial Banking since 
October 2013. He is a director of HSBC Bank plc. Former 
HSBC appointments include: Chairman of HSBC Bank 
Egypt S.A.E. and of HSBC Bank Oman; Chairman and 
Chief Executive of HSBC Bank Middle East and Chief 
Executive of HSBC Korea. Head of Corporate and 
Investment Banking of HSBC Singapore. A director of The 
Saudi British Bank and of HSBC Bank Middle East Limited. 
John Flint, 46 
Chief Executive, Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
John joined HSBC in 1989. A Group Managing Director 
since January 2013. He is a director of HSBC Private 
Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA. Former appointments 
include: a Director of HSBC Bank Canada, Chief of Staff to 
the Group Chief Executive and Group Head of Strategy 
and Planning, Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Global Asset 
Management, Group Treasurer, and Deputy Head of 
Global Markets. 
Pam Kaur, 51 
Group Head of Internal Audit 
Pam joined HSBC and became a Group Managing 
Director in April 2013. She is a co-opted member of 
The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 
& Wales. Former appointments include: Global Head 
of Group Audit for Deutsche Bank AG, Chief Financial 
Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Restructuring and 
Risk Division, Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, Group 
Head of Compliance and Anti-Money Laundering, Lloyds 
TSB, and Global Director of Compliance, Global 
Consumer Group, Citigroup. 
Alan Keir, 56 
Chief Executive, HSBC Bank plc 
Alan joined HSBC in 1981. A Group Managing Director 
since 2011. He is a director of HSBC Bank Middle East 
Limited, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and of HSBC 
France. Alan is a member of the Advisory Council of 
TheCityUK and of the Advisory Board of Bradford 
University School of Management. Former appointments 
include: Global Head, Global Commercial Banking; 
director of HSBC Bank A.S. and HSBC Bank Polska S.A. 
 
 
 
 
 
Stuart Levey, 51 
Chief Legal Officer 
Stuart joined HSBC and became a Group Managing 
Director in 2012. Former appointments include: Under 
Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence in the 
US Department of the Treasury, Senior Fellow for 
National Security and Financial Integrity at the Council on 
Foreign Relations, Principal Associate Deputy Attorney 
General at the US Department of Justice, and Partner at 
Miller, Cassidy, Larroca & Lewin LLP and Baker Botts LLP . 
Antonio Losada, 60 
Chief Executive, Latin America 
Antonio joined HSBC in 1973. A Group Managing Director 
since December 2012. He is a director of HSBC Latin 
America Holdings (UK) Limited, HSBC Bank Argentina 
S.A., HSBC Argentina Holdings S.A., HSBC Mexico, S.A., 
Institucion de Banca Multiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC, 
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. and of HSBC North 
America Holdings Inc. Former appointments include: 
Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Argentina; Chairman of 
HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A. and of HSBC Argentina 
Holdings S.A., and Deputy Head, Personal Financial 
Services, Brazil. 
Sean O’Sullivan, 59 
Group Chief Operating Officer  
(due to retire 31 March 2015) 
Sean joined HSBC in 1980. A Group Managing Director 
since 2011. Former appointments include: Group Chief 
Technology and Services Officer, director and Chief 
Operating Officer of HSBC Bank plc, and Chief Operating 
Officer of HSBC Bank Canada. 
Peter Wong, 63 
Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive, The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 
Peter joined HSBC in 2005. A Group Managing Director 
since 2010. He is Chairman of HSBC Bank (China) 
Company Limited and HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad, and a 
non-executive director of Hang Seng Bank Limited, Shek 
O Development Company Limited and Bank of 
Communications Co. Ltd. He is also an independent  
non-executive director of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited. 
Former appointments include: Vice Chairman of HSBC 
Bank (Vietnam) Ltd, director of HSBC Bank Australia 
Limited and of Ping An Insurance (Group) Company 
of China, Ltd.  
  Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board of Directors 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
270 
Board of Directors 
The Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings (the ‘Board’) 
exists to promote the long-term success of the Company 
and deliver sustainable value to our shareholders. Led 
by the Group Chairman, it sets the strategy and risk 
appetite for the Group and approves capital and 
operating plans presented by management for the 
achievement of the strategic objectives. Implementation 
of the strategy is delegated to the Group Management 
Board (‘GMB’) which, in turn, is led by the Group Chief 
Executive. 
Directors 
HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board. The authority of the 
Directors is exercised in Board meetings where the Board 
acts collectively. The Directors who served during the 
year were Kathleen Casey (appointed 1 March 2014), 
Safra Catz, Laura Cha, Marvin Cheung (retired 1 August 
2014), John Coombe (retired 23 May 2014), Lord 
Evans of Weardale, Joachim Faber, Rona Fairhead, 
Renato Fassbind (retired 1 September 2014), Douglas 
Flint, Stuart Gulliver, James Hughes-Hallett (retired 
23 May 2014), Sam Laidlaw, John Lipsky, Rachel Lomax, 
Iain Mackay, Heidi Miller (appointed 1 September 2014), 
Marc Moses (appointed 1 January 2014), Sir Simon 
Robertson and Jonathan Symonds (appointed 14 April 
2014). 
Phillip Ameen was appointed with effect from 1 January 
2015. 
At the date of approval of the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2014, the Board comprised the Group 
Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance 
Director, Group Chief Risk Officer and 13 non-executive 
Directors.  
The names and brief biographical details of the Directors 
are included on pages 264 to 268. 
Executive Directors 
The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group 
Finance Director and Group Chief Risk Officer are HSBC 
employees.  
Non-executive Directors 
Non-executive Directors are not HSBC employees and 
do not participate in the daily management of HSBC; 
they bring an independent perspective, constructively 
challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, 
scrutinise the performance of management in meeting 
agreed goals and objectives and monitor the Group’s risk 
profile and the reporting of performance. The non-
executive Directors bring a wide variety of experience 
from the public and private sectors, including the 
leadership of large complex multinational enterprises. 
Non-executive Directors’ terms of appointment 
The Board has determined the minimum time 
commitment expected of non-executive Directors to be 
about 30 days per annum. Time devoted to the Company 
could be considerably more, particularly if serving on 
Board committees.  
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial 
three-year term and, subject to re-election by 
shareholders at annual general meetings, are typically 
expected to serve two three-year terms. The Board may 
invite a director to serve additional periods. All Directors 
are subject to annual election by shareholders. 
Letters setting out the terms of appointment of each of 
the non-executive Directors are available for inspection 
at the Company’s registered office. 
Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive 
The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive 
are separate, with a clear division of responsibilities 
between the running of the Board and the executive 
responsibility for running HSBC’s business. Descriptions 
of the roles and responsibilities of the Group Chairman 
and the Group Chief Executive are available at 
www.hsbc.com/investor-relations/governance/board-
committees. Their key responsibilities are set out below. 
Key responsibilities 
Group Chairman – Douglas Flint 
• Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness. 
• Develops relationships with governments, regulators and 
investors. 
• Leads the Group’s interactions on matters of public policy and 
regulatory reform with regard to the banking and financial 
services industry. 
• Maintains corporate reputation and character. 
• Undertakes performance management of the Group Chief 
Executive. 
Group Chief Executive – Stuart Gulliver 
• Develops, and delivers performance against, business plans. 
• Develops Group strategy, in agreement with the Group 
Chairman, for recommendation to the Board. 
• As Chairman of the GMB, drives performance within strategic 
goals and commercial objectives agreed by the Board. 
 
Deputy Chairman and senior independent 
non-executive Director 
A description of the roles and responsibilities of 
the Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-
executive Director, which has been approved by 
the Board, is available at www.hsbc.com/investor-
relations/governance/board-committees. His key 
responsibilities are set out below.  
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
271 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Key responsibilities 
Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive 
Director – Sir Simon Robertson 
• Deputises for the Group Chairman at meetings of the Board 
or shareholders and supports the Group Chairman in his role. 
• Acts as an intermediary for other non-executive Directors when 
necessary. 
• Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the Group 
Chairman. 
• Ensures there is a clear division of responsibility between the 
Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive. 
Appointment, retirement and re-election of 
Directors 
The Board may at any time appoint any person who is 
willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an 
addition to the existing Board, but the total number of 
Directors shall not be less than five or exceed 25. Any 
Director so appointed by the Board shall retire at the 
Annual General Meeting following his or her appointment 
and shall be eligible for election but would not be taken 
into account in determining the number of Directors who 
are to retire by rotation at such meeting in accordance 
with the Articles of Association. The Board may appoint 
any Director to hold any employment or executive office 
and may revoke or terminate any such appointment. 
Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, appoint a 
person a Director or remove any Director before the 
expiration of his or her period of office. On the 
recommendation of the Nomination Committee and in 
compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 
Board has decided that all of the Directors should 
be subject to annual re-election by shareholders. 
Accordingly, all of the Directors will retire at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting and offer 
themselves for election or re-election.  
Powers of the Board 
The Board is responsible for overseeing the management 
of HSBC globally and, in so doing, may exercise its 
powers, subject to any relevant laws and regulations 
and to the Articles. The Board has adopted terms of 
reference which are available at www.hsbc.com/1/2/ 
about/board-of-directors. The Board reviews its terms 
of reference annually. 
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of 
the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or 
charge all or any part of the undertaking, property or 
assets (present or future) of HSBC Holdings and may 
also exercise any of the powers conferred on it by the 
Companies Act 2006 and/or by shareholders. The Board 
is able to delegate and confer on any executive Director 
any of its powers, authorities and discretions (including 
the power to sub-delegate) for such time and on such 
terms as it thinks fits. In addition, the Board may 
establish any local or divisional boards or agencies for 
managing the business of HSBC Holdings in any specified 
locality and delegate and confer on any local or divisional 
board, manager or agent so appointed any of its powers, 
authorities and discretions (including the power to sub-
delegate) for such time and on such terms as it thinks fit. 
The Board may also, by power of attorney or otherwise, 
appoint any person or persons to be the agent of HSBC 
Holdings and may delegate to any such person or 
persons any of its powers, authorities and discretions 
(including the power to sub-delegate) for such time and 
on such terms as it thinks fit. 
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of 
HSBC Holdings to the GMB but reserves to itself approval 
of certain matters including operating plans, risk appetite 
and performance targets, procedures for monitoring 
and controlling operations, credit, market risk limits, 
acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital expenditure 
or realisation or creation of a new venture, specified 
senior appointments and any substantial change in 
balance sheet management policy. 
HSBC Holdings was registered in Hong Kong under part XI 
of the Companies Ordinance on 17 January 1991. 
Board meetings 
Eight Board meetings and two one-day strategy meetings 
were held in 2014. At least one Board meeting each year 
is held in a key strategic location outside the UK. During 
2014, Board meetings were held in Hong Kong and 
Beijing. 
The table below shows each Director’s attendance at 
meetings of the Board during 2014. 
During 2014, the non-executive Directors and the Group 
Chairman met once without the other executive 
Directors. The non-executive Directors also met four 
times without the Group Chairman, including to appraise 
the Group Chairman’s performance. 
   Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board of Directors 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
272 
2014 Board attendance record  
 
 
Meetings 
attended 
 
Meetings
eligible to
attend as
a Director 
Kathleen Casey
1,8
  5  5
Safra Catz   8  8
Laura Cha   8  8
Marvin Cheung
2
   4  5
John Coombe
3
   4  4
Lord Evans of Weardale
8
  7  7
Joachim Faber   8  8
Rona Fairhead
8
   7  7
Renato Fassbind
4
  7  7
Douglas Flint  8  8
Stuart Gulliver  8  8
James Hughes-Hallett
3
   4  4
Sam Laidlaw  8  8
John Lipsky
8
  7  7
Rachel Lomax   8  8
Iain Mackay   8  8
Heidi Miller
5,8
  2  2
Marc Moses
6
  8  8
Sir Simon Robertson   8  8
Jonathan Symonds
7
  6  6
Meetings held in 2014
8
     8
1 Appointed a Director on 1 March 2014. 
2 Retired as a Director on 1 August 2014. 
3 Retired as a Director on 23 May 2014. 
4 Retired as a Director on 1 September 2014. 
5 Appointed a Director on 1 September 2014. 
6 Appointed a Director on 1 January 2014. 
7 Appointed a Director on 14 April 2014. 
8 A meeting was called at short notice. Those Directors not able to 
attend were briefed prior to the meeting. 
Board balance and independence of Directors 
The Board comprises a majority of independent non-
executive Directors. The size of the Board is considered 
to be appropriate given the complexity and geographical 
spread of our business and the significant time demands 
placed on the Directors. 
The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the 
structure, size and composition of the Board (including 
skills, knowledge, experience, independence and 
diversity) and makes recommendations to the Board 
with regard to any changes. 
The Board has adopted a policy on Board diversity which 
is consistent with the Group’s strategic focus on ethnicity, 
age and gender diversity for the employee base. Further 
information on the Board diversity policy can be found 
on page 285. 
The Board considers all of the non-executive Directors to 
be independent. When determining independence the 
Board considers that calculation of the length of service 
of a non-executive Director begins on the date of his or 
her election by shareholders following their appointment 
as a Director of HSBC Holdings. Rona Fairhead has served 
on the Board for more than nine years and, in that 
respect only, does not meet the usual criteria for 
independence set out in the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. The Board has determined Rona Fairhead 
to be independent in character and judgement, 
notwithstanding her length of service, taking into 
account her continuing level of constructive challenge 
of management and strong contribution to Board 
discussions. Rona Fairhead will stand for re-election at 
the 2015 Annual General Meeting. It is our view that the 
experience of current and previous service on an HSBC 
subsidiary company board can be a considerable benefit 
but that such service does not detract from a non-
executive Director’s independence. The Board has 
concluded that there are no relationships or 
circumstances which are likely to affect a non-executive 
Director’s judgement and any relationships 
or circumstances which could appear to do so are not 
considered to be material.  
In accordance with the Rules Governing the Listing of 
Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, 
each non-executive Director determined by the Board to 
be independent has provided an annual confirmation of 
his or her independence. 
Information and support  
The Board regularly reviews reports on performance 
against financial and other strategic objectives, business 
developments and investor and external relations. The 
chairmen of Board committees and the Group Chief 
Executive report to each meeting of the Board on the 
activities of the committees since the previous Board 
meeting. The Board receives regular reports and 
presentations on strategy and developments in the 
global businesses and principal geographical areas. 
Regular reports are also provided on the Group’s risk 
appetite, top and emerging risks, risk management, 
credit exposures and the Group’s loan portfolio, asset 
and liability management, liquidity, litigation, financial 
and regulatory compliance and reputational issues.  
The Directors have free and open contact with 
management at all levels. When attending Board 
offsite meetings and when travelling for other reasons, 
non-executive Directors are encouraged to take 
opportunities to see local business operations at first 
hand and to meet local management. 
Role of the Group Company Secretary 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of 
the Group Company Secretary, who is responsible to 
the Board for ensuring that Board procedures and all 
applicable rules and regulations are complied with.  
Under the direction of the Group Chairman, the Group 
Company Secretary’s responsibilities include ensuring 
good information flows within the Board and its 
committees and between senior management and non-
executive Directors, as well as facilitating induction and 
assisting with professional development as required. 
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for advising 
the Board through the Group Chairman on corporate 
governance matters. 
The agenda and supporting papers are distributed in 
advance of all Board and Board committee meetings to 
allow time for appropriate review and to facilitate full 
discussion at the meetings. All Directors have full and   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
273 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
timely access to all relevant information and may take 
independent professional advice if necessary at HSBC 
Holdings’ expense. 
Induction 
Formal, tailored induction programmes are arranged for 
newly appointed Directors. The programmes are based 
on an individual Director’s needs and vary according 
to the skills and experience of each Director. Typical 
induction programmes consist of a series of meetings 
with other Directors and senior executives to enable new 
Directors to familiarise themselves with the business. 
Directors also receive comprehensive guidance from 
the Group Company Secretary on directors’ duties and 
liabilities. 
Training and development 
We provide training and development for Directors with 
sessions often arranged in conjunction with scheduled 
Board meetings. Executive Directors develop and 
refresh their skills and knowledge through day-to-day 
interactions and briefings with senior management of 
the Group’s businesses and functions. Non-executive 
Directors have access to internal training and 
development resources and personalised training is 
provided where necessary. All newly appointed Directors 
attended a tailored induction programme. The Chairman 
regularly reviews the training and development of each 
Director. 
During the year, Directors received training on the 
following topics: 
• The Dodd-Frank Act; 
• UK Financial Services (Banking Reform) Act 2014 
including Senior Managers Regime; and  
• the changing financial and regulatory reporting 
landscape.  
The table below shows a summary of training and 
development undertaken by each Director during 2014. 
 
Training and development 
 Training areas 
 
 Regulatory
 updates 
 Corporate
 Governance 
Financial  
 industry   
 developments 
 Briefings on 
Board committee 
 related topics 
Executive Directors  
Douglas Flint  
Stuart Gulliver  
Iain Mackay   
Marc Moses  
Non-executive Directors  
Kathleen Casey  
Safra Catz    
Laura Cha   
Lord Evans of Weardale    
Joachim Faber   
Rona Fairhead    
Sam Laidlaw  
John Lipsky  
Rachel Lomax    
Heidi Miller  
Sir Simon Robertson  
Jonathan Symonds  
 
Board performance evaluation 
The Board is committed to regular evaluation of its own 
effectiveness and that of its committees. In 2012 and 
2013, the review of the effectiveness of the Board and 
its committees was undertaken by Bvalco Ltd
1
, an 
independent third-party firm. The 2013 review process 
mirrored that of 2012 with Bvalco conducting in-depth 
interviews with the members of the Board and a number 
of other senior executives. The findings of the 2013 
review were presented to the Board, an action plan 
developed and progress against these actions reported 
to the Board during 2014. The 2013 review concluded 
that the Board continues to operate effectively and is 
well positioned to address the challenges faced by the 
Group. Themes emerging from the 2013 review and the 
actions taken included:  
 
1 A legal firm which is engaged from time to time by the Company 
to provide legal services holds a 20% shareholding in Bvalco Ltd. 
Bvalco Ltd has confirmed that it does not have any other 
connection with the Company.  Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board of Directors 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
274 
2013 Review of Board effectiveness 
Theme  Action taken
Ensuring an appropriate balance between regulatory, business and 
strategic issues at Board meetings. 
Key issues have been further prioritised.
More time has been provided for the debate of these issues at Board 
meetings.  
Providing further opportunities for the executive and non-executive 
Directors to meet outside of the formal setting of the boardroom. 
Informal executive and non-executive Directors’ events have been planned 
around Board meetings providing additional forums for discussion.  
Non-executive Directors have been invited to a number of events attended 
by executive Directors.  
Arrangements made for non-executive Directors to meet senior members 
of local management teams in HSBC local offices when travelling. 
Ensuring increased time and opportunity for non-executive Director 
meetings.  
Non-executive Director-only sessions are scheduled around Board 
meetings.  
A number of informal non-executive Director events were organised 
throughout the year.   
Maintaining focus on succession planning. Succession planning remains a key area of focus with formal governance 
processes in place.  
Those named in succession plans are scheduled to present to Board 
meetings.  
 
A third and final review was facilitated by Bvalco during 
the year, providing continuity and allowing for progress 
against prior year themes to be evaluated.  
Director performance evaluation 
Evaluation of the individual performance of each non-
executive Director is undertaken annually by the Group 
Chairman. During this evaluation, the Group Chairman 
discusses the individual contribution of the Director, 
explores training and development needs, seeks input 
on areas where the Director feels he or she could make 
a greater contribution and discusses whether the time 
commitment required of the Director can continue to 
be delivered. Based upon their individual evaluation, 
the Group Chairman has confirmed that all of the non-
executive Directors continue to perform effectively, 
contribute positively to the governance of HSBC and 
demonstrate full commitment to their roles.  
Evaluation of the individual performance of each 
executive Director is undertaken as part of the 
performance management process for all employees, 
the results of which are considered by the Group 
Remuneration Committee when determining variable 
pay awards each year. 
The non-executive Directors, led by the Deputy Chairman 
and senior independent non-executive Director, are 
responsible for the evaluation of the performance of 
the Group Chairman. 
The Board monitors the implementation of actions 
arising from each performance evaluation. 
It is the intention of the Board to continue to undertake 
an evaluation of its performance and that of its 
committees and individual Directors annually, with 
independent external input to the process, as 
appropriate, at least every third year.  
Relations with shareholders 
All Directors are encouraged to develop an 
understanding of the views of major shareholders. 
Non-executive Directors are invited to attend analyst 
presentations and other meetings with institutional 
investors and their representative bodies. Directors 
also meet representatives of institutional shareholders 
annually to discuss corporate governance matters.  
All executive Directors and certain other senior 
executives hold regular meetings with institutional 
investors. The Board receives a regular investor relations 
activity report which provides feedback from meetings 
with institutional shareholders and brokers, analysts’ 
forecasts, information from research reports and share 
price performance data. The Board also receives regular 
reports from one of our corporate brokers.  
The Group’s shareholder communication policy is 
available on www.hsbc.com/governance.  
On several occasions during 2014, non-executive 
Directors, including the Deputy Chairman and senior 
independent non-executive Director, met or 
corresponded with institutional investors and their 
representatives to discuss corporate governance topics 
and executive remuneration. 
As Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-
executive Director, Sir Simon Robertson is available 
to shareholders should they have concerns which contact 
through the normal channels of Group Chairman, Group 
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Chief Risk 
Officer, or other executives cannot resolve or for which 
such contact would be inappropriate. He may be 
contacted through the Group Company Secretary at 
8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.  
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
275 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Conflicts of interest, indemnification of Directors 
and contracts of significance 
The Board has adopted a policy and procedures relating 
to Directors’ conflicts and potential conflicts of interest 
and can determine the terms of authorisation for such 
situations. The Board’s powers to authorise conflicts 
are operating effectively and the procedures are being 
followed. A review of situational conflicts which have 
been authorised from time-to-time and the terms of 
those authorisations are undertaken by the Board 
annually. 
The Articles of Association provide that Directors are 
entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of HSBC 
Holdings against claims from third parties in respect of 
certain liabilities. Such provisions have been in place 
during the financial year but have not been utilised by 
the Directors. All Directors have the benefit of directors’ 
and officers’ liability insurance.  
None of the Directors had, during the year or at the end 
of the year, a material interest, directly or indirectly, in 
any contract of significance with any HSBC company. 
Corporate governance codes 
HSBC is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance. During 2014, HSBC has complied with the 
applicable code provisions of: (i) The UK Corporate 
Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council in September 2012; and (ii) the Hong Kong 
Corporate Governance Code set out in Appendix 14 to 
the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock 
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, save that the Group Risk 
Committee is responsible for the oversight of internal 
control (other than internal control over financial 
reporting) and risk management systems (Hong Kong 
Corporate Governance Code provision C.3.3 paragraphs 
(f), (g) and (h)). If there were no Group Risk Committee, 
these matters would be the responsibility of the Group 
Audit Committee. The UK Corporate Governance Code is 
available at www.frc.org.uk and the Hong Kong 
Corporate Governance Code is available at 
www.hkex.com.hk. 
The Board has adopted a code of conduct for transactions 
in HSBC Group securities by Directors. The code of 
conduct complies with The Model Code in the Listing 
Rules of the FCA and with The Model Code for Securities 
Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers (‘Hong Kong 
Model Code’) in the Rules Governing the Listing of 
Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, 
save that The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited has 
granted certain waivers from strict compliance with the 
Hong Kong Model Code. The waivers granted by The 
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited primarily take 
into account accepted practices in the UK, particularly 
in respect of employee share plans. Following specific 
enquiry, each Director has confirmed that he or she has 
complied with the code of conduct for transactions in 
HSBC Group securities throughout the year. 
All Directors are routinely reminded of their obligations 
under the code of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group 
securities. 
  Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
276 
Board committees 
 
1 Established on 17 January 2014. 
2 Established on 5 December 2014. 
The Board has established a number of committees 
consisting of Directors, Group Managing Directors 
and, in the case of the Financial System Vulnerabilities 
Committee, co-opted non-director members. The 
key roles of the Board committees are described above. 
The Chairman of each non-executive Board committee 
reports to each meeting of the Board on the activities 
of the committee since the previous Board meeting. 
Group Management Board 
Role and members 
The GMB exercises all of the powers, authorities and 
discretions of the Board of Directors in so far as they 
concern the management and day-to-day running of the 
Company and its subsidiaries. 
Members Stuart Gulliver (Chairman), Iain Mackay and 
Marc Moses who are executive Directors, 
and Ann Almeida, Samir Assaf, Peter Boyles, 
Simon Cooper, John Flint, Pam Kaur (non-
voting), Alan Keir, Stuart Levey, Antonio Losada, 
Sean O’Sullivan and Peter Wong, all of whom 
are Group Managing Directors. 
The Group Chief Executive chairs the GMB. The head of 
each global business and global function and the chief 
executive of each region attend GMB meetings, either as 
members or by invitation. 
The GMB is a key element of our management reporting 
and control structure such that all of our line operations 
are accountable either to a member of the GMB or 
directly to the Group Chief Executive, who in turn reports 
to the Group Chairman. The Board has set objectives and 
measures for the GMB. These align senior executives’ 
objectives and measures with the strategy and operating 
plans throughout HSBC. 
The Chairman of the GMB reports to each meeting of the 
Board on the activities of the GMB. 
The Group Chief Risk Officer chairs regular Risk 
Management Meetings of the GMB. The Risk 
Management Meetings provide strategic direction and 
oversight of enterprise-wide management of all risks 
and establish, maintain and periodically review the policy 
and guidelines for the management of risk within the 
Group. The Risk Management Meeting also reviews the 
development and implementation of Global Standards 
reflecting best practices which must be adopted and 
adhered to consistently throughout the Group. The Head 
of Group Financial Crime Compliance and Group Money 
Laundering Reporting Officer attends this section of the 
Risk Management Meeting. 
HSBC Holdings plc
Board of Directors
Group Risk
Committee
Non-executive responsibility 
for oversight of, and advice 
to the Board on, high level 
risk-related matters 
and risk governance.
Group Audit
Committee
Non-executive responsibility
for oversight of, and advice
to the Board on, matters 
relating to financial 
reporting and of internal 
controls over financial 
reporting.
Group Remuneration
Committee
Non-executive responsibility 
for setting the overarching 
principles, parameters and 
governance framework 
of the Group’s
remuneration policy 
and the remuneration 
of senior executives.
Nomination
Committee
Non-executive responsibility 
for leading the process for 
Board appointments and for
identifying and nominating,
for approval by the Board, 
candidates for appointment 
to the Board.
Executive management 
committee which
is responsible for 
management and
day-to-day running of
HSBC under the direct 
authority of the Board.
Group Management
Board
Financial System
Vulnerabilities 
Committee
Non-executive responsibility 
for oversight of (i) controls 
and procedures to identify 
areas where HSBC and the 
financial system more 
broadly may become 
exposed to financial crime
or system abuse, and
(ii) HSBC policies and 
procedures sufficient to 
ensure the continuing 
obligations to regulatory
and law enforcement 
agencies are met.
Conduct & Values
Committee
1
Non-executive responsibility 
for oversight of, and advice 
to the Board on, HSBC 
policies, procedures
and standards to ensure 
that the Group conducts 
business responsibly and 
consistently adheres to
HSBC Values.
Philanthropic and
Community Investment 
Oversight Committee
2
Non-executive responsibility 
for the oversight of HSBC’s 
philanthropic and 
community investment 
activities in support
of the Group’s corporate 
sustainability objectives.
Chairman’s
Committee
Acts on behalf of the Board 
between scheduled Board 
meetings to facilitate ad hoc 
unforeseen business 
requiring urgent Board 
approval.  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
277 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Group Audit Committee 
Chairman’s Statement 
The GAC has non-executive responsibility for oversight of and 
provision to the Board of advice on matters relating to financial 
reporting and internal controls over financial reporting. This 
report sets out the activities of the GAC that underpin this work 
and issues faced by the committee during the year. 
Key areas of GAC activity during the year include: overseeing 
the external auditor transition from KPMG Audit Plc (‘KPMG’) to 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (‘PwC’); considering provisioning 
for conduct-related legal and regulatory issues; and integrating 
the approach to financial reporting and internal controls to 
ensure consistency across committees of the Board.  
In 2015, an area of focus for the GAC will be to monitor the 
implementation of recovery and resolution plans, which are 
designed to ensure that the effects of a banking failure are 
mitigated, thus avoiding severe systemic disruption, while 
protecting the economic functions provided by the relevant 
banking entity. The GAC will also monitor the financial control 
and reporting implications of ring-fencing the retail banking 
operations in the UK and the establishment of operating 
companies globally. A further area of focus in 2015 will be the 
implementation of revised International Financial Reporting 
Standard 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ concerning the classification 
and measurement of financial instruments (‘IFRS 9’). This is of 
particular significance given the potential impact IFRS 9 will 
have on how we classify and measure financial assets. 
Kathleen Casey joined the GAC in March 2014 and Phillip 
Ameen joined the GAC on 1 January 2015, bringing with them 
extensive experience in US financial regulatory policy and 
accounting standards setting and reporting, respectively. 
Further details are provided in Kathleen’s and Phillip’s 
biographies on page 265. 
Finally, I would like to thank Renato Fassbind, whom I 
succeeded as Chairman of the GAC, John Coombe and the late 
Marvin Cheung, all of whom stepped down from the GAC 
during the year, for their respective contributions to the work 
of the committee. 
Jonathan Symonds 
Chairman, Group Audit Committee 
23 February 2015 
Role and membership 
The key areas of responsibility for the GAC include: 
• monitoring the integrity of financial statements; 
• overseeing the internal controls systems over 
financial reporting; 
• monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the 
Internal Audit function; 
• reviewing the Company’s financial and accounting 
policies and practices; and 
• oversight and remuneration of the external auditor 
and advising the Board on the appointment of the 
external auditor. 
 
 Meetings 
 attended 
 Meetings
 eligible 
 to attend 
Members
1
 
Jonathan Symonds (Chairman)
2,7
2  2
John Coombe
3
4  4
Renato Fassbind
4
5  5
Kathleen Casey
5,7
4  4
Marvin Cheung
6
4  5
Rachel Lomax
7
7  7
Meetings held in 2014  7
1 All members are independent non-executive Directors. 
2 Appointed as a member and Chairman on 1 September 2014. 
3 Retired as Chairman and member on 23 May 2014. 
4 Appointed Chairman on 23 May 2014 and retired as a member 
and Chairman on 1 September 2014. 
5 Appointed as a member on 1 March 2014. 
6 Retired as a member on 1 August 2014. 
7 The Board has determined member to be independent according 
to SEC criteria and may be regarded as audit committee financial 
experts for the purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
and have recent and relevant financial experience for the 
purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Governance 
The table below sets out the governance structure 
for the Board Committees whose duties relate to the 
integrity of HSBC’s reporting to shareholders and 
other investors. Each major operating subsidiary has 
established a board committee with non-executive 
responsibility for oversight of matters relating to 
financial reporting. 
A forum for the chairmen of our principal subsidiary 
company committees with non-executive oversight 
responsibility for financial reporting and risk-related 
matters was held in June 2014 to share views and to 
facilitate a consistent approach to the way in which 
these subsidiary company committees operate. The next 
forum is scheduled to be held in June 2015.  Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
278 
 
Governance structure for the oversight of financial reporting 
Authority Membership Responsibilities include: 
Board  Executive and non-executive 
Directors  
 • Financial reporting 
• Appointing senior financial officers 
Disclosure 
Committee 
 Representatives from global 
businesses, functions and 
certain Group companies 
 • Reviewing the Group’s material communications with investors 
• Assisting the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to discharge their 
obligations relating to financial reporting under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
• Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of controls and procedures established 
to ensure that information is disclosed appropriately and on a timely basis 
• Reporting findings and making recommendations to the Group Chief Executive, 
Group Finance Director and the GAC 
Subsidiary board 
committees 
responsible for 
oversight of 
financial reporting 
and global business 
audit committees  
 Independent non-executive 
directors and/or HSBC Group 
employees with no line of 
functional responsibility for 
the activities of relevant 
subsidiary or global business, 
as appropriate 
 • Providing reports to the GAC on financial statements and internal controls over 
financial reporting of relevant subsidiaries or businesses, as requested 
 
How the Committee discharged its 
responsibilities 
Throughout the year, the GAC received regular reports 
on a number of matters including internal audit findings 
and follow-up work, accounting issues and judgements, 
and legal and regulatory matters. The GAC received 
presentations from a number of members of the senior 
management including the Group Finance Director, 
Group Chief Accounting Officer and Group Head of 
Internal Audit. The Chairman of the GAC also had 
meetings with a number of these individuals separately, 
providing an additional forum to discuss specific issues. 
During the year, the GAC held meetings with the Group 
Head of Internal Audit and with the external auditors in 
the absence of management. 
In discharging its responsibilities the GAC undertakes the 
following principal activities: 
• oversight and challenge of the effectiveness of 
internal control processes that form the internal 
control framework for financial reporting and also of 
those internal controls processes that relate to the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Group Head of Internal Audit 
and the external auditor regularly report to the GAC 
without management present. During the year, 
the GAC confirmed that the Finance function was 
adequately resourced and that qualifications and 
experience of staff in that function were appropriate. 
Further details on internal control can be found on 
pages 288 to 290; 
• the adoption for full implementation in 2015 of the 
revised Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of 
the Treadway Commission (‘COSO’) framework, an 
integrated internal control framework to meet our 
internal controls obligations under the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act and also under the UK and Hong Kong 
corporate governance codes; 
• review of HSBC’s financial and accounting policies and 
their application to the reporting of the Group’s 
activities and financial performance. Further details of 
this area of the GAC’s work are provided in the 
‘Principal activities and significant issues considered’ 
table on page 279;  
• monitoring of the legal and regulatory environment; 
the GAC received regular reports on litigation and 
on the application of changes in law, regulation, 
accounting policies and practices including reports 
on developments in programmes to implement IFRSs, 
Basel III/CRD IV and the recommendations of the 
Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards, 
particularly as they relate to accounting policies and 
financial reporting; 
• review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit 
function. The GAC’s effectiveness review 
encompassed the scope of the Internal Audit 
function’s work and the adequacy of the skills of the 
internal audit team. The GAC found the Internal Audit 
function remained effective and this conclusion was 
supported by the findings of a quality assurance 
review of the Internal Audit function undertaken by 
PwC. During the year, the GAC terms of reference and 
the audit charter of internal audit were updated to 
clarify the GAC’s responsibility for the oversight of the 
governance of the Internal Audit function and the 
reporting line of the Group Head of Internal Audit to 
the Chairman of the GAC. The Audit Charter is 
available on the HSBC website at www.hsbc.com/ 
investor-relations/governance/internal-control. 
• an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the 
external auditor which includes assessments by 
the Group’s chief financial officers of its major 
geographical regions. The GAC also considered the 
level of scrutiny applied during the audit and the 
interaction of the auditor with senior management. 
Following this review the GAC was satisfied that 
KPMG continued to perform effectively as external 
auditor; and 
• an annual review of the independence of the external 
auditor. All services provided by KPMG during the 
2014 were pre-approved by the GAC and were 
entered into under the pre-approval policies 
established by the GAC. The pre-approved services   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
279 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
relate to regulatory reviews, agreed-upon procedures 
reports, other types of attestation reports, the 
provision of advice and other non-audit services 
allowed under the SEC independence rules. The 
services fall into the categories of audit services, 
audit-related services, tax services and other services. 
Following its review, the GAC confirmed that it 
considered KPMG to be independent and KPMG, in 
accordance with industry standards, has provided the 
GAC with written confirmation of its independence for 
the duration of the financial year ended 31 December 
2014. The GAC approved the remuneration and terms 
of engagement and recommended to the Board the 
re-appointment of KPMG for the financial year ended 
31 December 2014. 
The GAC’s oversight of the audit tender process in 2013 
resulted in the GAC’s recommendation to the Board 
that PwC be appointed as the Group’s auditor for the 
financial year beginning on 1 January 2015. The GAC has 
recommended to the Board that PwC be appointed at 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. PwC provided 
written confirmation of its independence from HSBC 
prior to its appointment. During 2014, regular meetings 
were held with PwC’s audit engagement team to assist 
in developing the 2015 external audit plan. 
The Board has approved, on the recommendation of the 
GAC, a policy for the employment by HSBC of former 
employees of KPMG and PwC. The GAC receives an 
annual report on such former employees who are 
employed and the number in senior positions. This 
report enables the GAC to consider whether there has 
been any impairment, or appearance of impairment, of 
the external auditor’s judgement, objectivity or 
independence in respect of the audit. An analysis of the 
remuneration paid in respect of audit and non-audit 
services provided by KPMG for each of the past three 
years is disclosed in Note 7 on the Financial Statements. 
In addition to addressing the matters noted above, 
the GAC considered the significant accounting 
issues described below. The GAC considered the 
appropriateness of management’s judgements and 
estimates, where appropriate discussing these with 
KPMG, the external auditors, and reviewing the matters 
referred to in the external auditor’s report as risks of 
material mis-statement. 
The GAC undertakes an annual review of its own terms 
of reference and effectiveness. The terms of reference 
can be found on our website at www.hsbc.com/ 
investor-relations/governance/ board-committees. 
Principal activities and significant issues considered include: 
Key area Action taken 
Appropriateness of 
provisioning for legal 
proceedings and 
regulatory matters 
The GAC received reports from management on the recognition and amounts of provisions, the existence of 
contingent liabilities, and the disclosures relating to provisions and contingent liabilities, for legal proceedings 
and regulatory matters. Specific areas addressed included the legal action brought by the US Federal Housing 
Finance Agency in respect of mortgage-backed securities offerings, and provisioning arising from 
investigations conducted by the UK Financial Conduct Authority and US regulators and law enforcement 
agencies relating to trading activities in the foreign exchange market. In 2015, the GAC considered reports and 
disclosures concerning potential liabilities in connection with investigations of HSBC’s Swiss Private Bank by a 
number of tax administration, regulatory and law enforcement authorities. 
Loan impairment, 
allowances and charges 
The GAC reviewed loan impairment allowances for personal and wholesale lending. Significant judgements 
and estimates reviewed included a review of loss emergence periods across our wholesale loan portfolios, 
consideration of the effect of falling oil prices on potential wholesale loan impairments, notable individual 
cases of impairment in wholesale lending and the adequacy of collective impairment allowances on personal 
lending portfolios. 
UK customer remediation The GAC considered the provisions for redress for mis-selling of payment protection insurance policies, 
provisions for mis-selling of interest rate hedging products, and liabilities in respect of breaches of the UK 
Consumer Credit Act. 
Valuation of financial 
instruments 
The GAC reviewed developments in market practice regarding accounting for funding costs in the valuation of 
uncollateralised derivatives. In line with evolving market practice, in the fourth quarter of 2014 we adopted 
an FFVA to account for the impact of incorporating the cost of funding into the valuation of uncollateralised 
derivatives. 
Bank of Communications 
Co., Limited (‘BoCom’) 
impairment testing 
During the year the GAC considered the regular impairment reviews of HSBC’s investment in BoCom and 
management’s conclusions that the investment is not impaired. When testing investments in associates for 
impairment, IFRS requires the carrying amount to be compared with the higher of fair value and value in use. 
The GAC reviewed a number of aspects of management’s work in this area including the sensitivity of the 
result of the impairment review to estimates and assumptions of projected future cash flows and the 
discount rate.  
Goodwill impairment 
testing 
No impairment was identified as a result of the annual goodwill impairment test, and the review for indicators 
of impairment as at 31 December 2014 identified no indicators of impairment. The result for GPB Europe is 
sensitive to key assumptions and is subject to enhanced disclosure.  
Recognition of deferred 
tax assets 
In considering the recoverability of the Group’s deferred tax assets, the GAC reviewed the recognition of 
deferred tax assets in the USA, Brazil and Mexico, and the associated projections of future taxable income. 
Non-GAAP financial 
measures 
The GAC considered the change in the non-GAAP financial measures presented from ‘underlying 
performance’ to an ‘adjusted performance’ measure in the 2014 ARA. 
  Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
280 
Group Risk Committee 
Chairman’s Statement 
The Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) oversees and advises the 
Board on high level risk-related matters and internal control, 
other than internal financial controls, which are overseen by 
the Group Audit Committee. The GRC is responsible for 
ensuring that Group risk profile and underlying business activity 
is in line with risk appetite as approved by the Board. 
The tone from the top of the Group, which is set by senior 
management, is critical to effective risk management. During 
the year the GRC continued to focus on steps taken to 
communicate and reinforce the Group’s commitment to ‘doing 
the right thing’. This focus is reflected in the advice the GRC 
provides to the Group Remuneration Committee in connection 
with executive pay.  
The implications of an evolving legal and regulatory framework 
for financial institutions present an ongoing challenge. The 
2014 PRA and EBA stress testing programmes were a particular 
area of focus for the GRC during the year. The nature and pace 
of legal and regulatory change in 2014 has also led to increased 
scrutiny by the GRC of the Group’s risk appetite profile and 
management actions to mitigate legal and regulatory risks and 
exposures.  
Geopolitical risk has remained an ongoing theme for the GRC, 
and during the year, the GRC held a joint meeting with the 
Group Audit Committee to consider key risks in China and the 
Asia Pacific region. It is expected that geopolitical risk will also 
be a theme for the GRC throughout 2015. 
Heidi Miller joined the GRC in September 2014 and brings with 
her significant global financial services experience. Heidi has 
held a range of senior financial services sector appointments, 
most recently as President of JPMorgan International. Further 
details are provided in Heidi’s biography on page 267.  
Toward the end of 2014 a regulatory driven industry-wide 
review of IT infrastructure commenced which will continue into 
2015. 
Joachim Faber 
Chairman, Group Risk Committee 
23 February 2015 
Role and membership 
The GRC is responsible for: 
• advising the Board on high-level risk-related matters 
and risk governance, including current and forward 
looking risk exposures, future risk strategy and 
management of risk within the Group; 
• advising the Board on risk appetite and risk tolerance;  
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management systems framework and internal control 
systems (other than internal financial control systems 
which is the responsibility of the Group Audit 
Committee);  
• monitoring executive control and management of risk 
including top and emerging risks; and 
• advising the Group Remuneration Committee on the 
alignment of remuneration with risk appetite. 
The GRC is comprised of independent non-executive 
Directors as listed below. 
 
 
 
Meetings 
attended 
 
Meetings
eligible
to attend 
Members   
Joachim Faber (Chairman)  13  13
John Coombe
1
 5  5
John Lipsky  13  13
Rachel Lomax  13  13
Heidi Miller
2
 4  4
Meetings held in 2014    13
1 Retired as a Director and member on 23 May 2014. 
2 Appointed a member on 1 September 2014. 
By invitation, John Trueman, a non-executive director 
of HSBC Bank plc, attended meetings of the GRC 
throughout 2014. Safra Catz, a non-executive Director of 
HSBC Holdings plc, attended two presentations given to 
the GRC on IT-related matters. 
Governance of risk 
All of HSBC’s activities involve the measurement, 
evaluation, acceptance and management of risk or 
combinations of risks. The Board, advised by the GRC, 
requires and encourages a strong risk governance culture 
which shapes the Group’s attitude to risk. The Board 
and the GRC oversee the maintenance and development 
of a strong risk management framework by continually 
monitoring the risk environment, top and emerging risks 
facing the Group and mitigating actions planned and 
taken. 
The governance structure of the Board and its 
committees for the management of risk is set out in the 
table on page 24. The GRC has overall non-executive 
responsibility for oversight of risk across the Group. 
The Conduct & Values and the Financial System 
Vulnerabilities committees are responsible for the 
oversight of specific areas of risk which include the 
promotion and embedding of HSBC Group Values and 
HSBC Group principles and the oversight of matters 
relating to anti-money laundering, sanctions, terrorist 
financing and proliferation financing. The Conduct & 
Values and the Financial System Vulnerabilities 
committees regularly update the GRC on their activities.  
Each major Group operating subsidiary has established a 
board committee with non-executive responsibility for 
oversight of risk-related matters and an executive 
committee with responsibility for risk-related matters. 
The GRC has set core terms of reference for subsidiary 
company non-executive risk and audit committees. 
Further details of the structures in place for the 
management of risk across the Group are provided on 
pages 112 to 118. 
How the GRC discharged its responsibilities 
The GRC discussed top and emerging risks and the 
Group’s risk profile with management at each of its 
meetings. In monitoring top and emerging risks the GRC 
received reports and presentations from the Group Chief  
    
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
281 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Risk Officer (an executive Director), the Global Head 
of Financial Crime Compliance and Group Money 
Laundering Reporting Officer, and the Global Head of 
Regulatory Compliance. During the year, other members 
of the senior management attended GRC meetings 
including the Group Chief Operating Officer, the Global 
Head of Risk Strategy and Chief of Staff, the Head of 
Group Performance and Reward and the Group Chief 
Data Officer. 
The Group Chief Risk Officer provided regular reports 
and presentations to the GRC, including at each meeting 
a presentation of the ‘risk map’ which describes our risk 
profile by risk type in the global businesses and regions, 
the Group Risk Appetite Statement, and the top 
and emerging risks report which summarised the 
mitigating actions for identified risks. The GRC requested 
reports and updates from management on risk-related 
issues identified for in-depth consideration and also 
received regular reports on matters discussed at Risk 
Management Meetings of the GMB. 
Page 118 provides further information on the top and 
emerging risks for the Group. 
Throughout the year, the GRC Chairman met with the 
Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of Internal 
Audit, the Group Finance Director, the Chief Legal Officer 
and other senior executives as required.  
In addition to addressing the matters noted above, the 
GRC focused on a number of key areas including those 
set out in the table below. 
 
Principal activities and significant issues considered include: 
Key area  Action taken  
The Group  Risk Appetite 
Statement and monitoring 
 of the Group risk profile 
against the Risk Appetite  
Statement 
 
The GRC reviewed management proposals for revisions to the Group Risk Appetite Statement metrics for 
2014. Following review, the Committee recommended a number of refinements to the Group Risk 
Appetite Statement to the Board including the cost efficiency, Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and sovereign 
exposure ratios.  
The GRC regularly reviews the Group’s risk profile against the key performance metrics set out in the Risk 
Appetite Statement. The GRC reviewed management’s assessment of risk and provided scrutiny of 
management’s proposed mitigating actions.  
PRA and EBA concurrent  
stress tests 
The GRC monitored the PRA and EBA stress testing exercises and reviewed the results of stress testing 
prior to submission to the respective regulators. It received reports over the course of the PRA and EBA 
stress testing exercises and met three times during the year solely to consider stress testing related 
matters. At these meetings the GRC reviewed the stress test scenarios as set by the PRA and EBA and the 
enhancements to these scenarios where appropriate. The GRC oversaw a review of the lessons learnt from 
this stress testing exercise. 
Internal Audit assessed progress on the regulatory stress tests programmes and reported its conclusions 
and recommendations to the GRC. 
Execution risk Execution risk is the risk relating to the delivery of the Group strategy and is a standing agenda item for 
the GRC. Monitoring of this risk and challenging management’s assessment of execution risk and 
corresponding mitigating actions remain a priority for the GRC. 
In addition to the regular reports received and ‘deep-dive reviews’ conducted on specific issues identified, 
the GRC requested reports from Internal Audit on the themes identified during the course of its work. 
Legal and regulatory risks 
 
The legal and regulatory environment continues to evolve in both complexity and the level of 
requirements placed on financial services sector firms. 
The GRC received regular reports on legal and regulatory risks, reviewed management actions to mitigate 
these risks and considered the potential impact of future developments in this area on the Group. In 2015, 
these included reports concerning risks related to investigations of HSBC’s Swiss Private Bank by a number 
of tax administration, regulatory and law enforcement authorities. A particular area of focus for the GRC 
remains the uncertainty in respect of capital adequacy regulatory requirements; further time has been 
scheduled for the GRC to address this matter. 
IT and data-related risks  During the year, the GRC considered a number of IT and data-related risks including internet crime and 
fraud, data management and aggregation, and information security. The GRC reviewed management’s 
assessment of these risks and management actions to mitigate them. 
IT and data-related risks are expected to remain an area of focus for the GRC during the course of 2015. 
Geopolitical risk 
 
The GRC received regular reports on geopolitical risks including the crises in the Middle East and Ukraine 
and the continued tensions in respect of maritime sovereignty in the South China Sea. Management 
provided regular updates on the implementation of mitigating actions in response to these matters which 
included the augmentation of anti-money laundering, sanctions and financial crime compliance controls. 
The GRC also held a joint meeting with the Group Audit Committee which focused on issues faced in 
mainland China and the Asia-Pacific region. 
 
Further information on the identification, management and mitigation of the risks set out above is provided on pages 114 to 117.  Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
282 
Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 
Chairman’s Statement 
The Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee (‘FSVC’) oversees 
the implementation by management of policies aimed at 
mitigating financial crime and system abuse risks which HSBC 
faces in the execution of its strategy. In doing so, it provides 
thought leadership, governance, oversight and policy guidance 
over the framework of controls and procedures which has been 
designed to address these risks to which HSBC, and the financial 
system more broadly, may be exposed. More formally, the 
Committee oversees our compliance with regulatory orders, 
including oversight of the Group’s relationship with the Monitor
1
, 
with whom the Committee regularly meets and engages to 
ensure alignment of our respective priorities and interests. 
We recognise that in the past HSBC did not consistently identify, 
and so prevent, misuse and abuse of the financial system through 
its network. However, the adoption of the highest or most 
effective global  compliance standards – allied with the highest 
standards of behaviour – forms part of our strategy to address 
the possibility of this happening again, and will address our 
obligations under the various regulatory orders entered into in 
2012. 
As you will read in this report, during 2014, the Committee has 
made considerable progress in the achievement of its objective, 
reviewing and adopting new global policies on anti-money 
laundering and sanctions compliance, agreeing and setting 
milestones regarding the enhancement of transaction monitoring 
and customer due diligence systems and processes and routinely 
engaging with the Monitor for this purpose. An equally 
important aspect of the FSVC’s role in 2014 has been to provide 
the Group with a forward-looking perspective on financial crime 
risk. As an example, the Committee undertook a deep dive 
review in 2014 to ascertain the actions being taken to mitigate 
the risks associated with the vast amount of data to which the 
firm is exposed in the delivery of products to its customers. The 
five subject matter experts appointed to the FSVC have 
provided invaluable guidance and advice in identifying risk 
areas where the Group could become exposed, working with us 
to mitigate those risks. 
Building on this, the FSVC will continue to focus in 2015 on the 
controls and procedures which will underpin our high behavioural 
and compliance standards. A strong compliance culture is 
essential to the success of our strategy and this will remain a 
focus area for the FSVC during the year.   
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Rona Fairhead for 
her leadership of the Committee from the period since its 
establishment in early 2013 and I am delighted to have inherited 
from her in May last year a Committee with a clear intent and 
purpose to address the challenges facing HSBC. 
Lord Evans of Weardale  
Chairman, Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 
23 February 2015 
1 See page 27 for further details on the Monitor.  
Role and membership 
The FSVC has non-executive responsibility for: 
• governance, oversight and policy guidance over the 
framework of controls and procedures designed to 
identify areas where HSBC and the financial system 
more broadly may become exposed to financial crime 
or system abuse; 
• oversight of matters relating to anti-money 
laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing, including the establishment, 
implementation, maintenance and review of 
adequate policies and procedures sufficient to ensure 
the continuing obligations to regulatory and law 
enforcement agencies are met and oversight of 
implementation of the actions necessary to build 
assurance in these areas; 
• provision of advice as applicable on the 
implementation of the Global Standards programme; 
and  
• provision of a forward-looking perspective on 
financial crime risk to the Board. 
 
 
Meetings 
attended 
Meetings
eligible
to attend 
Members   
Lord Evans of Weardale
(Chairman)
1
 
 
6 7 
Kathleen Casey
2
  5  5
Rona Fairhead
3
  7 7
Nick Fishwick
4
 7 7
Dave Hartnett
4
 7 7
Bill Hughes
4
 7 7
Sir Simon Robertson  7 7
Leonard Schrank
4 
 7 7
Juan Zarate
4,5 
 7 7
Meetings held in 2014   7
1 Appointed Chairman on 23 May 2014. 
2 Appointed a non-executive Director and member on 1 March 2014. 
3 Retired as Chairman on 23 May 2014. 
4 Co-opted non-director member. 
5 Also provides advisory services to the board of HSBC 
North America Holdings Inc. 
Five co-opted non-director members have been 
appointed advisers to the Committee to support its work. 
Brief biographies are set out below:  
Nick Fishwick, CMG: Former senior official in the Foreign 
and Commonwealth Office, specialising in security, 
intelligence and counter-terrorism; seconded from 
2001 to 2004 to HM Customs and Excise as Head of 
Intelligence (Law Enforcement), focusing on international 
counter-narcotics, tax and excise fraud; awarded the 
CMG in 2009.  
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
283 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Dave Hartnett, CB: Former Permanent Secretary for 
Tax at HM Revenue and Customs; focused on tax 
policy development, compliance and enforcement 
and international tax issues during his 36-year career 
in tax administration; former deputy chairman of 
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development’s Forum on Tax Administration. 
Bill Hughes, CBE QPM: Former head of the UK’s Serious 
Organised Crime Agency; international experience in the 
disruption, dismantling and criminal investigation of 
organised crime.  
Leonard Schrank: Former chief executive officer of 
SWIFT, the industry-owned, global financial messaging 
system; oversaw SWIFT’s relationship with the US 
Treasury Department and other countries on counter-
terrorism issues. Member of MIT Corporation.  
The Honourable Juan Zarate: Senior Advisor at the 
Center for Strategic and International Studies; the 
Senior National Security Analyst for CBS News; a Visiting 
Lecturer of Law at the Harvard Law School; national 
security consultant; former Deputy Assistant to the 
President and Deputy National Security Advisor for 
Combating Terrorism responsible for developing and 
implementing the US Government’s counter-terrorism 
strategy and policies related to transnational security 
threats; former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for 
Terrorist Financing and Financial Crime; and former 
federal prosecutor who served on terrorism prosecution 
teams. 
How the FSVC discharged its responsibilities  
The FSVC has agreed areas of focus where HSBC and the 
financial system more broadly may become exposed to 
financial crime or system abuse, with the GRC retaining 
responsibility for high-level risk related matters and risk 
governance. Particular areas of focus for FSVC included: 
cyber security; technology and data systems; transaction 
monitoring systems for anti-money laundering; sanctions 
and other financial crime related risks; and customer due 
diligence and know your customer procedures. Regular 
reports and updates on these focus areas were provided 
to the FSVC by the adviser members and relevant 
executives. 
The FSVC also maintained oversight of obligations under 
the US and UK agreements and updates on HSBC’s 
interactions with the Monitor.  
The Chief Legal Officer, Group Chief Risk Officer, Global 
Head of Financial Crime Compliance, the Group Money 
Laundering Reporting Officer, Global Head of Regulatory 
Compliance and the Group Head of Internal Audit 
provided reports to the FSVC including on meetings held 
with, and reports submitted to, regulators on the 
Group’s compliance-related initiatives made both in 
connection with the resolution of the investigations by 
US and UK regulatory and law enforcement authorities in 
December 2012 and also more generally. In addition to 
the scheduled Committee meetings, the Chairman met 
regularly with the Group Chairman, the adviser members 
of the Committee and senior executives as required. 
During the year, the FSVC received regular updates on 
the Compliance Plan, which documents the Group’s 
strategy to augment HSBC’s anti-money laundering and 
sanctions compliance programme, which covers the 
related policies, procedures and enhanced training. 
Regular reports are also submitted to the FSVC on 
Group-wide whistleblowing disclosures and anti-bribery 
and corruption matters.  
In addition to its reports to the Board, the FSVC also 
regularly updates the Group Risk Committee on specified 
matters to raise areas for its consideration as 
appropriate. 
During the year, the FSVC focused on a number of key 
areas, as set out in the table below. 
 
Principal activities and significant issues considered include: 
Key area Action taken  
Financial crime-related issues The FSVC reviewed and adopted a Group policy on anti-money laundering which is now being 
implemented across all of HSBC’s businesses. It received regular updates on the implementation of 
the IT strategy agreed as part of the work to manage and mitigate financial crime risks. A particular 
area of focus was on enhancements proposed by management in respect of the Group’s transaction 
monitoring systems. 
Sanctions The FSVC reviewed and adopted a Group policy on sanctions compliance which is now being 
implemented, whilst the Group’s ongoing sanctions compliance programmes and management’s 
strategy to respond to the expansion of global sanctions were also routinely monitored by the 
Committee during the year. 
Cyber security  During 2014, the FSVC reviewed cyber-security risks and strategy in this area and proposed 
enhancements to the Group’s cyber security capabilities. The reviews included briefings on the 
Group’s ability to predict, respond and recover from cyber-attacks. Metrics and timelines were agreed 
with management to monitor progress in this area. 
FATCA and tax transparency The FSVC received updates to tax transparency initiatives undertaken by HSBC and the Group-wide
implementation of the requirements under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act. 
 
   Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
284 
Group Remuneration Committee 
The Group Remuneration Committee is responsible for 
approving remuneration policy. As part of its role, it 
considers the terms of fixed pay, annual incentive plans, 
share plans, other long-term incentive plans, benefits 
and the individual remuneration packages of executive 
Directors and other senior Group employees and 
in doing so takes into account the pay and conditions 
across the Group. No Directors are involved in deciding 
their own remuneration. 
 
 
 
 Meetings 
 attended 
 Meetings
 eligible 
 to attend 
Members
1
   
Sir Simon Robertson (Chairman) 11 11
John Coombe 
2
 6 6
Renato Fassbind
3 
 7 7
John Lipsky
4
 5 5
Sam Laidlaw  10 11
Jonathan Symonds
5
 2 3
Meetings held in 2014   11
1 All members are independent non-executive Directors. 
2 Retired as a Director and member on 23 May 2014. 
3 Resigned as a Director and member on 1 September 2014. 
4 Appointed a member on 23 May 2014. 
5 A member from 14 April 2014 until 1 September 2014. 
The Directors’ Remuneration Report is set out on pages 300 to 
327. 
Nomination Committee 
Chairman’s Statement 
A key responsibility of the Nomination Committee (‘Nomco’) is 
to ensure there is an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, 
experience, diversity and independence on the Board. 
Following Nomco’s recommendation, the Board appointed in 
2014 four independent non-executive Directors, namely, Phillip 
Ameen, Kathleen Casey, Heidi Miller and Jonathan Symonds. 
They have brought different expertise and experience to the 
Board. HSBC now surpasses the target set under the Board’s 
own diversity policy, which states that 30% of the Board 
members should be female by 2020. 
Another important responsibility of Nomco is to ensure that 
plans are in place for the selection, appointment and orderly 
succession of executive Directors and senior executives. Nomco 
met once last year to undertake with the Group Chief Executive 
an in-depth review of succession plans and concluded that they 
are sufficient and appropriate but need to be kept under annual 
review.  
Nomco continues to monitor regulatory developments as they 
may require changes to the composition of the Board. Nomco 
has considered in detail the new requirements under the EU’s 
Capital Requirements Directive IV which came into effect on 
1 July 2014 and which restrict the number of directorships that 
may be held by member of the Board. The ramifications of 
these new requirements for the current Board have been 
reviewed and the requirements are routinely kept under 
review. 
Sir Simon Robertson 
Chairman, Nomination Committee 
23 February 2015 
Role and membership 
Nomco has non-executive responsibility for leading the 
process for Board appointments and for identifying and 
nominating, for approval by the Board, candidates for 
appointment to the Board. Nomco is responsible for 
succession planning of Directors to the Board. In the 
course of this, it also oversees senior management 
succession planning. 
 
 
Meetings 
attended 
Meetings
eligible
to attend 
Members
1
  
Sir Simon Robertson (Chairman)  4 4
Laura Cha
2
 2 2
Rona Fairhead 4 4
James Hughes-Hallett
3
 2 2
Sam Laidlaw
2
 2 2
John Lipsky  4 4
Meetings held in 2014   4
1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.  
2 Appointed a member on 23 May 2014. 
3 Retired as a Director and member on 23 May 2014. 
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
285 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
How Nomco discharged its responsibilities 
Nomco undertook the following key activities in the 
discharge of its responsibilities: 
 
 
Principal activities and significant issues considered include: 
Key area Action taken  
Appointments of new Directors  Following a rigorous selection process, Nomco recommended to the Board the appointment of four 
non-executive Directors during 2014: Phillip Ameen (with effect from 1 January 2015), Kathleen Casey, 
Heidi Miller and Jonathan Symonds; and an executive Director: Marc Moses, Group Chief Risk Officer. 
An external search consultancy, MWM Consulting, was used in relation to the appointment of three 
of the four non-executive Directors (Kathleen Casey, Heidi Miller and Jonathan Symonds). MWM 
Consulting has no additional connection with HSBC other than as search consultant for certain senior 
executive hires. Phillip Ameen was identified by the Committee through his existing role as an 
independent Director of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. since 2012 (where he chairs the Audit 
Committee and serves on the Risk Committee). He also brings extensive financial and accounting 
experience gained from a long career at General Electric (ultimately as Vice President, Comptroller and 
Principal Accounting Officer of General Electric Corp.), as well as a depth of technical knowledge from 
his participation in the accounting standard setting world. 
Forward planning  Nomco adopts a forward-looking approach to potential candidates for appointment to the Board that 
takes into account the needs and development of the Group’s businesses and the expected retirement 
dates of current Directors.  
Size, structure and composition 
of the Board and it committees 
Nomco monitors the size, structure and composition of the Board (including skills, knowledge, 
experience, diversity and independence).  
Nomco considered the election or re-election of Directors at the 2014 Annual General Meeting. It 
has also recommended to the Board that all Directors should stand for election or re-election at the 
2015 Annual General Meeting. 
Regulatory developments Nomco monitors regulatory developments as they may affect Board composition. During 2014, 
Nomco considered the implications of the corporate governance requirements of the EU’s Capital 
Requirements Directive IV and the Equality and Human Rights Commission’s guidance on the equality 
law framework. 
Diversity Nomco believes that one of its important duties is to ensure that there is a proper balance on the 
Board to reflect diversity and the geographical nature of its business. Appointments to the Board are 
made on merit and candidates are considered against objective criteria, having due regard to the 
benefits of diversity on the Board. The Board diversity policy is available at www.hsbc.com/investor-
relations/governance/corporate-governance-codes.  
Nomco regularly monitors the implementation of the Board’s diversity policy using the following 
measurable objectives: at least 25% of the Board should be female, with a target of 30% to be 
achieved by 2020; only external search consultants who are signatories to the Executive Search Firms 
Voluntary Code of Conduct should be engaged by Nomco; and at least 30% of candidates, proposed 
by search firms for consideration as non-executive Directors, should be women. We comply with these 
requirements and, as at the date of this report, 35.3% of the Board is female. 
Director training and  
development 
Nomco reviews and monitors the training and continuous professional development of Directors and 
senior management. 
Time commitment and 
independence of  
non-executive Directors 
Nomco assessed the independence of, and time required from, non-executive Directors. Nomco is 
satisfied that all non-executive Directors have the time to fulfil their fiduciary responsibilities to 
provide oversight of the business of the Group; and to serve on the relevant Committees of the Board. 
All Directors are asked to identify any other significant commitments they may have and confirm they 
have sufficient time to discharge what is expected of them as members of the Board. 
  Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Board committees 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
286 
Conduct & Values Committee 
Chairman’s Statement 
The Conduct & Values Committee (‘CVC’) was established in 
January 2014 to provide Board oversight of the Group’s 
multiple efforts to raise standards of conduct and to embed the 
behavioural values the Group stands for. The delivery of fair 
outcomes for customers and upholding market integrity is a 
prime driver of a sustainable and profitable business. Whilst 
conduct risk is not a new concept, the Board recognises it is one 
receiving increasing global regulatory and industry focus and 
that it is therefore right to establish a committee whose 
objective is to oversee how conduct risk is being managed. 
The need for greater emphasis on this area has become 
apparent in the last few years with the establishment of the 
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in the US in 2011; the 
Financial Conduct Authority in the UK listing among its 
objectives ensuring appropriate protection of consumers and 
enhancing the integrity of the financial system; and the Hong 
Kong Monetary Authority introducing a charter on treating 
customers fairly. Additionally, fine levels have escalated, most 
significantly in the US, with a developing trend of out of court 
settlements. These facts reaffirm our belief that delivering 
higher standards of conduct is essential to restoring consumer 
confidence and rebuilding society’s trust in banking. 
Since its establishment, the CVC has taken a systematic 
approach focussing on the global businesses and global 
functions, with a number of deep dives into its home and 
priority markets, with a particular focus to date on the UK. The 
business on the agenda for each meeting is closely mapped to 
the terms of reference and ensures that key responsibilities are 
adequately addressed at least once a year. 
I have chaired the CVC since its establishment, with Laura Cha, 
chair of the former Corporate Sustainability Committee, Lord 
Evans of Weardale, Heidi Miller and Jonathan Symonds as 
members.  
In 2015, the CVC will continue to focus on implementation of 
the Group’s conduct and market risk programme, with a 
particular interest in employee training and customer 
communication. It aims to take a forward looking approach to 
assessing conduct risk and anticipated further changes in public 
policy relating to conduct will be received with interest. 
The Committee will additionally address its sustainability 
responsibilities, as inherited from the now-demised Corporate 
Sustainability Committee, so as to ensure that HSBC acts 
responsibly towards the communities within which it operates. 
Rachel Lomax 
Chairman, Conduct & Values Committee 
23 February 2015 
Role and membership  
The CVC is responsible for: 
• HSBC policies, procedures and standards to ensure 
that the Group conducts business responsibly and 
consistently adheres to HSBC Values. It aims to align 
its work to HSBC’s purpose of connecting customers 
to opportunities, enabling businesses to thrive and 
economies to prosper, and ultimately helping people 
to fulfil their hopes and realise their ambitions; and 
• ensuring that in the conduct of its business, HSBC 
treats customers fairly and openly, does business with 
the right clients and in the right way, is a responsible 
employer, acts responsibly towards the communities 
in which HSBC operates and treats other stakeholders 
fairly. 
The CVC is comprised of independent non-executive 
Directors as listed below. 
 
 
Meetings 
attended 
Meetings
eligible
to attend 
Members  
Rachel Lomax (Chairman)
1
 4 4
Laura Cha
2
 4 4
Lord Evans of Weardale
2
 4 4
Heidi Miller
3
 2 2
Jonathan Symonds
4
 4 4
  
Meetings held in 2014   4
1 Appointed Chairman on 17 January 2014. 
2 Appointed a member on 17 January 2014. 
3 Appointed a member on 1 September 2014. 
4 Appointed a member on 14 April 2014.  
Governance 
The CVC exercises non-executive responsibility for the 
oversight of the promotion and embedding of HSBC 
Values and our required global conduct outcomes. 
Additionally, the CVC will input as appropriate into the 
Group Remuneration Committee on the alignment of 
remuneration with conduct. It reports regularly to the 
Board on its activities.  
How the CVC discharged its responsibilities 
During the course of 2014 the CVC received regular 
reports and presentations from the Chief Executive, 
RBWM, the Chief Executive, CMB, the Global Head 
of Regulatory Compliance, the Group Head of 
Development, the Head of Group Corporate 
Sustainability and the Group Head of Internal Audit. 
During the year, other members of senior management 
attended CVC meetings including the Chief Executive, 
GB&M, the Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance, 
the Global Head of Communications, the Global Head 
of Anti-Bribery and Corruption and the Global Head of 
Marketing. 
The Chief Executive, RBWM and the Chief Executive, 
Global Commercial Banking provide regular reports 
and presentations to the CVC, including an analysis of 
customer complaint trends at each meeting. The CVC 
also receives regular reports on whistleblowing cases, 
the outcomes of internal audits and the Group’s 
initiatives being undertaken to deliver against key 
values and culture initiatives. 
In addition to the scheduled Committee meetings, the 
Chairman met regularly with the Group Chairman and 
senior executives as required. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
287 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The Committee is additionally responsible for advising 
the Board, its committees and executive management 
on corporate sustainability policies across the Group 
including environmental, social and ethical issues. From 
this year, our progress on sustainability policies and 
performance is reported in the Strategic Report and 
on our website at hsbc.com/sustainability. 
We will no longer publish a separate Sustainability 
Report as part of a progression towards an integrated 
approach to sustainability reporting. This change 
reflects best practice in reporting as well as the ongoing 
integration of sustainability matters into the strategy 
and management of HSBC.  
During the year the CVC focused on a number of key 
areas, as set out in the table below. 
 
Principal activities and significant issues considered include: 
Key area  Action taken  
Global approach to conduct   The CVC endorsed a global approach to the management of conduct which defines and sets out required 
outcomes. It received regular reports from the Global Head of Regulatory Compliance on how conduct is 
being managed consistently across the Group to deliver the required outcomes. It also sets out the 
programmes and governance to deliver conduct improvements. In developing this approach, Management 
has given consideration to strategy, business models and decision making, culture and behaviours, 
interactions with customers, the impact of activities in financial markets and governance structures, 
oversight frameworks and management information. There is close alignment between this and  the work 
being done to promote and embed HSBC Values. 
Values  The CVC oversees the promotion and embedding of HSBC Values. In 2013, the Group launched a  project 
to better understand how HSBC Values drive everyday behaviours. This included interviews with 
leadership teams and functional specialists, focus groups with line managers and staff, and reviews of 
management information and local documentation.  
The CVC received regular reports from management on this project and contributed to the subsequent 
action plan. It will continue to monitor the implementation of cultural change into 2015. 
Customer experience Customer complaints. The CVC reviewed reports regarding customer experience, complaint trends and 
complaint handling. It considered improvements to the quality of complaint handling processes and root 
cause analysis. 
Sales processes and incentive schemes. The CVC considered the review mechanism established by RBWM 
management, the aim of which is to ensure that the RBWM product range is appropriately positioned to 
fulfil customers’ needs. The CVC also reviewed the changes implemented to sales processes and sales 
incentive schemes in the RBWM and CMB businesses and the effectiveness of new quality assurance 
programmes. This will continue into 2015. 
Whistleblowing 
 
The CVC has assumed responsibility for the governance of the Group’s whistleblowing policies and 
procedures, including the protection of whistleblowers. This responsibility does not extend to matters 
relating to financial reporting and associated auditing matters, which remain the responsibility of the 
Group Audit Committee. The CVC reviewed current whistleblowing processes and disclosures and received 
reports on an ongoing enhancement programme which takes account of recommendations made by the 
UK Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards, regulatory guidance and emerging industry best 
practices. 
Employee engagement 
 
The CVC monitored employee engagement across the Group and received the results of quarterly 
Snapshot engagement surveys which were conducted during 2014. It will continue to monitor these 
survey results in 2015, as well as the results of a Group People Survey planned to take place later in the 
year. 
  Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Internal control 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
288 
Chairman’s Committee 
Role and membership  
The Chairman’s Committee has the power to act on 
behalf of the Board between scheduled Board meetings 
to facilitate ad hoc unforeseen business requiring urgent 
Board approval. The Committee meets with such 
frequency and at such times as it may determine, the 
quorum for meetings is dependent upon the nature of 
the business to be transacted, as set out in its terms of 
reference. 
Philanthropic and Community Investment 
Oversight Committee 
Role and membership  
The Philanthropic and Community Investment Oversight 
Committee, established by resolution of the Board in 
December 2014, will focus on the Group’s philanthropic 
activity, being monetary donations made to charitable 
organisations and the contribution of staff time toward 
voluntary activities. 
The Committee has non-executive responsibility for 
the oversight of HSBC’s philanthropic and community 
investment activities in support of the Group’s corporate 
sustainability objectives. 
The Committee will meet for the first time in 2015 and 
will meet at least twice each year. 
 
Members 
Laura Cha
1
 (Chairman) 
Lord Evans of Weardale
1
 
Sir Malcolm Grant
2,4
 
Ruth Kelly
3,4
 
Stephen Moss
3,4
 
1 Appointed on 5 December 2014. 
2 Independent member. 
3 Employee member. 
4 Appointed on 19 February 2015. 
Internal control 
Procedures 
The Directors are responsible for maintaining and 
reviewing the effectiveness of risk management and 
internal control systems and for determining the nature 
and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take 
in achieving its strategic objectives. To meet this 
requirement and to discharge its obligations under 
the FCA Handbook and PRA Handbook, procedures 
have been designed for safeguarding assets against 
unauthorised use or disposal; for maintaining proper 
accounting records; and for ensuring the reliability and 
usefulness of financial information used within the 
business or for publication. These procedures can only 
provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against 
material mis-statement, errors, losses or fraud.  
These procedures are designed to provide effective 
internal control within HSBC and accord with the 
Financial Reporting Council’s guidance for directors 
issued in its revised form in 2005. HSBC’s procedures 
have been in place throughout the year and up to 
23 February 2015, the date of approval of the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2014. This guidance was amended 
following consultations undertaken by the Financial 
Reporting Council in November 2013 and April 2014, 
resulting in revised guidance on risk management, 
internal control and related financial and business 
reporting. The revised guidance applies to companies 
with financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2014. 
In the case of companies acquired during the year, the 
risk management and internal controls in place are being 
reviewed against HSBC’s benchmarks and integrated 
into HSBC’s processes. 
In 2014 the GAC and GRC endorsed the adoption of 
the COSO 2013 framework for the monitoring of risk 
management and internal control systems to satisfy the 
requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002, the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Hong 
Kong Corporate Governance Code. Full implementation 
of the COSO 2013 framework will be completed in 2015. 
HSBC continued to evaluate its internal control over 
financial reporting under the Financial Reporting 
Council’s Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors 
and the original 1992 Framework for the year ended 31 
December 2014. 
HSBC’s key risk management and internal control 
procedures include the following: 
• Group Standards. Functional, operating, financial 
reporting and certain management reporting 
standards are established by global function 
management committees, for application throughout 
HSBC. These are supplemented by operating 
standards set by functional and local management 
as required for the type of business and geographical 
location of each subsidiary. 
• Delegation of authority within limits set by the 
Board. Authority is delegated within limits set by    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
289 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
the Board to each relevant Group Managing Director 
to manage the day to day affairs of the business or 
function for which he or she is accountable. 
Delegation of authority from the Board requires 
those individuals to maintain a clear and appropriate 
apportionment of significant responsibilities and 
to oversee the establishment and maintenance 
of systems of control that are appropriate to their 
business or function. Appointments to the most 
senior positions within HSBC requires the approval 
of the Board. 
• Risk identification and monitoring. Systems and 
procedures are in place to identify, control and report 
on the major risks facing HSBC (see page 21) including 
credit, market, liquidity and funding, capital, financial 
management, model, reputational, pension, strategic, 
sustainability, operational (including accounting, 
tax, legal, regulatory compliance, financial crime 
compliance, fiduciary, security and fraud, systems 
operations, project and people risk) and insurance 
risk. Exposure to these risks is monitored by risk 
management committees, asset, liability and capital 
management committees and executive committees 
in subsidiaries and, for the Group, in Risk 
Management Meetings (‘RMM’) of the GMB which 
are chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer. RMM 
meets regularly to discuss enterprise-wide risk 
management issues. Asset, liability and capital 
management issues are monitored by the Group 
ALCO, which also reports to the RMM. HSBC’s 
operational risk profile and the effective 
implementation of the Group’s operational risk 
management framework is monitored by the Global 
Operational Risk Committee (‘GORC’), which reports 
to the RMM. Model risks are monitored by the Model 
Oversight Committee which also reports to the RMM. 
The minutes of the GMB meetings and the RMM are 
provided to members of the GAC, the GRC and the 
Board.  
• Changes in market conditions/practices. Processes 
are in place to identify new risks arising from 
changes in market conditions/practices or customer 
behaviours, which could expose HSBC to heightened 
risk of loss or reputational damage. During 2014, 
attention was focused on: 
− economic outlook and government intervention; 
− increased geopolitical risk; 
− regulatory developments affecting our business 
model and Group profitability; 
− regulatory investigations, fines, sanctions 
commitments and consent orders and requirements 
relating to conduct of business and financial crime 
negatively affecting our results and brand; 
− dispute risk;  
− heightened execution risk; 
− people risk; 
− third party risk management; 
− internet crime and fraud;  
− information security risk;  
− data management; and 
− model risk.  
• Strategic plans. Periodic strategic plans are prepared 
for global businesses, global functions and certain 
geographical regions within the framework of the 
Group’s strategy. Annual Operating Plans, informed by 
detailed analysis of risk appetite describing the types 
and quantum of risk that we are prepared to take in 
executing our strategy, are prepared and adopted by 
all major HSBC operating companies and set out the 
key business initiatives and the likely financial effects 
of those initiatives. 
• Disclosure Committee. The Disclosure Committee 
reviews material public disclosures made by HSBC 
Holdings for any material errors, misstatements 
or omissions. The membership of the Disclosure 
Committee, which is chaired by the Group Company 
Secretary, includes the heads of Global Finance, 
Legal, Risk (including Financial Crime Compliance 
and Regulatory Compliance), Communications, 
Investor Relations, and Internal Audit functions 
and representatives from the principal regions and 
global businesses. The integrity of disclosures is 
underpinned by structures and processes within the 
Global Finance and Global Risk functions that support 
expert and rigorous analytical review of financial 
reporting complemented by certified reviews by 
heads of global businesses, global functions and 
certain legal entities. 
• Financial reporting. The Group financial reporting 
process for preparing the consolidated Annual Report 
and Accounts 2014 is controlled using documented 
accounting policies and reporting formats, supported 
by a chart of accounts with detailed instructions and 
guidance on reporting requirements, issued by Group 
Finance to all reporting entities within the Group in 
advance of each reporting period end. The submission 
of financial information from each reporting entity 
to Group Finance is subject to certification by the 
responsible financial officer, and analytical review 
procedures at reporting entity and Group levels. 
• Responsibility for risk management. Management of 
global businesses and global functions are primarily 
accountable for measuring, monitoring, mitigating 
and managing their risks and controls. Processes are 
in place to ensure weaknesses are escalated to senior 
management and addressed, supported by our three 
lines of defence model. 
• IT operations. Centralised functional control 
is exercised over all IT developments and operations. 
Common systems are employed for similar business 
processes wherever practicable. 
• Functional management. Global functional 
management is responsible for setting policies, 
procedures and standards for the following risks: 
credit, market, liquidity and funding, capital, financial  Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Internal control / Going concern / Employees 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
290 
management, model, reputational, pension, strategic, 
sustainability and operational risk (including accounting, 
tax, legal, financial crime compliance, regulatory 
compliance, fiduciary, information security, security 
and fraud, systems and people risk) and insurance 
risk. Authorities to enter into credit and market 
risk exposures are delegated with limits to line 
management of Group companies. The concurrence 
of the appropriate global function is required, 
however, to credit proposals with specified higher 
risk characteristics. Credit and market risks are 
measured and reported at subsidiary company level 
and aggregated for risk concentration analysis on a 
Group-wide basis. 
• Internal Audit. The establishment and maintenance of 
appropriate systems of risk management and internal 
control is primarily the responsibility of business 
management. The Global Internal Audit function, 
which is centrally controlled, provides independent 
and objective assurance in respect of the adequacy of 
the design and operating effectiveness of the Group’s 
framework of risk management, control and 
governance processes across the Group, focusing on 
the areas of greatest risk to HSBC using a risk-based 
approach. The Group Head of Internal Audit reports 
to the Chairman of the GAC and administratively to 
the Group Chief Executive. 
• Internal Audit recommendations. Executive 
management is responsible for ensuring that 
recommendations made by the Global Internal Audit 
function are implemented within an appropriate and 
agreed timetable. Confirmation to this effect must be 
provided to Global Internal Audit. 
• Reputational risk. Policies to guide subsidiary 
companies and management at all levels in the 
conduct of business to safeguard the Group’s 
reputation are established by the Board and its 
committees, subsidiary company boards and their 
committees and senior management. Reputational 
risks can arise from a variety of causes including 
environmental, social and governance issues, as a 
consequence of operational risk events and as a result 
of employees acting in a manner inconsistent with 
HSBC Values. HSBC’s reputation depends upon the 
way in which it conducts its business and may be 
affected by the way in which clients, to which 
it provides financial services, conduct their business 
or use financial products and services. 
Role of GAC and GRC 
On behalf of the Board, the GAC has responsibility for 
oversight of risk management and internal controls over 
financial reporting and the GRC has responsibility for 
oversight of risk management and internal controls, 
other than over financial reporting. 
During the year, the GRC and the GAC have kept under 
review the effectiveness of this system of internal control 
and have reported regularly to the Board. In carrying 
out their reviews, the GRC and the GAC receive regular 
business and operational risk assessments, regular 
reports from the Group Chief Risk Officer and the Group 
Head of Internal Audit; reports on the annual reviews 
of the internal control framework of HSBC Holdings 
which cover all internal controls, both financial and 
non-financial; half yearly-confirmations to the GAC 
from audit and risk committees of principal subsidiary 
companies regarding whether their financial statements 
have been prepared in accordance with Group policies, 
present fairly the state of affairs of the relevant principal 
subsidiary, are prepared on a going concern basis; and 
confirm if there have been any material losses, 
contingencies or uncertainties caused by weaknesses in 
internal controls; internal audit reports; external audit 
reports; prudential reviews; and regulatory reports. The 
GRC monitors the status of top and emerging risks and 
considers whether the mitigating actions put in place are 
appropriate. In addition, when unexpected losses have 
arisen or when incidents have occurred which indicate 
gaps in the control framework or in adherence to Group 
policies, the GRC and the GAC review special reports, 
prepared at the instigation of management, which 
analyse the cause of the issue, the lessons learned and 
the actions proposed by management to address the 
issue. 
Effectiveness of internal controls 
The Directors, through the GRC and the GAC, have 
conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of our 
system of risk management and internal control covering 
all material controls, including financial, operational and 
compliance controls, risk management systems, the 
adequacy of resources, qualifications and experience of 
staff of the accounting and financial reporting function 
and the risk function, and their training programmes and 
budget. The review does not extend to joint ventures or 
associates. The annual review of the effectiveness of our 
system of risk management and internal control was 
conducted with reference to COSO principles functioning 
as evidenced by specified entity level controls. A report 
on the effectiveness of each entity level control and 
regular risk and control reporting was escalated to the 
GRC and GAC from certain key management committees. 
The GRC and the GAC have received confirmation 
that executive management has taken or is taking the 
necessary actions to remedy any failings or weaknesses 
identified through the operation of our framework of 
controls. 
Going concern 
The financial statements are prepared on a going 
concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the 
Group and parent company have the resources to 
continue in business for the foreseeable future. 
In making this assessment, the Directors have considered 
a wide range of information relating to present and 
future conditions, including future projections of 
profitability, cash flows and capital resources. 
HSBC’s principal activities, business and operating 
models, strategic direction and top and emerging risks 
are described in the ‘Strategic Report’; a financial   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
291 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
summary, including a review of the consolidated income 
statement and consolidated balance sheet, is provided in 
the ‘Financial Review’ section; HSBC’s objectives, policies 
and processes for managing credit, liquidity and market 
risk are described in the ‘Risk’ section; and HSBC’s 
approach to capital management and allocation 
is described in the ‘Capital’ section. 
Employees 
At 31 December 2014 we had a total workforce of 
266,000 full-time and part-time employees compared 
with 263,000 at the end of 2013 and 270,000 at the end 
of 2012. Our main centres of employment are the UK 
with approximately 48,000 employees, India 32,000, 
Hong Kong 30,000, Brazil 21,000, mainland China 21,000, 
Mexico 17,000, the US 15,000 and France 9,000. 
In the context of the current global financial services 
operating environment, a high performance and values-
led work force is critical. We encourage open and honest 
communication in decision making. Employment issues 
and financial, economic, regulatory and competitive 
factors affecting HSBC’s performance are regularly 
shared with our employees. 
Reward 
Our approach to reward is meritocratic and market 
competitive, underpinned by an ethical and values based 
performance culture which aligns the interests of our 
employees, shareholders, regulators and customers.  
Employee relations 
We negotiate and consult with recognised unions as 
appropriate. The five highest concentrations of union 
membership are in Argentina, Brazil, mainland China, 
Malta and Mexico. It is our policy to maintain 
well-developed communications and consultation 
programmes with all employee representative bodies 
and there have been no material disruptions to our 
operations from labour disputes during the past five 
years. 
Diversity and inclusion 
HSBC is committed to building a values-driven high 
performance culture where all employees are valued, 
respected and where their opinions count. We remain 
committed to meritocracy, which requires a diverse and 
inclusive culture where employees believe that their 
views are heard, their concerns are attended to and 
they work in an environment where bias, discrimination 
and harassment on any matter, including gender, 
age, ethnicity, religion, sexuality and disability are not 
tolerated and where advancement is based on objective 
criteria. Our inclusive culture helps us respond to our 
diverse customer base, while developing and retaining 
a secure supply of skilled, committed employees. Our 
culture will be strengthened by employing the best 
people and optimising their ideas, abilities and 
differences.  
Oversight of our diversity and inclusion agenda and 
related activities resides with executives on the Group 
Diversity Committee, complemented by the Group 
People Committee and local People/Diversity 
Committees. 
Employee development 
The development of employees in both developed and 
emerging markets is essential to the future strength 
of our business. We have implemented a systematic 
approach to identifying, developing and deploying 
talented employees to ensure an appropriate supply 
of high calibre individuals with the values, skills and 
experience for current and future senior management 
positions. 
In 2014, we continued to build global consistency across 
our learning curricula and to improve the relevance and 
quality of learning programmes. We have endeavoured 
to achieve a standard of excellence focusing on 
leadership, values and technical capability. 
Employment of disabled persons 
We believe in providing equal opportunities for all 
employees. The employment of disabled persons is 
included in this commitment and the recruitment, 
training, career development and promotion of disabled 
persons is based on the aptitudes and abilities of the 
individual. Should employees become disabled during 
their employment with us, efforts are made to continue 
their employment and, if necessary, appropriate training 
and reasonable equipment and facilities are provided. 
Health and safety 
HSBC is committed to providing a safe and healthy 
environment for our employees, customers and visitors 
and pro-actively managing the health and safety risks 
associated with our business. Our objectives include 
compliance with health and safety laws in the countries 
in which we operate, identifying, removing, reducing or 
controlling material health and safety risks, reducing the 
likelihood of fires, dangerous occurrences and accidents 
to employees, customers and visitors. 
The Corporate Real Estate department within HSBC has 
overall responsibility for health and safety and has set 
global health and safety policies and standards for use 
wherever in the world HSBC operates. Achieving these 
policies and standards is the responsibility of the country 
Chief Operating Officer. 
In terms of physical and geopolitical risk, Global Security 
and Fraud Risk provide regular security risk assessments 
to assist management in judging the level of terrorist and 
violent criminal threat. Regional Security and Fraud Risk 
functions conduct biannual security reviews of all Group 
critical buildings to ensure measures to protect our staff, 
buildings, assets and information are appropriate to the 
level of threat. 
HSBC remains committed to the effective management 
of health and safety and protecting employees, 
customers and visitors to HSBC.  Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Employees / Other disclosures / Annual General Meeting 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
292 
Employee health and safety 
  2014  2013 2012
Number of employee workplace 
fatalities  2
1
  –  – 
Accidents involving more than  
3 days’ absence per 100,000 
employees  96  101  58 
All accident rate per 100,000 
employees  388
2
  355  375 
1 Non-HSBC staff working on HSBC related activity.  
2 Reflects higher reporting rate. 
Remuneration policy 
The quality and commitment of our employees 
is fundamental to our success and accordingly the Board 
aims to attract, retain and motivate the very best people. 
As trust and relationships are vital in our business our 
goal is to recruit those who are committed to making 
a long-term career with the organisation. 
HSBC’s reward strategy supports this objective through 
balancing both short-term and sustainable performance. 
Our reward strategy aims to reward success, not failure, 
and be properly aligned with our risk framework and 
related outcomes. In order to ensure alignment between 
remuneration and our business strategy, individual 
remuneration is determined through assessment 
of performance delivered against both annual and long-
term objectives summarised in performance scorecards 
as well as adherence to the HSBC Values of being ‘open, 
connected and dependable’ and acting with ‘courageous 
integrity’. Altogether, performance is judged, not only on 
what is achieved over the short and long term, but also 
on how it is achieved, as the latter contributes to the 
sustainability of the organisation.  
The financial and non-financial measures incorporated 
in the annual and long-term scorecards are carefully 
considered to ensure alignment with the long-term 
strategy of the Group. 
Further information on the Group’s approach to remuneration is 
given on page 300. 
Employee share plans 
Share options and discretionary awards of shares 
granted under HSBC share plans align the interests 
of employees with those of shareholders. The tables on 
the following pages set out the particulars of outstanding 
options, including those held by employees working 
under employment contracts that are regarded as 
‘continuous contracts’ for the purposes of the Hong Kong 
Employment Ordinance. The options were granted at 
nil consideration. No options have been granted to 
substantial shareholders, suppliers of goods or services, 
or in excess of the individual limit for each share plan. 
No options were cancelled by HSBC during the year. 
A summary for each plan of the total number of the 
options which were granted, exercised or lapsed during 
2014 is shown in the following tables. Further details 
required to be disclosed pursuant to Chapter 17 of the 
Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock 
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited are available on our 
website at www.hsbc.com/investor-relations/governance/ 
share-plans and on the website of The Stock Exchange 
of Hong Kong Limited at www.hkex.com.hk or can be 
obtained upon request from the Group Company 
Secretary, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ. Particulars 
of options held by Directors of HSBC Holdings are set out 
on page 321. 
Note 6 on the Financial Statements gives details on share-based 
payments, including discretionary awards of shares granted 
under HSBC share plans. 
All-employee share plans 
All-employee share option plans have operated within 
the Group and eligible employees have been granted 
options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. 
Options under the plans are usually exercisable after 
three or five years. The exercise of options may be 
advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, for 
example on retirement, and may be extended in certain 
circumstances, for example on the death of a participant, 
the executors of the participant’s estate may exercise 
options up to six months beyond the normal exercise 
period. The middle market closing price for HSBC 
Holdings ordinary shares quoted on the London Stock 
Exchange, as derived from the Daily Official List on 
22 September 2014, the day before options were 
granted in 2014, was £6.58. There will be no further 
grants under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share 
Option Plan: International. A new international all-
employee share purchase plan was launched in the third 
quarter of 2013. The all-employee share option plans will 
terminate on 27 May 2015 unless the Directors resolve 
to terminate the plans at an earlier date. 
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
293 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
HSBC Holdings All-employee Share Option Plans 
   HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
Dates of awards Exercise price  Exercisable At Granted Exercised
1
  Lapsed  At 
from  to  from to  from  to  1 Jan 2014 during year during year during year  31 Dec 2014 
Savings-Related Share Option Plan     
30 Apr 
2008  
23 Sep 
2014  
(£)
3.3116
(£) 
5.9397  
1 Aug 
2013  
1 May 
2020 53,950,886 28,688,703 25,097,425 3,798,209 53,743,955 
Savings-Related Share Option Plan: International   
30 Apr 
2008  
24 Apr  
2012  
(£)
3.3116
(£) 
5.9397  
1 Aug 
2013  
1 Feb 
2018 10,022,450 – 5,625,183 683,208 3,714,059 
30 Apr  
2008  
24 Apr 
2012  
(US$)
4.8876
(US$) 
11.8824  
1 Aug 
2013  
1 Feb 
2018 3,997,069 – 1,528,838 600,903 1,867,328 
30 Apr  
2008  
24 Apr 
2012  
(€)
3.6361
(€) 
7.5571  
1 Aug 
2013  
1 Feb 
2018 1,574,652 –   935,177 67,973 571,502 
30 Apr  
2008  
24 Apr 
2012 
(HK$)
37.8797
(HK$) 
92.5881  
1 Aug 
2013  
1 Feb 
2018 24,215,341 – 17,206,998 539,561 6,468,782 
1 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £6.36. 
Discretionary Share Option Plans 
There have been no grants of discretionary share options under employee share plans since 30 September 2005. 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
Dates of awards Exercise price (£) Exercisable At Exercised Lapsed   At
from to from to  from to 1 Jan 2014 during year during year    31 Dec 2014
HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan
1,2
   
30 Apr
2004
20 Apr 
2005 7.2181 7.5379
30 Apr 
2007
20 Apr 
2015 55,025,868 1,434 48,650,452 6,373,982 
HSBC Share Plan
1
 
30 Sep
2005 7.9911
30 Sep
2008
30 Sep
2015 86,046 – – 86,046 
1 The HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan expired on 26 May 2005 and the HSBC Share Plan expired on 27 May 2011. No options have been 
granted under the Plan since that date. 
2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was £6.09. 
Other disclosures 
Further information about share capital, Directors’ 
interests, dividends and shareholders, and employee 
diversity is set out in the Appendix to this section on 
page 294. 
Annual General Meeting 
All Directors listed on pages 264 to 268 attended the 
Annual General Meeting in 2014, with the exception 
of Heidi Miller and Phillip Ameen who were appointed 
Directors on 1 September 2014 and 1 January 2015 
respectively. 
Our Annual General Meeting in 2015 will be held at 
the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad 
Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Friday 
24 April 2015 at 11.00am. 
An informal meeting of shareholders will be held at 
1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong on Monday 20 April 
2015 at 4.30pm. 
A live webcast of the Annual General Meeting will 
be available on www.hsbc.com. A recording of the 
proceedings will be available shortly after the conclusion 
of the Annual General Meeting until 22 May 2015 on 
www.hsbc.com. 
On behalf of the Board 
D J Flint  
Group Chairman  
HSBC Holdings plc 
Registered number 617987 
23 February 2015 Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Appendix to Corporate Governance 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
294 
Appendix to Corporate Governance – Other disclosures 
Share capital 
Issued share capital 
The nominal value of HSBC Holdings’ issued share capital paid up at 31 December 2014 was US$9,608,951,630 divided 
into 19,217,874,260 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, 1,450,000 non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and 
1 non-cumulative preference share of £0.01. 
The percentage of the nominal value of HSBC Holdings’ total issued share capital paid up at 31 December 2014 
represented by the ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and the non-
cumulative preference share of £0.01 was approximately 99.9998%, 0.0002%, and 0%, respectively. 
Rights and obligations attaching to shares  
The rights and obligations attaching to each class of shares in our share capital are set out in our Articles of Association 
subject to certain rights and obligations that attach to each class of preference share as determined by the Board prior to 
allotment of the relevant preference shares. Set out below is a summary of the rights and obligations attaching to each 
class of shares with respect to voting, dividends, capital and, in the case of the preference shares, redemption. 
To be registered, a transfer of shares must be in relation to shares which are fully paid up and on which we have no lien 
and to one class of shares denominated in the same currency. The transfer must be in favour of a single transferee or 
no more than four joint transferees and it must be duly stamped (if required). The transfer must be delivered to our 
registered office or our Registrars accompanied by the certificate to which it relates or such other evidence that proves 
the title of the transferor. 
If a shareholder or any person appearing to be interested in our shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the 
Companies Act 2006 (which confers upon public companies the power to require information from any person whom 
we know or have reasonable cause to believe to be interested in the shares) and has failed in relation to any shares (the 
‘default shares’) to supply the information requested within the period set out in the notice, then the member, unless the 
Board otherwise determines, is not entitled to be present at or to vote the default shares at any general meeting or to 
exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder. If the default shares represent at least 0.25% in nominal value 
of the issued shares of that class, unless the Board otherwise determines, any dividend shall be withheld by the Company 
without interest, no election may be made for any scrip dividend alternative, and no transfer of any shares held by 
the member will be registered except in limited circumstances. 
Ordinary shares 
Subject to the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Association HSBC Holdings may, by ordinary resolution, declare 
dividends to be paid to the holders of ordinary shares, though no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by 
the Board. The Board may pay interim dividends as appears to the Board to be justified by the profits available for 
distribution. All dividends shall be apportioned and paid proportionately to the percentage of the nominal amount paid 
up on the shares during any portion or portions of the period in respect of which the dividend is paid, but if any share is 
issued on terms providing that it shall rank for dividend as from a particular date, it shall rank for dividend accordingly. 
Subject to the Articles of Association, the Board may, with the prior authority of an ordinary resolution passed by the 
shareholders and subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may determine, offer to any holders of ordinary 
shares the right to elect to receive ordinary shares of the same or a different currency, credited as fully paid, instead of 
cash in any currency in respect of the whole (or some part, to be determined by the Board) of any dividend specified by 
the ordinary resolution. At the 2012 Annual General Meeting shareholders gave authority to the Directors to offer a scrip 
dividend alternative until the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2017 or 24 May 2017.  
Further information on the policy adopted by the Board for paying interim dividends on the ordinary shares can be found on page 458. 
Preference shares 
There are three classes of preference shares in the share capital of HSBC Holdings, non-cumulative preference shares of 
US$0.01 each (the ‘dollar preference shares’), non-cumulative preference shares of £0.01 each (the ‘sterling preference 
shares’) and non-cumulative preference shares of €0.01 (the ‘euro preference shares’). The Dollar Preference Shares in 
issue are Series A dollar preference shares and the sterling preference share in issue is a Series A sterling preference 
share. There are no euro preference shares in issue.  
Dollar Preference Shares 
Holders of the dollar preference shares are only entitled to attend and vote at general meetings if any dividend payable 
on the relevant preference shares in respect of such period as the Board shall determine prior to allotment thereof is 
not paid in full or in such other circumstances, and upon and subject to such terms, as the Board may determine prior to 
allotment of the relevant preference shares. In the case of the dollar preference shares in issue at 23 February 2015 the 
relevant period determined by the Board is four consecutive dividend payment dates. Whenever holders of the dollar   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
295 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
preference shares are entitled to vote on a resolution at a general meeting, on a show of hands every such holder who is 
present in person or by proxy shall have one vote and on a poll every such holder who is present in person or by proxy 
shall have one vote per preference share held by him or her or such number of votes per share as the Board shall 
determine prior to allotment of such share. 
Subject to the Articles of Association, holders of the dollar preference shares have the right to a non-cumulative 
preferential dividend at such rate, on such dates and on such other terms and conditions as may be determined by the 
Board prior to allotment thereof in priority to the payment of any dividend to the holders of ordinary shares and any 
other class of shares of HSBC Holdings in issue (other than (i) the other preference shares in issue and any other shares 
expressed to rank pari passu therewith as regards income; and (ii) any shares which by their terms rank in priority to the 
relevant preference shares as regards income). A dividend of US$62 per annum is payable on each dollar preference share 
in issue at 23 February 2015. The dividend is paid at the rate of US$15.50 per quarter at the sole and absolute discretion 
of the Board.  
The dollar preference shares carry no rights to participate in the profits or assets of HSBC Holdings other than as set out 
in the Articles of Association and subject to the Companies Act 2006, do not confer any right to participate in any offer 
or invitation by way of rights or otherwise to subscribe for additional shares in HSBC Holdings, do not confer any right of 
conversion and do not confer any right to participate in any issue of bonus shares or shares issued by way of capitalisation 
of reserves. 
Subject to the relevant insolvency laws and the Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings, holders of the dollar preference 
shares have the right in a winding up of HSBC Holdings to receive out of the assets of HSBC Holdings available for 
distribution to its shareholders, in priority to any payment to the holders of the ordinary shares and any other class of 
shares of HSBC Holdings in issue (other than (i) the other relevant preference shares and any other shares expressed to 
rank pari passu there with as regards repayment of capital; and (ii) any shares which by their terms rank in priority to the 
relevant preference shares as regards repayment of capital), a sum equal to any unpaid dividend on the dollar preference 
shares which is payable as a dividend in accordance with or pursuant to the Articles of Association and the amount paid 
up or credited as paid up on the dollar preference shares together with such premium (if any) as may be determined by 
the Board prior to allotment thereof. In the case of the dollar preference shares in issue at 23 February 2015, the 
premium is US$999.99 per dollar preference share. 
The dollar preference shares may be redeemed in accordance with the Articles of Association and the terms on which 
dollar preference shares were issued and allotted. In the case of the dollar preference shares in issue at 23 February 2015, 
HSBC Holdings may redeem such shares in whole at any time on or after 16 December 2010, subject to the prior consent 
of the PRA.  
Sterling Preference Shares 
The sterling preference shares carry the same rights and obligations under the Articles of Association as the dollar 
preference shares, save in respect of certain rights and obligations that attach to sterling preference shares to be 
determined by the Board prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares and the timing and payment of proceeds 
from the redemption of each class of share. The one sterling preference share in issue at 23 February 2015 carries the 
same rights and obligations as the dollar preference shares in issue at 23 February 2015 to the extent described in the 
section above save as follows: 
1 the holder of the sterling preference share is not entitled to attend or vote at general meetings;  
2 the sterling preference share may be redeemed in whole on any date as may be determined by the Board; and 
3 the exceptions to the circumstances in which a dividend will not be declared or paid do not apply. 
A dividend of £0.04 per annum is payable on the sterling preference share in issue at 23 February 2015. The dividend is 
paid at the rate of £0.01 per quarter at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. 
Euro Preference Shares  
The euro preference shares carry the same rights and obligations under the Articles of Association as the dollar preference 
shares, save in respect of certain rights and obligations that attach to euro preference shares which are to be determined 
by the Board prior to allotment of the relevant preference shares and the timing and payment of proceeds from the 
redemption of each class of share.  Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Appendix to Corporate Governance 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
296 
Share capital during 2014 
The following events occurred during the year in relation to the ordinary share capital of HSBC Holdings: 
Scrip dividends 
  HSBC Holdings 
ordinary shares issued 
Aggregate 
 nominal value Market value per share 
Issued in lieu of  on number US$ US$  £
Fourth interim dividend for 2013  30 April 2014 184,047,509 92,023,755 9.9254  5.9788
First interim dividend for 2014    10 July 2014 27,302,240 13,651,120 10.3980  6.1996
Second interim dividend for 2014  9 October 2014 34,787,645 17,393,823 10.6850  6.4478
Third interim dividend for 2014  10 December 2014 22,338,589 11,169,295 10.1178  6.2750 
 
All-Employee share plans 
Number 
Aggregate
 nominal value  Exercise price 
US$ from  to
HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans    
HSBC ordinary shares issued in £ 30,722,608 15,361,304 £ 3.3116  5.9397
HSBC ordinary shares issued in HK$  17,206,998 8,603,499 HK$ 37.8797  92.5881
HSBC ordinary shares issued in US$  1,528,838 764,419 US$ 4.8876  11.8824
HSBC ordinary shares issued in € 935,177 467,589 € 3.6361  7.5571
Options over HSBC ordinary shares lapsed  5,689,854 2,844,927  
Options over HSBC ordinary shares granted in response to
approximately 24,000 applications from HSBC employees 
in the UK on 23 September 2014  28,688,703 14,344,352     
HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan 6,470 3,235 £ 5.9290  6.5770
Plan d’Epargne   
HSBC ordinary shares issued for the benefit of non-UK 
resident employees of HSBC France and its subsidiaries 1,763,449 881,725 € 6.7073 
 
 
 
Discretionary share incentive plans 
HSBC Holdings
ordinary shares 
Aggregate 
nominal value Exercise price 
 
Options 
issued US$ from (£)  to (£)  lapsed
Options exercised under:     
The HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan  1,434 717 7.2181  7.5379  48,650,452
 
HSBC share plans 
HSBC Holdings
ordinary shares 
Aggregate nominal 
value Market value per share 
issued US$ from (£)  to (£)
Vesting of awards under the HSBC Share Plan and  
HSBC Share Plan 2011  67,226,264 33,613,132 5.9180  6.6040 
Authorities to allot and to purchase shares 
At the Annual General Meeting in 2014, shareholders renewed the general authority for the Directors to allot new shares 
up to 12,576,146,960 ordinary shares, 15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of £0.01 each, 15,000,000 non-
cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and 15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of €0.01 each. Within 
this, the Directors have authority to allot up to a maximum of 943,211,022 ordinary shares wholly for cash to persons 
other than existing shareholders. Shareholders also renewed the authority for the Directors to make market purchases 
of up to 1,886,422,044 ordinary shares. The Directors have not exercised this authority.  
In addition, shareholders gave authority for the Directors to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into 
no more than 4,500,000,000 ordinary shares in relation to any issue by HSBC Holdings or any member of the Group of 
contingent convertible securities that automatically convert into or are exchanged for ordinary shares in HSBC Holdings in 
prescribed circumstances. Further details about the issue of contingent convertible securities can be found in Note 35 on 
the Financial Statements. 
Other than as described in the table above headed ‘Share capital during 2014’, the Directors did not allot any shares 
during 2014. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
297 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Treasury shares 
In accordance with the terms of a waiver granted by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on 19 December 2005, HSBC Holdings 
will comply with the applicable law and regulation in the UK in relation to the holding of any shares in treasury and with 
the conditions of the waiver in connection with any shares it may hold in treasury. Pursuant to Chapter 6 of the UK 
Companies Act 2006 no shares are currently held in treasury. 
Directors’ interests 
Pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing Rules and according to the register of Directors’ interests maintained by 
HSBC Holdings pursuant to section 352 of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the Directors of HSBC 
Holdings at 31 December 2014 had the following interests, all beneficial unless otherwise stated, in the shares and loan 
capital of HSBC Holdings and its associated corporations: 
Directors’ interests – shares and loan capital 
 At 31 December 2014 
 
 At
 1 January
 2014 
 Beneficial
 owner 
Child 
 under 18 
 or spouse 
Jointly 
 with another
 person  Trustee 
 
 Total 
 interests
1
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares     
Safra Catz
3 
  – 20,045 – – –  20,045
Lord Evans of Weardale  1,495 5,519 – – –  5,519
Joachim Faber   10,605 24,105 – – –  24,105
Rona Fairhead   21,858 – 76,524 –  76,524
Douglas Flint
 
 392,664 400,748 – – –  400,748
Stuart Gulliver   2,730,477 2,434,303 176,885 – –  2,611,188
Sam Laidlaw   35,123 35,352 – –  1,416
2
 36,768
John Lipsky
3
   15,525 15,820 – – –  15,820
Rachel Lomax   – 15,500 – – –  15,500
Iain Mackay   65,130 79,933 – – –  79,933
Heidi Miller
3 
 – 3,575 – –  – 
 
3,575 
Marc Moses   400,753 480,423 – –  –  480,423 
Sir Simon Robertson   9,912 22,981 – –  –  22,981 
Jonathan Symonds   – 15,940 4,613 –  –  20,553 
    
 RMBm RMBm RMBm RMBm RMBm  RMBm
HSBC Bank 2.875% Notes 2015    
Joachim Faber
4 
 5.1 – – – –  5.1
1 Executive Directors’ other interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares arising from the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans, the 
HSBC Share Plan and the HSBC Share Plan 2011 are set out in the Scheme interests in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 320. At 
31 December 2014, the aggregate interests under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, 
including interests arising through employee share plans were: Douglas Flint – 405,683; Stuart Gulliver – 5,175,003; Marc Moses – 1,775,461; 
and Iain Mackay – 1,086,284. Each Director’s total interests represents less than 0.03% of the shares in issue. 
2 Non-beneficial. 
3 Safra Catz has an interest in 4,009, John Lipsky has an interest in 3,164 and Heidi Miller has an interest in 715 listed American Depositary Shares 
(‘ADS’), which are categorised as equity derivatives under Part XV of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong. Each ADS represents 
five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares. 
4 Non-beneficial interest in renminbi (‘RMB’) 1.2m 2.875% Notes 2015. 
No Directors held any short position as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in the shares and 
loan capital of HSBC Holdings and its associated corporations. Save as stated above, none of the Directors had an interest 
in any shares or debentures of HSBC Holdings or any associated corporation at the beginning or at the end of the year, 
and none of the Directors or members of their immediate families were awarded or exercised any right to subscribe for 
any shares or debentures in any HSBC corporation during the year.  
Since the end of the year, the aggregate interests of the following Director has increased by the number of HSBC Holdings 
ordinary shares shown against his name: 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
 
Douglas Flint (beneficial owner) 
 
25
1
1 The acquisition of shares in the HSBC Holdings UK Share Incentive Plan through regular monthly contributions. 
There have been no other changes in the share and loan capital interests of the Directors from 31 December 2014 to the 
date of this report. Any subsequent changes up to the last practicable date before the publication of the Notice of Annual 
General Meeting will be set out in the notes to that notice. 
At 31 December 2014, non-executive Directors and senior management (being executive Directors and Group Managing 
Directors of HSBC Holdings) held, in aggregate, beneficial interests in 17,531,530 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares (0.09% of 
the issued ordinary shares).  Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance (continued) 
Appendix to Corporate Governance 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
298 
At 31 December 2014, executive Directors and senior management held, in aggregate, options to subscribe for 28,288 
of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans and HSBC Holdings Group 
Share Option Plan. These options are exercisable between 2015 and 2020 at prices ranging from £4.4621 to £5.1887 per 
ordinary share. 
Dividends and shareholders 
Dividends for 2014 
First, second and third interim dividends for 2014, each of US$0.10 per ordinary share, were paid on 10 July 2014, 
9 October 2014 and 10 December 2014 respectively. Note 9 on the Financial Statements gives more information on the 
dividends declared in 2014. On 23 February 2015, the Directors declared a fourth interim dividend for 2014 of US$0.20 
per ordinary share in lieu of a final dividend, which will be payable on 30 April 2015 in cash in US dollars, or in sterling or 
Hong Kong dollars at exchange rates to be determined on 20 April 2015, with a scrip dividend alternative. As the fourth 
interim dividend for 2014 was declared after 31 December 2014 it has not been included in the balance sheet of HSBC as 
a debt. The reserves available for distribution at 31 December 2014 were US$48,883m. 
A quarterly dividend of US$15.50 per 6.20% non-cumulative US dollar preference share, Series A (‘Series A dollar 
preference share’), (equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A American Depositary Share, each of which 
represents one-fortieth of a Series A dollar preference share), was paid on 17 March, 16 June, 15 September and 
15 December 2014. 
Dividends for 2015 
Quarterly dividends of US$15.50 per Series A dollar preference share (equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A 
American Depositary Share, each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A dollar preference share) and £0.01 per 
Series A sterling preference share were declared on 9 February 2015 for payment on 16 March 2015. 
Communication with shareholders 
Communication with shareholders is given high priority. The Board has adopted a shareholder communication policy 
which is available on www.hsbc.com. Extensive information about our activities is provided to shareholders in the Annual 
Report and Accounts, the Strategic Report and the Interim Report which are available on www.hsbc.com. There is regular 
dialogue with institutional investors and enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholdings and our 
business are welcomed and are dealt with in an informative and timely manner. All shareholders are encouraged to 
attend the Annual General Meeting or the informal meeting of shareholders held in Hong Kong to discuss our progress. 
Shareholders may send enquiries to the Board in writing to the Group Company Secretary, HSBC Holdings plc, 8 Canada 
Square, London E14 5HQ or by sending an email to shareholderquestions@hsbc.com. 
Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting as provided by 
the UK Companies Act 2006. Requests to call a general meeting may be made by members representing at least 5% of the 
paid-up capital of the Company as carries the right of voting at general meetings of HSBC Holdings (excluding any paid-up 
capital held as treasury shares). A request must state the general nature of the business to be dealt with at the meeting 
and may include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting. 
A resolution may properly be moved at a meeting unless it would, if passed, be ineffective (whether by reason of 
inconsistency with any enactment or the Company’s constitution or otherwise); it is defamatory of any person; or it is 
frivolous or vexatious. A request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form and must be authenticated by the person 
or persons making it. A request may be made in writing to the postal address referred to in the paragraph above or by 
sending an email to shareholderquestions@hsbc.com. At any meeting convened on such request no business shall be 
transacted except that stated by the requisition or proposed by the Board. 
Notifiable interests in share capital 
At 31 December 2014, we had received the following disclosures (which have not been subsequently changed) of major 
holdings of voting rights pursuant to the requirements of Rule 5 of the FCA Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules: 
• Legal & General Group Plc gave notice on 10 July 2013 that on 9 July 2013 its holding of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
fell below 3.00% of the total voting rights at that date; and 
• BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 9 December 2009 that on 7 December 2009 it had the following: an indirect interest in 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of 1,142,439,457; qualifying financial instruments with 705,100 voting rights that may 
be acquired if the instruments are exercised or converted; and financial instruments with similar economic effect to 
qualifying financial instruments which refer to 234,880 voting rights, each representing 6.56%, 0.0041% and 0.0013%, 
respectively, of the total voting rights at that date. 
At 31 December 2014, according to the register maintained by HSBC Holdings pursuant to section 336 of the Securities 
and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong: 
• JPMorgan Chase & Co. gave notice on 21 November 2014 that on 18 November 2014 it had the following interests in 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares: a long position of 937,591,714 shares; a short position of 99,085,113 shares; and a   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
299 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
lending pool of 527,117,024 shares, each representing 4.88%, 0.51% and 2.74%, respectively, of the ordinary shares 
in issue at that date; and  
• BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 28 October 2014 that on 24 October 2014 it had the following interests in HSBC Holdings 
ordinary shares: a long position of 1,238,135,870 shares and a short position of 4,572,291 shares, each representing 
6.45% and 0.02%, respectively, of the ordinary shares in issue at that date. 
In compliance with the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited at least 25% 
of the total issued share capital has been held by the public at all times during 2014 and up to the date of this report. 
Dealings in HSBC Holdings listed securities 
Except for dealings as intermediaries by HSBC Bank and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, which are 
members of a European Economic Area exchange, neither HSBC Holdings nor any of its subsidiaries have purchased, sold 
or redeemed any of its securities listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited during the year ended 31 December 
2014.  Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Annual Statement  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
300 
Directors’ Remuneration 
Report Page App
1
Annual Statement from the Group 
Remuneration Committee Chairman  
300
Our remuneration strategy and key decisions 
for 2014 
300
Major decisions on Directors’ remuneration 
302
Future regulatory change 
302
Directors’ remuneration policy  
303
Downward override policy 
304
Differences in policy applied to employees 
generally 
304
Material factors taken into account when 
setting pay policy 
305
Adjustments, malus and clawback 
306
Remuneration policy – non-executive Directors 
306
Service contracts 
306
Other directorships 
307
Annual report on remuneration  
307
Remuneration Committee 
307
Group variable pay pool 
309
Single figure of remuneration 
311
Remuneration scenarios and outcomes 
313
Awards under the GPSP 
314
Determining executive Directors’ annual 
performance 
315
Total pension entitlements 
318
Payments to past Directors 
318
Exit payments made in year 
318
Scheme interests awarded during 2014 
318
Summary of performance 
319
CEO remuneration 
319
Directors’ interests in shares 
320
Shareholder context 
322
Implementation of remuneration policy in 
2015 
322
Annual bonus scorecards 
323
Additional disclosures  
324
Employee compensation and benefits 
324
Emoluments of senior management 
324
Emoluments of five highest paid employees 
325
Remuneration of eight highest paid senior 
executives 
325
Pillar 3 remuneration disclosures 
326
1 Appendix to Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Annual Statement from 
the Group Remuneration 
Committee Chairman 
Dear Shareholder, 
I am very pleased to present the Remuneration Report 
for 2014. In this report we provide details of the HSBC 
remuneration policy, what we paid our Directors in 2014 
and why.  
This is the first year in which our remuneration policy, 
which was approved at last year’s Annual General 
Meeting, has been implemented. I hope this report 
will give you an understanding of how the Group 
Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) 
implemented the policy in 2014 and, more importantly, 
the link between the performance and pay of our 
executives and the long-term interests of our 
shareholders.  
The report is divided into three sections: my letter to 
you as Chairman of the Committee, a summary of our 
remuneration policy, and an annual report on what we 
paid our Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
Additional remuneration-related disclosures are 
provided in the appendix to this report. 
Our remuneration strategy and key 
decisions for 2014  
Our remuneration strategy is designed to reward 
competitively the achievement of long-term sustainable 
performance and attract and motivate the very best 
people who are committed to a long-term career with 
the Group in the long-term interests of our shareholders.  
The Committee believes that it is important that what 
we pay our people is aligned to our business strategy. 
Performance should be judged not only on what is 
achieved over the short and long-term but also, 
importantly, on how it is achieved, as we believe the 
latter contributes to the long-term sustainability of the 
business.   
In 2014, new regulatory requirements were introduced 
under the EU’s Capital Requirements Directive (‘CRD’) IV. 
The consequential changes to the remuneration rules 
of the Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA’) have 
influenced how we pay our senior executives and those 
of our employees identified by the PRA as having a 
material impact on the institution’s risk profile, being 
what are termed Material Risk Takers (‘MRTs’). 
From 2014, CRD IV introduced a cap on variable pay 
requiring banks in the EU, including HSBC, to restrict 
variable pay awards of MRTs, if approved by 
shareholders, to 200% of fixed pay. This authority was 
sought and given by shareholders at last year’s Annual 
General Meeting.  
The CRD IV requirements present challenges for HSBC 
in ensuring that the total compensation package for our 
employees in all of the markets in which we operate   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
301 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
around the world remains competitive, in particular, 
relative to other banks not subject to these requirements.  
As a consequence, we introduced fixed pay allowances 
for our executive Directors and other MRTs to rebalance 
the fixed and variable components of their total 
compensation. The Committee believes that the 
introduction of fixed pay allowances as a component 
of remuneration was essential to ensure the total 
compensation package for our employees remains 
competitive. HSBC must continue to retain and attract 
talent in key non-EU markets where our international 
peers and their domestic competitors do not have to 
comply with the CRD IV pay cap. As required by CRD IV, 
fixed pay allowances are not linked to the achievement 
of any performance conditions and we comply with the 
current guidelines which have been issued by the 
regulators. Our executive Directors and senior executives 
receive this allowance in shares which are subject to a 
retention period in order to maintain a close alignment 
with the long-term interests of our shareholders.  
In July 2014, the PRA introduced a new requirement for 
firms to ensure that clawback (i.e. a firm’s ability to 
recoup paid and/or vested awards) can be applied to 
variable pay awards granted on or after 1 January 2015 
for a period of at least seven years from the date of 
award. This requirement is in addition to a firm’s ability 
to apply malus (i.e. reduction or cancellation of unvested 
awards prior to the vesting of such awards) in certain 
circumstances.  
To comply with the new PRA requirement, the 
Committee has established a clawback policy which 
will apply to all awards we grant to MRTs on or after 
1 January 2015. More details of the circumstances in 
which ‘malus’ and ‘clawback’ can be applied is provided 
later in this report. 
The Committee has also adopted a policy enabling it to 
exercise its discretion to reduce variable pay awards for 
executive Directors and other senior executives when it 
believes there has been insufficient yearly progress in 
developing an effective anti-money laundering and 
sanctions compliance programme. 
In 2014, there were a number of legal and regulatory 
costs for legacy events, including penalties arising from 
the investigation of certain behaviour within the foreign 
exchange markets. These were fully reflected in the 
level of profits used by the Committee to determine the 
incentive pool, and resulted in a US$600m adjustment to 
the pool. Additionally, there were a number of actions 
taken, including discretion applied to reduce variable 
pay proposed for 2014 for Group employees by US$22m, 
including members of senior management. More details 
are provided later in this report. 
 
Overall performance summary/business context 
HSBC Holdings plc 
• In 2014, the Group maintained a strong balance sheet and robust capital position. Excluding the effect of currency translation, loans 
and advances grew by US$28bn and customer accounts increased by US$47bn, with a ratio of customer advances to customer 
accounts of 72%. 
• Profit before tax fell on a reported basis compared with 2013, primarily reflecting lower gains from disposals and reclassifications in 
2014 and the effect of other significant items, which included provisions for fines, settlements and UK customer redress of US$3.7bn. 
On an adjusted basis, excluding the effect of significant items and currency translation, profit before tax was broadly unchanged from 
2013. 
• Adjusted profit before tax was up in three out of five regions. 
• CMB reported a record profit in 2014.  
• Revenue on an adjusted basis was broadly unchanged from 2013. This reflected growth in CMB offset by a fall in revenue in GB&M, 
together with lower revenue in RBWM and GPB reflecting the remodelling of these businesses. 
• Net interest margin for the Group stabilised during 2014. 
• Loan impairment charges were lower, reflecting the changes to our portfolio since 2011. 
• The reported cost efficiency ratio increased from 59.6% in 2013 to 67.3% in 2014, and on an adjusted basis it increased to 61.1% 
in 2014 from 57.7%, principally reflecting higher operating expenses due to an increase in Regulatory Programmes and Compliance 
costs, inflationary pressures, continued investment in strategic initiatives, and a rise in the bank levy. These factors were partly offset 
by sustainable cost savings in the year of US$1.3bn. 
• The return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity was 7.3%, down from 9.2% in 2013, primarily reflecting lower gains from 
disposals and reclassifications, together with higher operating expenses, including provisions for fines, settlements and UK customer 
redress.  
• Dividends in respect of 2014 increased from US$0.49 per ordinary share in 2013 to US$0.50 per ordinary share. 
• Our capital position strengthened in 2014 with our CRD IV transitional CET1 ratio increasing to 10.9% from 10.8% in 2013. 
RBWM 
• Lower reported profit before tax was principally driven by lower 
revenue from the continued run-off of our US CML portfolio and 
higher operating expenses in our Principal RBWM business. 
CMB
• CMB reported an increase in profit before tax reflecting higher 
revenue performance in our home markets of Hong Kong and 
the UK, together with lower LICs, mainly in Europe and Latin 
America.  
GB&M 
• GB&M reported lower profit before tax, mainly reflecting an 
increase in significant items, notably settlements and provisions 
in connection with foreign exchange investigations, together 
with lower revenue in part reflecting an adjustment following the 
introduction of the FFVA and lower Foreign Exchange revenue.  
GPB
• Lower profit before tax on an adjusted basis, mainly reflected a 
managed reduction in client assets as we continued to reposition 
the business. Despite a reduction in client assets, we attracted 
positive net new money of US$14bn in areas that we have 
targeted for growth. 
  Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Annual Statement / Directors’ remuneration policy 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
302 
Major decisions on Directors’ remuneration 
The Group Chief Risk Officer, Marc Moses, was 
appointed an executive Director with effect from 
1 January 2014, reflecting the criticality of the Risk 
function to HSBC, his leadership of that function and his 
personal contribution to the Group. His remuneration 
has therefore been brought into line with the executive 
Directors’ remuneration policy. 
Following consultation with shareholders, the Group 
Chairman, Douglas Flint, became eligible under the 
policy to receive a one-time award under the Group 
Performance Share Plan (‘GPSP’). The Committee has 
subsequently decided that it will not grant a GPSP award 
to the Group Chairman for 2014. Instead, it has decided 
to review the base salary of the Group Chairman as part 
of any future policy change that is proposed to 
shareholders. 
The Committee has concluded that there will be no 
increase to the base salary of executive Directors in 
2015. In light of the feedback received from some of our 
shareholders, the Committee will review the level of 
cash pension allowances for executive Directors as part 
of any future policy change.  
The Committee has exercised its discretion to reduce 
the executive Directors’ overall variable pay from that 
which would be justified simply from application of the 
scorecard weightings. This adjustment is justified in the 
context of the overall financial results and the legal, 
compliance and regulatory issues impacting the Group, 
particularly those related to historical events, including 
but not limited to foreign exchange. Further details are 
set out in this report. 
Future regulatory change 
Looking ahead to 2015/2016, further significant 
regulatory changes to executive remuneration are 
expected from the recent PRA and Financial Conduct 
Authority consultation on ‘Strengthening the alignment 
of risk and reward: new remuneration rules’. In addition, 
the European Banking Authority is expected to issue for 
consultation remuneration guidelines which include 
criteria under which allowances can be treated as fixed 
remuneration.  
The number and volume of regulatory changes that 
have been and are being proposed in connection with 
remuneration are, in the Committee’s view, excessive 
and are hindering our ability to communicate with any 
certainty to our current employees and potential 
employees the remuneration policies and structures 
that would apply to them. Regulatory uncertainty and 
complexity is contributing to a general misunderstanding 
about how our remuneration policies work and the 
impact of those policies on employee performance.  
The Committee will consider the effect of these various 
changes as well as shareholder feedback on our policy. 
In light of these factors, it is possible that we will need 
to make changes to our remuneration policy in 2016.  
Sir Simon Robertson 
Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee 
23 February 2015    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
303 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Directors’ remuneration 
policy 
The following section sets out a summary of HSBC’s 
remuneration policy for our executive and non-executive 
Directors approved at the Annual General Meeting on 
23 May 2014. The full policy is available in last year’s 
Directors’ Remuneration Report in the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2013, a copy of which can be obtained by 
visiting the following website: http://www.hsbc.com/ 
investor-relations/financial-and-regulatory-reports. 
The quality and long-term commitment of all of 
our employees is fundamental to our success. We 
therefore aim to attract, retain and motivate the very best 
people who are committed to maintaining a long-term 
career with the Group, and who will perform their role in 
the long-term interests of shareholders. 
The key elements of our remuneration policy, fixed 
pay, benefits and variable pay consisting of the annual 
incentive and GPSP are shown below. These elements 
support the achievement of our strategic objectives 
through balancing reward for both short-term and long-
term sustainable performance. Our strategy is designed 
to reward only success, and to align employees’ 
remuneration with our risk framework and risk 
outcomes. For our most senior employees, the greater 
part of their reward is deferred and thereby subject 
to malus, that is, unvested awards can be reduced or 
cancelled if warranted by events. In addition, as outlined 
in the Chairman’s statement, the variable pay awards 
made from 1 January 2015 will be subject to clawback. 
 
Remuneration policy – executive Directors 
 
Base salary Fixed pay allowance Pension 
 
Benefits 
FIXED PAY  
• Paid in cash on a 
monthly basis. 
• Benchmarked on an 
annual basis against 
relevant comparator 
group. 
• Base salary increases for 
each executive Director 
will not exceed more 
than 15% of base salary 
levels in our 2013 
Directors’ Remuneration 
Report during the term 
of this policy. 
• Granted in immediately 
vested shares. 
• Shares issued are subject 
to a retention period 
(20% released in the March 
immediately following the 
end of the financial year, 
80% released after a period 
of 5 years from the date of 
the first release). 
• Reflects the role, skills, and 
experience of the Directors 
and the maintenance of a 
competitive total 
remuneration package for 
the retention of key talent. 
• Not subject to malus or 
clawback. 
• Cash allowance in lieu 
of pension of up to 
50% of base salary. 
• To attract and retain 
key talent by being 
market competitive. 
BENEFITS 
• To take account of local market 
practice and include the provision 
of medical insurance, income 
protection insurance, health 
assessment, life assurance, club 
membership, tax assistance, use of 
company car (including any tax due 
on the benefit) and travel assistance.
• Stuart Gulliver is also provided with 
an accommodation and car benefit 
in Hong Kong. Any tax due on this 
benefit is borne by HSBC.  
• Additional benefits may also be 
provided where an executive is 
relocated or spends a substantial 
proportion of their time in more  
than one jurisdiction based on 
business needs. 
 
Purpose and link to strategy Annual incentive 
 
GPSP 
VARIABLE PAY 
• To drive and reward 
performance consistent with 
strategy and align to 
shareholder interests. 
• Adherence to HSBC Values is a 
prerequisite to be considered 
for any variable pay. 
• Deferral provides an incentive 
for a longer-term commitment 
and the ability to apply malus. 
• Performance targets are set 
taking into account the 
economic environment, the 
Group’s strategic priorities 
and risk appetite. 
• Maximum is 200% of fixed  
pay. 
• Delivered in the form of cash and shares. 
A minimum of 50% of awards will be made 
in shares. 
• Measured against an annual scorecard, 
based on targets set for financial and non-
financial measures. The scorecards vary by 
individual. 
• A minimum of 60% of the total award will 
be deferred and vest over a period of three 
years or such other period as determined 
by the Committee. 
• Maximum is 67% of fixed pay (1/3 of 
maximum variable pay opportunity of 
200% of fixed pay). 
• The Committee can exercise its discretion 
to vary the award if it considers that it 
does not reflect the overall position and 
performance of the Company. 
• Delivered in shares. 
• Award levels are determined by considering 
performance up to the end of the financial 
year against enduring performance 
measures set out in the long-term 
performance scorecard. 
• The award vests after a five-year period. On 
vesting, the shares must be retained for the 
duration of the participant’s employment.  
• For leavers not deemed to be good leavers, 
the unvested awards will be cancelled, and 
the vested shares will be released in three 
equal instalments on or around each 
anniversary of the date of cessation of 
employment.  
• Maximum is 133% of fixed pay (2/3 of the 
maximum total variable pay opportunity 
of 200% of fixed pay). 
• The Committee can exercise its discretion to 
vary the award if it considers that it does not 
reflect the overall position and performance 
of the Company. 
   Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Directors’ remuneration policy 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
304 
The following chart provides an overview of the release 
profile of target performance total compensation for the 
Group Chief Executive Officer based on the above policy. 
 
Release profile for target total compensation 
 
1 Shares arising from GPSP awards must be retained and cannot be sold for the duration of the participant’s employment. For leavers deemed 
to be good leavers, the retention period applicable to their vested shares will end upon cessation of employment. For leavers not deemed to 
be good leavers, their vested shares will be released in three equal instalments on or around each anniversary of the date of cessation of 
employment. 
The Committee will apply the above policy for executive 
Directors in 2015. In the event that regulatory 
requirements require changes to be made to the terms 
of any fixed or variable remuneration outside this policy, 
the Committee will make the changes necessary to 
ensure regulatory compliance.  
Downward override policy 
Based on the recommendations received from the 
independent monitor, the Committee introduced 
a downward override policy in 2014, to set the 
circumstances in which it will make a downward 
adjustment to any variable pay determination for 
the executive Directors and other senior executives.  
Under this policy, the criteria used to determine the 
downward adjustment will include: 
• insufficient yearly progress in developing an effective 
AML and sanctions compliance programme; or 
• non-compliance with the US DPA and other relevant 
orders. 
The Committee will factor in the Financial System 
Vulnerabilities Committee’s recommendations in 
deciding the application and degree of any such 
downward override to reduce variable pay awards. 
Differences in policy applied to employees 
generally  
The mix of fixed and variable pay granted to an 
employee is commensurate with the individual’s role 
and experience and local market factors.  
Fixed pay allowances are granted to MRTs or individuals 
identified as having a material impact on the institution’s 
risk profile based on the qualitative and quantitative 
criteria set out in the EU Regulatory Technical Standard 
604/2014. The fixed pay allowance can also be granted 
to such other individuals where it is considered a 
rebalancing of the fixed and variable pay components 
of their remuneration would be appropriate. 
The criteria used for determining fixed pay allowances 
include the role undertaken, skills, experience, technical 
expertise, market compensation for the role and other 
remuneration that the employee may receive in the 
year. 
Group Managing Directors and Group General Managers 
will receive the fixed pay allowance in shares with the 
same release profile as the executive Directors. All other 
employees will receive the fixed pay allowance in cash 
when it is below a specified threshold. Where the fixed 
pay allowance is above the specified threshold, all of it 
will be received in shares that vest immediately. Any 
shares delivered (net of shares sold to cover any income
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Later of
2020 or
retirement
Base salary
Pension
Fixed pay allowance
GPSP
1
Annual incentive
Fixed pay allowance
26%
38%
41%
44%
47%
66%
100%
26%
12%
3%
3%
3%
34%
19%  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
305 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
tax and social security) as part of the fixed pay allowance 
would be subject to a retention period. 40% of the 
shares are released in March following the end of the 
relevant financial year in which the shares were granted. 
The remaining 60% are released in three equal annual 
tranches on or around each anniversary of the initial 
release. 
Group Managing Directors participate in both the annual 
incentive and the GPSP. Group General Managers 
participate in the annual incentive and may receive other 
long-term awards. Other employees across the Group 
are eligible to participate in annual incentive 
arrangements. 
Elements of remuneration 
  
 Executive 
 Directors
Group 
 Managing 
 Directors
Group 
 General 
 Managers
 Other  
 MRTs 
 
 Other 
 Employees
Base salary         
Fixed pay allowance         
Annual incentive         
GPSP/long-term awards      –   –
Benefits and pension         
Material factors taken into account when setting pay policy 
The Committee takes into account a variety of factors when determining the remuneration policy for Directors. 
INTERNAL FACTORS 
Funding 
 
• Annual incentive and GPSP awards are funded from a single annual variable pay pool. 
• Funding of the Group’s annual variable pay pool is determined in the context of Group profitability, capital 
strength, shareholder returns, the distribution of profits between capital, dividends and variable pay, risk 
appetite statement, market competitiveness, and overall affordability. 
• Details of the calculation of this year’s variable pay pool can be found on page 309. 
Pay and employment 
conditions within  
the Group 
• HSBC considers pay across the Group when determining remuneration levels for its executive Directors. In 
considering individual awards, a comparison of the pay and employment conditions of our employees and 
senior executives is considered by the Committee.  
• The Committee invites the Head of Group Performance and Reward to present proposals for remuneration 
for the wider employee population and to consult on the extent to which the different elements of 
remuneration are provided to other employees. 
• Feedback from employee engagement surveys and HSBC Exchange meetings are taken into account in 
determining the Group’s remuneration policy. 
   
EXTERNAL FACTORS 
Regulation • There is still a wide divergence in local regulations governing remuneration structures globally. This 
presents significant challenges to HSBC, which operates worldwide. 
• In order to deliver long-term sustainable performance, it is important to have market-competitive 
remuneration which is broadly equivalent across geographical boundaries in order to attract, motivate and 
retain talented and committed employees around the world.  
• We aim to ensure that our remuneration policy is aligned with regulatory practices and the interests of 
shareholders.  
• HSBC is fully compliant with the FSB, FCA, PRA and HKMA guidance and rules on remuneration which apply 
at the date of this report. 
Comparator group • The Committee considers market data for executive Directors’ remuneration packages from a defined 
remuneration comparator group.  
• This group consists of ten global financial services companies, namely Australia and New Zealand Banking 
Group Limited (‘ANZ’), Banco Santander, Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, 
JPMorgan Chase & Co, Standard Chartered and UBS. These companies were selected on the basis of their 
broadly similar business coverage, size and international scope, and are subject to annual review for 
continuing relevance. ANZ is an additional firm added to the group as part of the Committee’s 2014 review.
• The Committee can also review other companies where relevant in determining the remuneration policy. 
Shareholder views • The Chairman of the Committee, the Head of Group Performance and Reward and the Group Company 
Secretary meet with key institutional shareholders and other representative bodies. We consider these 
types of meetings important to gather views on our current and developing remuneration practices to 
ensure that our reward strategy continues to be aligned with the long-term interests of our shareholders.   Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Directors’ remuneration policy / Annual report on remuneration 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
306 
Adjustment, malus and clawback 
In order to reward genuine performance, individual 
awards are made on the basis of a risk-adjusted view 
of both financial and non-financial performance. The 
Committee has exclusive discretion to apply the malus 
and clawback policies that it has adopted, enabling it to 
take the following actions, taking into consideration an 
individual’s proximity to, and responsibility for, the event 
in question. Where practicable, an adjustment will be 
made to current year variable pay, before the application 
of malus, then clawback. 
This policy is in line with the PRA regulatory 
requirements.  
 
Type of  
action 
Type of variable pay 
award affected Circumstances where it may apply (including, but not limited to): 
Adjustment Current year variable  
pay 
• Detrimental conduct or conduct which brings the business into disrepute, such as in 2014 
relating to the investigation of certain behaviour within the Foreign Exchange markets. 
• Involvement in Group-wide events resulting in significant operational losses, including 
events which have caused or have the potential to cause significant harm to HSBC. 
• Non-compliance with HSBC Values and other mandatory requirements. 
• For specified individuals, insufficient yearly progress in developing an effective AML and 
sanctions compliance programme or non-compliance with the DPA and other relevant 
orders. 
Malus Unvested deferred 
awards granted in prior 
years 
• Detrimental conduct or conduct which brings the business into disrepute. 
• Past performance being materially worse than originally reported. 
• Restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements. 
• Improper or inadequate risk management. 
Clawback
1
 Vested or paid awards  • Participation in or responsibility for conduct which results in significant losses. 
• Failing to meet appropriate standards of fitness and propriety. 
• Reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would have 
justified, summary termination of a contract of employment.  
• HSBC or a business unit suffers a material failure of risk management within the context 
of Group risk management standards, policies and procedures. 
1 Clawback is only applicable to variable pay awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015. These include, but are not limited to, the awards 
made in relation to the 2014 performance year.
Remuneration policy – non-executive 
Directors 
Non-executive Directors are not employees and receive 
a fee for their services as Directors. In addition, it is 
common practice for non-executive Directors to be 
reimbursed expenses incurred in performing their role 
and any related tax. They are not eligible to receive a 
base salary, fixed pay allowance, benefits, pension or 
any variable pay.  
The fee levels payable reflect the time commitment and 
responsibilities required of a non-executive Director of 
HSBC Holdings. Fees are determined by reference to 
other UK companies and banks in the FTSE 30, and to 
the fees paid by other non-UK international banks.  
The Board reviews each component of the fees 
periodically to assess whether, individually and in 
aggregate, they remain competitive and appropriate in 
light of changes in roles, responsibilities, and/or the time 
commitment required for the non-executive Directors 
and to ensure that individuals of the appropriate calibre 
are retained or can be appointed. The Board (excluding 
the non-executive Directors) may approve changes to 
the fees within the ranges prescribed in the remuneration 
policy. The Board may also introduce any new component 
of fee for non-executive Directors subject to the principles, 
parameters and other requirements set out in the 
remuneration policy.  
The Philanthropic and Community Investment Oversight 
Committee, a new non-executive Board committee, 
was established on 5 December 2014. In line with its 
authority under the remuneration policy, the Board 
approved the following fee levels for this committee: 
chairman – £25,000 per annum; member – £15,000 per 
annum.  
No other change has been made or is proposed to the 
fees of non-executive Directors during the term of this 
policy. The fees payable to non-executive Directors are 
set out in last year’s Directors’ Remuneration Report 
in the Annual Report and Accounts 2013. 
Service contracts 
Executive Directors 
Our policy is to employ executive Directors on service 
agreements with 12 months’ notice period. Consistent 
with the best interests of the Group, the Committee will 
seek to minimise termination payments. Directors may 
be eligible for a payment in relation to statutory rights. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
307 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Service contracts  
   Contract date 
 (rolling) 
 Notice period
 (Director & HSBC)
Director    
Douglas Flint    14 February 2011  12 months
Stuart Gulliver   10 February 2011  12 months
Iain Mackay    4 February 2011  12 months
Marc Moses   27 November 2014  12 months
Other than as set out under ‘Directors’ remuneration 
policy’ and ‘Policy on payments for loss of office’ in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report in the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2013, there are no further obligations 
which could give rise to remuneration payments or 
payments for loss of office. 
Non-executive Directors 
Non-executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms 
not exceeding three years, which may be renewed 
subject to their re-election by shareholders at annual 
general meetings. Non-executive Directors do not 
have a service contract, but are bound by letters of 
appointment issued for and on behalf of HSBC Holdings 
plc. Other than as set out in ‘Remuneration policy – non-
executive Directors’ in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report in the Annual Report and Accounts 2013, there 
are no obligations in the non-executive Directors’ letters 
of appointment which could give rise to remuneration 
payments or payments for loss of office. Non-executive 
Directors’ current terms of appointment will expire as 
follows: 
• in 2015, Joachim Faber, Rona Fairhead, John Lipsky, 
Rachel Lomax and Sir Simon Robertson; 
• in 2017, Kathleen Casey, Safra Catz, Laura Cha, 
Lord Evans of Weardale, Sam Laidlaw and Jonathan 
Symonds; and 
• in 2018, Heidi Miller and Phillip Ameen
1
. 
1 Appointed with effect from 1 January 2015.  
Other directorships 
Executive Directors may accept appointments as non-
executive directors of companies which are not part 
of HSBC if so authorised by either the Board or the 
Nomination Committee.  
When considering a request to accept a non-executive 
appointment, the Board or the Nomination Committee 
will take into account, amongst other things, the 
expected time commitment associated with the 
proposed appointment. The time commitment for 
Directors’ external appointments is also routinely 
reviewed to ensure that these external appointments 
will not compromise the Directors’ commitment to HSBC.  
In accordance with the requirements of CRD IV, Directors 
who are approved by the PRA to take up certain roles 
on the Board are subject to the following limits on the 
number of directorships which they may hold: 
• one executive directorship with two non-executive 
directorships; or 
• four non-executive directorships.  
With the consent of the PRA one additional non-
executive directorship may be held.  
Any remuneration receivable in respect of an external 
appointment of an executive Director is normally paid 
to the Group, unless otherwise approved by the 
Nomination Committee or the Board.  
Annual report on 
remuneration 
Remuneration Committee 
Role 
Within the authority delegated by the Board, the 
Committee is responsible for approving the Group’s 
remuneration policy. The Committee also determines 
the remuneration of executive Directors, senior 
employees, employees in positions of significant 
influence and employees whose activities have or could 
have a material impact on our risk profile and, in doing 
so, takes into account the pay and conditions across the 
Group. No executive Directors are involved in deciding 
their own remuneration. 
Membership  
The members of the Group Remuneration Committee 
during 2014 were Sir Simon Robertson (Chairman), Sam 
Laidlaw, John Lipsky (appointed 23 May 2014), Jonathan 
Symonds (appointed 14 April 2014 but stepped down 
from this Committee on 1 September 2014 to become 
Chairman of the Group Audit Committee), Renato 
Fassbind (resigned as a Director on 1 September 2014), 
and John Coombe (retired as a Director on 23 May 2014). 
Activities  
The Committee met 11 times during 2014. The following 
is a summary of the Committee’s key activities during 
2014. 
   Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Annual report on remuneration  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
308 
Details of the Committee’s key activities 
Month Activities  Month Activities 
January  • 2013 performance year pay review matters 
• Design of new remuneration policy 
• New shareholding guidelines 
• Governance matters 
 July  • Feedback from the 2014 Annual General Meeting 
• 2014 performance year pay review matters 
• Update on notable events 
• Matters regarding Group-wide incentives 
• Employee share plan matters 
• Governance matters  
February  • 2013 performance year pay review matters 
• 2014 GPSP and Annual Scorecards for executive 
Directors  
• Design of new remuneration policy  
• Matters regarding Group-wide incentives 
framework 
• Employee share plan matters  
• New shareholding guidelines 
• Regulatory submissions and disclosures 
• Governance matters 
 September  • 2014 performance year pay review matters 
• Review of PRA/FCA consultation on alignment 
between risk and reward 
October • Shareholder feedback on remuneration matters 
• Update on PRA/FCA consultation on alignment 
between risk and reward 
March • Provision of response to the monitor’s report 
• 2013 performance year pay review matters 
• Review of PRA consultation on clawback rules 
• Update on notable events 
• Matters regarding retirement benefit 
arrangements and incentive plans 
• Regulatory submissions and disclosures 
 
 November  • Update on EBA’s report and opinion on fixed pay 
allowances 
• 2014 Risk Appetite Statement review and 
Remuneration Code risk assessment 
• 2014 proposed Group variable pay spend and 
methodology 
• Approval of clawback policy  
• Update on notable events 
• Regulatory submissions and disclosures 
• Independent review of HSBC Reward Strategy 
against the HKMA remuneration guidelines  
April • New remuneration policy matters 
• Preparation for the 2014 Annual General Meeting
• Matters regarding retirement benefit 
arrangements and incentive plans 
• Regulatory submissions and disclosures 
 December  • Risk appetite framework and Financial Crime 
Compliance updates 
• Inputs from the Group Risk Committee, Financial 
System Vulnerabilities Committee, and Conduct & 
Values Committee  
• 2014 performance year pay review matters 
• 2015 GPSP and Annual Scorecards for executive 
Directors  
• Update on notable events 
• Regulatory submissions and disclosures 
• Employee share plan matters 
• Governance matters 
May  • Matters regarding implementation of new 
remuneration policy 
• Preparation for the 2014 Annual General Meeting
• 2014 performance year pay review matters 
• Employee share plan matters 
• Governance matters 
 
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
309 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Advisers 
In 2014, the Committee did not engage any external 
adviser, and will only seek specific legal and/or 
remuneration advice independently as and when it 
considers this to be necessary. 
During the year, the Group Chief Executive provided 
regular briefings to the Committee. In addition, the 
Committee received advice from the Group Head of 
Human Resources and Corporate Sustainability, Ann 
Almeida, the Head of Group Performance and Reward, 
Alexander Lowen, the Group Chief Risk Officer, Marc 
Moses, and the Global Head of Financial Crime 
Compliance and Group Money Laundering Reporting 
Officer, Robert Werner, as part of their executive role as 
employees of HSBC. The Committee also received advice 
and feedback from the Group Risk Committee, Financial 
System Vulnerabilities Committee and Conduct & Values 
Committee on risk and compliance-related matters 
relevant to remuneration, and the implementation of 
the downward override policy.  
Group variable pay pool 
(Unaudited) 
Variable pay pool determination 
The Committee considers many factors in determining 
the Group’s variable pay pool funding. 
 
Variable pay pool determination 
 
Performance and risk  
appetite statement 
• The variable pay pool takes into account the performance of the Group which is considered within 
the context of our risk appetite statement. This helps to ensure that the variable pay pool is shaped 
by risk considerations and any Group-wide notable events.  
• The risk appetite statement describes and measures the amount and types of risk that HSBC is 
prepared to take in executing its strategy. It shapes the integrated approach to business, risk and 
capital management and supports achievement of the Group’s objectives. The Group Chief Risk 
Officer regularly updates the Committee on the Group’s performance against the risk appetite 
statement. 
• The Committee uses these updates when considering remuneration to ensure that return, risk and 
remuneration are aligned. 
Counter-cyclical funding 
methodology 
• We use a counter-cyclical funding methodology which is categorised by both a floor and a ceiling 
and the payout ratio reduces as performance increases to avoid pro-cyclicality risk.  
• The floor recognises that competitive protection is typically required irrespective of performance 
levels.  
• The ceiling recognises that at higher levels of performance it is possible to limit reward as it is not 
necessary to continue to increase the variable pay pool, thereby limiting the risk of inappropriate 
behaviour to drive financial performance. 
Distribution of profits • In addition, our funding methodology considers the relationship between capital, dividends and 
variable pay to ensure that the distribution of post-tax profits between these three elements is 
considered appropriate (see next page for the 2014, 2013 and target split). 
Commerciality and  
affordability 
• Finally, the commercial requirement to remain competitive in the market and overall affordability 
are considered. Both the annual incentive and GPSP are funded from a single annual variable pay 
pool from which individual awards are considered. Funding of the Group’s annual variable pay pool 
is determined in the context of Group profitability, capital strength, and shareholder returns. This 
approach ensures that performance-related awards for individual global businesses, global 
functions, geographical regions and levels of staff are considered in a holistic fashion. 
• Market competiveness is one of the inputs in the determination of the variable pay pool.  This 
allows us to address any gaps to market identified when comparing total reward with our global 
peers. This recognises the challenges which arise from being headquartered in the UK and hereby 
having to apply more stringent reward practices than those applied in markets outside the EU. 
Factors which influence our competitive market position in Asia, Latin America and the US in 
attracting and retaining talent are the discounts applied on their pay by employees arising from 
regulations covering a variable pay cap, higher and longer deferrals, malus and now clawback. 
• This year’s variable pay pool was established by reference to the Group’s reported profit before tax,
which is adjusted to exclude movements in the fair value of own debt attributable to credit spread, 
the gains and losses from disposals, and debit valuation adjustment. Reported profit before tax 
includes the costs of fines, penalties and other items of redress.  
• Taking into account all of the above, the Committee decided that in light of performance, the 
competitive market environment , risk inputs, and other factors, the adjusted pre-tax pre-variable 
pay profit payout ratio for 2014 would be 16% (15% in 2013). The higher payout ratio reflects 
stronger performance in Asia and the Middle East, and an increased emphasis on risk and control 
functions.   Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Annual report on remuneration  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
310 
Variable pay pool outcome (US$m) 
(Unaudited) 
 
  
Group 
 Global Banking 
and Markets 
   2014  2013   2014 2013
Variable compensation 
incentive pool as a % 
of pre-tax profit (pre-
variable pay)
1
   16%  15%  15% 13%
% of variable pay pool 
deferred
2
  14%  18%  25% 30%
1 The 2014 Group pre-tax pre-variable pay profit calculation as 
described on the previous page. 
2 The percentage of variable pay deferred for 2014 MRT population 
is 50%. 
Pro forma post-tax profits allocation 
(Unaudited) 
On a pro-forma basis, attributable post-tax profits 
(excluding the movements in the fair value of own 
debt and before pay distributions were allocated in 
the proportions shown in the chart below. The Group’s 
target policy is for the vast majority of post-tax profit 
to be allocated to capital and to shareholders.
Relative importance of spend on pay 
(Unaudited) 
The chart below provides a breakdown of total staff pay 
relative to the amount paid out in dividends. 
1 Dividends per ordinary share in respect of that year. For 2014, this 
includes the first, second and third interim dividends paid in 2014 
of US$5.8bn (gross of scrip) and a fourth interim dividend of 
US$3.8bn. 
2 Employee compensation and benefits in 2014 includes fixed pay, 
benefits and variable pay as outlined on page 303. Employee 
compensation and benefits in 2013 totalled US$19,196m which 
included an accounting gain arising from a change in the basis of 
delivering ill-health benefits in the UK of US$430m. Excluding this 
accounting gain, 2013 employee compensation and benefits 
totalled US$19,626m. 
 
 
 
1 Inclusive of dividends to holders of other equity instruments and net of scrip issuance based on an assumption of scrip take up for the fourth 
quarter of 2014 of 20%. Dividends per ordinary share declared in respect of 2014 were US$0.50, an increase of 2% compared with 2013. 
2 Total variable pay pool net of tax and portion to be delivered by the award of HSBC shares. 
  
-7%
-16%
3,660 
1,120 
3,920 
1,327 
Group Global Banking and Markets
2014 2013
9,600 
20,366 
9,200 
19,626 
2014 2013
4%
US$m
4%
(430)
Ordinary dividends
1
Employee compensation
and benefits
2
19,196 
Retained
earnings/
capital
32%
Dividends
1
53%
Variable pay
2
15% 
2014
Retained
earnings/
capital
53%
Dividends
1
35%
Variable pay
2
12%
2013
Retained
earnings/
capital
45%
Dividends
1
40%
Variable pay
2
15%
Target  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
311 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Single figure of remuneration 
Executive Directors 
(Audited) 
 Douglas Flint  Stuart Gulliver  Iain Mackay    Marc Moses
 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Fixed pay   
Base salary   1,500 1,500 1,250 1,250 700 700 700 –
Fixed pay allowance   – – 1,700 – 950 – 950 –
Pension   750 750 625 625 350 350 350 –
 2,250 2,250 3,575 1,875 2,000 1,050 2,000 –
Variable pay      
Annual incentive   – – 1,290 1,833 867 1,074 1,033 –
GPSP   – – 2,112 3,667 1,131 2,148 1,131 –
   3,402 5,500 1,998 3,222 2,164 –
Total fixed and variable pay  2,250 2,250 6,977 7,375 3,998 4,272 4,164 –
Benefits   136 48 589 591 43 33 6 –
Non-taxable benefits   105 102 53 67 28 53 33 –
Notional return on deferred cash  41 27 – – 11 7 36 –
Total single figure of 
remuneration  
 
2,532 2,427 7,619 8,033 4,080 4,365 4,239 – 
Notes to the single figure of remuneration 
(Audited) 
Marc Moses was appointed an executive Director with effect from 1 January 2014, so his 2013 figures have not been disclosed.  
Base salary 
• Salary paid in year for executive Directors. No fees were paid to executive Directors.  
Fixed pay allowance 
• Fixed pay allowance granted in immediately vested shares in the year for executive Directors.  
• The shares are subject to a retention period. 20% released in the March immediately following the end of the financial year. 
80% released after a period of five years from the date of the first release. 
• Dividends will be paid on the vested shares held during the retention period. 
Pension 
• The amounts consist of an allowance of 50% of annual base salary in lieu of personal pension arrangements.  
• No other benefits were received by the executive Directors from the Group pension plans. 
Benefits  
• All taxable benefits (gross value before payment of tax). Benefits include provision of medical insurance, accommodation and car, 
club membership, tax gross-up for accommodation and car benefit, and car allowance. 
• Non-taxable benefits include the provision of life assurance and other insurance cover. 
• The values of the significant benefits in the above table were as follows: 
 Douglas Flint Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay Marc Moses
 2014  2013 2014 2013 2014 2013  2014  2013
  £000  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000  £000  £000
Car benefit (UK and Hong Kong)  70
1
 –
2
88
1
79 –
2
–
2
  –
2
 –
Hong Kong bank-owned 
accommodation
3
   – – 246 229  – –  – – 
Tax expense on car benefit and 
Hong Kong bank-owned 
accommodation   58
1
 –
2
 239
1
266  –
2
–
2
  –
2
 – 
Insurance benefit (non-taxable) 80 78 –
2
54 –
2
–
2
  –
2
 –
1 The UK car benefit provided for Douglas Flint and Stuart Gulliver in 2014 has not changed from 2013. The valuation of the car benefit has 
increased as they are no longer deemed pool cars for UK tax purposes, and include driver wages, fuel and all associated costs. 
2 The car benefit and tax on car benefit for Douglas Flint in 2013, Marc Moses in 2014 and Iain Mackay is not included in the above table as it was 
not significant. The insurance benefit for Stuart Gulliver and Marc Moses in 2014 and Iain Mackay is not included in the above table as it was not 
significant. 
3 Based on the current market rental value of the bank-owned property, as estimated by an external lease service provider, plus utility costs, rates, 
the taxable value of furniture and taking into account the business use of the property, the taxable value of the accommodation is considered to 
be 70% of the total of these amounts. 
Annual incentive 
• Annual incentive awarded (including deferred amounts) as a result of achievement of performance measures for the relevant financial 
year. 60% of the award is deferred. 50% of both the deferred and non-deferred component of the award is payable in cash and the 
remaining 50% in shares, subject to a six month retention period on vesting. 
• The deferred element of the 2014 award pays out over a period of three years, subject to service and malus conditions: 33% vests 
on or around the first and second anniversary of grant and 34% on or around the third anniversary of grant. For the 2014 award the  Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Annual report on remuneration  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
312 
performance measures and the outcomes of the performance conditions can be found on pages 315-317. Outcomes for the 2013 
award can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report in the Annual Report and Accounts 2013.  
• The deferred share awards also include a right to receive dividend equivalents. Dividend equivalents on deferred share awards are 
delivered in the form of additional shares, in the same time and in the same manner and in such proportion as the original deferred 
award that vests. The expected value of these dividend equivalents is included in the value of deferred share awards. 
Illustration of annual incentives 
(Unaudited) 
 
GPSP 
• GPSP awarded as a result of achievement of sustainable long-term performance. Figures shown reflect the face value of awards 
granted in 2014 and 2013 respectively. 
• Award levels are determined by considering performance against enduring performance measures set out in the long-term 
performance scorecard. There are no post-grant performance conditions. 
• The award is subject to a five-year cliff vesting period during which the Committee has the authority to cancel all or part of the award. 
On vesting, the shares (net of tax) must be retained for the duration of the participant’s employment. 
• For the 2014 award the outcomes of the performance conditions can be found in the section titled ‘Awards under the GPSP’ on 
page 314. Outcomes for the 2013 award can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report in the Annual Report and Accounts 2013. 
• The GPSP awards also include a right to receive dividend equivalents for the period between the grant and the vesting date. Dividend 
equivalents on the GPSP awards will be delivered when the GPSP awards vest. There was no vesting of historical GPSP awards in 2014. 
The expected value of these dividend equivalents are included in the value of GPSP awards. 
Illustration of GPSP 
(Unaudited) 
 
Awards subject to malus and clawback provisions at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee
Award level
based on 2014
performance
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 and beyond
6-month 
retention
Non- deferred portion
Deferred portion
40% 60%
Performance period
50% paid 
in shares 
released 
after six 
months
6 months 1 year 1 year
Award made
in March 
2015, 50% 
paid in cash 
immediately
3-year vesting period
Mar Sep Mar Mar Mar
33% vests on or
around the first 
anniversary of 
grant and subject to 
6-month retention
34% vests on or 
around the third 
anniversary of 
grant and subject to 
6-month retention
33% vests on or 
around the second 
anniversary of 
grant and subject to 
6-month retention
Performance period
Value of GPSP award fluctuates up or 
down based on share price performance
Award level
based on 2014
and long-term 
sustainable 
performance
Although shares
are fully vested, 
executive Directors 
must retain the 
shares for duration
of employment
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Historical to and beyond
Award made 
in March 2015
Award vests fully 
after five years 
in March 2020
Awards subject to malus and clawback provisions at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee
Vesting awards
subject to retention
5-year vesting period  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
313 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Notional return on deferred cash 
• The deferred cash award portion of the annual incentive also include a right to receive notional returns for the period between grant 
date and vesting date and determined by reference to the dividend yield on HSBC shares, determined annually. 
• A payment of notional return is made annually in the same proportion as the vesting of the deferred awards on each vesting date. 
The amount is disclosed on a paid basis in the year in which the payment is made.  
Remuneration scenarios and outcomes 
The charts below show the value and composition of remuneration under three performance scenarios for each of the 
executive Directors based on the current policy in comparison to the actual 2014 variable pay outcomes. 
Stuart Gulliver 
(Amounts in £’000) 
 
Iain Mackay 
(Amounts in £’000) 
 
Marc Moses 
(Amounts in £’000) 
 
 
1 Fixed pay includes base salary, fixed pay allowance and pension 
allowance for the year, and excludes benefits. 
2 Maximum award level as stated in our remuneration policy 
Includes deferred portion of award. Target has been defined as 
50% of the maximum award. Minimum assumes no annual 
incentive award. 
3 Maximum award level as stated in our remuneration policy. 
Target has been defined as 50% of the maximum award. The 
GPSP scorecard has not been designed with a numeric targeted 
or expected value of performance. Minimum assumes no GPSP 
award. 
Variable pay outcomes 
(Audited) 
  Stuart Gulliver  Iain Mackay   Marc Moses 
Fixed pay   
Value (£000) 3,575 2,000   2,000
Annual incentive   
Maximum multiple of fixed pay 0.67 0.67   0.67
Performance outcome
 
 54.1% 65.0%   77.5%
Multiple awarded 0.36 0.43   0.52
Value (£000) 1,290 867   1,033
GPSP   
Maximum multiple of fixed pay 1.33 1.33   1.33
Performance outcome
 
 54.8% 54.8%   54.8%
Multiple awarded 0.73 0.73   0.73
Pre-discretion value (£000) 2,612 1,461   1,461
Committee discretion (£000) (500) (330)  (330)
   
Post-discretion value (£000) 2,112 1,131   1,131
Total variable pay   
Maximum multiple of fixed pay 2.00 2.00   2.00
Multiple awarded 0.95 1.00   1.08
Value (£000) 3,402 1,998   2,164
 
100% 50% 33% 52%
17%
22%
18%
33%
45%
30%
3,575
7,150
10,725
6,977
Fixed pay
1
Annual incentive
2
GPSP
3
Minimum policy Target policy Maximum policy 2014 actual
100% 50% 33% 50%
17%
22%
22%
33%
45%
28%
2,000
4,000
6,000
3,998
Minimum policy Target policy Maximum policy 2014 actual
Fixed pay
1
Annual incentive
2
GPSP
3
100% 50% 33% 48%
17%
22%
25%
33%
45%
27%
2,000
4,000
6,000
4,164
Minimum policy Target policy Maximum policy 2014 actual
Fixed pay
1
Annual incentive
2
GPSP
3 Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Annual report on remuneration  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
314 
Awards under the GPSP 
(Audited) 
Awards in respect of 2014 were assessed against the 
2014 long-term scorecard published in the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2013 and reproduced below. 
The performance assessment under the 2014 long-term 
scorecard took into account achievements under both 
financial and non-financial objectives, both of which 
were set within the context of the risk appetite and 
strategic direction agreed by the Board. 
Notwithstanding the detail or extent of performance 
delivery against the objectives, an individual’s eligibility 
for a GPSP award requires confirmation of adherence to 
HSBC Values which acts in effect as a gateway to GPSP 
participation, which was assessed to have been met for 
all executive Directors. A summary of the assessment 
and rationale for the conclusions is set out below. 
Annual assessment – GPSP 
 
 
 Weighting 
Long-term 
 target range 
Actual 2014
 performance  Assessment   Outcome 
Measure     
Capital strength (%)
1 
   15% >10 11.1 100%   15.0%
Progressive dividend payout (%)
2
  15% 40-60 72.5 100%   15.0%
Return on equity (%)
3
   15% 12-15 7.2 0%   –
Cost efficiency ratio 
 
     
–  Jaws
4
    7.5% Positive jaws
1
(14.7) 0%   –
–  Cost efficiency ratio (%)
3
   7.5% Mid-50s 67.8 0%   –
Financial    60%  30.0%
Strategy execution    20% Judgement n/a 67%   13.3%
Risk and compliance   15% Judgement n/a 50%   7.5%
People    5% Judgement n/a 80%   4.0%
Non-financial    40%  24.8%
Total performance outcome    100%  54.8%
1 Capital strength is defined as common equity tier 1 capital (CRD IV end point basis). 
2 Payout ratio reflects dividends in respect of the year. 
3 Return on equity and cost efficiency ratio excludes from the return the impact of fair value movements on own debt designated at fair value 
resulting from changes in credit spreads. 
4 Revenue growth (excluding the impact of fair value movements on own debt designated at fair value resulting from changes in credit spreads) 
less operating expense growth. 
Financial (60% weighting – achieved 30%) 
Capital strength (assessment: 100%): The Committee 
took particular note in 2014 of the Group’s position 
against prospective capital and liquidity standards given 
the publication of important fresh regulatory proposals 
on total loss-absorbing capacity (‘TLAC’), net stable 
funding and leverage. The Group’s ability and capacity to 
meet these standards will have important ramifications 
for its business model, the prospective returns available 
and, therefore, the Group’s dividend paying capacity. 
The Committee also took note of the outcome of stress 
tests conducted by the EBA and the PRA, which provided 
independent evidence of the Group’s resilience to 
economic downturn and sectoral weaknesses in framing 
its judgements on capital strength and dividend policy. 
The Committee noted positively the outcome of these 
stress tests which placed the Group favourably amongst 
its peers in terms of its capacity to absorb and recover 
from adverse circumstances. 
The strength of the capital position was therefore 
considered favourably, with additional note taken of the 
improvement in the year-end common equity tier 1 ratio 
and the increase in the estimated end point position 
under CRD IV. 
Progressive dividend payout (assessment: 100%): 
The projected capacity to maintain a progressive 
dividend policy was also noted favourably, which was 
underpinned by the Group’s strong capital position, its 
distributable reserves, its cash position, and its planning 
assumptions around future performances. The 
progressive development of the Group’s dividend was 
achieved notwithstanding economic weakness in parts 
of the external environment, demonstrating the benefits 
of the Group’s diversified business model. 
Return on equity (assessment: 0%): The Group did not 
achieve previously set aspiration of 12-15%. While 
having made good progress towards reducing legacy 
positions and having de-risked the business where 
necessary, Group performance remains below its stated 
target. Business model changes consequent upon new 
regulatory requirements and enhanced risk controls to 
reduce the possibility of future customer redress and 
conduct issues were considered to be essential elements 
to take the Group to where it needed to be for 
sustainable financial performance. In the interim, the 
Committee noted the necessary structural changes 
which are likely to constrain the overall return of equity 
and mask the benefits coming from new business and 
from market share improvement in some areas. 
Additionally, the Group’s performance continues to be 
exposed in the near term to uncertainties from an 
evolving regulatory reform agenda (including the Group’s 
target capital ratios), contingent legal risks from notable 
legacy matters and continued significant customer 
redress costs. While acknowledging the commendable 
efforts being made to meet an ROE target of 12-15% 
against increased capital requirements both at a global 
and at a local level, it was decided not to make any 
award under this opportunity.    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
315 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Cost efficiency ratio (assessment: 0%): Based on the 
2014 development of the Group’s operating expenses, 
it was judged that no reward should be made under 
the cost efficiency ratio element of the scorecard. It was 
noted that the strengthening of Regulatory and Financial 
Crime Compliance resources and capabilities was a 
material element in the level of higher costs. It was also 
recognised that this situation is not likely to diminish in 
the medium term. 
Non-financial (40% weighting – achieved 24.8%) 
Strategy execution (assessment: 67%): The Board 
reviewed progress achieved by management in 2014 to 
deliver the strategic priorities including organic growth, 
implementation of Global Standards and driving further 
efficiency gains through streamlining processes and 
procedures.  
Against a backdrop of weaker than expected economic 
growth in a number of important markets, and with 
financial market activity and liquidity further constrained 
by the industry reshaping in response to regulatory 
changes, the Group was nevertheless able to demonstrate 
underlying growth in a number of its global businesses 
and maintain market position in key products. The 
Committee recognised that the Board had emphasised 
a cautious approach to risk appetite during 2014 in light 
of uncertain economic conditions.  
Management demonstrated further progress towards 
the implementation of Global Standards, acknowledging 
that material further work is required to achieve full 
roll-out. 
With regard to streamlining, the Group delivered 
over US$1bn of sustainable savings but these were 
outweighed by incremental costs in support of growth 
initiatives and to implement regulatory change, enhance 
risk controls and implement Global Standards. In light of 
this, management launched new initiatives to improve 
efficiency across global businesses and functions which 
will continue into 2015. 
Risk and compliance (assessment: 50%): The Committee 
received input from the Group Risk Committee, the 
Conduct & Values Committee and the Financial System 
Vulnerability Committee on evidence of progress being 
made to minimise the long-term impact of regulatory 
and compliance issues on the Group’s reputation. 
The Committee was satisfied that based on feedback 
received it was clear that this remains a top priority 
within the organisation and progress was made in 
2014. The Committee took particular notice of work 
on restructuring the Group Compliance function, 
investment in greater compliance capabilities, the 
establishment of enterprise-wide risk assessment 
programmes, the roll-out of enhanced training and 
continued strengthening of governance oversight. The 
Committee also noted the disappointing incidence of 
further fines and penalties received in 2014, albeit in 
relation to matters occurring in prior periods, and the 
consequential extension of work to prevent recurrence. 
People (assessment: 80%): The Committee reviewed 
progress made in talent development, succession 
planning, diversity and attrition in some areas. The 
Committee recognised continued progress, including the 
successful initiation of a mentoring programme between 
non-executive directors and senior executives below 
Board level. 
This performance assessment resulted in an overall score 
of 54.8%.  
Notwithstanding this, the Committee subsequently used 
their discretion to reduce the executive Directors’ GPSP 
awards by the following amounts: 
GPSP adjustment 
 
GPSP 
adjustment 
Adjustment
as a percentage
of variable pay 
£000 %
Director 
Stuart Gulliver 500 13%
Iain Mackay 330 14%
Marc Moses 330 13%
For Stuart Gulliver and Marc Moses, the adjustments 
were considered appropriate based on the weight of 
legal, compliance and regulatory issues affecting the 
Group, even those related to historical events, including 
but not limited to foreign exchange. For Iain Mackay, the 
adjustment is considered appropriate by the Committee 
in the context of overall year-on-year Group-wide 
profitability, incentive pool funding and market 
remuneration benchmarks. 
In 2013, the Committee also used their discretion to 
reduce Stuart Gulliver’s overall variable pay by 18.5%. 
Determining executive Directors’ annual 
performance 
(Audited) 
The annual incentive award made to executive Directors 
in respect of 2014 reflected the Committee’s assessment 
of the extent to which they had achieved personal and 
corporate objectives set within their performance 
scorecard as agreed by the Board at the beginning of the 
year. This measurement took into account performance 
against both the financial and non-financial measures 
which had been set to reflect the risk appetite and 
strategic priorities determined by the Board to be 
appropriate for 2014. In addition, in accordance with the 
downward override policy, the Committee also consulted 
the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and 
took into consideration the feedback received from this 
committee in relation to progress on enhancing AML and 
sanctions compliance as well as progress in meeting the 
Group obligations under the DPA and other relevant 
orders. 
In order for any award of annual incentive to be made 
under the above performance scorecard, the Committee 
had to satisfy itself the executive Directors had personally 
met and shown leadership in promoting HSBC Values. 
This overriding test assessed behaviour around HSBC 
Values of being ‘open, connected and dependable’ and 
acting with ‘courageous integrity’, which was assessed 
to have been met for all executive Directors.  Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Annual report on remuneration  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
316 
Notwithstanding regulatory difficulties, overall the 
executive Directors performed well in the context of 
a challenging market environment. 
A summary of each executive Director’s assessment 
against specific performance measures is provided in 
the following tables. 
Stuart Gulliver 
Annual assessment 
   Weighting Target
6
Performance Assessment  Outcome
Measure    
Pre-tax profit (US$bn)
1
    17.5% 21.6 18.6 86%  15.1%
Return on equity (%)
2
   10% 9.8 7.2 0%  –
Cost efficiency ratio (%)    
–  Jaws
3
   8.75% 5.6 (14.7) 0%  –
–  Cost efficiency ratio (%)
2
   8.75% 58.5 67.8 0%  –
Dividends (%)
4
   10% 57.1 72.5 100%  10.0%
Capital strength (%)
5
   5% 10.9 11.1 100%  5.0%
Financial    60% 30.1%
Strategy execution    20% Judgement n/a 70%  14.0%
Risk and compliance    20% Judgement n/a 50%  10.0%
Non-financial    40% 24.0%
Promoting HSBC Values    Over-riding test Met
Total    100% 54.1%
1 Group’s reported profit before tax adjusted to exclude movements in the fair value of own debt attributable to credit spread, the gains and 
losses from disposals, and debit valuation adjustment (2013 does not include debit valuation adjustment). 
2 Return on equity and cost efficiency ratio excludes from the return the impact of fair value movements on own debt designated at fair value 
resulting from changes in credit spreads. 
3 Revenue growth (excluding the impact of fair value movements on own debt designated at fair value resulting from changes in credit spreads) 
less operating expense growth. 
4 Payout ratio reflects dividends in respect of the year. 
5 Capital strength is defined as common equity tier 1 capital (CRD IV end point basis). 
6 Based on prior year 2013. 
 
Strategy execution (assessment: 70%): The Board 
reviewed progress achieved in 2014 to deliver the 
strategic priorities including organic growth, 
implementation of Global Standards, and driving further 
efficiency gains through streamlining processes and 
procedures. 
The Committee noted favourably that underlying 
revenue reflected progress in execution against priority 
initiatives, including growing market share in selected 
trade corridors and maintaining market position in key 
products. 
The Committee noted progress in the Global Standards 
programme throughout 2014 in moving from design 
to execution phase, the continuation of disposals and 
closures of non-core businesses and shareholdings 
(75 transactions since 2011). In addition, the global 
businesses are implementing operating procedures to 
assure the delivery of global AML and sanctions policies 
approved earlier in the year. The Committee noted 
continuing investment to strengthen financial crime 
compliance expertise and build strategic infrastructure 
for customer due diligence, transaction monitoring and 
sanctions screening. As a consequence, the Committee 
was advised the Group had been able to deliver on its 
2014 milestones. 
The Committee noted favourably that the Group had 
achieved sustainable savings in excess of US$1bn in the 
year through business simplification and re-engineering. 
The Committee noted that costs during 2014 had 
increased by being affected by significant items and a 
rise in regulatory and financial crime compliance costs, 
inflationary pressures, continued investment in strategic 
initiatives, and a rise in the bank levy. The Committee 
was advised the Group had launched new initiatives to 
further improve efficiency across global businesses and 
key functions which will continue into 2015.  
Risk and compliance (assessment: 50%): This measure 
increased in weighting to 20% from 15% in 2013 to 
underscore the Group’s commitment to these areas. The 
Committee reviewed the Group’s progress in increasing 
and enhancing Group Compliance headcount, the roll 
out of the ‘Driving a values-led high performance culture’ 
programme, the implementation of measures to address 
conduct risk (e.g., product range reviews and associated 
product exits, changes to retail banking incentive 
arrangements) and the continued strengthening of 
governance oversight. The outcome has been affected by 
the incidence, scale and reputational damage incurred 
from continuing customer redress and regulatory fines 
and penalties incurred in 2014. 
This performance assessment resulted in an overall score 
of 54.1%.  
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
317 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Iain Mackay 
Annual assessment 
   Weighting Target Performance Assessment  Outcome
Measure    
Grow both business and dividends    15% Judgement n/a 85%  13.0%
Risk and compliance including Global Standards   50% Judgement n/a 75%  37.5%
Streamline processes and procedures
 
   25% Judgement n/a 45%  11.0%
Strategic priorities    90% 61.5%
People    10% Judgement n/a 35%  3.5%
Promoting HSBC Values    Over-riding test Met
Total   100% 65.0%
 
Grow both business and dividends (assessment: 85%): 
The Committee recognised the contribution of the 
Finance function in supporting the development, 
implementation and monitoring of business cases 
in support of organic growth and the substantial 
improvement in clarity in analysts and investors 
presentations which had attracted favourable comment 
from analysts and shareholders.  
Risk and compliance including Global Standards 
(assessment: 75%): The Committee noted substantial 
progress in a number of areas. Risk and compliance 
metrics, and implementation of new cost and resource 
monitoring processes for Global Standards programmes 
were both fully met during the year. 
Streamline processes and procedures (assessment: 
45%): The Committee recognised the substantial 
commitment to, and achievement of, the exacting stress 
testing programmes across the Group. It was further 
noted that costs were higher than target, while the 
target for sustainable saves had not been met fully. 
Similarly, while progress was being made in re-
engineering the global Finance function, a number 
of initiatives were still in progress. 
People (assessment: 35%): The progress made in 
performance management and reward differentiation 
for the global Finance function and further work to be 
done in increasing employee diversity and cost 
restructuring were noted. 
This performance assessment resulted in an overall score 
of 65%. 
Marc Moses 
Annual assessment 
   Weighting Target Performance Assessment  Outcome
Measure    
Grow both business and dividends  20% Judgement n/a 90%  18.0%
Risk and compliance including Global Standards   50% Judgement n/a 75%  37.5%
Streamline processes and procedures
 
   20% Judgement n/a 70%  14.0%
Strategic priorities    90% 69.5%
People    10% Judgement n/a 80%  8.0%
Promoting HSBC Values    Over-riding test Met 
Total    100% 77.5%
 
Grow both business and dividends (assessment: 90%): 
The Committee recognised the use of risk appetite 
statements to enable a sustainable business, and the 
provision of resources to support business growth (e.g., 
risk analytics and enhancements to risk processes to 
enable improvements in quality of credit portfolio). 
Risk and compliance including Global Standards 
(assessment: 75%): The Committee noted the progress 
towards implementing Global Standards, compliance 
with regulatory requirements, and de-risking the 
organisation. This was evidenced by the roll-out of the 
AML and sanctions compliance plan, the development 
of the operational risk transformation roadmap and the 
successful execution of the PRA and EBA stress tests. 
Streamline processes and procedures (assessment: 
70%): The Committee recognised these objectives have 
been largely met, supported by the management of 
business performance, delivery of key streamlining 
initiatives, and re-engineering of Financial Crime 
Compliance systems. Work towards the Global Risk data 
strategy programme to support PRA data requirements, 
which included enhancements to the Risk data 
infrastructure, was further noted. 
People (assessment: 80%): The execution of the pay 
and performance plans, as well as the learning and 
development plans which were part of a comprehensive 
people strategy for the Global Risk function were noted. 
This performance assessment resulted in an overall score 
of 77.5%.   Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Annual report on remuneration  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
318 
Non-executive Directors  
Fees and benefits  
(Audited) 
  FeesBenefits
7
 Total 
  2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Kathleen Casey
1
  129 – 12 – 141 –
Safra Catz   95 95 4 14 99 109
Laura Cha
2
  197 195 22 47 219 242
Lord Evans of Weardale  167 50 14 – 181 50
Joachim Faber   145 137 10 21 155 158
Rona Fairhead
3 
   494 202 19 6 513 208
Sam Laidlaw   140 125 – – 140 125
John Lipsky   168 150 27 25 195 175
Rachel Lomax   205 155 21 8 226 163
Heidi Miller
4
  52 – – – 52 –
Sir Simon Robertson   260 240 6 1 266 241
Jonathan Symonds
5
  365 – 3 – 368 –
Total
6
   2,417 1,349 138 122 2,555 1,471
Total (US$000)  3,979 2,221 229 201 4,208 2,422
1 Appointed on 1 March 2014. 
2 Includes fees of £57,000 in 2014 (£75,000 for 2013) as Director, Deputy Chairman and member of the nomination committee of The Hongkong 
and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited. 
3 Includes a fee of £334,000 in 2014 as non-executive Chairman of HSBC North America Holdings Inc (appointed on 1 January 2014). 
4 Appointed on 1 September 2014. 
5 Appointed on 14 April 2014 as non-executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc and non-executive chairman of HSBC Bank plc, for which he received 
a fee of £247,000. 
6 Excludes fees and benefits for Marvin Cheung, John Coombe, Renato Fassbind and James Hughes-Hallett who were not Directors at 31 December 
2014. Marvin Cheung resigned on 1 August 2014. His fees for 2014 were £113,000 (£197,000 for 2013) (including fees of £40,000 as Director, 
Chairman of the risk committee and member of the audit committee of Hang Seng Bank Limited). His benefits for 2014 were £18,000 (£45,000 
for 2013). John Coombe retired on 23 May 2014. His fees and benefits for 2014 were £85,000 and £5,000 respectively (£205,000 and £14,000 
respectively in 2013). Renato Fassbind resigned on 1 September 2014. His fees and benefits for 2014 were £109,000 and £10,000 respectively 
(£145,000 and £23,000 respectively in 2013). James Hughes-Hallett retired on 23 May 2014. His fees and benefits for 2014 were £50,000 and 
£1,000 respectively (£145,000 and £1,000 respectively in 2013). 
7 Benefits include travel-related expenses relating to the attendance at Board and other meetings at HSBC Holdings registered office. Amounts 
disclosed are estimated and have been grossed up using a tax rate of 45%, where relevant. 
 
Total pension entitlements  
(Audited) 
No employees who served as executive Directors during 
the year have a right to amounts under any HSBC final 
salary pension schemes or are entitled to additional 
benefits in the event of early retirement. There is no 
retirement age set for Directors, but the normal 
retirement age for employees is 65. 
Payments to past Directors 
(Audited) 
This report does not include details of payments made 
to past Directors below the de minimis limit set by the 
company of £50,000. 
Exit payments made in year 
(Audited) 
No payments for loss of office were made in 2014 to any 
person serving as a Director in the year or any previous 
years. 
Scheme interests awarded during 2014 
(Unaudited) 
The table below sets out the scheme interests awarded 
to Directors in 2014 (for performance in 2013) as 
disclosed in the 2013 Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
No non-executive Directors received scheme interests 
during the financial year.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
319 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Scheme awards in 2014 
(Unaudited) 
 
Type of interest 
awarded 
Basis on which 
award made 
 Dates of 
 award 
 Face value
 awarded
1
 £000 
Percentage
 receivable
 for minimum
 performance
2
 Number of 
 shares 
 awarded 
 Share price 
 on date 
 of grant
1
 
 End of 
 performance 
 period 
Stuart Gulliver Deferred cash Annual incentive 2013 10 Mar 2014 550 0% n/a n/a  31 Dec 2013
Stuart Gulliver Restricted shares Annual incentive 2013 10 Mar 2014 550 0% 88,766 £6.196  31 Dec 2013
Stuart Gulliver  Restricted shares GPSP 2013 10 Mar 2014 3,667 0% 591,779 £6.196  31 Dec 2013
Iain Mackay Deferred cash Annual incentive 2013 10 Mar 2014 322 0% n/a n/a  31 Dec 2013
Iain Mackay Restricted shares Annual incentive 2013 10 Mar 2014 322 0% 51,997 £6.196  31 Dec 2013
Iain Mackay Restricted shares GPSP 2013 10 Mar 2014 2,147 0% 346,647 £6.196  31 Dec 2013
Marc Moses Deferred cash Annual incentive 2013 10 Mar 2014 322 0% n/a n/a  31 Dec 2013
Marc Moses Restricted shares Annual incentive 2013 10 Mar 2014 322 0% 51,992 £6.196  31 Dec 2013
Marc Moses Restricted shares GPSP 2013 10 Mar 2014 2,147 0% 346,613 £6.196  31 Dec 2013
GPSP awards made based on performance up to the financial year-end preceding the grant date with no further performance conditions after 
grant. Vesting occurs five years after grant date and is normally subject to the Director remaining an employee on the vesting date. Any shares (net 
of tax) which the director becomes entitled to on the vesting date are subject to a retention requirement. 
The above table does not include details of shares issued as part of the Fixed Pay Allowances, as those shares vest immediately and are not subject 
to any service or performance conditions. 
1 Share price used is the closing mid-market price on the last working day preceding the date of grant. 
2 Awards determined based on performance achieved during the period to 31 December 2013. The overall award level could have been 0% of the 
maximum opportunity if minimum performance was achieved for the period to 31 December 2013. After grant, awards are subject to service 
condition and malus provisions. 
Summary of performance  
(Unaudited) 
HSBC TSR and FTSE100 Index  
The graph shows the TSR performance against the FTSE 
100 Index for the six-year period ended 31 December 
2014. The FTSE 100 Index has been chosen as this is a 
recognised broad equity market index of which HSBC 
Holdings is a member. 
 Source: Datastream 
CEO remuneration 
(Unaudited) 
Historical CEO remuneration 
The table below summarises the CEO’s single figure remuneration over the past six years together with the outcomes of 
the respective annual incentive and long-term incentive awards. 
  
  Single 
 figure of 
 remuneration 
Annual 
 incentive
 maximum
2
Annual 
 incentive
 paid
2 
Long-term 
 incentive 
 maximum
4
 
 Long-term
 incentive 
 paid
4
    (£000) (% of fixed pay)
3
(% of maximum) (% of fixed pay)
3
  (% of maximum)
2014  Stuart Gulliver 7,619 67% 54.1% 133% 44.3%
2013  Stuart Gulliver 8,033 300% 49.0% 600% 49.0%
2012  Stuart Gulliver 7,532 300% 52.0% 600% 40.0%
2011  Stuart Gulliver 8,047 300% 57.5% 600% 50.0%
2010
1 
 Michael Geoghegan  7,932 400% 81.6% 700% 19.1%
2009
1
 Michael Geoghegan  7,580 400% 93.5% 700% 25.4%
1 The GPSP was introduced in 2011. Prior to this, values shown relate to awards of Performance Shares under the HSBC Share Plan. Under this plan 
Performance Share awards vest three years after grant subject to performance conditions of total shareholder return, economic profit and 
earnings per share, and an over-riding ‘sustained improvement’ judgement by the committee. 
2  The 2012 annual incentive figure for Stuart Gulliver used for this table includes 60% of the annual incentive disclosed in the 2012 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report which was deferred for five years. The vesting of these awards is subject to service condition and satisfactory completion 
of the DPA. The DPA condition ends on or around the fifth anniversary of the award date unless the DPA is extended or otherwise continues 
beyond that date, in which case the awards will vest on or around the date on which the DPA expires and otherwise ceases to operate. 
3 For 2014, fixed pay includes base salary, fixed pay allowance and pension allowance for the year, and excludes benefits. For 2013 and earlier, 
fixed pay includes base salary only. 
4 Long-term incentive awards are shown in the year where the performance period is deemed to be substantially completed. For performance 
share awards this is at the end of the third financial year following the date of grant (Performance Share awards shown in 2010 therefore relate 
to awards granted in 2008). For GPSP awards this is at the end of the financial year preceding the date of grant (GPSP awards shown in 2011 to 
2014 therefore relate to awards granted in 2012 to 2015). 
80%
100%
120%
140%
160%
180%
200%
Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014
HSBC FTSE 100 Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Annual report on remuneration  
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
320 
Comparison of Group CEO and all-employee pay 
The following table compares the changes in Group CEO pay to changes in employee pay between 2013 and 2014:  
Percentage change in remuneration 
 
Base  
salary Benefits
3
 
Annual
incentive
4
Group CEO
1
 0.0% (0.3%) (29.6%)
Employee group
2
 4.4% 5.7% (5.3%)
1 Group CEO received an FPA of £1.7 million with effect from 1 January 2014 based on the new remuneration policy approved by shareholders. 
Further details on the FPA are provided in the remuneration policy section for executive Directors. 
2 Employee group consists of all employees globally, based on costs included in wages and salaries disclosed in financial reports (excluding FPA) 
and staff numbers (full-time equivalents averaged over the financial year). 
3 Employee group consists of UK employees only (full-time equivalents averaged over the financial year) as it was deemed the most appropriate 
comparison for the Group CEO given varying local requirements. 
4  Employee group consists of all employees globally, based on annual incentive pool less GPSP as disclosed in financial reports and staff numbers 
(full-time equivalents at the financial year-end). 
Directors’ interests in shares  
(Audited) 
Guidelines 
To ensure appropriate alignment with our shareholders, 
we have shareholding guidelines expressed as a number 
of shares for executive Directors, non-executive Directors, 
and Group Managing Directors. The Committee considers 
that share ownership by senior executives and non-
executive Directors helps align their interests with 
those of shareholders. The numbers of shares they 
are required to hold are set out in the table below. 
Individuals are given five years from 2014 or (if later) 
their appointment as executive Director, non-executive 
Director, or Group Managing Director to build up the 
recommended levels of shareholding. 
HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy for all employees. 
As part of this all employees are required to certify 
each year that they have not entered into any personal 
hedging strategies in relation to their holdings of HSBC 
shares.  
The Committee monitors compliance with the share 
ownership guidelines annually. The Committee has full 
discretion in determining any penalties in cases of non-
compliance, which could include a reduction of future 
awards of GPSP and/or an increase in the proportion 
of the annual variable pay that is deferred into shares. 
The shareholdings of all persons who were Directors in 
2014 (including the shareholdings of their connected 
persons) at 31 December 2014 or at the time of their 
retirement are set out below. 
 
Share options 
(Audited) 
  Exercisable At 1 Jan  Exercised  At 31 Dec
  Date of award  Exercise price From
1
until 2014  in year  2014
Douglas Flint   24 Apr 2012  4.4621 1 Aug 2015 1 Feb 2016 2,016 – 2,016
Douglas Flint  23 Sep 2014  5.1887 1 Nov 2019 1 May 2020 – – 2,919
Iain Mackay  23 Sep 2014  5.1887 1 Nov 2017 1 May 2018 – – 3,469
1 May be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, e.g. retirement.  
The HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans 
are all-employee share plans under which eligible 
employees may be granted options to acquire HSBC 
Holdings ordinary shares. Employees may make 
contributions of up to £500 (or equivalent) each month 
over a period of three or five years which may be used 
on or around the third or fifth anniversary of the 
commencement of the relevant savings contract, at the 
employee’s election, to exercise the options. The plans 
help align the interests of employees with the creation of 
shareholder value. The options were awarded for nil 
consideration and are exercisable at a 20% discount to 
the average market value of the ordinary shares on the 
five business days immediately preceding the invitation 
date. There are no performance criteria conditional upon 
which the outstanding options are exercisable and there 
have been no variations to the terms and conditions 
since the awards were made. The market value per 
ordinary share at 31 December 2014 was £6.09. The 
highest and lowest market values per ordinary share 
during the year were £6.81 and £5.89. Market value is 
the mid-market price derived from the London Stock 
Exchange Daily Official List on the relevant date. Under 
the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the 
options are categorised as unlisted physically settled 
equity derivatives.
 
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
321 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Shares 
(Audited) 
 At 31 December 2014 or date of retirement 
 Scheme interests 
    
Shares awarded 
subject to deferral 
 
 Shareholding 
 requirement
 (number of 
 shares)
1
Total share
 interests
 
 (number of 
 shares) 
 Share 
 options
2
 without  
 performance 
  conditions
3
 
 with 
 performance
 conditions 
Executive Directors  
Douglas Flint   400,000 400,748 4,935 – –
Stuart Gulliver  750,000 2,611,188 – 2,476,808 87,007
Iain Mackay   450,000 79,933 3,469 942,732 60,150
Marc Moses   450,000 480,423 – 1,216,599 58,439
Group Managing Directors
4
  250,000 n/a n/a n/a n/a
   
Non-executive Directors
5
  
Safra Catz  15,000 20,045 n/a n/a n/a
John Coombe
6
  15,000 23,845 n/a n/a n/a
Lord Evans of Weardale  15,000 5,519 n/a n/a n/a
Joachim Faber   15,000 24,105 n/a n/a n/a
Rona Fairhead   15,000 76,524 n/a n/a n/a
Sam Laidlaw   15,000 36,768 n/a n/a n/a
John Lipsky   15,000 15,820 n/a n/a n/a
Rachel Lomax  15,000 15,500 n/a n/a n/a
Heidi Miller
7
  15,000 3,575 n/a n/a n/a
Sir Simon Robertson   15,000 22,981 n/a n/a n/a
Jonathan Symonds
8
  15,000 20,553 n/a n/a n/a
1 The current shareholding requirement does not count unvested share based incentives.  
2 All share options are unexercised. 
3 Includes GPSP awards which are made following an assessment of performance over the relevant period ending on 31 December immediately 
before the grant date but are subject to a five-year vesting period. 
4 All of the Group Managing Directors are expected to meet their minimum shareholding requirement by 2019 or within five years of the date of 
their appointment, whichever is later. 
5 Those who were non-executive Directors in 2014 but are not in the list above did not hold any shares as at 31 December 2014, or at the date of 
their retirement, directly or through any connected persons.  
6 John Coombe retired as a Director on 23 May 2014.  
7 Appointed on 1 September 2014. 
8 Appointed on 14 April 2014. 
 
 
   Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Annual report on remuneration  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
322 
Shareholder context 
(Unaudited) 
The table below shows the outcome of the remuneration-related votes at the Annual General Meeting of HSBC Holdings 
plc held on 23 May 2014. 
 Number of 
votes cast For Against Withheld 
Advisory vote on 2013 Remuneration Report  9,744,121,154 8,180,579,271
(83.95%)
1,563,541,883 
(16.05%) 
205,528,859
Binding vote on the Remuneration Policy 9,781,954,191 7,762,051,505
(79.35%)
2,019,902,686 
(20.65%) 
167,509,544
 
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2015 
(Unaudited) 
The table below summarises how each element of pay will be implemented in 2015. 
1 This approach applies to all executive Directors with the exception of the Group Chairman, Douglas Flint, who is not eligible for a fixed pay 
allowance or variable pay awards. 
Purpose and link  
to strategy  
Operation and planned changes to policy 
Fixed pay 
Base salary Base salary levels will remain unchanged from their 2014 levels as follows: 
Douglas Flint: £1,500,000 
Stuart Gulliver: £1,250,000 
Iain Mackay: £700,000 
Marc Moses: £700,000 
Fixed pay allowance
1
 Fixed pay allowances will remain unchanged from their 2014 levels as follows: 
Douglas Flint: Nil 
Stuart Gulliver: £1,700,000 
Iain Mackay: £950,000 
Marc Moses: £950,000 
Pension Pension Allowance to apply in 2015 as a percentage of base salary will remain unchanged as follows:
Douglas Flint: 50% 
Stuart Gulliver: 50% 
Iain Mackay: 50% 
Marc Moses: 50% 
Benefits 
Benefits No changes are proposed to the benefits package for 2015.
Variable pay
1
 
Annual incentive No changes are proposed to the annual incentive.
GPSP No changes are proposed to the GPSP.  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
323 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Annual bonus scorecards  
The measures and weightings of the performance 
measures to apply to the 2015 annual incentive for 
Stuart Gulliver, Iain Mackay and Marc Moses are given 
below. Douglas Flint is not included as he is not eligible 
for an annual incentive award.
The Committee is of the opinion that the performance 
targets for the annual incentive are commercially sensitive 
and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the 
company to disclose them before the start of the financial 
year. Subject to commercial sensitivity, the targets will be 
disclosed after the end of the relevant financial year in 
that year’s remuneration report. 
 
2015 annual incentive scorecards 
Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay Marc Moses 
Measures  Weighting  
Functional measures
linked to  Weighting
Functional measures  
linked to 
 
 Weighting
Profit before tax
1
 15% 
 
Grow both business and 
dividends  
15% Grow both business and 
dividends  
  20% 
Return on equity 15%  
 
Global Standards including 
risk and compliance  
50% Global Standards including  
risk and compliance  
  50% 
Jaws
2
 15% 
 
Streamline processes and 
procedures  
25% Streamline processes and 
procedures  
  20% 
Grow dividends
3
 15%     
Financial  60%  Strategic priorities 90% Strategic priorities    90% 
Strategy execution  15%  People 10% People   10% 
Global Standards including  
risk and compliance  25%    
  
Non-financial  40%  People 10% People   10% 
Promoting HSBC Values  
Over-riding 
 test  Promoting HSBC Values  
Over-riding 
 test Promoting HSBC Values  
  Over-riding 
 test 
Total  100%  Total 100% Total   100% 
2015 Group GPSP scorecard 
Measure Long-term target range Weighting
Return on equity
2
  >10% 20%
Jaws
2
 Positiveadjustedjaws 20%
Grow dividends
3
 Progressive 20%
Financial  60%
Strategy execution  Judgement  15%
Global standards including risk and compliance Judgement  25%
Non-financial   40%
Total   100%
1 Profit before tax, as defined for the Group variable pay pool. 
2 Revenue growth less operating expense, on an adjusted basis. 
3 Dividend per ordinary share (USD) in respect of the year, measured year on year; consistent with the growth of the overall profitability of the 
Group, predicated on the continued ability to meet with regulatory capital requirements. 
 
  Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Appendix 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
324 
Appendix to Directors’ Remuneration Report  
Additional disclosures 
This appendix provides disclosures required under the Hong Kong Ordinances, Hong Kong Listing Rules, Project Merlin 
agreement, Financial Conduct Authority’s Prudential Sourcebook for Banks and the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission Form 20-F disclosures. 
Employee compensation and benefits 
Emoluments of Directors 
(Unaudited) 
Set out below are details of emoluments paid to executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
 Douglas Flint Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay  Marc Moses
 £000 £000 £000  £000
Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind  2,491 4,217 2,071   2,039
Pension contributions  – – –   –
Performance-related pay paid or receivable  – 3,402 1,998  2,164
Inducements to join paid or receivable  – – –   –
Compensation for loss of office – – –   –
Total  2,491 7,619 4,069  4,203
Total (US$000)  4,101 12,545 6,700  6,922
Total 2013 (US$000)  3,752 12,558 6,813  –
The aggregate amount of Directors emoluments (including both executive Directors and non-executive Directors) for the 
year ended 2014 was US$34,475,463. No payments were made in respect of pensions and loss of office. Marc Moses was 
appointed an executive Director with effect from 1 January 2014, therefore his 2013 figures have not been disclosed. 
Emoluments of senior management 
(Unaudited) 
Set out below are details of emoluments paid to senior management (being executive Directors and Group Managing 
Directors of HSBC Holdings) for the year ended 31 December 2014 or for the period of appointment as a Director or Group 
Managing Director. 
Emoluments of senior management 
  Senior
management 
£000 
Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind   32,237
Pension contributions   433
Performance-related pay paid or receivable   23,749
Inducements to join paid or receivable   –
Compensation for loss of office  –
Total   56,419
Total (US$000)   92,893
The aggregate emoluments of senior management for the year ended 31 December 2014 was US$92,892,912. The 
emoluments of senior management were within the following bands: 
 
  Number of 
senior 
management 
£0 – £1,000,000   1
£1,000,001 – £2,000,000   1
£2,000,001 – £3,000,000   7
£3,000,001 – £4,000,000   3
£4,000,001 – £5,000,000   3
£6,000,001 – £7,000,000  1
£7,000,001 – £8,000,000   1
The aggregate amount set aside or accrued to provide pension, retirement or similar benefits for executive Directors and 
senior management for the year ended 31 December 2014 was US$713,715. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
325 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Emoluments of five highest paid employees 
(Unaudited) 
Set out below are details of remuneration paid to the five individuals whose emoluments were the highest in HSBC 
(including two executive Directors and two Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings), for the year ended 31 December 
2014. 
Emoluments of the five highest paid employees 
  5 highest paid
employees 
£000 
Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind   14,945
Pension contributions   128
Performance-related pay paid or receivable   11,690
Inducements to join paid or receivable   –
Compensation for loss of office  –
Total   26,763
Total (US$000)   44,066
The emoluments of the five highest paid employees were within the following bands: 
 
 Number of
5 highest paid 
employees 
£4,000,001 – £4,100,000   1
£4,200,001 – £4,300,000   1
£4,700,001 – £4,800,000   1
£6,000,001 – £6,100,000   1
£7,600,001 – £7,700,000  1
 
Remuneration of eight highest paid senior executives 
(Unaudited) 
Set out below are details of the remuneration of the eight highest paid senior executives (including members of the GMB, 
but not Directors of HSBC Holdings): 
 Employee
  1  2 3 4 5 6  7  8
  £000  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000  £000  £000
Fixed         
Cash based  650 606 650 668 741 650 765 561
Shares-based 3,016 1,549 904 726 617 710 376 434
Total fixed  3,666 2,155 1,554 1,394 1,358 1,360 1,141 995
Annual incentive
1
    
Cash  421 345 283 265 224 223 224 199
Non-deferred shares
2
 421 345 283 265 224 223 224 199
Deferred cash
3
  631 517 424 398 336 334 336 299
Deferred shares
3
 631 517 424 398 336 334 336 299
Total annual incentive  2,104 1,724 1,414 1,326 1,120 1,114 1,120 996
GPSP     
Deferred shares  234 191 157 147 125 124 124 111
Total variable pay  2,338 1,915 1,571 1,473 1,245 1,238 1,244 1,107
Total remuneration  6,004 4,070 3,125 2,867 2,603 2,598 2,385 2,102
Total remuneration (US$000) 9,887 6,701 5,144 4,720 4,287 4,276 3,928 3,461
1 Annual incentive in respect of performance year 2014. 
2 Awards vested, subject to a six-month retention period.  
3 Awards vest over a three-year period, 33% vests on or around the first and second anniversary of grant and 34% on or around third anniversary 
of grant. 
   Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued) 
Appendix 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
326 
Pillar 3 remuneration disclosures 
The following tables show the remuneration awards made by HSBC to its Identified Staff and MRTs for 2014. Individuals 
have been identified as MRTs based on the qualitative and quantitative criteria set out in the Regulatory Technical 
Standard EU 604/2014 that came into force in June 2014. This replaces the criteria that were previously used to identify 
Code Staff for the purposes of the PRA’s and the FCA’s Remuneration Code. 
The scope of the qualitative and quantitative criteria specified in Regulatory Technical Standard EU 604/2014 to identify 
MRTs is much broader than the criteria used to identify Code Staff in previous years. Accordingly, the number of 
individuals identified as MRTs for 2014 is significantly larger than the number of individuals that were identified as Code 
Staff in previous years. The figures for 2013 in the tables below relate to the number of individuals that were identified as 
Code Staff for 2013.   
These disclosures reflect the requirements of the FCA’s Prudential Sourcebook for Banks. 
Aggregate remuneration expenditure 
  Global business aligned   
  Retail
Banking 
and Wealth 
Management 
Commercial 
Banking 
Global 
Banking and 
Markets 
Global 
Private 
Banking 
Non-global 
business 
aligned 
 
Total 
  US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Aggregate remuneration expenditure 
(2014 MRTs/2013 Code Staff)
1
 
 
       
2014   94.3 61.7 741.3 70.2 374.4  1,341.9
2013   39.7 14.6 309.0 44.9 171.2  579.4
1 Includes salary and incentives awarded in respect of performance in the years 2013 and 2014 (including deferred component) and any pension or 
benefits outside of policy. 
Remuneration – fixed and variable amounts – Group-wide 
  2014 2013 
  
Senior 
manage- 
 ment
1
MRTs
(non-senior 
manage- 
ment) Total 
Senior 
manage- 
 ment
1
  
Code Staff 
(non-senior 
manage-
ment)  Total 
Number of 2014 MRTs/2013 Code Staff   98 1,080 1,178 66  264  330
  US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m
Fixed      
Cash-based   64.1 517.0 581.1 52.6  101.1  153.7
Shares-based  51.8 88.7 140.5 –  –  –
Total fixed   115.9 605.7 721.6 52.6  101.1  153.7
Variable
2
      
Cash   18.5 138.9 157.4 19.0  60.1  79.1
Non-deferred shares
3
  18.5 132.0 150.5 18.9  56.5  75.4
Deferred cash   24.9 119.5 144.4 26.6  79.3  105.9
Deferred shares   41.5 126.4 167.9 72.4  92.8  165.2
Total variable pay
4
  103.4 516.8 620.2 136.9  288.7  425.6
1 Definition of senior management for 2014 includes members of the Group Management Board, Group General Managers and non-executive 
Directors. For 2013, this includes members of the Group Management Board and Group General Managers only.  
2 Variable pay awarded in respect of performance in the years 2013 and 2014. 
3 Vested shares, subject to a six-month retention period. 
4 In accordance with shareholder approval received on 23 May 2014, for each MRT the variable component of remuneration for any one year is 
limited to 200% of fixed component of total remuneration of the MRT. 
Remuneration – fixed and variable amounts – UK based 
  2014 2013 
  
Senior 
manage- 
ment 
MRTs
(non-senior 
manage-
ment) Total 
Senior 
manage- 
ment  
Code Staff 
(non-senior 
manage- 
ment)  Total 
Number of 2014 MRTs/2013 Code Staff   64 446 510 35  157  192
  US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m
Total fixed   73.1 244.5 317.6 30.4  53.7  84.1
Total variable pay
1
   60.7 205.2 265.9 86.0  120.3  206.3
1 Variable pay awarded in respect of performance in the years 2013 and 2014. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
327 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Deferred remuneration
1
 
  2014 2013 
  
Senior 
manage- 
ment 
MRTs
(non-senior 
manage- 
ment) Total 
Senior 
manage- 
ment  
Code Staff 
(non-senior 
manage- 
ment)  Total 
  US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m
Deferred remuneration at 31 December       
Outstanding, unvested   270.2 691.8 962.0 213.4  331.7  545.1
Awarded during the year  112.6 353.8 466.4 87.0  159.6  246.6
Paid out
2
   33.9 210.3 244.2 110.7  269.9  380.6
Reduced through malus
3
  – – – 0.4  –  0.4
1 This table provides details of actions taken during the performance years 2013 and 2014. For details of variable pay awards granted for the 
performance years 2013 and 2014, please refer to both the Remuneration tables above. 
2 All valued as at 31 December of the relevant year, except for 2013 vested shares which are valued using share price as at day of vesting. 
3 This table only discloses instances of malus for 2014 MRTs/2013 Code Staff. Malus has been applied in the year for other individuals who have 
left the Group. Where practicable, an adjustment will be made to current year variable pay, before the application of malus (see page 306 for 
further information). 
Sign-on and severance payments 
  2014 2013 
  
Senior 
manage- 
ment 
MRTs
(non-senior 
manage- 
ment) Total 
Senior 
manage- 
ment  
Code Staff 
(non-senior 
manage- 
ment)  Total 
Sign-on payments      
Made during year (US$m)   1.9 2.6 4.5 –  3.7  3.7
Number of beneficiaries   1 5 6 –  3  3
Severance payments      
Made during year (US$m)   – 4.1 4.1 1.1  1.6  2.7
Number of beneficiaries   – 13 13 3  5  8
Highest such award to single person (US$m)   – 0.5 0.5 0.6  0.6  
MRT remuneration by band
1
 
  Number of 2014 MRTs Number of 2013 Code Staff
  
Senior 
manage- 
ment 
MRTs
(non-senior 
manage- 
ment) Total 
Senior 
manage- 
ment  
Code Staff 
(non-senior 
manage- 
ment)  Total 
€0 – €1,000,000   29 829 858 11  139  150
€1,000,001 – €1,500,000   20 150 170 19  44  63
€1,500,001 – €2,000,000   10 54 64 9  33  42
€2,000,001 – €2,500,000   13 23 36 6  19  25
€2,500,001 – €3,000,000   10 12 22 7  16  23
€3,000,001 – €3,500,000   6 7 13 4  10  14
€3,500,001 – €4,000,000   3 3 6 2  1  3
€4,000,001 – €4,500,000   2 1 3 3  1  4
€4,500,001 – €5,000,000   2 1 3 3  –  3
€5,000,001 – €6,000,000   1 – 1 –  1  1
€6,000,001 – €7,000,000   – – – –  –  –
€7,000,001 – €8,000,000   1 – 1 1  –  1
€8,000,001 – €9,000,000   1 – 1 1  –  1
1 Table prepared in euros in accordance with Article 450 of the Capital Requirements Regulation, using the rates published by the European 
Commission for financial programming and budget for December of the reported year as published on their website. 
  Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
328 
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditor’s statement of their responsibilities set out 
in their report on pages 329 to 333, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities 
of the Directors and of the Auditor in relation to the financial statements. The Directors are responsible for preparing the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 comprising the consolidated financial statements of HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries 
(the ‘Group’) and holding company financial statements for HSBC Holdings (the ‘parent company’) in accordance with 
applicable laws and regulations. Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this report has confirmed that, so 
far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditor is unaware and the Director has taken 
all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information. This confirmation was given pursuant to 
section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted in accordance with and subject to those provisions. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. 
The Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as endorsed by the EU and 
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis. 
The Group and parent company financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as endorsed by the EU to present fairly 
the financial position, the performance for that period and for IFRSs purposes the cash flows of the Group and the parent 
company. The Companies Act 2006 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of 
that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation. In addition, 
in order to meet certain US requirements, HSBC is required to present its financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’). Currently, there are no differences in application to HSBC 
between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB. 
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;  
• state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as endorsed by the EU; and 
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and 
the parent company will continue in business. Since the Directors are satisfied that the Group and parent company 
have the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future, the financial statements continue to be prepared 
on the going concern basis. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company 
and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. The Directors have general 
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent 
and detect fraud and other irregularities.  
The Directors are responsible for preparing, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, a Strategic Report, a 
Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Report on pages 1 to 327 of this Annual 
Report and Accounts 2014 and for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 as they appear 
on the Company’s website. UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the Directors, the names of whom are set out in the ‘Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance’ section 
on pages 264 to 268 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2014, confirm that: 
• to the best of their knowledge, the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as issued by the IASB and as endorsed by the EU, have been prepared in accordance with the applicable set of 
accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
parent company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; 
• to the best of their knowledge, the management report represented by the Report of the Directors includes a 
fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the parent company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks 
and uncertainties that they face; and 
• they consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2014, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the parent company’s performance, business model and 
strategy. 
On behalf of the Board 
D J Flint, Group Chairman 
23 February 2015  Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of HSBC Holdings plc only 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
329 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of HSBC Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 set out on pages 
335 to 457. In our opinion:   
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 
31 December 2014 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;   
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted by the European Union (‘IFRSs as adopted by the EU’);   
• the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and   
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.   
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
In arriving at our audit opinion above, our strategy was to increase our audit procedures in areas where we identified a 
higher risk of material misstatement of the financial statements. 
To conduct our risk assessment, we considered the inherent risks facing the Group and the parent company, including 
those arising from the respective business models, and how the Group controls those risks. In doing so, we considered a 
number of factors including: the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern; the risk of fraud; the design and 
implementation of the Group’s control environment; and the risk of management override of key controls.   
We revisited our risk assessment after testing the operating effectiveness of a number of the Group’s key controls 
including internal controls over financial reporting and specific anti-fraud controls as well as testing the basis of the going 
concern assumption. We also considered the inherent need for the directors to make and appropriately disclose 
judgements when preparing the financial statements. 
As a result of this assessment, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were areas 
where significant judgement was required and were as follows: 
The risk Our response 
Impairment of loans and advances 
Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements in Note 1(k) on the Financial Statements, the Group Audit Committee Report on 
pages 277 to 279 and the disclosures of credit risk within the audited elements of the Risk sections of the Financial Review on pages 111 
to 237. 
The impairment of loans and advances is 
estimated by the directors through the application 
of judgement and use of highly subjective 
assumptions.  
Due to the significance of loans and advances 
(representing 41% of total assets) and the related 
estimation uncertainty, this is considered a key 
audit risk. 
The portfolios which give rise to the greatest 
uncertainty are typically those where impairments 
are derived from collective models, are unsecured 
or are subject to potential collateral shortfalls. 
In 2014, we continued to pay particular attention 
to collective impairment methodologies, focusing 
specifically on US mortgages, the commercial and 
global banking portfolios, and Brazilian personal 
and business loans, either due to their relative size 
or the potential impact of changing inputs and 
assumptions. We also focused on portfolios that 
were potentially more sensitive to developing and 
emerging global economic trends. In addition, we 
also focused on individually significant exposures 
that either continued to be, have become, or were 
at risk of being individually impaired. 
Our audit procedures included the assessment of controls over 
the approval, recording and monitoring of loans and advances, 
and evaluating the methodologies, inputs and assumptions used 
by the Group in calculating collectively assessed impairments, 
and assessing the adequacy of impairment allowances for 
individually assessed loans and advances. 
We compared the Group’s assumptions for both collective 
and individual impairment allowances to externally available 
industry, financial and economic data and our own assessments 
in relation to key inputs. As part of this, we critically assessed the 
Group’s revisions to estimates and assumptions, specifically in 
respect of the inputs to the impairment models in the 
commercial and global banking portfolios and the consistency of 
judgement applied in the use of economic factors, loss 
emergence periods and the observation period for historical 
default rates. For a sample of exposures that were subject to an 
individual impairment assessment, and focusing on those with 
the most significant potential impact on the financial 
statements, we specifically challenged the Group’s assumptions 
on the expected future cash flows, including the value of 
realisable collateral based on our own understanding and 
available market information.  
We also assessed whether the financial statement disclosures 
appropriately reflect the Group’s exposure to credit risk, 
specifically considering those portfolios identified in 2014 as 
presenting the greatest risk.  Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of HSBC Holdings plc only (continued) 
Report 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
330 
The risk Our response 
Litigation, regulatory actions and customer remediation  
Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements, and disclosures of provisions and contingent liabilities in Notes 29, 37 and 40 
on the Financial Statements and the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 277 to 279. 
The recognition and measurement of provisions 
and the measurement and disclosure of 
contingent liabilities in respect of litigation, 
regulatory actions and customer remediation 
(together ‘legal and regulatory matters’) 
require significant judgement. Due to the 
significance of these matters and the difficulty 
in assessing and measuring the quantum from 
any resulting obligations, this is considered a 
key audit risk. 
In 2014, we paid particular attention to 
significant matters that experienced notable 
developments or that emerged during the 
period. The areas of greatest focus were 
customer redress programmes and foreign 
exchange matters in the UK, and other tax and 
regulatory matters in France, the US and 
Switzerland. 
Our audit procedures included the assessment of controls over the 
identification, evaluation and measurement of potential obligations 
arising from legal and regulatory matters.   
For matters identified, we considered whether an obligation exists, 
the appropriateness of provisioning and/or disclosure based on the 
facts and circumstances available. In order to assess the facts and 
circumstances, we obtained and assessed the relevant regulatory 
and litigation documents and also interviewed the Group’s internal 
and external legal counsel. We also critically assessed the 
assumptions made and key judgements applied and considered 
possible alternative outcomes based on our own experience and 
knowledge of market information. 
Additionally we considered whether the Group’s disclosures of the 
application of judgement in estimating provisions and contingent 
liabilities adequately reflected the uncertainties associated with 
legal and regulatory matters. 
The risk Our response 
Valuation of financial instruments  
Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements and disclosures of fair values in Notes 12 to 16, 18, 24 and 25 on the Financial 
Statements, the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 277 to 279 and the disclosures of market risk within the audited elements of the 
Risk sections of the Financial Review on pages 111 to 237. 
The fair value of financial instruments is 
determined through the application of 
valuation techniques which often involve the 
exercise of judgement by the directors and the 
use of assumptions and estimates.  
Due to the significance of financial instruments 
and the related estimation uncertainty, this is 
considered a key audit risk. At 31 December 
2014, financial assets carried at fair value 
represented 40% of total assets and financial 
liabilities carried at fair value represented 25% 
of total liabilities. 
Estimation uncertainty is particularly high for 
those instruments where significant valuation 
inputs are unobservable (i.e. Level 3 
instruments). At 31 December 2014, Level 3 
instruments represented 1.4% of financial 
assets carried at fair value and 1.3% of financial 
liabilities carried at fair value. 
In 2014, we have continued to focus on 
developments in derivative fair value 
methodologies and specifically on the Group’s 
adoption of a funding fair value adjustment 
for the measurement of uncollateralised 
derivatives. 
Our audit procedures included the assessment of controls over the 
identification, measurement and management of valuation risk, and 
evaluating the methodologies, inputs and assumptions used by the 
Group in determining fair values. 
For the Group’s fair value models, we assessed the appropriateness 
of the models and inputs. We compared observable inputs against 
independent sources and externally available market data.  
For a sample of instruments with significant unobservable valuation 
inputs, and with the assistance of our own valuation specialists, 
we critically assessed the assumptions and models used or re-
performed an independent valuation assessment, by reference 
to what we considered to be available alternative methods and 
sensitivities to key factors.  
We also evaluated the methodology and inputs used by the Group 
in determining its funding fair value adjustment recorded on the 
uncollateralised derivatives portfolio and compared that against 
current market practice based on our experience of comparable 
institutions. 
Additionally, we assessed whether the financial statement 
disclosures of fair value risks and sensitivities appropriately reflect 
the Group’s exposure to valuation risk. 
 
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
331 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The risk Our response 
Deferred tax assets  
Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements and disclosures of deferred taxation in Note 8 on the Financial Statements and 
the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 277 to 279. 
The recognition of deferred tax assets relies on 
the significant application of judgement by the 
directors in respect of assessing the probability 
and sufficiency of future taxable profits, future 
reversals of existing taxable temporary 
differences and ongoing tax planning strategies. 
Due to the size of the Group’s recognised 
deferred tax assets (US$7.4bn) and the 
associated uncertainty surrounding 
recoverability, this is considered a key audit 
risk. 
In 2014, we have continued to focus on the 
most significant deferred tax assets which arise 
in the US, Brazil and Mexico. We paid particular 
attention to the tax planning strategy in the US, 
which continues to rely on the capital support 
of the parent company, and to management’s 
forecasts of future profitability in Brazil that 
support the deferred tax asset. 
 
Our audit procedures included the assessment of controls over 
the recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets and the 
assessment of assumptions used in projecting the Group’s future 
taxable profits in relevant jurisdictions. We also challenged the 
Group’s assumptions and commitment to continue to invest 
sufficient capital in the US by evaluating the expected tax planning 
strategies that will be employed and the availability of capital that 
collectively support the realisation of the recognised deferred tax 
assets. 
We compared key inputs used by the Group to forecast future 
profits to externally available data such as economic forecasts and 
the Group’s own historical data and performance and assessed the 
sensitivity of the outcomes to reasonably possible changes in 
assumptions. We also used our own tax specialists to critically 
assess the appropriateness of the future tax planning strategies.  
Additionally, we assessed whether the Group’s disclosures of 
the application of judgement in estimating recognised and 
unrecognised deferred tax asset balances appropriately reflect 
the Group’s deferred tax position. 
The risk Our response 
Goodwill impairment  
Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements and disclosures of goodwill in Note 21 on the Financial Statements and the 
Group Audit Committee Report on pages 277 to 279. 
Goodwill impairment testing of cash generating 
units (‘CGUs’) relies on estimates of value-in-
use based on estimated future cash flows.  
Due to the uncertainty of forecasting and 
discounting future cash flows and the 
significance of the Group’s recognised goodwill 
(US$19.2bn), this is deemed a significant risk.  
Uncertainty is typically highest for those CGUs 
where headroom between value-in-use and 
carrying value is limited and where the value-
in-use is most sensitive to estimates of future 
cash flows.  
In 2014, we focused on CGUs that were most 
sensitive and reliant on future cash flow 
projections and, as a result of recent historical 
performance, were expected to have reduced 
headroom, particularly GPB businesses in 
Europe. 
Our audit procedures included the assessment of controls over the 
Group’s process for the recognition and measurement of goodwill 
impairment, including the assumptions used. We also tested the key 
assumptions forming the Group’s value-in-use calculation, including 
the cash flow projections and discount rates. 
We assessed the reasonableness of cash flow projections and 
compared key inputs, such as the discount rates and growth rates, 
to externally available industry, economic and financial data and 
the Group’s own historical data and performance. With the 
assistance of our own specialists, we critically assessed the 
assumptions and methodologies used to forecast value-in-use for 
those CGUs where significant goodwill was found to be sensitive 
to changes in those assumptions. On an overall basis, we also 
evaluated the aggregate values-in-use determined by the Group 
to its external market capitalisation. 
Additionally we considered whether the Group’s disclosures of the 
application of judgement in estimating CGU cash flows and the 
sensitivity of the results of those estimates adequately reflect the 
risks associated with goodwill impairment.  
   Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of HSBC Holdings plc only (continued) 
Report 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
332 
The risk Our response 
Interests in associates 
Refer to the critical accounting estimates and judgements and disclosures of interests in associates in Note 20 on the Financial Statements 
and the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 277 to 279. 
The majority of HSBC’s interests in associates 
relate to its 19.03% interest in Bank of 
Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’), which 
is listed on the Hong Kong and Shanghai stock 
exchanges.  
Under the equity method of accounting for 
associates, these interests are initially stated at 
cost, and are adjusted thereafter for the post-
acquisition change in HSBC’s share of the net 
assets of the associate less any impairment 
provisions. 
BoCom’s market value has been below its 
carrying amount for a sustained period, and 
therefore its current carrying amount 
(US$14.6bn) continues to rely on the Group’s 
significant judgement in determining BoCom’s 
recoverable amount based on its value-in-use. 
The projected future cash flows and discount 
rates used by the Group in determining 
BoCom’s value-in-use are subject to estimation 
uncertainty and sensitivity. Therefore, we 
consider this a key audit risk. 
Our audit procedures included the assessment of the Group’s 
methodology and calculation of BoCom’s value-in-use. We 
evaluated the reasonableness of cash flow projections against 
BoCom’s most recent financial performance and considered the 
appropriateness of key inputs such as long-term growth rates used 
to extrapolate these cash flows, the discount rate, the risk-weighted 
assets to total assets ratio and the loan impairment charge to gross 
loans ratio and compared these to available industry, economic and 
financial data, and to consensus market forecasts.  
We met with BoCom’s management to understand current business 
performance and expectations and whether they were properly 
reflected in the Group’s own assumptions. We also compared the 
results of the value-in-use calculations to market available 
price/earnings multiples for BoCom and other listed banks in 
mainland China and assessed the Group’s analysis of the difference 
between the market value and the value-in-use of its interest in 
BoCom. This assessment included consideration of the valuation 
methodologies and assumptions used by other market participants.  
Additionally, we considered whether the Group’s disclosures of the 
application of judgement in estimating the recoverable amount and 
the sensitivity of the results of those estimates adequately reflect 
the risks associated with impairment of interests in associates.  
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit 
The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at US$930m, determined with reference to a 
benchmark of Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude fair value movements on long-term debt attributable to 
credit spread (‘own credit spread’), which we believe to be one of the principal considerations for members of the 
company in assessing financial performance. Materiality represents 5.0% of Group profit before tax and 5.1% after 
adjustment to exclude own credit spread. 
We report to the Group Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding US$45m, 
in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
Our approach to scoping components was: for some regions, we instructed the regional audit team to conduct and report 
to us on a full scope regional audit and specified certain components within those regions that should be subject to a full 
scope audit overseen by the relevant regional audit team; within other regions, we directly instructed component audit 
teams to conduct and report to us full scope audits. Accordingly, we instructed or specified full scope audits at 23 
components across all five regions as follows:  
• Europe (7 components) 
• Asia (8 components) 
• Middle East and North Africa (1 component) 
• North America (4 components) 
• Latin America (3 components) 
These audits covered 82% of total Group operating income; 78% of total profits and losses that made up Group profit 
before tax; and 88% of total Group assets. The segment disclosures in Note 11 set out the individual significance of each 
region. 
We approved materiality for those full scope audits that we directly instructed, ranging from US$50m to US$750m having 
regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components. 
The Group audit team visited locations in Europe, Asia, North America and Latin America and teams from components in 
each region attended a Group audit planning meeting. The Group audit team also held regular telephone meetings with 
the regional audit teams and other component auditors. In addition, regional audit teams visited locations of key 
components within their regions.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
333 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Our separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board is 
unmodified 
As explained in Note 1(a) on the Group financial statements, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified 
In our opinion:  
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and  
• the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.  
We have nothing to report in respect of matters on which we are required to report by exception  
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge 
we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material 
inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise 
misleading.  
In particular, we are required to report to you if:  
• we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors’ 
statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy; or 
• the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report and Accounts describing the work of the Group Audit 
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Group Audit Committee. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:  
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or  
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or  
• certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or  
• we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.  
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:  
• the Directors’ statement, set out on pages 290 and 291, in relation to going concern; and 
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with the ten provisions of the 
2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review. 
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities. 
Scope of report and responsibilities 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 328, the Directors are responsible for 
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at 
http://www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers 
regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at http://www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014b, which are 
incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this 
report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions. 
 
 
Guy Bainbridge (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants  
15 Canada Square 
London E14 5GL 23 February 2015 
  Financial Statements 
Consolidated income statement 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
334 
Financial Statements 
Consolidated income statement  
335
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 336
Consolidated balance sheet 337
Consolidated statement of cash flows 338
Consolidated statement of changes in equity  339
HSBC Holdings balance sheet 341
HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows 342
HSBC Holdings statement of changes in equity  343
Notes on the Financial 
Statements 
  1 Basis of preparation  345
  2 Net income/(expense) from financial  
instruments designated at fair value  354
  3 Net insurance premium income 354
  4 Net insurance claims and benefits paid and 
movement in liabilities to policyholders  355
  5 Operating profit  356
  6 Employee compensation and benefits  356
  7 Auditors’ remuneration 364
  8 Tax  365
  9 Dividends  370
10 Earnings per share  371
11 Segmental analysis  371
12 Trading assets  377
13 Fair values of financial instruments carried at 
fair value  378
14 Fair values of financial instruments not carried 
at fair value  390
15 Financial assets designated at fair value  392
16 Derivatives  394
 
17 Non-trading reverse repurchase and repurchase 
agreements 398
18 Financial investments 399
19 Assets charged as security for liabilities, assets 
transferred and collateral accepted as 
security for assets  401
20 Interests in associates and joint ventures  403
21 Goodwill and intangible assets  407
22 Investments in subsidiaries  413
23 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 416
24 Trading liabilities 417
25 Financial liabilities designated at fair value  417
26 Debt securities in issue  418
27 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 418
28 Liabilities under insurance contracts  419
29 Provisions 420
30 Subordinated liabilities  423
31 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-
balance sheet commitments 426
32 Offsetting of financial assets and financial 
liabilities  434
33 Foreign exchange exposures  435
34 Non-controlling interests  436
35 Called up share capital and other equity 
instruments  437
36 Notes on the statement of cash flows  439
37 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments 
and guarantees  441
38 Lease commitments 442
39 Structured entities 443
40 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters  446
41 Related party transactions  455
42 Events after the balance sheet date  457
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
335 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Consolidated income statement  
for the year ended 31 December 2014 
 2014 2013   2012
 Notes US$m US$m US$m
Interest income  50,955 51,192  56,702 
Interest expense  (16,250) (15,653) (19,030)
Net interest income  34,705 35,539  37,672 
Fee income  19,545 19,973  20,149 
Fee expense  (3,588) (3,539) (3,719)
Net fee income  15,957 16,434  16,430 
Trading income excluding net interest income  4,853 6,643  4,408 
Net interest income on trading activities  1,907 2,047  2,683 
Net trading income  6,760 8,690  7,091 
Changes in fair value of long-term debt issued and related derivatives 508 (1,228) (4,327)
Net income from other financial instruments designated at fair value 1,965 1,996  2,101 
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 2 2,473 768  (2,226)
Gains less losses from financial investments  1,335 2,012  1,189 
Dividend income  311 322  221 
Net insurance premium income 3 11,921 11,940  13,044 
Gains on disposal of US branch network, US cards business and Ping An 
Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd   – – 7,024 
Other operating income  1,131 2,632  2,100 
Total operating income  74,593 78,337  82,545 
Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to 
policyholders  4 (13,345) (13,692) (14,215)
Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions   61,248 64,645  68,330 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions 5 (3,851) (5,849) (8,311)
Net operating income  57,397 58,796  60,019 
Employee compensation and benefits  6 (20,366) (19,196) (20,491)
General and administrative expenses  (18,565) (17,065) (19,983)
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment (1,382) (1,364) (1,484)
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets  21 (936) (931) (969)
Total operating expenses  (41,249) (38,556) (42,927)
Operating profit  5 16,148 20,240  17,092 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures  20 2,532 2,325  3,557 
Profit before tax  18,680 22,565  20,649 
Tax expense  8 (3,975) (4,765) (5,315)
Profit for the year  14,705 17,800  15,334 
Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company 13,688 16,204  14,027 
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests  1,017 1,596  1,307 
 US$ US$   US$
Basic earnings per ordinary share 10 0.69 0.84    0.74 
Diluted earnings per ordinary share  10 0.69 0.84    0.74 
The accompanying notes on pages 345 to 457 form an integral part of these financial statements
1
. 
For footnote, see page 344. 
  Financial Statements (continued) 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income / Consolidated balance sheet  
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
336 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  
for the year ended 31 December 2014 
 2014 2013   2012
 US$m US$m US$m
Profit for the year  14,705 17,800  15,334 
Other comprehensive income/(expense)  
Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific 
conditions are met:    
Available-for-sale investments
2
2,972 (1,718) 5,070 
–  fair value gains/(losses) 4,794 (1,787) 6,396 
–  fair value gains reclassified to the income statement (1,672) (1,277) (1,872)
–  amounts reclassified to the income statement in respect of impairment 
losses  374 286  1,002 
–  income taxes  (524) 1,060  (456)
Cash flow hedges  188 (128) 109 
–  fair value gains  1,512 776  552 
–  fair value gains reclassified to the income statement (1,244) (894) (423)
–  income taxes  (80) (10) (20)
Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) of associates and 
joint ventures  80 (71) 533 
–  share for the year  78 (35) 311
–  reclassified to income statement on disposal  2 (36) 222 
Exchange differences  (8,903) (1,372) 1,017 
–  foreign exchange gains reclassified to income statement on disposal of a 
foreign operation (21) (290) (1,128)
–  other exchange differences  (8,917) (1,154) 2,145 
–  Income tax attributable to exchange differences 35 72  –
  
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: 
Remeasurement of defined benefit asset/liability  1,985 (458) (195)
–  before income taxes  2,419 (601) (391)
–  income taxes  (434) 143  196 
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax  (3,678) (3,747) 6,534 
Total comprehensive income for the year  11,027 14,053  21,868 
Attributable to:  
–  shareholders of the parent company  9,245 12,644  20,455 
–  non-controlling interests 1,782 1,409  1,413 
Total comprehensive income for the year 11,027 14,053  21,868 
The accompanying notes on pages 345 to 457 form an integral part of these financial statements
1
. 
For footnote, see page 344. 
   
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
337 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Consolidated balance sheet 
at 31 December 2014 
 2014   2013
 Notes US$m US$m
Assets   
Cash and balances at central banks  129,957  166,599 
Items in the course of collection from other banks  4,927  6,021
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness  27,674  25,220 
Trading assets  12 304,193  303,192 
Financial assets designated at fair value  15 29,037  38,430 
Derivatives  16 345,008  282,265 
Loans and advances to banks
3
 112,149  120,046
Loans and advances to customers
3
974,660  992,089
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading  17 161,713  179,690
Financial investments  18 415,467  425,925 
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets  23 75,176  76,842
Current tax assets  1,309  985
Interests in associates and joint ventures  20 18,181  16,640 
Goodwill and intangible assets  21 27,577  29,918 
Deferred tax assets  8 7,111  7,456 
Total assets at 31 December 2,634,139  2,671,318 
  
Liabilities and equity   
Liabilities  
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation  27,674  25,220 
Deposits by banks
3
  77,426  86,507
Customer accounts
3
  1,350,642  1,361,297
Repurchase agreements – non-trading  17 107,432  164,220
Items in the course of transmission to other banks  5,990  6,910
Trading liabilities  24 190,572  207,025 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  25 76,153  89,084 
Derivatives  16 340,669  274,284
Debt securities in issue  26 95,947  104,080 
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities  27 53,396  52,341
Current tax liabilities  1,213  607 
Liabilities under insurance contracts  28 73,861  74,181 
Provisions  29 4,998  5,217 
Deferred tax liabilities  8 1,524  910 
Subordinated liabilities  30 26,664  28,976 
Total liabilities at 31 December 2,434,161  2,480,859 
  
Equity  
Called up share capital  35 9,609  9,415 
Share premium account  11,918  11,135 
Other equity instruments  11,532  5,851 
Other reserves  20,244  26,742 
Retained earnings  137,144  128,728 
Total shareholders’ equity  190,447  181,871 
Non-controlling interests  34 9,531  8,588 
Total equity at 31 December 199,978  190,459 
Total liabilities and equity at 31 December 2,634,139  2,671,318 
The accompanying notes on pages 345 to 457 form an integral part of these financial statements
1
. 
For footnote, see page 344. 
 
D J Flint, Group Chairman  Financial Statements (continued) 
Consolidated statement of cash flows / Consolidated statement of changes in equity  
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
338 
Consolidated statement of cash flows 
for the year ended 31 December 2014 
 2014 2013   2012
 Notes US$m US$m US$m
Cash flows from operating activities   
Profit before tax  18,680 22,565 20,649
Adjustments for:  
–  net gain from investing activities  (1,928) (1,458) (2,094)
–  share of profits in associates and joint ventures  (2,532) (2,325) (3,557)
–  (gain)/loss on disposal of associates, joint ventures, subsidiaries and 
businesses   9 (1,173) (7,024)
–  other non-cash items included in profit before tax 36 11,262 11,995 19,778
–  change in operating assets 36 25,877 (148,899) (116,521)
–  change in operating liabilities  36 (93,814) 164,757 89,070
–  elimination of exchange differences
4 
 24,571 4,479 (3,626)
–  dividends received from associates  757 694 489
–  contributions paid to defined benefit plans  (681) (962) (733)
–  tax paid  (3,573) (4,696) (5,587)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities (21,372) 44,977 (9,156)
  
Cash flows from investing activities  
Purchase of financial investments (384,199) (363,979) (342,974)
Proceeds from the sale and maturity of financial investments 382,837 342,539 329,926
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (1,477) (1,952) (1,318)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment 88 441 241
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from disposal of customer and loan portfolios (1,035) 6,518 –
Net purchase of intangible assets (903) (834) (1,008)
Net cash inflow from disposal of US branch network and US cards business – – 20,905
Proceeds from disposal of Ping An – 7,413 1,954
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from disposal of other subsidiaries, businesses, 
associates and joint ventures   (242) 3,295 (269)
Net cash outflow from acquisition of or increase in stake of associates (30) (26) (1,804)
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities  (4,961) (6,585) 5,653
  
Cash flows from financing activities   
Issue of ordinary share capital  267 297 594
Net sales/(purchases) of own shares for market-making and investment 
purposes   (96) (32) (25)
Issue of other equity instruments 5,681 – –
Redemption of preference shares (234) – –
Subordinated loan capital issued 3,500 1,989 37
Subordinated loan capital repaid (3,163) (1,662) (1,754)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from change in stake in subsidiaries – – (14)
Dividends paid to shareholders of the parent company (6,611) (6,414) (5,925)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  (639) (586) (572)
Dividends paid to holders of other equity instruments  (573) (573) (573)
Net cash used in financing activities  (1,868) (6,981) (8,232)
  
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  (28,201) 31,411 (11,735)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  346,281 315,308 325,449
Exchange differences in respect of cash and cash equivalents (16,779) (438) 1,594
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  36 301,301 346,281 315,308
The accompanying notes on pages 345 to 457 form an integral part of these financial statements
1
. 
For footnote, see page 344. 
   
 
Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
339 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
For the year ended 31 December 2014
 
Other reserves
 
 Called up 
 share 
 capital 
 Share
  premium 
Other 
 equity 
 instru-
 ments
11
 Retained 
  earnings
5,6
Available-
 for-sale 
 fair value 
 reserve 
 Cash flow
  hedging
  reserve 
 Foreign 
 exchange 
 reserve 
 Merger 
  reserve
5,7
Total 
 share-
 holders’ 
 equity 
 Non-
 controlling
 interests 
 Total 
 equity 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
At 1 January 2014 9,415 11,135 5,851 128,728 97 (121) (542) 27,308 181,871 8,588 190,459
Profit for the year − − − 13,688 − − − − 13,688 1,017 14,705 
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)  − − − 2,066 2,025 189 (8,723) − (4,443) 765 (3,678)
–  available-for-sale investments  − − − − 2,025 − − − 2,025 947 2,972
–  cash flow hedges − − − − − 189 − − 189 (1) 188
–  remeasurement of defined benefit asset/liability  − − − 1,986 − − − − 1,986 (1) 1,985
–  share of other comprehensive income of 
associates and joint ventures  − − − 80 − − − −  80 − 80
–  exchange differences − − − − − − (8,723) − (8,723) (180) (8,903)
Total comprehensive income for the year  − − − 15,754 2,025 189 (8,723) − 9,245 1,782 11,027 
Shares issued under employee remuneration and 
share plans  60 917 −  (710) −  −  −  −  267 −  267 
Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts 
arising thereon  134 (134) −  2,709  −  −  −  −  2,709 −  2,709 
Capital securities issued − − 5,681 − − − − − 5,681 − 5,681
Dividends to shareholders
8
− − − (9,893) − − − − (9,893) (712) (10,605)
Cost of share-based payment arrangements  − − − 732 − − − − 732 − 732
Other movements − − − (176) 21 (10) − − (165) (127) (292)
At 31 December 2014 9,609 11,918 11,532 137,144 2,143 58 (9,265) 27,308 190,447 9,531 199,978 
At 1 January 2013 9,238 10,084 5,851 120,347 1,649 13 752 27,308 175,242 7,887 183,129
Profit for the year − − − 16,204 − − − − 16,204 1,596 17,800
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)  − − − (561) (1,577) (128) (1,294) − (3,560) (187) (3,747)
–  available-for-sale investments  − − − − (1,577) − − − (1,577) (141) (1,718)
–  cash flow hedges − − − − − (128) − − (128) − (128)
–  remeasurement of defined benefit asset/liability  − − − (490) − − − − (490) 32 (458)
–  share of other comprehensive income of 
associates and joint ventures  − − − (71) − − − − (71) − (71)
–  exchange differences − − − − − − (1,294) − (1,294) (78) (1,372)
Total comprehensive income for the year  − − − 15,643 (1,577) (128) (1,294) − 12,644 1,409 14,053
Shares issued under employee remuneration and 
share plans  60 1,168 − (931) − − − − 297 − 297 
Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts 
arising thereon  117 (117) − 2,523 − − − − 2,523 − 2,523 
Dividends to shareholders
8
− − − (9,510) − − − − (9,510) (718) (10,228)
Cost of share-based payment arrangements  − − − 630 − − − − 630 − 630
Other movements − − − 26 25 (6) − − 45 10 55
At 31 December 2013 9,415 11,135 5,851 128,728 97 (121) (542) 27,308 181,871 8,588 190,459
   
 
 
Financial Statements (continued) 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity / HSBC Holdings balance sheet 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC
340 
 
Other reserves
 Called up 
 share 
 capital 
 Share
  premium 
Other 
 equity 
 instru-
 ments 
 Retained 
  earnings
5,6
Available- 
 for-sale 
 fair value 
 reserve  
 Cash flow
  hedging
  reserve 
 Foreign 
 exchange 
 reserve 
 Merger 
  reserve
5,7
Total 
 share-
 holders’ 
 equity 
 Non-
 controlling
 interests 
 Total 
 equity 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
At 1 January 2012 8,934 8,457 5,851 111,868 (3,361) (95) (237) 27,308 158,725 7,368 166,093 
Profit for the year – – – 14,027 – – – – 14,027 1,307 15,334 
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)  – – – 321 5,010  108 989 – 6,428 106 6,534 
–  available-for-sale investments  – – – – 5,010  – – – 5,010 60 5,070 
–  cash flow hedges – – – – – 108 – – 108 1 109 
–  remeasurement of defined benefit asset/liability  – – – (212) – – – – (212) 17 (195)
–  share of other comprehensive income of associates 
and joint ventures  – – – 533 – – – – 533 – 533
–  exchange differences – – – – – – 989 – 989 28 1,017 
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – – 14,348 5,010  108 989 – 20,455 1,413 21,868 
Shares issued under employee remuneration and  
share plans  119 1,812 – (1,337) – – – – 594 – 594 
Shares issued in lieu of dividends and amounts arising 
thereon  185 (185) – 2,429  – – – – 2,429 – 2,429 
Dividends to shareholders
8
– – – (8,042) – – – – (8,042) (707) (8,749)
Cost of share-based payment arrangements  – – – 988 – – – – 988 – 988 
Other movements – – – 93 – – – – 93 (187) (94)
At 31 December 2012 9,238 10,084 5,851 120,347 1,649  13 752 27,308 175,242 7,887 183,129 
The accompanying notes on pages 345 to 457 form an integral part of these financial statements
1
. 
For footnote, see page 344.   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
341 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
HSBC Holdings balance sheet  
at 31 December 2014 
 2014   2013
 Notes US$m US$m
Assets  
Cash at bank and in hand:  
– balances with HSBC undertakings  249 407 
Derivatives  16 2,771 2,789 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings  43,910 53,344 
Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 4,073 1,210 
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 125 133
Current tax assets  472 245 
Investments in subsidiaries  22 96,264 92,695 
Deferred tax assets  8 – 13 
Total assets at 31 December 147,864 150,836 
  
Liabilities and equity  
Liabilities  
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings  2,892 11,685 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  25 18,679 21,027 
Derivatives  16 1,169 704 
Debt securities in issue  26 1,009 2,791 
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 1,398 1,327 
Current tax liabilities  – 48 
Deferred tax liabilities 8 17 –
Subordinated liabilities  30 17,255 14,167 
Total liabilities  42,419 51,749 
Equity   
Called up share capital  35 9,609 9,415 
Share premium account  11,918 11,135 
Other equity instruments  11,476 5,828 
Other reserves  37,456 37,303 
Retained earnings  34,986 35,406 
Total equity  105,445 99,087 
Total liabilities and equity at 31 December 147,864 150,836 
The accompanying notes on pages 345 to 457 form an integral part of these financial statements
1
. 
For footnote, see page 344. 
 
D J Flint, Group Chairman   Financial Statements (continued) 
HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows / statement of changes in equity 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
342 
HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows  
for the year ended 31 December 2014 
 2014   2013
 Notes US$m US$m
Cash flows from operating activities   
Profit before tax  6,228 17,725 
Adjustments for:  
– non-cash items included in profit before tax  36 52 74 
– change in operating assets 36 1,854 (10,795)
– change in operating liabilities 36 (9,914) (1,061)
– tax received  133 156 
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities (1,647) 6,099 
  
Cash flows from investing activities  
Net cash outflow from acquisition of or increase in stake of subsidiaries (1,603) (665)
Repayment of capital from subsidiaries 3,505 –
Net cash used in investing activities  1,902 (665)
  
Cash flows from financing activities   
Issue of ordinary share capital  924 1,192 
Issue of other equity instruments 5,635 –
Sales of own shares to meet share awards and share option awards – 44 
Subordinated loan capital issued 3,500 1,989 
Subordinated loan capital repaid (1,654) (1,618)
Debt securities repaid  (1,634) –
Dividends paid on ordinary shares (6,611) (6,414)
Dividends paid to holders of other equity instruments  (573) (573)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities (413) (5,380)
  
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  (158) 54 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  407 353 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  36 249 407 
The accompanying notes on pages 345 to 457 form an integral part of these financial statements
1
. 
For footnote, see page 344. 
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
343 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
HSBC Holdings statement of changes in equity  
for the year ended 31 December 2014 
    Other reserves   
 
 Called up
 share
 capital 
 Share
  premium 
Other
 equity
 instru-
 ments
1
 Retained 
1
 earnings
9
Available-
 for-sale 
 fair value 
 reserve 
 Other 
 paid-in 
  capital
10
  
 Merger 
 and other 
  reserves
7
 
  Total
 share-
 holders’
 equity 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
At 1 January 2014  9,415 11,135 5,828 35,406 124 2,052 35,127 99,087
Profit for the year  – – – 6,527 – – – 6,527
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)  – – – – 116 – – 116
–  available-for-sale investments  – – – – 152 – – 152
–  income tax  – – – – (36) – – (36)
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – – 6,527 116 – – 6,643
Shares issued under employee share plans 60 917 – (53) – – – 924
Shares issued in lieu of dividends and 
amounts arising thereon  134 (134) – 2,709 – – – 2,709 
Capital securities issued – – 5,648 – – – – 5,648
Dividends to shareholders
8
  – – – (9,893) – – – (9,893)
Tax credit on distributions  – – – 104 – – – 104
Own shares adjustment  – – – 103 – – – 103
Exercise and lapse of share options  – – – (37) – 37 – –
Cost of share-based payment 
arrangements  – – – 74 – – – 74 
Income taxes on share-based payments  – – – (2) – – – (2)
Equity investments granted to employees 
of subsidiaries under employee share 
plans  – – – 48 – – – 48 
At 31 December 2014  9,609 11,918 11,476 34,986 240 2,089 35,127 105,445
   
At 1 January 2013  9,238 10,084 5,828 24,707 114 1,929 35,127 87,027
Profit for the year  – – – 17,882 – – – 17,882
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)  – – – – 10 – – 10
–  available-for-sale investments  – – – – 2 – – 2
–  income tax  – – – – 8 – – 8
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – – 17,882 10 – – 17,892
Shares issued under employee share plans 60 1,168 – (36) – – – 1,192
Shares issued in lieu of dividends and 
amounts arising thereon  117 (117) – 2,523 – – – 2,523 
Dividends to shareholders
8
 – – – (9,510) – – – (9,510)
Tax credit on distributions  – – – 42 – – – 42
Own shares adjustment  – – – 222 – – – 222
Exercise and lapse of share options  – – – (123) – 123 – –
Cost of share-based payment 
arrangements  – – – 49 – – – 49 
Income taxes on share-based payments  – – – – – – – –
Equity investments granted to employees 
of subsidiaries under employee share 
plans  – – – (350) – – – (350)
At 31 December 2013  9,415 11,135 5,828 35,406 124 2,052 35,127 99,087
Dividends per ordinary share at 31 December 2014 were US$0.49 (2013: US$0.48; 2012: US$0.41). 
The accompanying notes on pages 345 to 457 form an integral part of these financial statements
1
. 
For footnote, see page 344. 
  Financial Statements (continued) 
Footnotes 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
344 
Footnotes to the Financial Statements 
  1 The audited sections of ‘Risk’ on pages 111 to 237 and the audited sections of ‘Capital’ on pages 238 to 262 are also an integral part of 
these financial statements. 
  2 Available-for-sale investments include nil in respect of the investment in Ping An classified as ‘Assets held for sale’ (2013: nil; 2012: 
US$: 737m). 
  3 From 1 January 2014, non-trading reverse repos and repos are presented as separate lines in the balance sheet. Previously, non-
trading reverse repos were included within ‘Loans and advances to banks’ and ‘Loans and advances to customers’ and non-trading 
repos were included within ‘Deposits by banks’ and ‘Customer accounts’. Comparative data have been re-presented accordingly. Non-
trading reverse repos and repos have been presented as separate lines in the balance sheet to align disclosure with market practice 
and provide more meaninful information in relation to loans and advances. The extent to which reverse repos and repos represent 
loans to/from customers and banks is set out in Note 17 on the Financial Statements. 
  4 Adjustment to bring changes between opening and closing balance sheet amounts to average rates. This is not done on a line-by-line 
basis, as details cannot be determined without unreasonable expense. 
  5 Cumulative goodwill amounting to US$5,138m has been charged against reserves in respect of acquisitions of subsidiaries prior to 
1 January 1998, including US$3,469m charged against the merger reserve arising on the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc. The balance 
of US$1,669m has been charged against retained earnings. 
  6 Retained earnings include 85,337,430 (US$641m) of own shares held within HSBC’s Insurance business, retirement funds for the 
benefit of policyholders or beneficiaries within employee trusts for the settlement of shares expected to be delivered under employee 
share schemes or bonus plans, and the market-making activities in Global Markets (2013: 85,997,271 (US$915m); 2012: 86,394,826 
(US$874m)). 
  7 Statutory share premium relief under Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 (the ‘Act’) was taken in respect of the acquisition of HSBC 
Bank plc in 1992, HSBC France in 2000 and HSBC Finance Corporation in 2003 and the shares issued were recorded at their nominal 
value only. In HSBC’s consolidated financial statements the fair value differences of US$8,290m in respect of HSBC France and 
US$12,768m in respect of HSBC Finance Corporation were recognised in the merger reserve. The merger reserve created on 
the acquisition of HSBC Finance Corporation subsequently became attached to HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited (‘HOHU’), 
following a number of intra-group reorganisations. During 2009, pursuant to Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985, statutory share 
premium relief was taken in respect of the rights issue and US$15,796m was recognised in the merger reserve. The merger reserve 
includes the deduction of US$614m in respect of costs relating to the rights issue, of which US$149m was subsequently transferred to 
the income statement. Of this US$149m, US$121m was a loss arising from accounting for the agreement with the underwriters as a 
contingent forward contract. The merger reserve excludes the loss of US$344m on a forward foreign exchange contract associated 
with hedging the proceeds of the rights issue. 
  8 Including distributions paid on preference shares and capital securities classified as equity under IFRSs. 
  9 Retained earnings include 179,419 (US$3m) (2013: 330,030 (US$5m)) of own shares held to fund employee share plans. 
10 Other paid-in capital arises from the exercise and lapse of share options granted to employees of HSBC Holdings subsidiaries. 
11 During September 2014, HSBC Holdings issued US$2,250m, US$1,500m and €1,500m of Perpetual Subordinated Contingent 
Convertible Capital Securities, on which there were US$13m of external issuance costs and US$33m of intra-group issuance costs which 
are classified as equity under IFRSs. 
  Notes on the Financial Statements 
1 – Basis of preparation 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
345 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
1 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies 
(a) Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards  
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) comprise accounting standards issued or adopted by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) and interpretations issued or adopted by the IFRS Interpretations 
Committee (‘IFRS IC’). 
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB and as endorsed by the EU. EU-endorsed IFRSs could differ 
from IFRSs as issued by the IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs were not to be endorsed by the EU.  
At 31 December 2014, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2014 affecting 
these consolidated and separate financial statements, and there was no difference between IFRSs endorsed by the 
EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to HSBC. Accordingly, HSBC’s financial statements for the 
year ended 31 December 2014 are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB. 
Standards adopted during the year ended 31 December 2014 
There were no new standards applied during the year ended 31 December 2014. 
On 1 January 2014, HSBC applied ‘Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments to IAS 32)’, which 
clarified the requirements for offsetting financial instruments and addressed inconsistencies in current practice when 
applying the offsetting criteria in IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’. The amendments were applied 
retrospectively and did not have a material effect on HSBC’s financial statements. 
During 2014, HSBC adopted a number of interpretations and amendments to standards which had an insignificant 
effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings. 
(b) Differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards 
There are no significant differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms of their 
application to HSBC and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial statements been 
prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards. The Notes on the Financial Statements, taken 
together with the Report of the Directors, include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRSs and Hong 
Kong reporting requirements. 
(c) Future accounting developments 
In addition to the projects to complete financial instrument accounting, discussed below, the IASB is working on 
projects on insurance and lease accounting which could represent significant changes to accounting requirements 
in the future. 
Standards and amendments issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU but effective after 
31 December 2014 
During 2014, the EU endorsed the amendments issued by IASB through the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 
Cycle and the 2011-2013 Cycle, and a narrow-scope amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’. HSBC has not early 
applied any of the amendments effective after 31 December 2014 and it expects they will have an immaterial effect, 
when applied, on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC 
Holdings. 
Standards and amendments issued by the IASB but not endorsed by the EU 
In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’. The standard is effective for annual 
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 with early application permitted. IFRS 15 provides a principles-based 
approach for revenue recognition, and introduces the concept of recognising revenue for obligations as they are 
satisfied. The standard should be applied retrospectively, with certain practical expedients available. HSBC is 
currently assessing the impact of this standard but it is not practicable to quantify the effect as at the date of the 
publication of these financial statements. 
In July 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’, which is the comprehensive standard to replace IAS 39 
‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, and includes requirements for classification and 
measurement of financial assets and liabilities, impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting. 
Classification and measurement 
The classification and measurement of financial assets will depend on the entity’s business model for their 
management and their contractual cash flow characteristics and result in financial assets being measured at 
amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’) or fair value through profit or loss. In many 
instances, the classification and measurement outcomes will be similar to IAS 39, although differences will arise, for  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
1 – Basis of preparation 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
346 
example, since IFRS 9 does not apply embedded derivative accounting to financial assets, and equity securities will be 
measured at fair value through profit or loss or, in limited circumstances, at fair value through other comprehensive 
income. The combined effect of the application of the business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics 
tests may result in some differences in the population of financial assets measured at amortised cost or fair value 
compared with IAS 39. The classification of financial liabilities is essentially unchanged, except that, for certain 
liabilities measured at fair value, gains or losses relating to changes in the entity’s own credit risk are to be included 
in other comprehensive income. 
Impairment 
The impairment requirements apply to financial assets measured at amortised cost and FVOCI, and lease receivables 
and certain loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts. At initial recognition, allowance (or provision in the 
case of commitments and guarantees) is required for expected credit losses (‘ECL’) resulting from default events that 
are possible within the next 12 months (‘12 month ECL’). In the event of a significant increase in credit risk, allowance 
(or provision) is required for ECL resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of the financial 
instrument (‘lifetime ECL’). 
The assessment of whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition is performed for each 
reporting period by considering the change in the risk of default occurring over the remaining life of the financial 
instrument, rather than by considering an increase in ECL. 
The assessment of credit risk, and the estimation of ECL, are required to be unbiased and probability-weighted, and 
should incorporate all available information which is relevant to the assessment, including information about past 
events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future events and economic conditions at the 
reporting date. In addition, the estimation of ECL should take into account the time value of money. As a result, the 
recognition and measurement of impairment is intended to be more forward-looking than under IAS 39 and the 
resulting impairment charge will tend to be more volatile. It will also tend to result in an increase in the total level of 
impairment allowances, since all financial assets will be assessed for at least 12-month ECL and the population of 
financial assets to which lifetime ECL applies is likely to be larger than the population for which there is objective 
evidence of impairment in accordance with IAS 39. 
Hedge accounting 
The general hedge accounting requirements aim to simplify hedge accounting, creating a stronger link with risk 
management strategy and permitting hedge accounting to be applied to a greater variety of hedging instruments and 
risks. The standard does not explicitly address macro hedge accounting strategies, which are being considered in a 
separate project. To remove the risk of any conflict between existing macro hedge accounting practice and the new 
general hedge accounting requirements, IFRS 9 includes an accounting policy choice to remain with IAS 39 hedge 
accounting. 
Transition 
The classification and measurement and impairment requirements are applied retrospectively by adjusting the 
opening balance sheet at the date of initial application, with no requirement to restate comparative periods. Hedge 
accounting is generally applied prospectively from that date. 
The mandatory application date for the standard as a whole is 1 January 2018, but it is possible to apply the revised 
presentation for certain liabilities measured at fair value from an earlier date. HSBC intends to revise the presentation 
of fair value gains and losses relating to the entity’s own credit risk on certain liabilities as soon as permitted by EU 
law. If this presentation was applied at 31 December 2014, the effect would be to increase profit before tax with the 
opposite effect on other comprehensive income based on the change in fair value attributable to changes in HSBC’s 
credit risk for the year, with no effect on net assets. Further information on change in fair value attributable to 
changes in credit risk, including HSBC’s credit risk, is disclosed in Note 25.  
HSBC is assessing the impact that the rest of IFRS 9 will have on the financial statements through a Group-wide 
project which has been in place since 2012, but due to the complexity of the classification and measurement, 
impairment, and hedge accounting requirements and their inter-relationships, it is not possible at this stage to 
quantify the potential effect. 
(d) Changes to the presentation of the Financial Statements and Notes on the Financial Statements 
In order to make the financial statements and notes thereon easier to understand, HSBC has changed the location 
and the wording used to describe certain accounting policies within the notes, removed certain immaterial 
disclosures and changed the order of certain sections. In applying materiality to financial statement disclosures, we 
consider both the amount and nature of each item. The main changes to the presentation of the financial statements 
and notes thereon in 2014 are as follows:   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
347 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
• Consolidated balance sheet and Consolidated statement of changes in equity: rationalised certain line items 
disclosure to focus on material information. 
• Credit risk: changed the order and presentation of certain disclosures to remove duplication and focus on material 
information. 
• In 2013, the financial statements included Note 2 ‘Summary of significant accounting policies’. In 2014, the 
accounting policies have been placed, whenever possible, within the relevant Notes on the Financial Statements, 
and the changes in wording are intended to more clearly set out the accounting policies. These changes in the 
wording do not represent changes in accounting policies.  
• Critical accounting policies: replaced ‘Critical accounting policies’ with ‘Critical accounting estimates and 
judgements’ and placed them within the relevant notes alongside the significant accounting policy to which they 
relate. The new approach meets the reporting requirements of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ and of 
the US Securities and Exchange Commission. 
• Note 6 ‘Employee compensation and benefits’: rationalised to remove duplication and focus on material 
information. 
• Note 38 ‘Lease commitments’: rationalised to focus on material information. 
• In 2013, the financial statements included Note 13 Analysis of financial assets and liabilities by measurement basis 
and Note 23 ‘Property, Plant and equipment’. In 2014, separate notes for these areas have been removed and 
relevant information incorporated into other notes. 
• In 2013, the financial statements included Note 20 ‘Transfers of financial assets’ and Note 36 Assets charged as 
security for liabilities and collateral accepted as security for assets. In 2014, the relevant information for these 
areas has been included in a single Note 19 ‘Assets charged as security for liabilities, assets transferred and 
collateral accepted as security for assets’. 
From 1 January 2014, HSBC has chosen to present non-trading reverse repos and repos separately on the face of 
the balance sheet. These items are classified for accounting purposes as loans and receivables or financial liabilities 
measured at amortised cost. Previously, they were presented on an aggregate basis together with other loans or 
deposits measured at amortised cost under the following headings in the consolidated balance sheet: ‘Loans and 
advances to banks’, ‘Loans and advances to customers’, ‘Deposits by banks’ and ‘Customer accounts’. The separate 
presentation aligns disclosure of reverse repos and repos with market practice and provides more meaningful 
information in relation to loans and advances. Further explanation is provided in Note 17. 
From 1 January 2014, the geographical region ‘Asia’ replaced the geographical regions previously reported as ‘Hong 
Kong’ and ‘Rest of Asia-Pacific’. This better aligns with internal information used to manage the business. 
Comparative data have been re-presented. Further explanation is provided in Note 11. 
(e) Presentation of information  
Disclosures under IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ concerning the nature 
and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments have been included in the audited 
sections of the ‘Report of the Directors: Risk’ on pages 111 to 237. 
Capital disclosures under IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ have been included in the audited sections of 
‘Report of the Directors: Capital’ on pages 238 to 262. 
Disclosures relating to HSBC’s securitisation activities and structured products have been included in the audited 
section of ‘Report of the Directors: Risk’ on pages 111 to 237. 
In accordance with HSBC’s policy to provide disclosures that help investors and other stakeholders understand the 
Group’s performance, financial position and changes thereto, the information provided in the Notes on the Financial 
Statements and the Report of the Directors goes beyond the minimum levels required by accounting standards, 
statutory and regulatory requirements and listing rules. In particular, HSBC provides additional disclosures having 
regard to the recommendations of the Enhanced Disclosures Task Force (‘EDTF’) report ‘Enhancing the Risk 
Disclosures of Banks’ issued in October 2012. The report aims to help financial institutions identify areas that 
investors had highlighted needed better and more transparent information about banks’ risks, and how these risks 
relate to performance measurement and reporting. In addition, HSBC follows the British Bankers’ Association Code 
for Financial Reporting Disclosure (‘the BBA Code’). The BBA Code aims to increase the quality and comparability 
of UK banks’ disclosures and sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance. In line with the 
principles of the BBA Code, HSBC assesses good practice recommendations issued from time to time by relevant 
regulators and standard setters and will assess the applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing 
disclosures where appropriate.  
In publishing the parent company financial statements together with the Group financial statements, HSBC Holdings 
has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual 
income statement and related notes.  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
1 – Basis of preparation 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
348 
HSBC’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars because the US dollar and currencies linked to it 
form the major currency bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business. The US dollar is also HSBC Holdings’ 
functional currency because the US dollar and currencies linked to it are the most significant currencies relevant to 
the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its subsidiaries, as well as representing a significant proportion 
of its funds generated from financing activities. 
(f) Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and judgements about future conditions. In 
view of the inherent uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition or measurement of 
items listed below, it is possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from those on which 
management’s estimates are based, resulting in materially different conclusions from those reached by management 
for the purposes of the 2014 Financial Statements. Management’s selection of HSBC’s accounting policies which 
contain critical estimates and judgements is listed below; it reflects the materiality of the items to which the policies 
are applied and the high degree of judgement and estimation uncertainty involved: 
• Impairment of loans and advances: Note 1(k); 
• Deferred tax assets: Note 8; 
• Valuation of financial instruments: Note 13; 
• Impairment of interests in associates: Note 20; 
• Goodwill impairment: Note 21;  
• Provisions: Note 29. 
(g) Going concern 
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and 
parent company have the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future. In making this assessment, the 
Directors have considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including future 
projections of profitability, cash flows and capital resources. 
(h) Consolidation and related disclosures 
HSBC controls and consequently consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its 
involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Control is 
initially assessed based on consideration of all facts and circumstances, and is subsequently reassessed when there 
are significant changes to the initial setup.  
Where an entity is governed by voting rights, HSBC would consolidate when it holds, directly or indirectly, the 
necessary voting rights to pass resolutions by the governing body. In all other cases, the assessment of control is 
more complex and requires judgement of other factors, including having exposure to variability of returns, power 
over the relevant activities or holding the power as agent or principal. 
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured at the 
fair value of the consideration, including contingent consideration, given at the date of exchange. Acquisition-related 
costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. The acquired 
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are generally measured at their fair values at the date of 
acquisition. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of non-
controlling interest and the fair value of HSBC’s previously held equity interest, if any, over the net of the amounts of 
the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. The amount of non-controlling interest is measured either 
at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. For 
acquisitions achieved in stages, the previously held equity interest is remeasured at the acquisition-date fair value 
with the resulting gain or loss recognised in the income statement. 
All intra-HSBC transactions are eliminated on consolidation. 
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC also include the attributable share of the results and reserves of 
joint ventures and associates, based on either financial statements made up to 31 December or pro-rated amounts 
adjusted for any material transactions or events occurred between the date of financial statements available and 
31 December. 
(i) Foreign currencies 
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing on the 
date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the 
functional currency at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date. Any resulting exchange differences are 
included in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
349 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
currency are translated into the functional currency using the rate of exchange at the date of the initial transaction. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional 
currency using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined. Any foreign exchange component of a 
gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised either in other comprehensive income or in the income statement 
depending where the gain or loss on the underlying non-monetary item is recognised. 
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and 
associates whose functional currency is not US dollars, are translated into the Group’s presentation currency at the 
rate of exchange at the balance sheet date, while their results are translated into US dollars at the average rates of 
exchange for the reporting period. Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening foreign currency 
net assets, and the retranslation of the results for the reporting period from the average rate to the exchange rate 
at the period end, are recognised in other comprehensive income. Exchange differences on a monetary item that 
is part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in the income statement of the separate financial 
statements and in other comprehensive income in consolidated financial statements. On disposal of a foreign 
operation, exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income 
statement as a reclassification adjustment. 
(j) Loans and advances to banks and customers  
These include loans and advances originated by HSBC, not classified as held for trading or designated at fair value. 
They are recognised when cash is advanced to a borrower and are derecognised when either the borrower repays 
its obligations, or the loans are sold, or substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred. They 
are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less impairment allowance. 
Loans and advances are reclassified to ‘Assets held for sale’ when they meet the criteria presented in Note 23; 
however, their measurement continues to be in accordance with this policy. 
HSBC may commit to underwrite loans on fixed contractual terms for specified periods of time. Where the loan 
arising from the lending commitment is expected to be held for trading, the commitment to lend is recorded as 
a derivative. On drawdown, the loan is classified as held for trading. Where HSBC intends to hold the loan, a provision 
on the loan commitment is only recorded where it is probable that HSBC will incur a loss. On inception of the loan, 
the loan to be held is recorded at its fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. For certain 
transactions, such as leveraged finance and syndicated lending activities, the cash advanced may not be the best 
evidence of the fair value of the loan. For these loans, where the initial fair value is lower than the cash amount 
advanced, the difference is charged to the income statement in other operating income. The write-down will be 
recovered over the life of the loan, through the recognition of interest income, unless the loan becomes impaired. 
(k) Impairment of loans and advances and available-for-sale financial assets 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
 
Impairment of loans and advances  
Loan impairment allowances represent management’s best estimate of losses incurred in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet 
date. Management is required to exercise judgement in making assumptions and estimates when calculating loan impairment 
allowances on both individually and collectively assessed loans and advances. 
The largest concentration of collectively assessed loan impairment allowances are in North America, where they were US$2.4bn, 
representing 38% (2013: US$3.8bn; 47%) of the Group’s total collectively assessed loan impairment allowances and 19% 
(2013:25%) of the Group’s total impairment allowances. Of the North American collective impairment allowances approximately 
71% (2013: 79%) related to the US CML portfolio.  
Collective impairment allowances are subject to estimation uncertainty, in part because it is not practicable to identify losses on 
an individual loan basis due to the large number of individually insignificant loans in the portfolio. The estimation methods include 
the use of statistical analyses of historical information, supplemented with significant management judgement, to assess whether 
current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual level of incurred losses is likely to be greater or less than historical 
experience. 
Where changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural conditions result in the most recent trends in portfolio risk factors being not 
fully reflected in the statistical models, risk factors are taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely 
from historical loss experience. 
Risk factors include loan portfolio growth, product mix, unemployment rates, bankruptcy trends, geographical concentrations, loan 
product features, economic conditions such as national and local trends in housing markets, the level of interest rates, portfolio 
seasoning, account management policies and practices, changes in laws and regulations, and other influences on customer payment 
patterns. Different factors are applied in different regions and countries to reflect local economic conditions, laws and regulations. 
The methodology and the assumptions used in calculating impairment losses are reviewed regularly in the light of differences 
between loss estimates and actual loss experience. For example, roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of future recoveries 
are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate. 
For individually assessed loans, judgement is required in determining whether there is objective evidence that a loss event has 
occurred and, if so, the measurement of the impairment allowance. In determining whether there is objective evidence that a   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
1 – Basis of preparation 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
350 
 loss event has occurred, judgement is exercised in evaluating all relevant information on indicators of impairment, including the 
consideration of whether payments are contractually past-due and the consideration of other factors indicating deterioration in 
the financial condition and outlook of borrowers affecting their ability to pay. A higher level of judgement is required for loans to 
borrowers showing signs of financial difficulty in market sectors experiencing economic stress, particularly where the likelihood of 
repayment is affected by the prospects for refinancing or the sale of a specified asset. For those loans where objective evidence of 
impairment exists, management determine the size of the allowance required based on a range of factors such as the realisable 
value of security, the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy, the viability of the customer’s business model and the 
capacity to trade successfully out of financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations. 
HSBC might provide loan forbearance to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties by agreeing to modify the contractual payment 
terms of loans in order to improve the management of customer relationships, maximise collection opportunities or avoid default 
or repossession. Where forbearance activities are significant, higher levels of judgement and estimation uncertainty are involved in 
determining their effects on loan impairment allowances. Judgements are involved in differentiating the credit risk characteristics 
of forbearance cases, including those which return to performing status following renegotiation. Where collectively assessed loan 
portfolios include significant levels of loan forbearance, portfolios are segmented to reflect their specific credit risk characteristics, 
and estimates are made of the incurred losses inherent within each forbearance portfolio segment. Forbearance activities take place 
in both retail and wholesale loan portfolios, but our largest concentration is in the US, in HSBC Finance’s CML portfolio. 
The exercise of judgement requires the use of assumptions which are highly subjective and very sensitive to the risk factors, in 
particular to changes in economic and credit conditions across a large number of geographical areas. Many of the factors have a 
high degree of interdependency and there is no single factor to which our loan impairment allowances as a whole are sensitive, 
though they are particularly sensitive to general economic and credit conditions in North America. For example, a 10% increase 
in impairment allowances on collectively assessed loans and advances in North America would have increased loan impairment 
allowances by US$0.2bn at 31 December 2014 (2013: US$0.4bn). 
Impairment of loans and advances  
Losses for impaired loans are recognised when there is objective evidence that impairment of a loan or portfolio of 
loans has occurred. Impairment allowances that are calculated on individual loans or on groups of loans assessed 
collectively, are recorded as charges to the income statement and are recorded against the carrying amount of 
impaired loans on the balance sheet. Losses which may arise from future events are not recognised. 
Individually assessed loans and advances 
The factors considered in determining whether a loan is individually significant for the purposes of assessing 
impairment include the size of the loan, the number of loans in the portfolio, and the importance of the individual 
loan relationship, and how this is managed. Loans that meet these criteria will be individually assessed for 
impairment, except when volumes of defaults and losses are sufficient to justify treatment under a collective 
assessment methodology (see below). 
Loans considered as individually significant are typically to corporate and commercial customers, are for larger 
amounts and are managed on an individual basis. For these loans, HSBC considers on a case-by-case basis at each 
balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that a loan is impaired. The criteria used to make this 
assessment include: 
– known cash flow difficulties experienced by the borrower; 
– contractual payments of either principal or interest being past due for more than 90 days;  
– the probability that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial realisation; 
– a concession granted to the borrower for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty 
that results in forgiveness or postponement of principal, interest or fees, where the concession is not insignificant; 
and  
– there has been deterioration in the financial condition or outlook of the borrower such that its ability to repay is 
considered doubtful. 
For loans where objective evidence of impairment exists, impairment losses are determined considering the following 
factors: 
– HSBC’s aggregate exposure to the customer; 
– the viability of the customer’s business model and their capacity to trade successfully out of financial difficulties 
and generate sufficient cash flow to service debt obligations; 
– the amount and timing of expected receipts and recoveries; 
– the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy; 
– the extent of other creditors’ commitments ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and the likelihood of other 
creditors continuing to support the company; 
– the complexity of determining the aggregate amount and ranking of all creditor claims and the extent to which 
legal and insurance uncertainties are evident;  
– the realisable value of security (or other credit mitigants) and likelihood of successful repossession; 
– the likely costs of obtaining and selling collateral as part of foreclosure; 
– the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make payments in, the currency of the loan if not denominated in local 
currency; and   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
351 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
– when available, the secondary market price of the debt. 
The determination of the realisable value of security is based on the market value at the time the impairment 
assessment is performed. The value is not adjusted for expected future changes in market prices, though adjustments 
are made to reflect local conditions such as forced sale discounts. 
Impairment losses are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of a loan, which includes expected 
future receipts of contractual interest, at the loan’s original effective interest rate and comparing the resultant 
present value with the loan’s current carrying amount. The impairment allowances on individually significant 
accounts are reviewed at least quarterly and more regularly when circumstances require.  
Collectively assessed loans and advances 
Impairment is assessed collectively to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on 
loans subject to individual assessment or for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually 
significant. Retail lending portfolios are generally assessed for impairment collectively as the portfolios are generally 
large homogeneous loan pools. 
Incurred but not yet identified impairment 
Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of impairment has been specifically identified on an individual basis 
are grouped together according to their credit risk characteristics for a collective impairment assessment. These 
credit risk characteristics may include country of origination, type of business involved, type of products offered, 
security obtained or other relevant factors. This assessment captures impairment losses that HSBC has incurred as a 
result of events occurring before the balance sheet date, which HSBC is not able to identify on an individual loan 
basis, and that can be reliably estimated. When information becomes available which identifies losses on individual 
loans within the group, those loans are removed from the group and assessed individually. 
The collective impairment allowance is determined after taking into account: 
– historical loss experience in portfolios of similar credit risk characteristics (for example, by industry sector, loan 
grade or product); 
– the estimated period between impairment occurring and the loss being identified and evidenced by the 
establishment of an appropriate allowance against the individual loan; and 
– management’s judgement as to whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual level of 
inherent losses at the balance sheet date is likely to be greater or less than that suggested by historical 
experience. 
The period between a loss occurring and its identification is estimated by management for each identified portfolio 
based on economic and market conditions, customer behaviour, portfolio management information, credit 
management techniques and collection and recovery experiences in the market. As it is assessed empirically on a 
periodic basis, the estimated period may vary over time as these factors change. 
Homogeneous groups of loans and advances 
Statistical methods are used to determine collective impairment losses for homogeneous groups of loans not 
considered individually significant. Losses in these groups of loans are recorded individually when individual loans 
are removed from the group and written off. The methods that are used to calculate collective allowances are: 
– When appropriate empirical information is available, HSBC utilises roll-rate methodology, which employs 
statistical analyses of historical data and experience of delinquency and default to reliably estimate the amount 
of the loans that will eventually be written off as a result of the events occurring before the balance sheet date but 
which HSBC is not able to identify individually. Individual loans are grouped using ranges of past due days; 
statistical analysis is then used to estimate the likelihood that loans in each range will progress through the various 
stages of delinquency and become irrecoverable. Additionally, individual loans are segmented based on their 
credit characteristics as described above. In applying this methodology, adjustments are made to estimate the 
periods of time between a loss event occurring and its discovery, for example through a missed payment, (known 
as the emergence period) and the period of time between discovery and write-off (known as the outcome period). 
Current economic conditions are also evaluated when calculating the appropriate level of allowance required to 
cover inherent loss. In certain highly developed markets, sophisticated models also take into account behavioural 
and account management trends as revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics. 
– When the portfolio size is small or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate 
methodology, HSBC adopts a basic formulaic approach based on historical loss rate experience, or a discounted 
cash flow model. Where a basic formulaic approach is undertaken, the period between a loss event occurring and 
its identification is explicitly estimated by local management, and is typically between six and twelve months. 
The inherent loss within each portfolio is assessed on the basis of statistical models using historical data observations, 
which are updated periodically to reflect recent portfolio and economic trends. When the most recent trends arising 
from changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural conditions are not fully reflected in the statistical models, they  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
1 – Basis of preparation 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
352 
are taken into account by adjusting the impairment allowances derived from the statistical models to reflect these 
changes as at the balance sheet date.  
Write-off of loans and advances 
Loans (and the related impairment allowance accounts) are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there 
is no realistic prospect of recovery. Where loans are secured, this is generally after receipt of any proceeds from the 
realisation of security. In circumstances where the net realisable value of any collateral has been determined and 
there is no reasonable expectation of further recovery, write-off may be earlier. 
Reversals of impairment 
If the amount of an impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to 
an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the excess is written back by reducing the loan impairment 
allowance account accordingly. The write-back is recognised in the income statement. 
Assets acquired in exchange for loans 
Non-financial assets acquired in exchange for loans as part of an orderly realisation are recorded as ‘Assets held for 
sale’ and reported in ‘Other assets’ if those assets are classified as held for sale. The asset acquired is recorded at the 
lower of its fair value less costs to sell and the carrying amount of the loan (net of impairment allowance) at the date 
of exchange. No depreciation is charged in respect of assets held for sale. Impairments and reversal of previous 
impairments are recognised in the income statement in ‘Other operating income’, together with any realised gains 
or losses on disposal. 
Renegotiated loans 
Loans subject to collective impairment assessment whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered 
past due, but are treated as up to date loans for measurement purposes once a minimum number of payments 
required have been received. They are segregated from other parts of the loan portfolio for the purposes of collective 
impairment assessment, to reflect their risk profile. Loans subject to individual impairment assessment, whose terms 
have been renegotiated, are subject to ongoing review to determine whether they remain impaired. The carrying 
amounts of loans that have been classified as renegotiated retain this classification until maturity or derecognition. 
A loan that is renegotiated is derecognised if the existing agreement is cancelled and a new agreement made on 
substantially different terms or if the terms of an existing agreement are modified such that the renegotiated loan is 
substantially a different financial instrument. Any new agreements arising due to derecognition events will continue 
to be disclosed as renegotiated loans and are assessed for impairment as above. 
Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 
Available-for-sale financial assets are assessed at each balance sheet date for objective evidence of impairment. If 
such evidence exists as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset 
(a ‘loss event’) and that loss event has an impact which can be reliably measured on the estimated future cash flows 
of the financial asset an impairment loss is recognised. 
If the available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the difference between its acquisition cost (net of any principal 
repayments and amortisation) and its current fair value, less any previous impairment loss recognised in the income 
statement, is recognised in the income statement. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement within ‘Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 
provisions’ for debt instruments and within ‘Gains less losses from financial investments’ for equities. The impairment 
methodologies for available-for-sale financial assets are set out in more detail below: 
– Available-for-sale debt securities. In assessing objective evidence of impairment at the reporting date, HSBC 
considers all available evidence, including observable data or information about events specifically relating to the 
securities which may result in a shortfall in the recovery of future cash flows. Financial difficulties of the issuer, as 
well as other factors such as information about the issuers’ liquidity, business and financial risk exposures, levels 
of and trends in default for similar financial assets, national and local economic trends and conditions, and the fair 
value of collateral and guarantees may be considered individually, or in combination, to determine if there is 
objective evidence of impairment. 
 In addition, the performance of underlying collateral and the extent and depth of market price declines is relevant 
when assessing objective evidence of impairment of available-for-sale ABSs. The primary indicators of potential 
impairment are considered to be adverse fair value movements and the disappearance of an active market for a 
security, while changes in credit ratings are of secondary importance. 
– Available-for-sale equity securities. Objective evidence of impairment may include specific information about 
the issuer as detailed above, but may also include information about significant changes in technology, markets, 
economics or the law that provides evidence that the cost of the equity securities may not be recovered.    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
353 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the equity below its cost is also objective evidence of 
impairment. In assessing whether it is significant, the decline in fair value is evaluated against the original cost 
of the asset at initial recognition. In assessing whether it is prolonged, the decline is evaluated against the 
continuous period in which the fair value of the asset has been below its original cost at initial recognition. 
Once an impairment loss has been recognised, the subsequent accounting treatment for changes in the fair value of 
that asset differs depending on the type of asset: 
– for an available-for-sale debt security, a subsequent decline in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in the 
income statement when there is further objective evidence of impairment as a result of further decreases in the 
estimated future cash flows of the financial asset. Where there is no further objective evidence of impairment, the 
decline in the fair value of the financial asset is recognised in other comprehensive income. If the fair value of a 
debt security increases in a subsequent period, and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring 
after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, or the instrument is no longer impaired, the 
impairment loss is reversed through the income statement; 
– for an available-for-sale equity security, all subsequent increases in the fair value of the instrument are treated as 
a revaluation and are recognised in other comprehensive income. Impairment losses recognised on the equity 
security are not reversed through the income statement. Subsequent decreases in the fair value of the available-
for-sale equity security are recognised in the income statement to the extent that further cumulative impairment 
losses have been incurred. 
(l) Funding fair value adjustment 
In line with evolving market practice HSBC revised its estimation methodology for valuing the uncollateralised 
derivative portfolios by introducing a funding fair value adjustment (‘FFVA’). The FFVA adjustment reflects the 
estimated present value of the future market funding cost or benefit associated with funding uncollateralised 
derivative exposure at rates other than the Overnight Index Swap (‘OIS’) rate, which is the benchmark rate used for 
valuing collateralised derivatives. The impact of FFVA adoption in 2014 was a US$263m reduction in net trading income, 
reflecting the incorporation of a funding spread over Libor. Further details have been provided in Note 13 to the 
Financial Statements. 
(m) Operating income  
 Interest income and expense 
Interest income and expense for all financial instruments except for those classified as held for trading or designated 
at fair value (except for debt securities issued by HSBC and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt 
securities) are recognised in ‘Interest income’ and ‘Interest expense’ in the income statement using the effective 
interest method. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts or 
payments through the expected life of the financial instrument or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net 
carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability. 
Interest on impaired financial assets is recognised using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for 
the purpose of measuring the impairment loss. 
 Non-interest income and expense 
Fee income is earned from a diverse range of services provided by HSBC to its customers. Fee income is accounted 
for as follows:  
– income earned on the execution of a significant act is recognised as revenue when the act is completed (for 
example, fees arising from negotiating or participating in the negotiation of a transaction for a third party, such 
as an arrangement for the acquisition of shares or other securities); 
– income earned from the provision of services is recognised as revenue as the services are provided (for example, 
asset management, portfolio and other management advisory and service fees); and  
– income which forms an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument is recognised as an 
adjustment to the effective interest rate (for example, certain loan commitment fees) and recorded in ‘Interest 
income’. 
Net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial 
liabilities held for trading, together with the related interest income, expense and dividends. 
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. This is the ex-dividend date for 
listed equity securities, and usually the date when shareholders have approved the dividend for unlisted equity 
securities. 
The accounting policies for net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value and for net 
insurance premium income are disclosed in Note 2 and Note 3.  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
2 – Net income/(expense) from fin instr at FV / 3 – Net insurance premium income / 4 – Net insurance claims 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
354 
2 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value  
Accounting policy 
 
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value includes: 
• all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss, 
including liabilities under investment contracts;  
• all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with financial assets and liabilities 
designated at fair value through profit or loss; and 
• interest income, interest expense and dividend income in respect of financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value through 
profit or loss; and derivatives managed in conjunction with the above, except for interest arising from debt securities issued by HSBC 
and derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt securities, which is recognised in ‘Interest expense’. 
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments designated at fair value 
 2014 2013  2012
 US$m US$m  US$m
Net income/(expense) arising on:  
–  financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance and investment contracts 2,300 3,170  2,980
–  other financial assets designated at fair value  131 118  83
–  derivatives managed in conjunction with other financial assets designated at fair 
value  (19) (26)  35 
 2,412 3,262  3,098
–  liabilities to customers under investment contracts (435) (1,237)  (996)
–  HSBC’s long-term debt issued and related derivatives 508 (1,228)  (4,327)
–  changes in own credit spread on long-term debt 417 (1,246)  (5,215)
–  derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC’s issued debt securities 333 (3,743)  431
–  other changes in fair value  (242) 3,761  457
–  other financial liabilities designated at fair value  (23) (39)  (23)
–  derivatives managed in conjunction with other financial liabilities designated at fair 
value  11 10  22 
 61 (2,494)  (5,324)
Year ended 31 December 2,473 768  (2,226)
HSBC Holdings 
Net income/(expense) arising on HSBC Holdings long-term debt issued and related derivatives 
 2014 2013  2012
 US$m US$m  US$m
Net income/(expense) arising on:   
–  changes in own credit spread on long-term debt  339 (695)  (2,260)
–  derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC Holdings issued debt securities 126 (1,558)  456
–  other changes in fair value (27) 1,213  (474)
Year ended 31 December 438 (1,040)  (2,278)
 
3 Net insurance premium income 
Accounting policy 
 
Premiums for life insurance contracts are accounted for when receivable, except in unit-linked insurance contracts where premiums are 
accounted for when liabilities are established. 
Reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the premiums for the direct insurance contracts to which 
they relate. 
Net insurance premium income 
 
 Non-linked
 insurance
1
 Linked life
 insurance 
Investment 
 contracts 
 with DPF
2
   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m   US$m
Gross insurance premium income 7,705 2,195 2,470  12,370 
Reinsurers’ share of gross insurance premium income  (441) (8) −  (449)
Year ended 31 December 2014 7,264 2,187 2,470  11,921 
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
355 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
 Non-linked
 insurance
1
 Linked life
 insurance 
Investment 
 contracts 
 with DPF
2
   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m   US$m
Gross insurance premium income 7,002 3,012 2,384 12,398
Reinsurers’ share of gross insurance premium income  (450) (8) – (458)
Year ended 31 December 2013 6,552 3,004 2,384 11,940
Gross insurance premium income 7,578 3,325 2,699 13,602
Reinsurers’ share of gross insurance premium income  (550) (8) – (558)
Year ended 31 December 2012 7,028 3,317 2,699 13,044
1 Includes non-life insurance. 
2 Discretionary participation features. 
4 Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders 
Accounting policy 
 
Gross insurance claims for life insurance contracts reflect the total cost of claims arising during the year, including claim handling costs 
and any policyholder bonuses allocated in anticipation of a bonus declaration.  
Maturity claims are recognised when due for payment. Surrenders are recognised when paid or at an earlier date on which, following 
notification, the policy ceases to be included within the calculation of the related insurance liabilities. Death claims are recognised when 
notified. 
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim. 
 
Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders 
 
 Non-linked
 insurance
1
 Linked life
 insurance 
Investment 
 contracts 
 with DPF
2
   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m
Gross claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 7,770 2,765 3,188  13,723
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid  3,575 1,499 2,215  7,289
– movement in liabilities  4,195 1,266 973  6,434
Reinsurers’ share of claims and benefits paid and movement in 
liabilities  (411) 33 –  (378)
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid  (176) (88) –  (264)
– movement in liabilities  (235) 121 –  (114)
Year ended 31 December 2014 7,359 2,798 3,188  13,345
   
Gross claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 6,892 3,379 3,677  13,948
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid  3,014 1,976 2,308  7,298
– movement in liabilities  3,878 1,403 1,369  6,650
Reinsurers’ share of claims and benefits paid and movement in 
liabilities (367) 111 –  (256)
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid  (164) (426) –  (590)
– movement in liabilities  (203) 537 –  334
Year ended 31 December 2013 6,525 3,490 3,677  13,692
   
Gross claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities 6,900 3,984 3,645  14,529
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid  1,905 1,810 2,525  6,240
– movement in liabilities  4,995 2,174 1,120  8,289
Reinsurers’ share of claims and benefits paid and movement in 
liabilities (537) 223 –  (314)
– claims, benefits and surrenders paid  (217) (681) –  (898)
– movement in liabilities  (320) 904 –  584
Year ended 31 December 2012 6,363 4,207 3,645  14,215
1 Includes non-life insurance. 
2 Discretionary participation features.  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
5 – Operating profit / 6 – Employee compensation and benefits 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
356 
5 Operating profit 
Operating profit is stated after the following items of income, expense, gains and losses, and loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions: 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$m US$m US$m
Income  
Interest recognised on impaired financial assets  1,137 1,261 1,261
Fees earned on financial assets or liabilities not held for trading nor designated at 
fair value, other than fees included in effective interest rate calculations on these  
types of assets and liabilities  9,438 9,799 10,042 
Fees earned on trust and other fiduciary activities where HSBC holds or invests assets 
on behalf of its customers  3,253 3,176 2,897 
Income from listed investments 6,726 5,432 5,850
Income from unlisted investments  5,874 6,860 7,677
  
Expense  
Interest on financial instruments, excluding interest on financial liabilities 
held for trading or designated at fair value  (15,322) (14,610) (17,625)
Fees payable on financial assets or liabilities not held for trading nor designated at 
fair value, other than fees included in effective interest rate calculations on these  
types of assets and liabilities  (1,427) (1,396) (1,501)
Fees payable relating to trust and other fiduciary activities where HSBC holds or 
invests assets on behalf of its customers  (185) (171) (170)
Payments under lease and sublease agreements (1,548) (1,425) (1,166)
– minimum lease payments  (1,199) (1,098) (1,149)
– contingent rents and sublease payments (349) (327) (17)
UK bank levy  (1,066) (916) (472)
  
Gains/(losses)  
Impairment of available-for-sale equity securities  (373) (175) (420)
Gains/(losses) recognised on assets held for sale  220 (729) 485
Gains on disposal of HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A.  – 1,107 –
(Losses)/gains arising from dilution of interest in Industrial Bank and other associates 
and joint ventures (32) 1,051 – 
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions (3,851) (5,849) (8,311)
– net impairment charge on loans and advances  (4,055) (6,048) (8,160)
– release/(impairment) of available-for-sale debt securities 319 211 (99)
– impairment in respect of other credit risk provisions (115) (12) (52)
6 Employee compensation and benefits 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$m US$m US$m
Wages and salaries  17,477 16,879 17,780
Social security costs  1,666 1,594 1,633
Post-employment benefits  1,223 723 1,078
Year ended 31 December 20,366 19,196 20,491
 
Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year 
 2014 2013  2012
Europe  74,024 75,334  77,204
Asia  116,492 114,216  116,779
Middle East and North Africa  8,616 9,181  8,645
North America  21,983 22,568  27,396
Latin America  43,652 47,496  54,162
Year ended 31 December 264,767 268,795  284,186
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
357 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Reconciliation of total incentive awards granted to incentive awards in employee compensation and benefits 
 2014 2013  2012
 US$m US$m  US$m
Total incentive awards approved and granted for the current year
1
3,660 3,920  3,689
Less: deferred bonuses awarded for the current year, expected to be recognised 
in future periods (359) (436)  (355) 
Total incentives awarded and recognised in the current year 3,301 3,484  3,334
Current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years 425 427  671
Other  (114) (164)  (28)
Total incentive awards for the current year included in employee compensation 
and benefits  3,612 3,747  3,977 
1 This represents the amount of the Group variable pay pool that has been approved and granted. The total amount of Group variable pay pool 
approved by the Group Remuneration Committee is disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 310. 
Income statement charge: deferred bonuses 
 
Current year
bonus pool 
Prior year 
bonus pools  Total 
 US$m US$m  US$m
2014   
Charge recognised in 2014  245 425  670
– deferred share awards  147 373  520
– deferred cash awards  98 52  150
Charge expected to be recognised in 2015 or later  359 381  740
– deferred share awards  250 334  584 
– deferred cash awards  109 47  156 
   
2013   
Charge recognised in 2013  269 427  696
– deferred share awards  188 354  542
– deferred cash awards  81 73  154
Charge expected to be recognised in 2014 or later  436 306  742
– deferred share awards  356 259  615
– deferred cash awards  80 47  127
   
2012   
Charge recognised in 2012  277 671  948
– deferred share awards  224 613  837
– deferred cash awards  53 58  111
Charge expected to be recognised in 2013 or later  355 376  731
– deferred share awards  315 335  650
– deferred cash awards  40 41  81
 
Share-based payments 
Accounting policy 
 
HSBC enters into both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment arrangements with its employees as compensation for 
services provided by employees. The cost of equity-settled share-based payment arrangements with employees is measured by 
reference to the fair value of equity instruments on the date they are granted and recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over 
the vesting period, with a corresponding credit to ‘Retained earnings’.  
For cash-settled share-based payment arrangements, the services acquired and liability incurred are measured at the fair value of the 
liability and recognised as the employees render service. Until settlement, the fair value of the liability is re-measured, with changes in 
fair value recognised in the income statement. 
Fair value is determined by using appropriate valuation models. Vesting conditions include service conditions and performance 
conditions; any other features of the arrangement are non-vesting conditions. Market performance conditions and non-vesting 
conditions are taken into account when estimating the fair value of the award at the date of grant. Vesting conditions, other than market 
performance conditions, are not taken into account in the initial estimate of the fair value at the grant date. They are taken into account 
by adjusting the number of equity instruments included in the measurement of the transaction.  
A cancellation that occurs during the vesting period is treated as an acceleration of vesting, and recognised immediately for the amount 
that would otherwise have been recognised for services over the vesting period. 
Where HSBC Holdings enters into share-based payment arrangements involving employees of subsidiaries for which the subsidiaries are 
re-charged, the difference between the cost of the share-based payment arrangement and the fair value of the equity instruments 
expected to be issued to satisfy those arrangements is recognised as an adjustment to ‘Investment in subsidiaries’ over the vesting 
period.  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
6 – Employee compensation and benefits 
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
358 
‘Wages and salaries’ include the effect of share-based payments arrangements, of which US$732m are equity settled 
(2013: US$630m; 2012: US$988m), as follows: 
 2014 2013  2012
 US$m US$m  US$m
Restricted share awards 738 599  912
Savings-related and other share award option plans 36 63  96
Year ended 31 December 774 662  1,008
 
HSBC share awards 
Award  Policy Purpose
Restricted share 
awards 
(including Annual 
incentive awards 
delivered in 
shares) and GPSP 
 • An assessment of performance over the relevant period ending 
on 31 December is used to determine the amount of the award to 
be granted. 
• Deferred awards generally require employees to remain in 
employment over the vesting period and are not subject to 
performance conditions after the grant date. 
• Deferred Annual incentive awards generally vest over a period 
of three years and GPSP awards vest after five years. 
• Vested shares may be subject to a retention requirement 
(restriction) post-vesting. GPSP awards are retained until 
cessation of employment. 
• Awards granted from 2010 onwards are subject to malus 
provision prior to vesting. 
• To drive and reward performance consistent 
with strategy and align to shareholder 
interests. 
• Deferral provides an incentive for a longer-
term commitment and the ability to apply 
malus. 
Movement on HSBC share awards 
 2014  2013
 Number 
 (000s) 
 Number 
(000s) 
Restricted share awards outstanding at 1 January  116,932 165,589
Additions during the year  82,871 59,261
Released in the year  (78,224) (99,820)
Forfeited in the year  (5,096) (8,098)
Restricted share awards outstanding at 31 December 116,483 116,932
Weighted average fair value of awards granted (US$)  10.18  10.95
HSBC share option plans 
Main plans  Policy Purpose
Savings-related 
share option 
plans 
 • Two plans: the UK plan and the International Plan. The last grant 
of options under the International Plan was in 2012. 
• From 2014, eligible employees save up to £500 per month (or for 
International options granted prior to 2013, the equivalent of 
£250 in US dollars, Hong Kong dollars or Euros), with the option to 
use the savings to acquire shares. 
• Exercisable within six months following either the third or fifth 
anniversaries of the commencement of a three-year or five-year 
contract, respectively, (or for International options granted prior 
to 2013, three months following the first anniversary of the 
commencement of a one-year savings contract). 
• The exercise price is set at a 20% (2013: 20%) discount to the 
market value immediately preceding the date of invitation (except 
for the one-year options granted under the US sub-plan prior to 
2013 where a 15% discount was applied). 
• To align the interests of all employees with 
the creation of shareholder value. 
HSBC Holdings 
Group share 
option plan 
 • Plan ceased in May 2005. 
• Exercisable between third and tenth anniversaries of the date of 
grant. 
• Long-term incentive plan between 2000 and 
2005 during which certain HSBC employees 
were awarded share options. 
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
359 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Calculation of fair values 
The fair values of share options are calculated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of a share award is based on the 
share price at the date of the grant.  
Movement on HSBC share option plans 
 Savings-related share option plans 
HSBC Holdings Group share option 
plan 
Number 
 (000s) 
WAEP
1
 £ 
Number 
 (000s)  
 WAEP
1
 £ 
Outstanding at 1 January 2014 93,760 4.04 55,026  7.23
Granted during the year
2
  28,689 5.19 –  –
Exercised during the year
3
  (50,393) 3.48 (1)  7.22
Expired during the year  (5,690) 4.81 (48,651)  7.22
Outstanding at 31 December 2014 66,366 4.89 6,374  7.29
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years)  2.66 0.30  
    
Outstanding at 1 January 2013 112,752 4.04 87,173   6.94
Granted during the year
2
  8,6795.47 –   –
Exercised during the year
3
  (17,968)4.56(17,595)   6.21
Expired during the year (9,703) 4.47 (14,552)   4.21
Outstanding at 31 December 2013 93,760 4.04 55,026   7.23
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years)  1.80 0.45  
1 Weighted average exercise price. 
2 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was US$1.90 (2013: US$2.98). 
3 The weighted average share price at the date the options were exercised was US$9.91 (2013: US$10.86) and US$9.49 (2013: US$10.93) for the 
savings-related share option plans and HSBC Holdings Group share option plan, respectively. 
Post-employment benefit plans 
Accounting policy 
 HSBC operates a number of pension and other post-employment benefit plans throughout the world. These plans include both defined 
benefit and defined contribution plans and various other post-employment benefits such as post-employment healthcare. 
Payments to defined contribution plans and state-managed retirement benefit plans, where HSBC’s obligations under the plans are 
equivalent to a defined contribution plan, are charged as an expense as the employees render service. 
The defined benefit pension costs and the present value of defined benefit obligations are calculated at the reporting date by the 
schemes’ actuaries using the Projected Unit Credit Method. The net charge to the income statement mainly comprises the service cost 
and the net interest on the net defined benefit asset or liability and is presented in operating expenses.  
The past service cost, which is charged immediately to the income statement, is the change in the present value of the defined benefit 
obligation for employee service in prior periods resulting from a plan amendment (the introduction or withdrawal of, or changes to, a 
defined benefit plan) or curtailment (a significant reduction by the entity in the number of employees covered by a plan). A settlement is 
a transaction that eliminates all further legal and constructive obligations for part or all of the benefits provided under a defined benefit 
plan, other than a payment of benefits to, or on behalf of, employees that is set out in the terms of the plan and included in the actuarial 
assumptions. 
Re-measurements of the net defined benefit asset or liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, return on plan assets (excluding 
interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income. 
Actuarial gains and losses comprise experience adjustments (the effects of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and 
what has actually occurred), as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions.  
The net defined benefit asset or liability represents the present value of defined benefit obligations reduced by the fair value of plan 
assets. Any net defined benefit surplus is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the 
plan. 
The cost of obligations arising from other post-employment defined benefit plans, such as defined benefit health-care plans, are 
accounted for on the same basis as defined benefit pension plans. 
   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
6 – Employee compensation and benefits 
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
360 
Income statement charge 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$m US$m US$m
Defined benefit pension plans  469 54  427 
Defined contribution pension plans  687 597  599 
Pension plans 1,156 651  1,026 
Defined benefit and contribution healthcare plans  67 72 52
Year ended 31 December 1,223 723  1,078 
Net assets/(liabilities) recognised on the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans 
 Fair value of
 plan assets 
Present value of
 defined benefit
 obligations 
Effect of 
 limit on plan 
 surpluses   Total 
US$m US$m US$m   US$m
  
Defined benefit pension plans 44,824 (42,062) (17) 2,745
Defined benefit healthcare plans 179 (1,104) –   (925)
At 31 December 2014 45,003 (43,166) (17) 1,820
Total employee benefit liabilities (within ‘Accruals, deferred income 
and other liabilities’)    (3,208)
Total employee benefit assets (within ‘Prepayments, accrued 
income and other assets’)    5,028 
  
Defined benefit pension plans 40,622 (40,467) (30) 125
Defined benefit healthcare plans 190 (1,106) – (916)
At 31 December 2013 40,812 41,573 (30) (791)
Total employee benefit liabilities (within ‘Accruals, deferred income 
and other liabilities’)    (2,931)
Total employee benefit assets (within ‘Prepayments, accrued 
income and other assets’)    2,140 
Cumulative actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$m US$m US$m
At 1 January  (4,445) (3,844)  (3,453)
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme 2,764 (1,524)  208 
Other plans  (274) 796   (440)
Healthcare plans  (88) 143   (154)
Change in the effect of limit on plan surpluses 17 (16)  (5)
Total actuarial gains/(losses) recognised in other comprehensive income 2,419 (601)  (391)
At 31 December (2,026) (4,445)  (3,844)
HSBC pension plans 
 2014 2013 2012
 % %  %
Percentage of HSBC employees:  
– enrolled in defined contribution plans  66 64 62
– enrolled in defined benefit plans  22 23 23
– covered by HSBC pension plans  88 87 85
 
The Group operates a number of pension plans throughout the world. Some are defined benefit plans, of which the 
largest is the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (‘the principal plan’). The Pension Risk section on page 200 and the 
Appendix to Risk on page 236 contain details about the characteristics and risks and amount, timing and uncertainty of 
future cash flows and policies and practices associated with the principal plan.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
361 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Defined benefit pension plans 
Net asset/(liability) under defined benefit pension plans 
  
Fair value of plan assets 
Present value of defined 
benefit obligations Effect of the asset ceiling  
Net defined benefit
asset/(liability) 
   HSBC 
 Bank (UK) 
 Pension 
 Scheme  
 Other
 plans 
HSBC
 Bank (UK)
 Pension
 Scheme 
 Other
 plans 
HSBC
 Bank (UK)
 Pension
 Scheme 
 Other 
 plans  
 HSBC 
 Bank (UK) 
 Pension 
 Scheme  
 Other
 plans 
   US$m   US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
At 1 January 2014 31,665 8,957 (29,629) (10,838) – (30) 2,036 (1,911)
Current service cost – – (228) (257) – – (228) (257)
Past service cost and gains/(losses) 
from settlements  – (5) (26) 11 – – (26) 6 
Service cost  – (5) (254) (246) – – (254) (251)
Net interest income/(cost) on 
the net defined benefit 
asset/(liability) 1,386 370 (1,291) (425) – (4) 95 (59)
Re-measurement effects 
recognised in other 
comprehensive income 4,864 845 (2,100) (1,034) – 17 2,764 (172)
–  return on plan assets 
(excluding interest income) 
 
4,864 845 – – – – 4,864 845 
–  actuarial losses   – – (2,317) (987) – – (2,317) (987)
–  other changes   – – 217 (47) – 17 217 (30)
Exchange differences  (2,112) (316) 1,838 357 – – (274) 41
Contributions by HSBC  397 278 – – – – 397 278
–  normal   265 239 – – – – 265 239
–  special   132 39 – – – – 132 39
Contributions by employees  38 17 (38) (17) – – – –
Benefits paid  (954) (543) 954 598 – – – 55
Administrative costs and taxes  
paid by plan  (40) (23) 40 23 – – – – 
At 31 December 2014  35,244 9,580 (30,480) (11,582) – (17) 4,764 (2,019)
Present value of defined benefit 
obligation relating to:         
–  actives   (9,782) (5,605)  
–  deferreds   (8,799) (2,498)  
–  pensioners   (11,899) (3,479)  
  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
6 – Employee compensation and benefits 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
362 
Net asset/(liability) under defined benefit pension plans (continued) 
  
Fair value of plan assets 
Present value of defined 
benefit obligations Effect of the asset ceiling  
Net defined benefit 
asset/(liability) 
   HSBC 
 Bank (UK) 
 Pension 
 Scheme  
 Other
 plans 
HSBC
 Bank (UK)
 Pension
 Scheme 
 Other
 plans 
HSBC
 Bank (UK)
 Pension
 Scheme 
 Other 
 plans  
 HSBC 
 Bank (UK) 
 Pension 
 Scheme  
 Other
 plans 
   US$m   US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
At 1 January 2013 29,092 9,015 (26,475) (11,581) – (19) 2,617 (2,585)
Current service cost – – (259) (249) – – (259) (249)
Past service cost and gains/(losses) 
from settlements
1
 – (3) 438 (41) – – 438 (44)
Service cost  – (3) 179 (290) – – 179 (293)
Net interest income/(cost) on 
the net defined benefit 
asset/(liability) 1,260 156 (1,127) (229) – – 133 (73)
Re-measurement effects 
recognised in other 
comprehensive income  817 21 (2,341) 775 – (16) (1,524) 780 
–  return on plan assets  
(excluding interest income) 
 
817 21 – – – – 817 21 
–  actuarial gains/(losses)   – – (2,453) 829 – – (2,453) 829
–  other changes   – – 112 (54) – (16) 112 (70)
Exchange differences  766 (59) (740) 23 – 5 26 (31)
Contributions by HSBC  605 336 – – – – 605 336
–  normal   399 274 – – – – 399 274
–  special   206 62 – – – – 206 62
Contributions by employees  38 17 (38) (17) – – – –
Benefits paid  (876) (513) 876 452 – – – (61)
Administrative costs and  taxes 
paid by plan  (37) (13) 37 13 – – – – 
Disposals  – – – 16 – – – 16
At 31 December 2013  31,665 8,957 (29,629) (10,838) – (30) 2,036 (1,911)
Present value of defined benefit 
obligation relating to:         
–  actives   (8,896) (5,465)  
–  deferreds   (8,358) (2,144)  
–  pensioners   (12,375) (3,229)  
1 HSBC announced to employees in the UK that the future service accrual for active members of the Defined Benefit Section (‘DBS’) of the principal 
plan would cease with effect from 30 June 2015 and that all active members of the DBS will become member of the Defined Contribution Section 
from 1 July 2015. This resulted in a reduction in the defined benefit obligation of the Scheme and a corresponding gain of US$430m in 2013, 
recorded in ‘Past service cost and (gains)/losses on settlements’ in the table above. 
HSBC expects to make US$530m of contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2015. Benefits expected to be 
paid from the plans to retirees over each of the next five years, and in aggregate for the five years thereafter, are as 
follows: 
Benefits expected to be paid from plans 
 20152016201720182019  2020-2024
 US$mUS$mUS$mUS$mUS$m US$m
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme
1
970 999 1,029 1,060 1,091 5,968
Other plans
1
  566 576 595 605 643 3,366
1 The duration of the defined benefit obligation is 19.8 years for the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme under the disclosure assumptions adopted 
(2013: 19.5 years) and 14.2 years for all other plans combined (2013: 13.7 years). 
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
363 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Fair value of plan assets by asset classes 
  31 December 2014 31 December 2013 
  
Value  
Quoted
market price
in active
market 
No quoted
market price
in active
market 
Thereof
 HSBC
1
Value 
Quoted 
market price 
in active 
market  
No quoted 
market price 
 in active 
market  
Thereof
 HSBC
1
  US$m  US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme    
Fair value of plan assets  35,244 31,355 3,889 930 31,665 26,520  5,145 2,827
– equities  5,502 4,557 945 – 4,655 3,667  988 –
– bonds  22,965 22,965 – – 17,708 17,708  – –
– derivatives  1,369 52 1,317 930 2,827 –  2,827 2,827
– other  5,408 3,781 1,627 – 6,475 5,145  1,330 –
Other plans     
Fair value of plan assets  9,580 6,390 3,190 (13) 8,957 7,731  1,226 574
– equities  2,534 1,778 756 11 2,854 2,789  65 14
– bonds  6,376 4,109 2,267 7 4,892 4,409  483 9
– derivatives  (100) (8) (92) (107) 399 –  399 399
– other  770 511 259 76 812 533  279 152
1 The fair value of plan assets includes derivatives entered into with HSBC Bank plc as detailed in Note 41. 
Post-employment defined benefit plans’ principal actuarial financial assumptions 
HSBC determines the discount rates to be applied to its obligations in consultation with the plans’ local actuaries, on the 
basis of current average yields of high quality (AA-rated or equivalent) debt instruments, with maturities consistent with 
those of the defined benefit obligations. 
Key actuarial assumptions for the principal plan 
 
 Discount 
 rate 
 Inflation
 rate 
Rate of 
 increase for
 pensions 
 Rate of  
  pay increase 
 
 Interest
  credit rate 
 % % % %   %
UK    
At 31 December 2014 3.70 3.20 3.00 3.70   n/a
At 31 December 2013 4.45 3.60 3.30 4.10   n/a
At 31 December 2012 4.50 3.10 2.90 3.60   n/a
Mortality tables and average life expectancy at age 65 for the principal plan 
 Mortality
 table 
Life expectancy at age 65 for 
a male member currently: 
Life expectancy at age 65 for
a female member currently:
 Aged 65 Aged 45 Aged 65 Aged 45
UK     
At 31 December 2014 SAPS S1
1
23.6 25.2  25.0  26.9
At 31 December 2013 SAPS S1
1
23.6 25.2  24.9  26.8
1 Self-administered Pension Scheme (‘SAPS’) with Continuous Mortality Investigation 2014 improvements (2013: 2013 improvements) and a 1.25% 
long-term allowance improvement. Light table with 1.01 rating for male pensioners and 1.02 rating for female pensioners. 
Actuarial assumption sensitivities 
The effect of changes in key assumptions on the principal plan 
 HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme
 2014   2013
 US$m US$m
Discount rate  
Change in pension obligation at year-end from a 25bps increase (1,420) (1,352)
Change in pension obligation at year-end from a 25bps decrease 1,523 1,450
Change in 2015 pension cost from a 25bps increase (75) (83)
Change in 2015 pension cost from a 25bps decrease 73 79
Rate of inflation  
Change in pension obligation at year-end from a 25bps increase 1,026 994
Change in pension obligation at year-end from a 25bps decrease (1,184) (1,137)
Change in 2015 pension cost from a 25bps increase 44 53
Change in 2015 pension cost from a 25bps decrease (48) (68)
Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 
Change in pension obligation at year-end from a 25bps increase 1,188 1,301
Change in pension obligation at year-end from a 25bps decrease (1,127) (1,225)
Change in 2015 pension cost from a 25bps increase 50 66
Change in 2015 pension cost from a 25bps decrease (45) (64) Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
7 – Auditors’ remuneration / 8 – Tax 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
364 
 HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme
 2014   2013
 US$m US$m
Rate of pay increase  
Change in pension obligation at year-end from a 25bps increase 237 212
Change in pension obligation at year-end from a 25bps decrease (232) (205)
Change in 2015 pension cost from a 25bps increase 12 15
Change in 2015 pension cost from a 25bps decrease (11) (15)
Mortality  
Change in pension obligation from each additional year of longevity assumed 768 712
HSBC Holdings 
Employee compensation and benefit expense in respect of HSBC Holdings’ employees in 2014 amounted to US$681m 
(2013: US$542m). The average number of persons employed by HSBC Holdings during 2014 was 2,070 (2013: 1,525). 
Employees of HSBC Holdings who are members of defined benefit pension plans are principally members of either the 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme or the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme. HSBC Holdings pays 
contributions to such plans for its own employees in accordance with the schedules of contributions determined by the 
Trustees of the plan and recognises these contributions as an expense as they fall due. 
Directors’ emoluments  
The aggregate emoluments of the Directors of HSBC Holdings, computed in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and 
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 were: 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$000 US$000 US$000
Fees  4,567 4,027 5,435
Salaries and other emoluments 17,812 9,488 10,316
Annual incentives  4,426 7,357 13,983
Year ended 31 December 26,805 20,872 29,734
Vesting of long-term incentive awards  – – 5,733
In addition, there were payments under retirement benefit agreements with former Directors of US$1,269,160 (2013: 
US$1,198,744). The provision at 31 December 2014 in respect of unfunded pension obligations to former Directors 
amounted to US$19,419,524 (2013: US$19,729,103). 
During the year, aggregate contributions to pension schemes in respect of Directors were nil (2013: nil).  
The salary and other emoluments figure includes fixed pay allowances. Discretionary annual incentives for Directors are 
based on a combination of individual and corporate performance and are determined by the Group Remuneration 
Committee. Details of Directors’ remuneration, share options and awards under the HSBC Share Plan and HSBC Share Plan 
2011 are included in the ‘Directors’ Remuneration Report’ on page 300 to 327. 
7 Auditors’ remuneration 
 2014 2013   2012
 US$m US$m   US$m
Audit fees payable to KPMG
1
  40.6 43.4   47.2 
Audit fees payable to non-KPMG entities  1.2 1.1   1.4 
Year ended 31 December 41.8 44.5   48.6 
1 Fees payable to KPMG for HSBC Holdings’ statutory audit and audit of HSBC’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation and includes fees payable for 
the current year. Excluded from the 2014 audit fees payable to KPMG is a net release of accruals of US$2.5 million relating to prior years and 
fees related to the transition of the audit to PwC of US$1.3 million. 
The following fees were payable by HSBC to the Group’s principal auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its associates (together 
‘KPMG’):   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
365 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Fees payable by HSBC to KPMG 
 2014 2013   2012
 US$m US$m   US$m
Fees for HSBC Holdings’ statutory audit
1
  13.4 12.9  13.2 
– relating to current year  13.4 12.6  12.8 
– relating to prior year  – 0.3  0.4 
Fees for other services provided to HSBC  62.5 67.5  67.3 
Audit of HSBC’s subsidiaries
2
27.2 30.5  34.0 
Audit-related assurance services
3
  22.6 27.4  23.6 
Taxation-related services:  
–  taxation compliance services  1.5 1.3  2.1 
–  taxation advisory services  0.8 1.3  1.3 
Other assurance services  0.7 0.5  1.1 
Other non-audit services
4
  9.7 6.5  5.2 
Year ended 31 December 75.9 80.4  80.5 
1 Fees payable to KPMG for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC 
Holdings. They include amounts payable for services relating to the consolidation returns of HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries which are clearly 
identifiable as being in support of the Group audit opinion. Excluded from the 2014 fees is US$0.3m related to prior year and fees related to the 
transition of the audit to PwC of US$1.3m. 
2 Fees payable for the statutory audit of the financial statements of HSBC’s subsidiaries. Excluded from the 2014 fees is a net release of accruals of 
US$2.8m relating to prior years. 
3 Including services for assurance and other services that relate to statutory and regulatory filings, including comfort letters and interim reviews. 
4 Including valuation and actuarial services, translation services, ad-hoc accounting advice, review of financial models, advice on IT security and 
business continuity, corporate finance transactions and performing agreed-upon IT testing procedures. 
No fees were payable by HSBC to KPMG for the following types of services: internal audit services, services related to 
litigation, recruitment and remuneration. 
Fees payable by HSBC’s associated pension schemes to KPMG 
 2014 2013   2012
 US$000 US$000   US$000
Audit of HSBC’s associated pension schemes  322 379   256 
Audit related assurance services 5 5   –
Year ended 31 December 327 384   256 
No fees were payable by HSBC’s associated pension schemes to KPMG for the following types of services: audit related 
assurance services, internal audit services, other assurance services, services related to corporate finance transactions, 
valuation and actuarial services, litigation, recruitment and remuneration, and information technology. 
In addition to the above, KPMG estimate they have been paid fees of US$3.6m (2013: US$5.3m; 2012: US$3.3m)  
by parties other than HSBC but where HSBC is connected with the contracting party and may therefore be involved in 
appointing KPMG. These fees arise from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing the 
financial position of corporate concerns which borrow from HSBC. 
Fees payable to KPMG for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are 
disclosed on a consolidated basis for the HSBC Group. 
8 Tax 
Accounting policy 
 Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates 
to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in the same statement in which 
the related item appears. 
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable profit for the year, calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively 
enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. HSBC provides for potential current 
tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. Current tax assets and liabilities are 
offset when HSBC intends to settle on a net basis and the legal right to offset exists.  
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the 
amounts attributed to such assets and liabilities for tax purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable 
temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available 
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.  
Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the assets will be realised or the liabilities settled, 
based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset 
when they arise in the same tax reporting group and relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, and when HSBC has a 
legal right to offset. 
  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
8 – Tax 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
366 
 Deferred tax relating to actuarial gains and losses on post-employment benefits is recognised in other comprehensive income. Deferred 
tax relating to share-based payment transactions is recognised directly in equity to the extent that the amount of the estimated future 
tax deduction exceeds the amount of the related cumulative remuneration expense. Deferred tax relating to fair value re-measurements 
of available-for-sale investments and cash flow hedging instruments is charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income and is 
subsequently recognised in the income statement when the deferred fair value gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
 
Deferred tax assets 
The recognition of a deferred tax asset relies on an assessment of the probability and sufficiency of future taxable profits, future 
reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and ongoing tax planning strategies. In absence of a history of taxable profits, the 
most significant judgements relate to expected future profitability and to the applicability of tax planning strategies, including corporate 
reorganisations. 
Our US operations have a history of tax losses, but profitability is expected to improve. Tax planning strategies support the recognition 
of deferred tax assets in the US, with retention of capital in the US operations being a significant factor in recognising the deferred tax 
assets. Given the recent occurrence of tax losses, the recognition of deferred tax assets in Brazil takes into consideration both the 
reliance placed on management's projection of income and on the use of strategies, such as corporate reorganisations and other 
initiatives, to improve the profitability of our Brazilian banking operations from a tax perspective. 
Tax expense 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$m US$m US$m
Current tax  
UK corporation tax  69 (8) 250
– for this year  54 103 60
– adjustments in respect of prior years  15 (111) 190
Overseas tax
1
  3,881 3,949 5,560
– for this year  4,423 3,947 5,421
– adjustments in respect of prior years  (542) 2 139
 3,950 3,941 5,810
Deferred tax  25 824 (495)
– origination and reversal of temporary differences  (477) 739 (269)
– effect of changes in tax rates 83 93 66
– adjustments in respect of prior years  419 (8) (292)
Year ended 31 December 3,975 4,765 5,315
1 Overseas tax included Hong Kong profits tax of US$1,135m (2013: US$1,133m; 2012: US$1,049m). The Hong Kong tax rate applying to the 
profits of subsidiaries assessable in Hong Kong was 16.5% (2013: 16.5%; 2012: 16.5%). Other overseas subsidiaries and overseas branches 
provided for taxation at the appropriate rates in the countries in which they operate. 
Tax reconciliation 
The tax charged to the income statement differs from the tax charge that would apply if all profits had been taxed at the 
UK corporation tax rate as follows: 
 2014 2013 2012 
 US$m % US$m %  US$m  %
Profit before tax  18,680 22,565  20,649  
Tax expense     
Tax at 21.5% (2013: 23.25%; 2012: 24.5%)  4,016 21.5 5,246 23.25  5,057  24.5
Effect of differently taxed overseas profits  33 0.2 (177) (0.8)  (57)  (0.3)
Adjustments in respect of prior period liabilities  (108) (0.6) (117) (0.5)  37  0.2
Deferred tax temporary differences not recognised/ 
(previously not recognised)  (154) (0.8) 332 1.5 
 
374  1.8 
Effect of profits in associates and joint ventures  (547) (2.9) (543) (2.4)  (872)  (4.3)
Tax effect of disposal of Ping An – – (111) (0.5)  (204)  (1.0)
Tax effect of reclassification of Industrial Bank  – – (317) (1.4)  –  –
Non-taxable income and gains  (668) (3.5) (871) (3.9)  (542)  (2.6)
Permanent disallowables  969 5.1 647 2.9  1,092  5.3
Change in tax rates  22 0.1 93 0.4  78  0.4
Local taxes and overseas withholding taxes  434 2.3 551 2.4  581  2.8
Other items  (22) (0.1) 32 0.1  (229)  (1.1)
Year ended 31 December 3,975 21.3 4,765 21.1  5,315  25.7
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
367 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The effective tax rate for the year was 21.3% compared with 21.1% for 2013. The effective tax rate for the year reflected 
the recurring benefits from tax exempt income from government bonds and equities held by a number of Group entities 
and recognition of the Group’s share of post-tax profits of associates and joint ventures within our pre-tax income, 
together with a current tax credit for prior periods offset in part by non-tax-deductible settlements and provision in 
connection with foreign exchange investigations. The effective tax rate in 2013 was lower because of benefits from non-
taxable gains offset in part by a write-down of deferred tax assets. 
The main rate of corporation tax in the UK reduced from 23% to 21% on 1 April 2014 and will be further reduced to 20% 
on 1 April 2015. The reduction in the corporate tax rate to 20% was enacted through the 2013 Finance Act on 17 July 
2013. It is not expected that the future rate reduction will have a significant effect on the Group. 
The Group’s legal entities are subject to routine review and audit by tax authorities in the territories in which the Group 
operates. Where the ultimate tax treatment is uncertain, the Group provides for potential tax liabilities that may arise on 
the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. The amounts ultimately paid may differ materially 
from the amounts provided depending on the ultimate resolution of such matters. 
Deferred taxation 
The table overleaf shows the gross deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet and the related 
amounts recognised in the income statement, other comprehensive income and directly in equity. 
The amounts presented in the balance sheet are different from the amounts disclosed in the table overleaf as they are 
presented after offsetting asset and liability balances where HSBC has the legal right to set-off and intends to settle on a net 
basis. The net deferred tax assets totalled US$5.6bn at 31 December 2014 (2013: US$6.5bn). The main items to note are: 
US 
The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBC’s operations in the US was US$4.1bn (2013: US$4.4bn). The deferred tax 
assets included in this total reflected the carry forward of tax losses and tax credits of US$0.9bn (2013: US$0.7bn), 
deductible temporary differences in respect of loan impairment allowances of US$0.8bn (2013: US$1.2bn) and other 
temporary differences of US$2.4bn (2013: US$2.5bn).  
Deductions for loan impairments for US tax purposes generally occur when the impaired loan is charged off, or if earlier, 
when the impaired loan is sold. The tax deduction is often in the period subsequent to that in which the impairment is 
recognised for accounting purposes. As a result, the amount of the associated deferred tax asset should generally move 
in line with the impairment allowance balance. 
On the evidence available, including historical levels of profitability, management projections of future income and HSBC 
Holdings’ commitment to continue to retain sufficient capital in North America to recover the deferred tax asset, it is 
expected that there will be sufficient taxable income generated by the business to realise these assets.  
Management projections of profits from the US operations currently indicate that tax losses and tax credits will be fully 
recovered by 2017. The current level of the deferred tax asset in respect of loan impairment allowances and other 
deductible temporary differences is projected to reduce over the next four years. 
As there has been a recent history of losses in HSBC’s US operations, management’s analysis of the recognition of these 
deferred tax assets significantly discounts any future expected profits from the US operations and relies on capital support 
from HSBC Holdings, including tax planning strategies in relation to such support. The principal strategy involves 
generating future taxable profits through the retention of capital in the US in excess of normal regulatory requirements in 
order to reduce deductible funding expenses or otherwise deploy such capital to increase levels of taxable income. As 
financial performance in our US operations improves it is expected that projected future profits from US operations will 
be relied on in the evaluation of the recognition of the deferred tax asset in future periods as the sustainability of the 
improving financial performance is demonstrated. 
Brazil 
The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBC’s operations in Brazil was US$1.3bn (2013: US$1.0bn). The deferred tax assets 
included in this total reflected the carry forward of tax losses of US$0.3bn (2013: US$0.1bn), deductible temporary 
differences in respect of loan impairment allowances of US$0.7bn (2013: US$0.7bn) and other temporary differences of 
US$0.3bn (2013: US$0.2bn). 
Deductions for loan impairments for Brazilian tax purposes generally occur when the impaired loan is charged off, often in 
the period subsequent to that in which the impairment is recognised for accounting purposes. As a result, the amount of 
the associated deferred tax asset should generally move in line with the impairment allowance balance. 
Management projections of profits from the Brazilian banking operations currently indicate that the tax losses and other 
temporary differences will be substantially recovered within the next five to eight years. Loan impairment deductions are 
recognised for tax purposes typically within two to three years of the accounting recognition. 
   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
8 – Tax 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
368 
Mexico 
The net deferred tax asset relating to HSBC’s operations in Mexico was US$0.5bn (2013: US$0.5bn). The deferred tax 
assets included in this total related primarily to deductible temporary differences in respect of accounting provisions for 
impaired loans.  
Management’s analysis of the recognition of these deferred tax assets relies on the primary strategy of selling certain loan 
portfolios, the losses on which are deductible for tax in Mexico when sold. Any such deductions for tax would lead to the 
reversal of the carried forward loan impairment provision recognised for deferred tax purposes. The deferred tax balances 
are carried forward to future years without expiry. 
In September 2013, the Mexican Government proposed a number of tax reforms that were approved by the Chamber 
of Senate in October 2013 and published in the Official Gazette in December 2013. The tax reforms included a new basis 
of tax deduction for loan impairment charges that will allow banks to recognise tax deductions as and when loans are 
written off the balance sheet. The reforms also brought in transitional rules to allow banks to continue to claim any 
unclaimed deductions as at 31 December 2013. On 4 July 2014, the Mexican Government issued rule I.3.22.5 of the 
Miscellaneous Tax Resolution that clarified the treatment of the transitional rules, but had no impact on the deferred 
tax assets held in our operations in Mexico.  
On the evidence available, including historical and projected levels of loan portfolio growth, loan impairment rates 
and profitability, it is expected that the business will realise these assets over the next five years.  
There were no material carried forward tax losses or tax credits recognised within the Group’s deferred tax assets in 
Mexico. 
UK 
The net deferred tax liability relating to HSBC’s operations in the UK was US$0.4bn (2013: asset of US$0.4bn). The 
deferred tax liabilities included in this total related primarily to retirement benefits. 
There were no material carried forward tax losses or tax credits recognised within the Group’s deferred tax assets in 
the UK. 
Unrecognised deferred tax 
The amount of temporary differences, unused tax losses and tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised 
in the balance sheet was US$22.6bn (2013: US$22.0bn). These amounts included unused state losses arising in our US 
operations of US$14.1bn (2013: US$17.3bn).  
Of the total amounts unrecognised, US$4.2bn (2013: US$5.0bn) had no expiry date, US$0.9bn (2013: US$1.0bn) was 
scheduled to expire within 10 years and the remaining will expire after 10 years. 
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the Group’s investments in subsidiaries and branches where remittance or 
other realisation is not probable, and for those associates and interests in joint ventures where it has been determined 
that no additional tax will arise. No amount is disclosed for the unrecognised deferred tax or the 2014 and 2013 
temporary differences associated with such investments as it is impracticable to determine the amount of income taxes 
that would be payable when any temporary differences reverse. Deferred tax of US$132m (2013: US$20m) has, however, 
been provided in respect of distributable reserves of associates that, on distribution, would attract withholding tax.   
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC
369 
Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview 
Movement of deferred tax assets and liabilities  
Retirement 
benefits 
Loan
impairment
provisions 
Unused tax
losses and
tax credits 
Accelerated
capital
allowances
and assets
leased to
customers 
Available-
for-sale
investments 
Cash
flow
hedges 
Share- 
based 
payments 
Fee
income 
Derivatives,
 FVOD
1
and other
investments 
Insurance
technical
provisions 
Expense
provisions Other Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
   
Assets  274 2,837 978 549 – 211 253 – 1,383 – 1,398 461 8,344
Liabilities  – – – (144) (298) (24) – (59) (213) (840) – (220) (1,798) 
At 1 January 2014 274 2,837 978 405 (298) 187 253 (59) 1,170 (840) 1,398 241 6,546
Acquisitions and disposals – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Income statement (57) (408) 396 (17) (2) (3) (3) 2 361 (76) (86) (132) (25) 
Other comprehensive income (438) – – – (203) (87) – – (12) – – 48 (692) 
Equity  – – – – – – (20) – – – – – (20) 
Foreign exchange and other 
adjustments  10 (165) (42) (26) 11 1 (21) 1 12 55 (68) 10 (222) 
At 31 December 2014 (211) 2,264 1,332 362 (492) 98 209 (56) 1,531 (861) 1,244 167 5,587
Assets  – 2,264 1,332 362 – 98 209 – 1,764 – 1,244 167 7,440
Liabilities  (211) – – – (492) – – (56) (233) (861) – – (1,853) 
   
Assets  469 3,912 617 473 – 285 305 – 1,530 – 1,457 (22) 9,026
Liabilities  – – – (226) (1,203) (44) – (105) (162) (815) – (10) (2,565) 
At 1 January 2013 469 3,912 617 247 (1,203) 241 305 (105) 1,368 (815) 1,457 (32) 6,461
Acquisitions and disposals – – (9) – (3) 1 – – – – – (26) (37) 
Income statement (419) (985) 399 123 (53) (91) (49) 42 (165) (72) 47 399 (824) 
Other comprehensive income 169 – – – 1,026 38 – – (12) – – – 1,221
Equity  – – – – – – (2) – – – – – (2) 
Foreign exchange and other 
adjustments  55 (90) (29) 35 (65) (2) (1) 4 (21) 47 (106) (100) (273) 
At 31 December 2013 274 2,837 978 405 (298) 187 253 (59) 1,170 (840) 1,398 241 6,546
Assets  274 2,837 978 549 – 211 253 – 1,383 – 1,398 461 8,344
Liabilities  – – – (144) (298) (24) – (59) (213) (840) – (220) (1,798) 
1 Fair value of own debt.  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
9 – Dividends / 10 – Earnings per share / 11 – Segmental analysis 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
370 
HSBC Holdings 
Movement of deferred tax assets 
 
Accelerated
capital
allowances 
Available-
for-sale
investments 
Other
Investments 
Share- 
based 
payments  
Other short- 
term timing 
differences   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
At 1 January 2014 2 (23) 19 11 4 13
Income statement  – – 3 2 1 6
Other comprehensive income  – (36) – – – (36)
At 31 December 2014 2 (59) 22 13 5 (17)
   
At 1 January 2013 2 (31) 31 12 – 14
Income statement  – – (12) (1) 4 (9)
Other comprehensive income  – 8 – – – 8
At 31 December 2013 2 (23) 19 11 4 13
The amount of unused tax losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet was US$3,760m (2013: 
US$3,405m) of which US$10m (2013: US$9m) relate to capital losses. On the evidence available, including historical levels 
of profitability and management projections of future income, it is expected that there will be not sufficient taxable 
income generated by the business to recover the tax losses carried forward by HSBC Holdings. The losses have no expiry 
date. 
9 Dividends 
Dividends to shareholders of the parent company 
 2014 2013 2012 
   Per  
 share 
 US$ 
 Total 
 US$m 
Settled 
 in scrip 
 US$m 
Per 
  share 
 US$ 
 Total 
 US$m 
Settled  
 in scrip 
 US$m  
 Per   
 share  
 US$  
 Total 
 US$m 
Settled 
 in scrip 
 US$m 
Dividends paid on ordinary shares       
In respect of previous year:       
– fourth interim dividend   0.19 3,582 1,827 0.18 3,339 540  0.14  2,535 259
In respect of current year:       
– first interim dividend   0.10 1,906 284 0.10 1,861 167  0.09  1,633 748
– second interim dividend   0.10 1,914 372 0.10 1,864 952  0.09  1,646 783
– third interim dividend   0.10 1,918 226 0.10 1,873 864  0.09  1,655 639
Total  0.49 9,320 2,709 0.48 8,937 2,523  0.41  7,469 2,429
Total dividends on preference shares 
classified as equity (paid quarterly) 
 
62.00 90  62.00 90   62.00  90  
Total coupons on capital securities classified as equity  
  2014 2013 2012
  First Per security Total Per security Total  Per security   Total
   call date US$ US$m US$ US$m   US$   US$m
Perpetual subordinated capital securities
1
       
– US$2,200m    Apr 2013 2.032 179 2.032 179  2.032  179
– US$3,800m    Dec 2015 2.000 304 2.000 304  2.000  304
Total   483 483    483
1 Coupons are paid quarterly on the perpetual subordinated capital securities. 
The Directors declared after the end of the year a fourth interim dividend in respect of the financial year ended 
31 December 2014 of US$0.20 per ordinary share, a distribution of approximately US$3,844m. The fourth interim dividend 
will be payable on 30 April 2015 to holders of record on 6 March 2015 on the Principal Register in the UK, the Hong Kong 
or the Bermuda Overseas Branch registers. No liability is recorded in the financial statements in respect of the fourth 
interim dividend for 2014. 
On 15 January 2015, HSBC paid a coupon on the perpetual subordinated capital securities of US$0.508 per security, 
a distribution of US$45m. No liability was recorded in the balance sheet at 31 December 2014 in respect of this coupon 
payment. 
In September 2014, HSBC issued three contingent convertible securities as set out on page 438 which are classified as 
equity under IFRSs. Coupons are paid semi-annually on the contingent convertible securities and none fell due in 2014. On 
20 January 2015, HSBC paid a coupon on one of the contingent convertible securities of US$28.125 per security, 
a distribution of US$28m. No liability was recorded in the balance sheet at 31 December 2014 in respect of this coupon 
payment.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
371 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
The reserves available for distribution at 31 December 2014 were US$48,883m. 
10 Earnings per share 
‘Basic earnings per ordinary share’ is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent 
company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held. ‘Diluted earnings 
per ordinary share’ is calculated by dividing the basic earnings, which require no adjustment for the effects of dilutive 
potential ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held, 
plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of dilutive potential ordinary 
shares. 
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$m US$m US$m
Profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company 13,688 16,204 14,027
Dividend payable on preference shares classified as equity (90) (90) (90)
Coupon payable on capital securities classified as equity (483) (483) (483)
Year ended 31 December  13,115 15,631 13,454
Basic and diluted earnings per share 
 2014 2013 2012 
 
 Profit 
 US$m 
Number 
 of shares 
 (millions) 
Per
 share
 US$ 
 Profit 
 US$m 
Number 
 of shares 
 (millions) 
Per 
 share
 US$  
 Profit 
 US$m  
 Number 
 of shares 
 (millions) 
Per 
 share
 US$ 
Basic
1
  13,115 18,960 0.69 15,631 18,530 0.84  13,454 18,125 0.74
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares  – 96 – – 124 –  – 146 –
Diluted
1
  13,115 19,056 0.69 15,631 18,654 0.84  13,454 18,271 0.74
1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (basic) or assuming dilution (diluted). 
The weighted average number of dilutive potential ordinary shares excluded 6m employee share options that were anti-
dilutive (2013: 60m; 2012: 103m). 
11 Segmental analysis 
Accounting policy 
 
HSBC has a matrix management structure. HSBC’s chief operating decision-maker is the Group Management Board (‘GMB’) which 
operates as a general management committee under the direct authority of the Board. The GMB regularly reviews operating activity on 
a number of bases, including by geographical region and by global business. HSBC considers that geographical operating segments 
represent the most appropriate information for the users of the financial statements to best evaluate the nature and financial effects of 
the business activities in which HSBC engages, and the economic environments in which it operates. This reflects the importance of 
geographical factors on business strategy and performance, the allocation of capital resources, and the role of geographical regional 
management in executing strategy. As a result, HSBC’s operating segments are considered to be geographical regions. 
Geographical information is classified by the location of the principal operations of the subsidiary or, for The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the branch responsible for reporting the 
results or providing funding. 
Measurement of segmental assets, liabilities, income and expenses is in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Segmental 
income and expenses include transfers between segments and these transfers are conducted at arm’s length. Shared costs are included 
in segments on the basis of the actual recharges made. The expense of the UK bank levy is included in the Europe geographical region as 
HSBC regards the levy as a cost of carrying on business and being headquartered in the UK. 
Products and services  
HSBC provides a comprehensive range of banking and related financial services to its customers in its five geographical 
regions. The products and services offered to customers are organised by global business.  
• Retail Banking and Wealth Management (‘RBWM’) offers a broad range of products and services to meet the personal 
banking and wealth management needs of individual customers. Typically, customer offerings include personal banking 
products (current and savings accounts, mortgages and personal loans, credit cards, debit cards and local and 
international payment services) and wealth management services (insurance and investment products, global asset 
management services and financial planning services). 
• Commercial Banking (‘CMB’) offers a broad range of products and services to serve the needs of our commercial 
customers, including small and medium-sized enterprises, mid-market enterprises and corporates. These include credit 
and lending, international trade and receivables finance, treasury management and liquidity solutions (payments and 
cash management and commercial cards), commercial insurance and investments. CMB also offers its customers 
access to products and services offered by other global businesses, for example Global Banking & Markets (‘GB&M’),  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
11 – Segmental analysis 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
372 
which include foreign exchange products, raising capital on debt and equity markets and advisory services. 
• GB&M provides tailored financial solutions to major government, corporate and institutional clients and private 
investors worldwide. The client-focused business lines deliver a full range of banking capabilities including financing, 
advisory and transaction services, a markets business that provides services in credit, rates, foreign exchange, equities, 
money markets and securities services, and principal investment activities. 
• Global Private Banking (‘GPB’) provides a range of services to high net worth individuals and families with complex and 
international needs within the Group’s priority markets. 
Change in operating segments 
HSBC’s operating segments are Europe, Asia, Middle East and North Africa (‘MENA’), North America and Latin America. 
Previously, HSBC’s operating segments were reported as Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific, Middle East and 
North Africa, North America and Latin America. Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific are no longer regarded as separate 
reportable operating segments, having considered the geographical financial information presented to the chief operating 
decision maker. From 1 January 2014, they have been replaced by a new operating segment, ‘Asia’, which better aligns 
with internal management information used for evaluation when making business decisions and resource allocations. The 
chief operating decision-maker continues to be the GMB and the basis for measuring segmental results has not changed. 
Comparative financial information has been re-presented accordingly. 
There has been no change in the underlying business operations comprising the Asia segment. Reported net operating 
income in Asia for the year to 31 December 2014 was US$23,677m (31 December 2013: US$24,432m; 31 December 2012: 
US$25,332m). This was US$713m lower (31 December 2013: US$749m lower; 31 December 2012: US$674m lower) than 
would be calculated by adding net operating income reported for Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific on an individual 
basis. The reduction in net operating income is offset by an equal decrease in operating expenses. The difference relates 
to shared service recharges and business activity undertaken between the two regions which form revenue or expense on 
an individual basis, but are eliminated as ‘intra-segment’ activity when reported as Asia. There is no difference between 
profit before tax reported for Asia and that which would be calculated by adding the profit before tax of Hong Kong and 
Rest of Asia-Pacific on an individual basis. 
Profit/(loss) for the year 
 
 
 Europe  Asia  MENA 
North
 America 
Latin 
 America 
 
 Intra- 
 HSBC items 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
2014   
Net interest income  10,611 12,273 1,519 5,015 5,310 (23) 34,705
Net fee income  6,042 5,910 650 1,940 1,415 − 15,957
Net trading income  2,534 2,622 314 411 856 23 6,760
Other income 2,384 2,872 65 786 691 (2,972) 3,826
Net operating income
1
  21,571 23,677 2,548 8,152 8,272 (2,972) 61,248
Loan impairment (charges)/recoveries 
 and other credit risk provisions  (764) (647) 6 (322) (2,124) − (3,851)
Net operating income  20,807 23,030 2,554 7,830 6,148 (2,972) 57,397
Employee compensation and benefits  (8,191) (5,862) (676) (3,072) (2,565)  − (20,366)
General and administrative expenses  (11,076) (3,959) (500) (3,108) (2,894)  2,972 (18,565)
Depreciation and impairment of 
property, plant and equipment  (543) (389) (28) (180) (242)  − (1,382)
Amortisation and impairment of 
intangible assets  (407) (217) (12) (69) (231)  − (936)
Total operating expenses  (20,217) (10,427) (1,216) (6,429) (5,932) 2,972 (41,249)
Operating profit  590 12,603 1,338 1,401 216 − 16,148
Share of profit in associates and joint 
ventures  6 2,022 488 16 − − 2,532 
Profit before tax  596 14,625 1,826 1,417 216 − 18,680
Tax expense  (853) (2,542) (339) (195) (46) − (3,975)
Profit/(loss) for the year  (257) 12,083 1,487 1,222 170 − 14,705
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
373 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Profit/(loss) for the year (continued) 
 
 
 Europe  Asia  MENA 
North
 America 
Latin 
 America 
 
 Intra- 
 HSBC items 
 
 Total 
 US$mUS$mUS$mUS$mUS$m US$m US$m
2013   
Net interest income  10,693 11,432 1,486 5,742 6,186 – 35,539
Net fee income  6,032 5,936 622 2,143 1,701 – 16,434
Net trading income  4,423 2,026 357 948 936 – 8,690
Other income/(expense)  (181) 5,038 38 (30) 1,745 (2,628) 3,982
Net operating income
1
  20,967 24,432 2,503 8,803 10,568 (2,628) 64,645
Loan impairment (charges)/recoveries 
 and other credit risk provisions  (1,530) (498) 42 (1,197) (2,666) – (5,849)
Net operating income  19,437 23,934 2,545 7,606 7,902 (2,628) 58,796
Employee compensation and benefits  (7,175) (5,666) (634) (3,098) (2,623)  – (19,196)
General and administrative expenses  (9,479) (3,660) (607) (3,051) (2,896)  2,628 (17,065)
Depreciation and impairment of property, 
plant and equipment  (559) (392) (35) (176) (202)  – (1,364)
Amortisation and impairment of intangible
assets  (400) (218) (13) (91) (209)  – (931)
Total operating expenses  (17,613) (9,936) (1,289) (6,416) (5,930) 2,628 (38,556)
Operating profit  1,824 13,998 1,256 1,190 1,972 – 20,240
Share of profit in associates and joint  
ventures  1 1,855 438 31 – – 2,325 
Profit before tax  1,825 15,853 1,694 1,221 1,972 – 22,565
Tax expense  (1,279) (2,170) (328) (313) (675) – (4,765)
Profit for the year  546 13,683 1,366 908 1,297 – 17,800
   
2012   
Net interest income  10,394 10,707 1,470 8,117 6,984 – 37,672
Net fee income  6,169 5,418 595 2,513 1,735 – 16,430
Net trading income  2,707 2,516 390 507 971 – 7,091
Gains on disposal of US branch network,  
US cards business and Ping An  – 3,012 – 4,012 – – 7,024 
Other income/(expense)  (1,662) 3,679 (25) (456) 1,261 (2,684) 113
Net operating income
1
  17,608 25,332 2,430 14,693 10,951 (2,684) 68,330
Loan impairment charges and other  
credit risk provisions  (1,921) (510) (286) (3,457) (2,137) – (8,311)
Net operating income  15,687 24,822 2,144 11,236 8,814 (2,684) 60,019
Employee compensation and benefits  (8,070) (5,712) (652) (3,243) (2,814)  – (20,491)
General and administrative expenses  (10,059) (3,619) (459) (5,413) (3,117)  2,684 (19,983)
Depreciation and impairment of property, 
plant and equipment  (597) (427) (44) (195) (221)  – (1,484)
Amortisation and impairment of intangible
assets  (369) (222) (11) (89) (278)  – (969)
Total operating expenses  (19,095) (9,980) (1,166) (8,940) (6,430) 2,684 (42,927)
Operating profit/(loss)  (3,408) 14,842 978 2,296 2,384 –  17,092
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and 
joint ventures  (6) 3,188 372 3 – – 3,557 
Profit/(loss) before tax  (3,414) 18,030 1,350 2,299 2,384 – 20,649
Tax expense  (173) (2,711) (254) (1,313) (864) – (5,315)
Profit/(loss) for the year  (3,587) 15,319 1,096 986 1,520 – 15,334
1 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue.  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
11 – Segmental analysis 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
374 
Other information about the profit/(loss) for the year 
 
 
 Europe  Asia  MENA 
North
 America 
Latin 
 America 
 
 Intra- 
 HSBC items 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
2014   
Net operating income
1
  21,571 23,677 2,548 8,152 8,272 (2,972) 61,248
– external  20,450 22,071 2,524 7,937 8,266  – 61,248
– inter-segment  1,121 1,606 24 215 6  (2,972) –
Profit for the year includes the following 
significant non-cash items:       
Depreciation, amortisation and  
impairment  950 606 40 182 473 – 2,251 
Loan impairment losses gross of 
recoveries and other credit risk 
provisions  1,066 800 37 437 2,466 – 4,806 
Impairment of financial investments  (256) 286 – 14 10 – 54
Changes in fair value of long-term debt 
and related derivatives  614 (4) (3) (99) – – 508 
Restructuring costs  117 7 2 28 57 – 211
   
2013   
Net operating income
1
  20,967 24,432 2,503 8,803 10,568  (2,628) 64,645 
– external  20,108 22,853 2,497 8,569 10,618   – 64,645 
– inter-segment  859 1,579 6 234 (50)  (2,628) –
Profit for the year includes the following 
significant non-cash items:       
Depreciation, amortisation and  
impairment  957 610 48 303 412 – 2,330 
Loan impairment losses gross of 
recoveries and other credit risk 
provisions  2,165 665 45 1,321 2,949 – 7,145 
Impairment of financial investments  (61) 4 – 15 6 – (36)
Changes in fair value of long-term debt 
and related derivatives  (936) (1) (3) (288) – – (1,228)
Restructuring costs  211 79 3 100 42 – 435
   
2012   
Net operating income
1
  17,608 25,332 2,430 14,693 10,951 (2,684) 68,330
– external  16,405 23,893 2,455 14,566 11,011 – 68,330
– inter-segment  1,203 1,439 (25) 127 (60) (2,684) –
Profit for the year includes the following 
significant non-cash items:       
Depreciation, amortisation and  
impairment  966 649 55 363 499 – 2,532 
Loan impairment losses gross of 
recoveries and other credit risk 
provisions  2,329 691 361 3,587 2,489 – 9,457 
Impairment of financial investments  420 62 1 32 4 – 519
Changes in fair value of long-term debt 
and related derivatives  (3,091) (4) (13) (1,219) – – (4,327)
Restructuring costs  292 128 27 219 94 – 760
1 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue. 
 
   
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
375 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Balance sheet information 
 
 
 Europe  Asia  MENA 
North
 America 
Latin 
 America  
 Intra- 
 HSBC items 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
At 31 December 2014   
Loans and advances to customers 409,733 362,955 29,063 129,787 43,122 – 974,660
Interests in associates and joint ventures  175 14,958 2,955 83 10 – 18,181
Total assets  1,290,926 878,723 62,417 436,859 115,354 (150,140) 2,634,139
Customer accounts  545,959 577,491 39,720 138,884 48,588 – 1,350,642
Total liabilities  1,223,371 807,998 52,569 398,356 102,007 (150,140) 2,434,161
Capital expenditure incurred
1
  1,168 637 25 208 348 – 2,386
   
At 31 December 2013   
Loans and advances to customers 456,110 336,897 27,211 127,953 43,918 – 992,089
Interests in associates and joint ventures  169 13,822 2,575 74 – – 16,640
Total assets  1,392,959 831,791 60,810 432,035 113,999 (160,276) 2,671,318
Customer accounts  581,933 548,483 38,683 140,809 51,389 – 1,361,297
Total liabilities  1,326,537 770,938 50,706 393,635 99,319 (160,276) 2,480,859
Capital expenditure incurred
1
  907 1,236 32 265 385 – 2,825
   
At 31 December 2012   
Loans and advances to customers 436,141 310,665 28,086 134,475 53,605 – 962,972
Interests in associates and joint ventures  178 15,309 2,262 85 – – 17,834
Total assets  1,389,240 804,709 62,605 490,247 131,277 (185,540) 2,692,538
Customer accounts  535,215 529,754 39,583 141,700 65,144 – 1,311,396
Total liabilities  1,327,487 749,561 53,498 450,480 113,923 (185,540) 2,509,409
Capital expenditure incurred
1
  925 544 102 248 458 – 2,277
1 Expenditure incurred on property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets. Excludes assets acquired as part of business combinations 
and goodwill. 
Other financial information 
Net operating income by global business 
 
 
 RBWM  CMB  GB&M  GPB  Other
1
 
 
 Intra-
 HSBC items 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
2014    
Net operating income
2
  24,594 16,303 17,778 2,377 6,365 (6,169) 61,248
– external  22,692 16,879 20,055 1,980 (358) – 61,248
– internal  1,902 (576) (2,277) 397 6,723 (6,169) –
2013    
Net operating income
2
  26,740 16,365 19,176 2,439 5,651 (5,726) 64,645
– external  25,038 17,241 20,767 1,955 (356) – 64,645
– internal  1,702 (876) (1,591) 484 6,007 (5,726) –
2012    
Net operating income
2
  33,861 16,551 18,273 3,172 2,332 (5,859) 68,330
– external  31,980 17,295 20,410 2,413 (3,768) – 68,330
– internal  1,881 (744) (2,137) 759 6,100 (5,859) –
1 The main items reported in the ‘Other’ category are certain property activities, unallocated investment activities, centrally held investment 
companies, movements in fair value of own debt and HSBC’s holding company and financing operations. The ‘Other’ category also includes gains 
and losses on the disposal of certain significant subsidiaries or business units. 
2 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue.  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
11 – Segmental analysis / 12 – Trading assets 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
376 
Information by country 
  2014 2013
 
2012 
 
External net
 operating 
  income
1,2
Non-
 current
 assets
3
External net
 operating 
 income
1,2
Non- 
 current 
 assets
3
 
 
External net 
 operating 
 income
1,2
 
  Non-
 current 
 assets
3
   US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m
UK  14,392 8,671 13,347 17,481 9,149 18,391
Hong Kong  12,656 12,376 12,031 12,170 11,307 11,657
USA  5,736 5,685 6,121 4,189 11,779 6,718
France  2,538 10,301 3,111 11,565 2,881 11,074
Brazil  4,817 1,403 5,364 1,715 6,395 2,017
Other countries  21,109 28,273 24,671 27,879 26,819 30,078
61 248
Year ended/at 31 December 61,248 66,709 64,645 74,999 68,330 79,935
1 External net operating income is attributed to countries on the basis of the location of the branch responsible for reporting the results or 
advancing the funds. 
2 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions, also referred to as revenue. 
3 Non-current assets consist of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, other intangible assets, interests in associates and joint ventures and 
certain other assets expected to be recovered more than 12 months after the reporting period. 
Financial information presented on our previous geographical operating segments 
 
 
 Europe  
 Hong
 Kong 
Rest of
 Asia-
 Pacific  MENA 
 North
 America 
 Latin 
 America 
 
 Intra- 
 HSBC 
 items 
 
 Total 
   US$m   US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m   US$m
Net operating income
1
 
 
       
  
 
2014    
Net operating income  21,571 13,844 10,546 2,548 8,152 8,272 (3,685) 61,248
– external   20,450 12,656 9,415 2,524 7,937 8,266  – 61,248
– inter-segment   1,121 1,188 1,131 24 215 6  (3,685) –
    
2013    
Net operating income  20,967 13,203 11,978 2,503 8,803 10,568 (3,377) 64,645
– external   20,108  12,031 10,822 2,497 8,569 10,618 –  64,645
– inter-segment   859  1,172 1,156 6 234 (50) (3,377)  –
    
2012    
Net operating income  17,608 12,422 13,584 2,430 14,693 10,951 (3,358) 68,330
– external   16,405  11,307 12,586 2,455 14,566 11,011 –  68,330
– inter-segment   1,203  1,115 998 (25) 127 (60) (3,358)  –
         
Profit/(loss) before tax 
     
 
 
Year to:    
31 December 2014  596 8,142 6,483 1,826 1,417 216 – 18,680
31 December 2013  1,825 8,089 7,764 1,694 1,221 1,972 – 22,565
31 December 2012  (3,414) 7,582 10,448 1,350 2,299 2,384 – 20,649
    
Balance sheet information
     
 
 
At 31 December 2014    
Total assets  1,290,926 587,534 359,757 62,417 436,859 115,354 (218,708) 2,634,139
Total liabilities  1,223,371 556,388 320,178 52,569 398,356 102,007 (218,708) 2,434,161
    
At 31 December 2013    
Total assets  1,392,959 555,413 335,937 60,810 432,035 113,999 (219,835) 2,671,318
Total liabilities  1,326,537 523,579 306,918 50,706 393,635 99,319 (219,835) 2,480,859
    
At 31 December 2012    
Total assets  1,389,240 518,334 342,269 62,605 490,247 131,277 (241,434) 2,692,538
Total liabilities  1,327,487 496,640 308,815 53,498 450,480 113,923 (241,343) 2,509,409
1 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions. 
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
377 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
12 Trading assets 
Accounting policy 
 
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near term, or form 
part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent pattern of 
short-term profit-taking. They are recognised on trade date, when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties, and 
are normally derecognised when sold. They are initially measured at fair value, with transaction costs taken to the income statement. 
Subsequent changes in their fair values are recognised in the income statement in ‘Net trading income’. For trading assets, the interest is 
shown in ‘Net trading income’. 
Trading assets 
 2014 2013
 US$m US$m
Trading assets:  
–  not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties 247,586 201,492
–  which may be repledged or resold by counterparties 56,607 101,700
At 31 December 304,193 303,192
Treasury and other eligible bills 16,170 21,584
Debt securities  141,532 141,644
Equity securities  75,249 63,891
Trading securities at fair value  232,951 227,119
Loans and advances to banks
1
 27,581 27,885
Loans and advances to customers
1
43,661 48,188
At 31 December 304,193 303,192
1 Loans and advances to banks and customers include reverse repos, settlement accounts, stock borrowing and other amounts. 
Trading securities valued at fair value
1
 
 2014   2013
 US$m US$m
US Treasury and US Government agencies
2
 25,880 23,450
UK Government  9,280 11,591
Hong Kong Government  6,946 5,909
Other government  78,774 86,714
Asset-backed securities
3
 3,494 2,736
Corporate debt and other securities  33,328 32,828
Equity securities  75,249 63,891
At 31 December 232,951 227,119
1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$22,399m (2013: US$22,989m), of which 
US$2,949m (2013: US$3,973m) are guaranteed by various governments. 
2 Includes securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government. 
3 Excludes asset-backed securities included under US Treasury and US Government agencies. 
Trading securities listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted 
 
Treasury
 and other
 eligible bills 
 Debt
 securities 
 Equity
 securities 
 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m
Fair value   
Listed
1
  1,311 98,028 74,542 173,881
Unlisted
2
  14,859 43,504 707 59,070
At 31 December 2014 16,170 141,532 75,249 232,951
  
Fair value  
Listed
1
 19485,82162,724 148,739
Unlisted
2
  21,390 55,823 1,167 78,380
At 31 December 2013 21,584 141,644 63,891 227,119
1 Included within listed investments are US$5,956m (2013: US$3,836m) of securities listed in Hong Kong. 
2 Unlisted treasury and other eligible bills primarily comprise treasury bills not listed on an exchange but for which there is a liquid market.  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
13 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
378 
13 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
Accounting policy 
 
All financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value of a financial 
instrument on initial recognition is generally its transaction price (that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received). However, 
sometimes the fair value will be based on other observable current market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or 
repackaging, or on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets, such as interest rate yield curves, 
option volatilities and currency rates. When such evidence exists, HSBC recognises a trading gain or loss at inception (‘day 1 gain or loss’), 
being the difference between the transaction price and the fair value. When significant unobservable parameters are used, the entire 
day  1 gain or loss is deferred and is recognised in the income statement over the life of the transaction until the transaction matures, is 
closed out, the valuation inputs become observable or HSBC enters into an offsetting transaction. 
The fair value of financial instruments is generally measured on an individual basis. However, in cases where HSBC manages a group of 
financial assets and liabilities according to its net market or credit risk exposure, HSBC measures the fair value of the group of financial 
instruments on a net basis but presents the underlying financial assets and liabilities separately in the financial statements, unless they 
satisfy the IFRS offsetting criteria as described in Note 32. 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
 
Valuation of financial instruments  
The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price in an actively traded principal market. The fair values of financial instruments that are 
quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for liabilities issued. Where a financial instrument has a 
quoted price in an active market, the fair value of the total holding of the financial instrument is calculated as the product of the number 
of units and quoted price. The judgement as to whether a market is active may include, but is not restricted to, the consideration of 
factors such as the magnitude and frequency of trading activity, the availability of prices and the size of bid/offer spreads. The bid/offer 
spread represents the difference in prices at which a market participant would be willing to buy compared with the price at which they 
would be willing to sell. Valuation techniques may incorporate assumptions about factors that other market participants would use in 
their valuations, including: 
• the likelihood and expected timing of future cash flows on the instrument. Judgement may be required to assess the counterparty’s 
ability to service the instrument in accordance with its contractual terms. Future cash flows may be sensitive to changes in market 
rates; 
• selecting an appropriate discount rate for the instrument. Judgement is required to assess what a market participant would regard 
as the appropriate spread of the rate for an instrument over the appropriate risk-free rate; 
• judgement to determine what model to use to calculate fair value in areas where the choice of valuation model is particularly 
subjective, for example, when valuing complex derivative products. 
A range of valuation techniques is employed, dependent on the instrument type and available market data. Most valuation techniques 
are based upon discounted cash flow analyses, in which expected future cash flows are calculated and discounted to present value using 
a discounting curve. Prior to considering credit risk, the expected future cash flows may be known, as would be the case for the fixed leg 
of an interest rate swap, or may be uncertain and require projection, as would be the case for the floating leg of an interest rate swap. 
‘Projection’ utilises market forward curves, if available. In option models, the probability of different potential future outcomes must be 
considered. In addition, the value of some products is dependent on more than one market factor, and in these cases it will typically be 
necessary to consider how movements in one market factor may affect the other market factors. The model inputs necessary to perform 
such calculations include interest rate yield curves, exchange rates, volatilities, correlations, prepayment and default rates. For interest 
rate derivatives with collateralised counterparties and in significant currencies, HSBC uses a discounting curve that reflects the overnight 
interest rate (‘OIS’). 
The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data. However, certain financial instruments are valued on the basis 
of valuation techniques that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable, and for them the measurement of fair 
value is more judgemental. An instrument in its entirety is classified as valued using significant unobservable inputs if, in the opinion of 
management, a significant proportion of the instrument’s inception profit or greater than 5% of the instrument’s valuation is driven by 
unobservable inputs. ‘Unobservable’ in this context means that there is little or no current market data available from which to 
determine the price at which an arm’s length transaction would be likely to occur. It generally does not mean that there is no data 
available at all upon which to base a determination of fair value (consensus pricing data may, for example, be used).  
Control framework  
Fair values are subject to a control framework designed to ensure that they are either determined or validated by a 
function independent of the risk-taker. 
For all financial instruments where fair values are determined by reference to externally quoted prices or observable 
pricing inputs to models, independent price determination or validation is utilised. In inactive markets HSBC will source 
alternative market information to validate the financial instrument’s fair value, with greater weight given to information 
that is considered to be more relevant and reliable. The factors that are considered in this regard are, inter alia: 
• the extent to which prices may be expected to represent genuine traded or tradeable prices; 
• the degree of similarity between financial instruments; 
• the degree of consistency between different sources; 
• the process followed by the pricing provider to derive the data;   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
379 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
• the elapsed time between the date to which the market data relates and the balance sheet date; and 
• the manner in which the data was sourced. 
For fair values determined using valuation models, the control framework may include, as applicable, development or 
validation by independent support functions of (i) the logic within valuation models; (ii) the inputs to those models; 
(iii) any adjustments required outside the valuation models; and (iv) where possible, model outputs. Valuation models are 
subject to a process of due diligence and calibration before becoming operational and are calibrated against external 
market data on an ongoing basis. 
Changes in fair value are generally subject to a profit and loss analysis process. This process disaggregates changes in fair 
value into three high level categories; (i) portfolio changes, such as new transactions or maturing transactions, (ii) market 
movements, such as changes in foreign exchange rates or equity prices, and (iii) other, such as changes in fair value 
adjustments (see further below). 
The majority of financial instruments measured at fair value are in GB&M. GB&M’s fair value governance structure is 
illustrated below as an example:  
 
Financial liabilities measured at fair value 
In certain circumstances, HSBC records its own debt in issue at fair value, based on quoted prices in an active market for 
the specific instrument concerned, where available. An example of this is where own debt in issue is hedged with interest 
rate derivatives. When quoted market prices are unavailable, the own debt in issue is valued using valuation techniques, 
the inputs for which are either based upon quoted prices in an inactive market for the instrument, or are estimated by 
comparison with quoted prices in an active market for similar instruments. In both cases, the fair value includes the effect 
of applying the credit spread which is appropriate to HSBC’s liabilities. The change in fair value of issued debt securities 
attributable to the Group’s own credit spread is computed as follows: for each security at each reporting date, an 
externally verifiable price is obtained or a price is derived using credit spreads for similar securities for the same issuer. 
Then, using discounted cash flow, each security is valued using a Libor-based discount curve. The difference in the 
valuations is attributable to the Group’s own credit spread. This methodology is applied consistently across all securities. 
Structured notes issued and certain other hybrid instrument liabilities are included within trading liabilities and are 
measured at fair value. The credit spread applied to these instruments is derived from the spreads at which HSBC issues 
structured notes.  
Gains and losses arising from changes in the credit spread of liabilities issued by HSBC reverse over the contractual life of 
the debt, provided that the debt is not repaid at a premium or a discount. 
 
Group Finance Director
Finance Valuation Committees Valuation Committee
Review Group
Responsible for fair value:
• Establishing accounting
policies for fair value
• Establishing procedures 
governing valuation
• Ensuring compliance 
with all relevant 
accounting standards
Consist of valuation experts 
from several independent 
support functions
(product control, market risk 
management, quantitative 
risk and valuation group
and finance), in addition
to senior management
Provides
results
Overseen by
and report
all valuations
considered
to have
material
subjectivity
Chaired by Global Head of 
Product Control,
Global Markets
Consists of Heads of 
Global Markets, Finance
and Risk functions Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
13 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
380 
Fair value hierarchy 
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities are determined according to the following hierarchy: 
• Level 1 – valuation technique using quoted market price: financial instruments with quoted prices for identical 
instruments in active markets that HSBC can access at the measurement date. 
• Level 2 – valuation technique using observable inputs: financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments 
in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments 
valued using models where all significant inputs are observable. 
• Level 3 – valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: financial instruments valued using valuation 
techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable. 
The following table sets out the financial instruments by fair value hierarchy. 
Financial instruments carried at fair value and bases of valuation 
 Valuation techniques 
 
Quoted
market
price
Level 1 
Using
observable
inputs
Level 2 
With significant 
unobservable 
inputs 
Level 3 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m
Recurring fair value measurements at 31 December 2014 
Assets  
Trading assets  180,446 117,279 6,468 304,193
Financial assets designated at fair value  23,697 4,614 726 29,037
Derivatives  4,366 337,718 2,924 345,008
Financial investments: available for sale  241,464 131,264 4,988 377,716
Liabilities  
Trading liabilities  62,385 122,048 6,139 190,572
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  3,792 72,361 – 76,153
Derivatives  4,649 334,113 1,907 340,669
  
Recurring fair value measurements at 31 December 2013 
Assets  
Trading assets  182,721 115,124 5,347 303,192
Financial assets designated at fair value  30,173 7,649 608 38,430
Derivatives  2,539 277,224 2,502 282,265
Financial investments: available for sale  262,836 130,760 7,245 400,841
Liabilities  
Trading liabilities  88,935 110,576 7,514 207,025
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  10,482 78,602 – 89,084
Derivatives  4,508 267,441 2,335 274,284
The increase in Level 2 derivative balances reflects the overall increase in derivative balances and is discussed in Note 16. 
There were no other significant movements during 2014.  
Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values 
  Assets Liabilities 
 
 
 Available 
 for sale 
 Held for 
 trading 
Designated
 at fair value
 through
 profit or loss  Derivatives 
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated  
 at fair value 
 through 
 profit or loss 
 
 Derivatives 
   US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m   US$m
At 31 December 2014    
Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 2,702 18,149 – – 22,964 – –
Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1 – – – – – – –
Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to occur at the end of each semi-annual reporting period. 
Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 mainly reflect the reclassification of settlement balances and cash collateral following 
reassessment of the application of levelling criteria to these balances.  
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
381 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Fair value adjustments 
Fair value adjustments are adopted when HSBC considers that there are additional factors that would be considered by a 
market participant which are not incorporated within the valuation model. HSBC classifies fair value adjustments as either 
‘risk-related’ or ‘model-related’. The majority of these adjustments relate to GB&M. 
Movements in the level of fair value adjustments do not necessarily result in the recognition of profits or losses within the 
income statement. For example, as models are enhanced, fair value adjustments may no longer be required. Similarly, fair 
value adjustments will decrease when the related positions are unwound, but this may not result in profit or loss. 
Global Banking and Markets fair value adjustments 
 2014  2013
 US$m US$m
Type of adjustment  
Risk-related  1,958 1,565
–  bid-offer  539 561
–  uncertainty  357 343
–  credit valuation adjustment 871 1,274
–  debit valuation adjustment (270) (616)
–  funding fair value adjustment 460 –
–  other  1 3
Model-related  57 202
–  model limitation  52 199
–  other  5 3
Inception profit (Day 1 P&L reserves) (Note 16)  114 167
At 31 December 2,129 1,934
The largest change in recurring fair value adjustments was a decline of US$403m in respect of the credit valuation 
adjustment, as a result of both reduced derivative counterparty exposures and general narrowing of credit default swap 
(‘CDS’) spreads. Narrowing HSBC credit default swap spreads similarly contributed to a reduction in the debit valuation 
adjustment (‘DVA’) of US$346m. 
Funding fair value adjustment (‘FFVA’) reflects the potential future cost or benefit of funding the uncollateralised derivative 
portfolio at rates other than overnight (‘OIS’) rates. The impact of FFVA adoption in 2014 was a US$263m reduction in net 
trading income, reflecting the incorporation of a funding spread over Libor. FFVA is measured from an OIS base, and the total 
FFVA balance of US$460m also reflects the difference between OIS and Libor which had been previously reflected in the fair 
value of the uncollateralised derivative portfolio. 
Risk-related adjustments 
Bid-offer 
IFRS 13 requires use of the price within the bid-offer spread that is most representative of fair value. Valuation models 
will typically generate mid-market values. The bid-offer adjustment reflects the extent to which bid-offer costs would be 
incurred if substantially all residual net portfolio market risks were closed using available hedging instruments or by 
disposing of or unwinding the position. 
Uncertainty 
Certain model inputs may be less readily determinable from market data, and/or the choice of model itself may be more 
subjective. In these circumstances, there exists a range of possible values that the financial instrument or market 
parameter may assume and an adjustment may be necessary to reflect the likelihood that in estimating the fair value of 
the financial instrument, market participants would adopt more conservative values for uncertain parameters and/or 
model assumptions than those used in the valuation model. 
Credit valuation adjustment 
The CVA is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect within fair value the possibility that 
the counterparty may default and that HSBC may not receive the full market value of the transactions (see below).  
Debit valuation adjustment 
The DVA is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect within fair value the possibility that 
HSBC may default, and that HSBC may not pay full market value of the transactions (see below).  
   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
13 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
382 
Funding fair value adjustment 
The funding fair value adjustment is calculated by applying future market funding spreads to the expected future funding 
exposure of any uncollateralised component of the OTC derivative portfolio. This includes the uncollateralised component 
of collateralised derivatives in addition to derivatives that are fully uncollateralised.  The expected future funding 
exposure is calculated by a simulation methodology, where available. The expected future funding exposure is adjusted 
for events that may terminate the exposure such as the default of HSBC or the counterparty. The funding fair value 
adjustment and debit valuation adjustment are calculated independently. 
Model-related adjustments 
Model limitation 
Models used for portfolio valuation purposes may be based upon a simplifying set of assumptions that do not capture all 
material market characteristics. Additionally, markets evolve, and models that were adequate in the past may require 
development to capture all material market characteristics in current market conditions. In these circumstances, model 
limitation adjustments are adopted. As model development progresses, model limitations are addressed within the 
valuation models and a model limitation adjustment is no longer needed. 
Inception profit (Day 1 P&L reserves) 
Inception profit adjustments are adopted when the fair value estimated by a valuation model is based on one or more 
significant unobservable inputs. The accounting for inception profit adjustments is discussed on page 378. An analysis of 
the movement in the deferred Day 1 P&L reserve is provided on page 395. 
Credit valuation adjustment/debit valuation adjustment methodology 
HSBC calculates a separate CVA and DVA for each HSBC legal entity, and within each entity for each counterparty to 
which the entity has exposure. HSBC calculates the CVA by applying the probability of default (‘PD’) of the counterparty, 
conditional on the non-default of HSBC, to HSBC’s expected positive exposure to the counterparty and multiplying the 
result by the loss expected in the event of default. Conversely, HSBC calculates the DVA by applying the PD of HSBC, 
conditional on the non-default of the counterparty, to the expected positive exposure of the counterparty to HSBC and 
multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default. Both calculations are performed over the life of the 
potential exposure. 
For most products HSBC uses a simulation methodology to calculate the expected positive exposure to a counterparty. This 
incorporates a range of potential exposures across the portfolio of transactions with the counterparty over the life of the 
portfolio. The simulation methodology includes credit mitigants such as counterparty netting agreements and collateral 
agreements with the counterparty. A standard loss given default (‘LGD’) assumption of 60% is generally adopted for 
developed market exposures, and 75% for emerging market exposures. Alternative LGD assumptions may be adopted when 
both the nature of the exposure and the available data support this. 
For certain types of exotic derivatives where the products are not currently supported by the simulation, or for derivative 
exposures in smaller trading locations where the simulation tool is not yet available, HSBC adopts alternative 
methodologies. These may involve mapping to the results for similar products from the simulation tool or, where the 
mapping approach is not appropriate, using a simplified methodology which generally follows the same principles as the 
simulation methodology. The calculation is applied at a trade level, with more limited recognition of credit mitigants such 
as netting or collateral agreements than is used in the simulation methodology. 
The methodologies do not, in general, account for ‘wrong-way risk’. Wrong-way risk arises when the underlying value of the 
derivative prior to any CVA is positively correlated to the probability of default by the counterparty. When there is significant 
wrong-way risk, a trade-specific approach is applied to reflect the wrong-way risk within the valuation. 
With the exception of certain central clearing parties, we include all third-party counterparties in the CVA and DVA 
calculations and do not net these adjustments across Group entities. We review and refine the CVA and DVA 
methodologies on an ongoing basis. 
Valuation of uncollateralised derivatives 
Historically, HSBC has valued uncollateralised derivatives by discounting expected future cash flows at a benchmark interest 
rate, typically Libor or its equivalent. In line with evolving industry practice, HSBC changed this approach in the second half of 
2014. HSBC now views the OIS curve as the base discounting curve for all derivatives, both collateralised and uncollateralised, 
and has adopted an FFVA to reflect the funding of uncollateralised derivative exposure at rates other than OIS. The impact of 
adopting the funding fair value adjustment was a reduction in trading revenues of US$263m. This is an area in which a full 
industry consensus has not yet emerged. HSBC will continue to monitor industry evolution and refine the calculation 
methodology as necessary. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
383 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Fair value valuation bases 
Financial instruments measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs – Level 3 
  Assets Liabilities 
 
  Available 
 for sale  
 Held for 
 trading 
At fair
  value
1
Deriv-
 atives  Total 
Held for 
 trading 
At fair 
 value
1
  
 Deriv-
 atives 
 
 Total 
   US$m   US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m  US$m
Private equity including strategic 
investments  3,120 164 432 – 3,716 47 – – 47 
Asset-backed securities  1,462 616 – – 2,078 – – – –
Loans held for securitisation  – 39 – – 39 – – – –
Structured notes  – 2 – – 2 6,092 – – 6,092
Derivatives with monolines  – – – 239 239 – – 1 1
Other derivatives  – – – 2,685 2,685 – – 1,906 1,906
Other portfolios  406 5,647 294 – 6,347 – – – –
26
At 31 December 2014 4,988 6,468 726 2,924 15,106 6,139 – 1,907 8,046
        
Private equity including strategic 
investments  3,729 103 420 – 4,252 – – – – 
Asset-backed securities  1,677 643 – – 2,320 – – – –
Loans held for securitisation  – 83 – – 83 – – – –
Structured notes  – 14 – – 14 7,514 – – 7,514
Derivatives with monolines  – – – 320 320 – – – –
Other derivatives  – – – 2,182 2,182 – – 2,335 2,335
Other portfolios  1,839 4,504 188 – 6,531 – – – –
At 31 December 2013 7,245 5,347 608 2,502 15,702 7,514 – 2,335 9,849
1 Designated at fair value through profit or loss. 
Level 3 instruments are present in both ongoing and legacy businesses. Loans held for securitisation, derivatives with 
monolines, certain ‘other derivatives’ and predominantly all Level 3 asset-backed securities are legacy. HSBC has the 
capability to hold these positions. 
Private equity including strategic investments 
HSBC’s private equity and strategic investments are generally classified as available for sale and are not traded in active 
markets. In the absence of an active market, an investment’s fair value is estimated on the basis of an analysis of the 
investee’s financial position and results, risk profile, prospects and other factors, as well as by reference to market 
valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market, or the price at which similar companies have changed 
ownership. 
Asset-backed securities 
While quoted market prices are generally used to determine the fair value of these securities, valuation models are used 
to substantiate the reliability of the limited market data available and to identify whether any adjustments to quoted 
market prices are required. For ABSs including residential MBSs, the valuation uses an industry standard model and the 
assumptions relating to prepayment speeds, default rates and loss severity based on collateral type, and performance, 
as appropriate. The valuations output is benchmarked for consistency against observable data for securities of a similar 
nature.  
Loans, including leveraged finance and loans held for securitisation 
Loans held at fair value are valued from broker quotes and/or market data consensus providers when available. In the 
absence of an observable market, the fair value is determined using alternative valuation techniques. These techniques 
include discounted cash flow models, which incorporate assumptions regarding an appropriate credit spread for the loan, 
derived from other market instruments issued by the same or comparable entities.  
Structured notes 
The fair value of structured notes valued using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs is derived from 
the fair value of the underlying debt security, and the fair value of the embedded derivative is determined as described in 
the paragraph below on derivatives. 
Level 3 structured notes principally comprise equity-linked notes which are issued by HSBC and provide the counterparty 
with a return that is linked to the performance of certain equity securities, and other portfolios. The notes are classified as 
Level 3 due to the unobservability of parameters such as long-dated equity volatilities and correlations between equity 
prices, between equity prices and interest rates and between interest rates and foreign exchange rates.  
   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
13 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
384 
Derivatives 
OTC (i.e. non-exchange traded) derivatives are valued using valuation models. Valuation models calculate the present 
value of expected future cash flows, based upon ‘no-arbitrage’ principles. For many vanilla derivative products, such as 
interest rate swaps and European options, the modelling approaches used are standard across the industry. For more 
complex derivative products, there may be some differences in market practice. Inputs to valuation models are 
determined from observable market data wherever possible, including prices available from exchanges, dealers, brokers 
or providers of consensus pricing. Certain inputs may not be observable in the market directly, but can be determined 
from observable prices via model calibration procedures or estimated from historical data or other sources. Examples of 
inputs that may be unobservable include volatility surfaces, in whole or in part, for less commonly traded option products, 
and correlations between market factors such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices.  
Derivative products valued using valuation techniques with significant unobservable inputs included certain types of 
correlation products, such as foreign exchange basket options, equity basket options, foreign exchange interest rate 
hybrid transactions and long-dated option transactions. Examples of the latter are equity options, interest rate and 
foreign exchange options and certain credit derivatives. Credit derivatives include certain tranched CDS transactions.  
Reconciliation of fair value measurements in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy 
The following table provides a reconciliation of the movement between opening and closing balances of Level 3 financial 
instruments, measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs: 
Movement in Level 3 financial instruments 
  Assets Liabilities 
 
 
 Available
 for sale
 Held for 
trading
Designated
 at fair value
 through
profit or loss Derivatives
 Held for 
trading 
 Designated 
 at fair value 
 through 
 profit or loss   Derivatives
   US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m   US$m
At 1 January 2014  7,245 5,347 608 2,502 7,514 – 2,335
Total gains/(losses) recognised in profit 
or loss  174 194 56 959 (25) – (5)
–  trading income excluding net interest 
income  – 194 – 959 (25) –  (5)
–  net income/(expense) from other 
financial instruments designated at  
fair value  – – 56 – – –  –
–  gains less losses from financial 
investments  198   
–  loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions  (24)   
Total gains/(losses) recognised in other 
comprehensive income
1 
 126 (178) (16) (126) (123) – 54
–  available-for-sale investments:  
fair value gains/(losses)  208 – – – – –  –
–  cash flow hedges: fair value 
gains/(losses)  – – – (9) – –  34
–  exchange differences  (82) (178) (16) (117) (123) –  20
Purchases  1,505 705 273 – (31) – –
New issuances  – – – – 2,067 – –
Sales  (1,237) (481) (149) – – – –
Settlements  (1,255) (49) (78) 27 (1,655) – (69)
Transfers out  (3,027) (112) – (544) (1,918) – (527)
Transfers in  1,457 1,042 32 106 310 – 119
At 31 December 2014  4,988 6,468 726 2,924 6,139 – 1,907
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
385 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
  Assets Liabilities 
 
 
 Available
 for sale 
 Held for 
 trading 
Designated
 at fair value
 through
 profit or loss  Derivatives 
 Held for 
 trading 
 Designated 
 at fair value 
 through 
 profit or loss   Derivatives 
   US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m   US$m
Unrealised gains/(losses) recognised in 
profit or loss relating to assets and 
liabilities held at 31 December 2014  (24) 1 46 946 (122) – 134 
–  trading income excluding net interest 
income  – 1 – 946 (122) –  134 
–  net income/(expense) from other 
financial instruments designated at  
fair value  – – 46 – – –  – 
–  loan impairment charges and other  
credit risk provisions  (24) – – – – –  – 
      
At 1 January 2013  8,511 4,378 413 3,059 7,470 – 3,005
Total gains/(losses) recognised in profit 
or loss  (52) 343 36 (205) (747) – 393 
–  trading income/(expense) excluding  
net interest income  – 343 – (205) (747) –  393 
–  net income from other financial 
instruments designated at fair value  – – 36 – – –  – 
–  gains less losses from financial 
investments  (66) – – – – –  – 
–  loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions  14 – – – – –  – 
Total gains/(losses) recognised in 
other comprehensive income
1 
 487 20 – (7) 9 – 57 
–  available-for-sale investments:  
fair value gains  568 – – – – –  – 
–  cash flow hedges: fair value losses  – – – (11) – –  –
–  exchange differences  (81) 20 – 49 –  57
Purchases  1,838 1,293 56 – (482) – –
New issuances  – – – – 3,161 – –
Sales  (766) (1,821) (4) – (14) – –
Settlements  (756) (473) (27) (311) (1,150) – (1,004)
Transfers out  (3,121) (385) (68) (171) (1,051) – (160)
Transfers in  1,104 1,992 202 137 318 – 44
At 31 December 2013  7,245 5,347 608 2,502 7,514 – 2,335
Unrealised gains/(losses) recognised in 
profit or loss relating to assets and 
liabilities held at 31 December 2013  (166) 362 41 (297) (401) – 72 
–  trading income excluding net interest 
income  – 362 – (297) (401) –  72 
–  net income from other financial 
instruments designated at fair value  – – 41 – – –  – 
–  loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions  (166) – – – – –  – 
1 Included in ‘Available-for-sale investments: fair value gains/(losses)’ and ‘Exchange differences’ in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income. 
Purchases and sales of Level 3 available-for-sale assets predominantly reflect ABS activity, particularly in the securities 
investment conduits. Transfers out of Level 3 available-for-sale securities reflect increased confidence in the pricing of 
certain emerging markets corporate debt, in addition to improved price discovery of some ABSs. Transfers into Level 3 
largely relate to other ABSs where price discovery has deteriorated. New issuances of trading liabilities reflect structured 
note issuances, mainly equity-linked notes. Transfers out of Level 3 trading liabilities principally relate to equity linked 
notes as certain model inputs became observable. Transfers into Level 3 trading assets primarily relate to loans in the 
process of syndication. 
   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
13 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
386 
Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives 
The following table shows the sensitivity of Level 3 fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions: 
Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions 
 
Reflected in 
profit or loss 
Reflected in  
other comprehensive income 
 
Favourable
 changes 
Unfavourable
 changes 
Favourable 
 changes  
 Unfavourable
 changes 
 US$m US$m US$m   US$m
Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities
1
  296 (276) – –
Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value  37 (47) – –
Financial investments: available for sale  51 (67) 270 (350)
At 31 December 2014 384 (390) 270 (350)
  
Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities
1
  350 (285) – –
Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value  32 (51) – –
Financial investments: available for sale  – – 434 (673)
At 31 December 2013 382 (336) 434 (673)
1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities are presented as one category to reflect the manner in which these financial instruments are 
risk-managed. 
The reduction in the effect of both favourable and unfavourable changes in significant unobservable inputs in relation 
to derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities predominantly reflects greater certainty in some emerging market 
foreign exchange volatility, as markets have developed. The reduction in the effect of both favourable and unfavourable 
changes in significant unobservable inputs in relation to available-for-sale assets during the period primarily reflects a 
decrease in the Level 3 balances. 
Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions by Level 3 instrument type 
 Reflected in profit or loss 
Reflected in other
comprehensive income 
 
Favourable
 changes 
Unfavourable
 changes 
Favourable 
 changes  
 Unfavourable
 changes 
 US$m US$m US$m   US$m
Private equity including strategic investments  77 (110) 172 (255)
Asset-backed securities  49 (22) 60 (55)
Loans held for securitisation  1 (1) – –
Structured notes  14 (9) – –
Derivatives with monolines  11 (11) – –
Other derivatives  129 (155) – –
Other portfolios  103 (82) 38 (40)
At 31 December 2014 384 (390) 270 (350)
  
Private equity including strategic investments  31 (61) 226 (436)
Asset-backed securities  60 (27) 113 (99)
Loans held for securitisation  3 (3) – –
Structured notes  16 (9) – –
Derivatives with monolines  25 (16) – –
Other derivatives  212 (164) – –
Other portfolios  35 (56) 95 (138)
At 31 December 2013 382 (336) 434 (673)
Favourable and unfavourable changes are determined on the basis of sensitivity analysis. The sensitivity analysis aims to 
measure a range of fair values consistent with the application of a 95% confidence interval. Methodologies take account 
of the nature of the valuation technique employed, as well as the availability and reliability of observable proxy and 
historical data. When the available data is not amenable to statistical analysis, the quantification of uncertainty is 
judgemental, but remains guided by the 95% confidence interval. 
When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the above table 
reflects the most favourable or the most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually. 
Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments 
The table below lists key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments, and provides the range of those inputs as at 
31 December 2014. The core range of inputs is the estimated range within which 90% of the inputs fall. A further 
description of the categories of key unobservable inputs is given below.   
 
 
 
Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
387
Quantitative information about significant unobservable inputs in Level 3 valuations 
  Fair value Key unobservable 
   Assets Liabilities Valuation technique inputs Full range of inputs Core range of inputs
   US$m US$m Lower Higher Lower Higher
Private equity including strategic investments 3,716 47 See notes on page 388 See notes on page 388 n/a n/a n/a n/a
Asset-backed securities 2,078 –
– CLO/CDO
1
   1,122 – Model – Discounted cash flow Prepayment rate   1% 6% 1% 6%
  Market proxy Bid quotes  0 100 54 85
Other ABSs   956 –
Loans held for securitisation 39 –
Structured notes 2 6,092
– equity-linked notes  – 4,744 Model – Option model Equity volatility  0.2% 65% 18% 38%
  Model – Option model Equity correlation  27% 92% 44% 79%
– fund-linked notes  – 562 Model – Option model Fund volatility  6% 8% 6% 8%
– FX-linked notes  2 477 Model – Option model FX volatility  2% 70% 4% 16%
– other   – 309
Derivatives with monolines 239 1 Model – Discounted cash flow Credit spread  3% 5% 4% 4%
Other derivatives 2,685 1,906
Interest rate derivatives: 
– securitisation swaps  449 1,023 Model – Discounted cash flow Prepayment rate  0% 50% 6% 18%
– long-dated swaptions  1,044 152 Model – Option model IR volatility  2% 59% 16% 36%
– other   755 151
FX derivatives: 
– FX options   89 95 Model – Option model FX volatility  0.1% 70% 4% 14%
– other   7 7
Equity derivatives: 
– long-dated single stock options   192 256 Model – Option model Equity volatility 9% 65% 16% 40%
– other   34 162
Credit derivatives: 
– other   115 60
Other portfolios 6,347 –
– structured certificates  4,420 – Model – Discounted cash flow Credit volatility   0.8% 3% 0.8% 3%
– EM corporate debt  372 – Market proxy Credit spread  1% 4% 1% 3%
  Market proxy Bid quotes  58 131 106 130
– other
2
   1,555 –
At 31 December 2014 15,106 8,046
1 Collateralised loan obligation/collateralised debt obligation. 
2 Includes a range of smaller asset holdings.  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
13 – Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
388 
Private equity including strategic investments 
HSBC’s private equity and strategic investments are generally classified as available for sale and are not traded in active 
markets. In the absence of an active market, an investment’s fair value is estimated on the basis of an analysis of the 
investee’s financial position and results, risk profile, prospects and other factors, as well as by reference to market 
valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market, or the price at which similar companies have changed 
ownership. Given the bespoke nature of the analysis in respect of each holding, it is not practical to quote a range of key 
unobservable inputs.  
Prepayment rates 
Prepayment rates are a measure of the anticipated future speed at which a loan portfolio will be repaid in advance of the 
due date. Prepayment rates are an important input into modelled values of ABSs. A modelled price may be used where 
insufficient observable market prices exist to enable a market price to be determined directly. Prepayment rates are also 
an important input into the valuation of derivatives linked to securitisations. For example, so-called securitisation swaps 
have a notional value that is linked to the size of the outstanding loan portfolio in a securitisation, which may fall as 
prepayments occur. Prepayment rates vary according to the nature of the loan portfolio, and expectations of future 
market conditions. For example, current prepayment rates in US residential MBSs would generally be expected to rise as 
the US economy improves. Prepayment rates may be estimated using a variety of evidence, such as prepayment rates 
implied from proxy observable security prices, current or historical prepayment rates and macro-economic modelling. 
Market proxy 
Market proxy pricing may be used for an instrument for which specific market pricing is not available, but evidence is 
available in respect of instruments that have some characteristics in common. In some cases it might be possible to 
identify a specific proxy, but more generally evidence across a wider range of instruments will be used to understand the 
factors that influence current market pricing and the manner of that influence. For example, in the collateralised loan 
obligation market it may be possible to establish that A-rated securities exhibit prices in a range, and to isolate key factors 
that influence position within the range. Applying this to a specific A-rated security within HSBC’s portfolio allows 
assignment of a price. 
The range of prices used as inputs into a market proxy pricing methodology may therefore be wide. This range is not 
indicative of the uncertainty associated with the price derived for an individual security. 
Volatility 
Volatility is a measure of the anticipated future variability of a market price. Volatility tends to increase in stressed market 
conditions, and decrease in calmer market conditions. Volatility is an important input in the pricing of options. In general, 
the higher the volatility, the more expensive the option will be. This reflects both the higher probability of an increased 
return from the option and the potentially higher costs that HSBC may incur in hedging the risks associated with the 
option. If option prices become more expensive, this will increase the value of HSBC’s long option positions (i.e. the 
positions in which HSBC has purchased options), while HSBC’s short option positions (i.e. the positions in which HSBC has 
sold options) will suffer losses. 
Volatility varies by underlying reference market price, and by strike and maturity of the option. Volatility also varies over 
time. As a result, it is difficult to make general statements regarding volatility levels. For example, while it is generally the 
case that foreign exchange volatilities are lower than equity volatilities, there may be examples in particular currency pairs 
or for particular equities where this is not the case. 
Certain volatilities, typically those of a longer-dated nature, are unobservable. The unobservable volatility is then 
estimated from observable data. For example, longer-dated volatilities may be extrapolated from shorter-dated 
volatilities. The range of unobservable volatilities quoted in the table on page 387 reflects the wide variation in volatility 
inputs by reference market price. For example, foreign exchange volatilities for a pegged currency may be very low, 
whereas for non-managed currencies the foreign exchange volatility may be higher. As a further example, volatilities for 
deep-in-the-money or deep-out-of-the-money equity options may be significantly higher than at-the-money options. The 
core range is significantly narrower than the full range because these examples with extreme volatilities occur relatively 
rarely within the HSBC portfolio. For any single unobservable volatility, the uncertainty in the volatility determination is 
significantly less than the range quoted above. 
Correlation 
Correlation is a measure of the inter-relationship between two market prices and is expressed as a number between 
minus one and one. A positive correlation implies that the two market prices tend to move in the same direction, with a 
correlation of one implying that they always move in the same direction. A negative correlation implies that the two 
market prices tend to move in opposite directions, with a correlation of minus one implying that the two market prices 
always move in opposite directions. Correlation is used to value more complex instruments where the payout is 
dependent upon more than one market price. For example, an equity basket option has a payout that is dependent upon 
the performance of a basket of single stocks, and the correlation between the price movements of those stocks will be an   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
389 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
input to the valuation. This is referred to as equity-equity correlation. There is a wide range of instruments for which 
correlation is an input, and consequently a wide range of both same-asset correlations (e.g. equity-equity correlation) and 
cross-asset correlations (e.g. foreign exchange rate-interest rate correlation) used. In general, the range of same-asset 
correlations will be narrower than the range of cross-asset correlations. 
Correlation may be unobservable. Unobservable correlations may be estimated based upon a range of evidence, including 
consensus pricing services, HSBC trade prices, proxy correlations and examination of historical price relationships. 
The range of unobservable correlations quoted in the table reflects the wide variation in correlation inputs by market 
price pair. For any single unobservable correlation, the uncertainty in the correlation determination is likely to be less 
than the range quoted above. 
Credit spread 
Credit spread is the premium over a benchmark interest rate required by the market to accept lower credit quality. In 
a discounted cash flow model, the credit spread increases the discount factors applied to future cash flows, thereby 
reducing the value of an asset. Credit spreads may be implied from market prices. Credit spreads may not be observable 
in more illiquid markets. 
Inter-relationships between key unobservable inputs 
Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments may not be independent of each other. As described above, 
market variables may be correlated. This correlation typically reflects the manner in which different markets tend to react 
to macroeconomic or other events. For example, improving economic conditions may lead to a ‘risk on’ market, in which 
prices of risky assets such as equities and high yield bonds rise, while ‘safe haven’ assets such as gold and US Treasuries 
decline. Furthermore, the effect of changing market variables upon the HSBC portfolio will depend on HSBC’s net risk 
position in respect of each variable. For example, increasing high-yield bond prices will benefit long high-yield bond 
positions, but the value of any credit derivative protection held against these bonds will fall. 
HSBC Holdings 
The following table provides an analysis of the basis for valuing financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair 
value in the financial statements: 
Basis of valuing HSBC Holdings’ financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
 2014 2013
 US$m US$m
Valuation technique using observable inputs: Level 2  
Assets at 31 December  
Derivatives  2,771 2,789
Available for sale  4,073 1,210
Liabilities at 31 December  
Designated at fair value  18,679 21,027
Derivatives  1,169 704
  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
14 – Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
390 
14 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value 
Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value and bases of valuation 
 Fair value 
 Valuation techniques 
 
Carrying 
amount 
Quoted 
market 
price 
Level 1 
Using 
observable 
inputs 
Level 2 
With 
significant 
unobservable 
inputs 
Level 3  Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Assets and liabilities not held for sale  
at 31 December 2014       
Assets   
Loans and advances to banks
1
112,149 – 109,087 3,046  112,133
Loans and advances to customers
1
 974,660 – 13,598 959,239  972,837
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
1
 161,713 – 160,600 1,123  161,723
Financial investments: debt securities  37,751 1,418 37,671 74  39,163
Liabilities   
Deposits by banks
1
 77,426 – 77,300 98  77,398
Customer accounts
1
 1,350,642 – 1,336,865 13,730  1,350,595
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
1
 107,432 – 107,432 –  107,432
Debt securities in issue  95,947 146 94,325 1,932  96,403
Subordinated liabilities  26,664 – 28,806 1,248  30,054
   
Assets and liabilities not held for sale  
at 31 December 2013       
Assets   
Loans and advances to banks
1
120,046 – 111,297 8,727  120,024
Loans and advances to customers
1
 992,089 – 10,762 971,520  982,282
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
1
 179,690 – 178,516 1,166  179,682
Financial investments: debt securities  25,084 1,432 23,960 25  25,417
Liabilities   
Deposits by banks
1
 86,507 – 86,440 51  86,491
Customer accounts
1
 1,361,297 – 1,346,343 14,576  1,360,919
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
1
 164,220 – 164,173 47  164,220
Debt securities in issue  104,080 166 101,551 2,941  104,658
Subordinated liabilities  28,976 – 29,704 1,309  31,013
1 From 1 January 2014, non-trading reverse repos and repos are presented as separate lines in the balance sheet. Previously, non-trading reverse 
repos were included within ‘Loans and advances to banks’ and ‘Loans and advances to customers’ and non-trading repos were included within 
‘Deposits by banks’ and ‘Customer accounts’. Comparative data have been re-presented accordingly. Non-trading reverse repos and repos have 
been presented as separate lines in the balance sheet to align disclosure with market practice and provide more meaningful information in 
relation to loans and advances. 
Fair values are determined according to the hierarchy set out in Note 13. 
Other financial instruments not carried at fair value are typically short-term in nature and reprice to current market rates 
frequently. Accordingly, their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value. This includes cash and balances 
at central banks, items in the course of collection/transmission from/to other banks, Hong Kong Government certificates 
of indebtedness and Hong Kong currency notes in circulation, all of which are measured at amortised cost. 
Carrying amount and fair value of loans and advances to customers by industry sector 
 Carrying amount at 31 December 
 Not impaired Impaired   Total
 US$m US$m US$m
2014  
Loans and advances to customers 954,710 19,950 974,660
–  personal  377,154 11,800 388,954
–  corporate and commercial 527,168 8,016 535,184
–  financial  50,388 134 50,522
  
2013  
Loans and advances to customers 967,181 24,908 992,089
–  personal  390,018 14,108 404,126
–  corporate and commercial 527,483 10,439 537,922
–  financial  49,680 361 50,041
Loans and advances to customers are classified as not impaired or impaired in accordance with the criteria described on 
page 137.    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
391 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 Fair value at 31 December 
 Not impaired Impaired  Total
 US$m US$m US$m
2014  
Loans and advances to customers 954,347 18,490 972,837
–  personal  375,615 10,721 386,336
–  corporate and commercial 528,361 7,642 536,003
–  financial  50,371 127 50,498
  
2013  
Loans and advances to customers 957,695 24,587 982,282
–  personal  379,353 13,774 393,127
–  corporate and commercial 529,029 10,340 539,369
–  financial  49,313 473 49,786
Analysis of loans and advances to customers by geographical segment 
 2014 2013 
 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value
 US$m US$m US$m US$m
Loans and advances to customers 
Europe  409,733 413,373 456,110 453,331
Asia  362,955 361,412 336,897 335,132
Middle East and North Africa  29,063 28,658 27,211 26,891
North America  129,787 126,232 127,953 122,823
Latin America  43,122 43,162 43,918 44,105
At 31 December 974,660 972,837 992,089 982,282
 
Valuation 
The fair value measurement is HSBC’s estimate of the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. It does not reflect the economic 
benefits and costs that HSBC expects to flow from the instruments’ cash flows over their expected future lives. Other 
reporting entities may use different valuation methodologies and assumptions in determining fair values for which 
no observable market prices are available. 
Fair values of the following assets and liabilities are estimated for the purpose of disclosure as described below: 
Loans and advances to banks and customers 
The fair value of loans and advances is based on observable market transactions, where available. In the absence 
of observable market transactions, fair value is estimated using valuation models that incorporate a range of input 
assumptions. These assumptions may include value estimates from third-party brokers which reflect over-the-counter 
trading activity, forward looking discounted cash flow models using assumptions which HSBC believes are consistent with 
those which would be used by market participants in valuing such loans, and trading inputs from other market 
participants which include observed primary and secondary trades. 
Loans are grouped, as far as possible, into homogeneous groups and stratified by loans with similar characteristics to 
improve the accuracy of estimated valuation outputs. The stratification of a loan book considers all material factors 
including vintage, origination period, estimates of future interest rates, prepayment speeds, delinquency rates, loan-to-
value ratios, the quality of collateral, default probability, and internal credit risk ratings. 
The fair value of a loan reflects both loan impairments at the balance sheet date and estimates of market participants’ 
expectations of credit losses over the life of the loans, and the fair value effect of repricing between origination and the 
balance sheet date. 
The fair value of loans and advances to customers in North America is lower than the carrying amount, primarily in the US, 
reflecting the market conditions at the balance sheet date. This is due to the challenging economic conditions during the 
past number of years, including house price depreciation, rising unemployment, changes in consumer behaviour, changes 
in discount rates and the lack of financing options available to support the purchase of loans and advances. The relative 
fair values have increased during 2014 largely due to improved conditions in the housing industry driven by increased 
property values and, to a lesser extent, lower required market yields and increased investor demand for these types of 
loans and advances. 
The fair value of loans and advances to customers in Europe has improved relative to the carrying amount, primarily in the 
UK mortgage market where increased competition and central bank policies to stimulate lending have reduced interest 
rates and increased fair values accordingly.
  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
15 – Financial assets designated at fair value 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
392 
Financial investments 
The fair values of listed financial investments are determined using bid market prices. The fair values of unlisted financial 
investments are determined using valuation techniques that take into consideration the prices and future earnings 
streams of equivalent quoted securities. 
Deposits by banks and customer accounts 
Fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows, applying current rates offered for deposits of similar remaining 
maturities. The fair value of a deposit repayable on demand is approximated by its carrying value. 
Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities 
Fair values are determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where available, or by reference to 
quoted market prices for similar instruments. 
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 
Fair values are estimated by using discounted cash flows, applying current rates. Fair values approximate carrying 
amounts as their balances are generally short dated.  
HSBC Holdings 
The methods used by HSBC Holdings to determine fair values of financial instruments for the purpose of measurement 
and disclosure are described above. 
Fair values of HSBC Holdings’ financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet 
 2014 2013 
 Carrying amount Fair value
1
Carrying amount   Fair value
1
 US$m US$m US$m   US$m
Assets at 31 December  
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings  43,910 45,091 53,344  55,332 
Liabilities at 31 December  
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings  2,892 2,906 11,685  11,868 
Debt securities in issue  1,009 1,357 2,791  3,124 
Subordinated liabilities  17,255 20,501 14,167  16,633 
1 Fair values were determined using valuation techniques with observable inputs (Level 2). 
15 Financial assets designated at fair value 
Accounting policy 
 
Financial instruments, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they meet one or more of the criteria set out 
below, and are so designated irrevocably at inception. HSBC may designate financial instruments at fair value when the designation: 
• eliminates or significantly reduces measurement or recognition inconsistencies that would otherwise arise from measuring financial 
instruments, or recognising gains and losses on different bases from related positions. Under this criterion, the main class of financial 
assets designated by HSBC are financial assets under unit-linked insurance and unit-linked investment contracts. Liabilities to 
customers under linked contracts are determined based on the fair value of the assets held in the linked funds. If no fair value 
designation was made for the related assets, the assets would be classified as available for sale, with changes in fair value recorded 
in other comprehensive income. The related financial assets and liabilities are managed and reported to management on a fair value 
basis. Designation at fair value of the financial assets and related liabilities allows the changes in fair values to be recorded in the 
income statement and presented in the same line; 
• applies to groups of financial instruments that are managed, and their performance evaluated, on a fair value basis in accordance 
with a documented risk management or investment strategy, and where information about the groups of financial instruments is 
reported to management on that basis. For example, certain financial assets are held to meet liabilities under non-linked insurance 
contracts. HSBC has documented risk management and investment strategies designed to manage and monitor market risk of those 
assets on net basis, after considering non-linked liabilities. Fair value measurement is also consistent with the regulatory reporting 
requirements under the appropriate regulations for those insurance operations; 
• relates to financial instruments containing one or more non-closely related embedded derivatives. 
Designated financial assets are recognised at fair value when HSBC enters into contracts with counterparties, which is generally on trade 
date, and are normally derecognised when sold. Subsequent changes in fair values are recognised in the income statement in 
‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’. 
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
393 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 2014   2013
 US$m US$m
Financial assets designated at fair value:  
–  not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties 28,357 38,062
–  which may be repledged or resold by counterparties 680 368
At 31 December 29,037 38,430
Treasury and other eligible bills 56 50
Debt securities  8,891 12,589
Equity securities  20,006 25,711
Securities designated at fair value 28,953 38,350
Loans and advances to banks and customers 84 80
At 31 December 29,037 38,430
Securities designated at fair value
1
 
 2014   2013
 US$m US$m
Fair value  
US Treasury and US Government agencies
2
  8 34 
UK Government  140 534 
Hong Kong Government  40 113 
Other government  4,088 4,097 
Asset-backed securities
3
  18 140 
Corporate debt and other securities  4,653 7,721 
Equities  20,006 25,711 
At 31 December 28,953 38,350 
1 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$1,388m (2013: US$4,419m), of which 
US$24m (2013: US$92m) are guaranteed by various governments. 
2 Include securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government. 
3 Exclude ABSs included under US Treasury and US Government agencies. 
Securities listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted 
 
Treasury
 and other
 eligible bills 
 Debt
 securities 
 Equity
 securities 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m
Fair value  
Listed
1
  5 2,731 13,837 16,573
Unlisted  51 6,160 6,169 12,380
At 31 December 2014 56 8,891 20,006 28,953
  
Fair value   
Listed
1
  − 2,773 18,235 21,008
Unlisted  50 9,816 7,476 17,342
At 31 December 2013 50 12,589 25,711 38,350
1 Included within listed investments are US$1,361m of investments listed on a recognised exchange in Hong Kong (2013: US$1,148m). 
   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
16 – Derivatives 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
394 
16 Derivatives 
Accounting policy  
 
Derivatives 
Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value from the price of underlying items such as equities, bonds, interest rates, 
foreign exchange, credit spreads, commodities and equity or other indices. 
Derivatives are recognised initially, and are subsequently measured, at fair value. Fair values of derivatives are obtained either from 
quoted market prices or by using valuation techniques.  
Embedded derivatives are bifurcated from the host contract when their economic characteristics and risks are not clearly and closely 
related to those of the host non-derivative contract, their contractual terms would otherwise meet the definition of a stand-alone 
derivative and the combined contract is not held for trading or designated at fair value. The bifurcated embedded derivatives are 
measured at fair value with changes therein recognised in the income statement. 
Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive, or as liabilities when their fair value is negative.  
Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are only offset for accounting purposes if the offsetting criteria 
presented in Note 32 are met. 
Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives, including the contractual interest, that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
are reported in ‘Net trading income’. Gains and losses for derivatives managed in conjunction with financial instruments designated at 
fair value are reported in ‘Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value’ together with the gains and losses on the 
economically hedged items. Where the derivatives are managed with debt securities issued by HSBC that are designated at fair value, the 
contractual interest is shown in ‘Interest expense’ together with the interest payable on the issued debt. 
Hedge accounting 
When derivatives are designated as hedges, HSBC classifies them as either: (i) hedges of the change in fair value of recognised assets or 
liabilities or firm commitments (‘fair value hedges’); (ii) hedges of the variability in highly probable future cash flows attributable to a 
recognised asset or liability, or a forecast transaction (‘cash flow hedges’); or (iii) a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation (‘net 
investment hedges’). 
At the inception of a hedging relationship, HSBC documents the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items, its 
risk management objective and its strategy for undertaking the hedge. HSBC requires a documented assessment, both at hedge inception 
and on an ongoing basis, of whether or not the hedging instruments are highly effective in offsetting the changes attributable to the 
hedged risks in the fair values or cash flows of the hedged items. 
Fair value hedge 
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the income 
statement, along with changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or group that contain the hedged risk. If a hedging 
relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the hedge accounting is discontinued; the cumulative adjustment to the 
carrying amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income statement on a recalculated effective interest rate over the residual 
period to maturity, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case it is recognised in the income statement immediately. 
Cash flow hedge 
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other 
comprehensive income; the ineffective portion of the change in fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement. 
The accumulated gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement in the periods in 
which the hedged item affects profit or loss. In hedges of forecasted transactions that result in recognition of a non-financial asset or 
liability, previous gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of the asset or 
liability. 
When a hedging relationship is discontinued, any cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income remains in equity 
until the forecast transaction is recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the 
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified to the income statement. 
Net investment hedge 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges. A gain or loss on the effective 
portion of the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income; the residual change in fair value is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. Gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the 
income statement on the disposal, or part disposal, of the foreign operation. 
 
Hedge effectiveness testing 
To qualify for hedge accounting, HSBC requires that at the inception of the hedge and throughout its life each hedge must be expected to 
be highly effective, both prospectively and retrospectively, on an ongoing basis. 
The documentation of each hedging relationship sets out how the effectiveness of the hedge is assessed and the method adopted by an 
entity to assess hedge effectiveness will depend on its risk management strategy. For prospective effectiveness, the hedging instrument 
must be expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the period 
for which the hedge is designated, with the effectiveness range being defined as 80% to 125%. Hedge ineffectiveness is recognised in the 
income statement in ‘Net trading income’. 
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting 
Non-qualifying hedges are derivatives entered into as economic hedges of assets and liabilities for which hedge accounting was not 
applied.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
395 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC 
  Assets Liabilities 
 Trading Hedging Total Trading Hedging Total
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Foreign exchange  95,584 1,728 97,312 95,187 572 95,759
Interest rate  471,379 1,864 473,243 463,456 4,696 468,152
Equities  11,694 – 11,694 13,654 – 13,654
Credit  9,340 – 9,340 10,061 – 10,061
Commodity and other  3,884 – 3,884 3,508 – 3,508
Gross total fair values 591,881 3,592 595,473 585,866 5,268 591,134
Offset  (250,465)  (250,465)
At 31 December 2014 345,008  340,669
   
Foreign exchange  78,652 2,262 80,914 75,350 448 75,798
Interest rate  456,282 2,294 458,576 448,434 4,097 452,531
Equities  18,389 – 18,389 22,573 – 22,573
Credit  9,092 – 9,092 8,926 – 8,926
Commodity and other  2,624 – 2,624 1,786 – 1,786
Gross total fair values 565,039 4,556 569,595 557,069 4,545 561,614
Offset (287,330)  (287,330)
At 31 December 2013 282,265  274,284
 
Derivative assets increased during 2014, driven by yield curve movements and increased market volatility in foreign 
exchange. The decline in equity derivative assets and liabilities reflects the inclusion of variation margin on cash-settled 
exchange-traded equity derivatives within gross fair value rather than ‘offsetting’. This change has no impact upon total 
derivatives assets. 
Fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC Holdings with subsidiaries 
  Assets Liabilities 
 Trading Hedging Total Trading Hedging Total
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Foreign exchange  680 – 680 1,066 103 1,169
Interest rate  1,607 484 2,091 – – –
At 31 December 2014 2,287 484 2,771 1,066 103 1,169
   
Foreign exchange  1,774 45 1,819 471 – 471
Interest rate  955 15 970 233 – 233
At 31 December 2013 2,729 60 2,789 704 – 704
Use of derivatives 
HSBC transacts derivatives for three primary purposes: to create risk management solutions for clients, to manage the 
portfolio risks arising from client business and to manage and hedge HSBC’s own risks.  
HSBC’s derivative activities give rise to significant open positions in portfolios of derivatives. These positions are managed 
constantly to ensure that they remain within acceptable risk levels. When entering into derivative transactions, HSBC 
employs the same credit risk management framework to assess and approve potential credit exposures that it uses for 
traditional lending. 
Trading derivatives 
Most of HSBC’s derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities. Sales activities include the structuring and 
marketing of derivative products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or expected 
risks. Trading activities include market-making and risk management. Market-making entails quoting bid and offer prices 
to other market participants for the purpose of generating revenues based on spread and volume. Risk management 
activity is undertaken to manage the risk arising from client transactions, with the principal purpose of retaining client 
margin. 
Other derivatives classified as held for trading include non-qualifying hedging derivatives, ineffective hedging derivatives 
and the components of hedging derivatives that are excluded from assessing hedge effectiveness.  
Substantially all of HSBC Holdings’ derivatives entered into with HSBC undertakings are managed in conjunction with 
financial liabilities designated at fair value. 
   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
16 – Derivatives 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
396 
The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for trading purposes indicate the nominal value of transactions 
outstanding at the balance sheet date; they do not represent amounts at risk. 
Notional contract amounts of derivatives held for trading purposes by product type 
 HSBC HSBC Holdings
 2014 2013 2014   2013
 US$m US$m US$m US$m
Foreign exchange  5,548,075 5,264,978 15,595 17,280
Interest rate  22,047,278 27,056,367 8,650 10,304
Equities  568,932 589,903 – –
Credit  550,197 678,256 – –
Commodity and other  77,565 77,842 – –
At 31 December 28,792,047 33,667,346 24,245 27,584
 
The decline in interest rate derivatives notionals during the year reflects participation in industry-wide ‘portfolio 
compression’ exercises. 
Credit derivatives 
HSBC trades credit derivatives through its principal dealing operations and acts as a principal counterparty to a broad 
range of users, structuring transactions to produce risk management products for its customers, or making markets in 
certain products. Risk is typically controlled through entering into offsetting credit derivative contracts with other 
counterparties.  
HSBC manages the credit risk arising on buying and selling credit derivative protection by including the related credit 
exposures within its overall credit limit structure for the relevant counterparty. Trading of credit derivatives is restricted 
to a small number of offices within the major centres which have the control infrastructure and market skills to manage 
effectively the credit risk inherent in the products.  
Credit derivatives are also deployed to a limited extent for the risk management of the Group’s loan portfolios. 
The notional contract amount of credit derivatives of US$550bn (2013: US$678bn) consisted of protection bought of 
US$272bn (2013: US$339bn) and protection sold of US$278bn (2013: US$339bn). The credit derivative business operates 
within the market risk management framework described on page 222. 
Derivatives valued using models with unobservable inputs 
The difference between the fair value at initial recognition (the transaction price) and the value that would have been 
derived had valuation techniques used for subsequent measurement been applied at initial recognition, less subsequent 
releases, is as follows: 
Unamortised balance of derivatives valued using models with significant unobservable inputs 
 2014  2013
 US$m US$m
Unamortised balance at 1 January  167 181
Deferral on new transactions  177 206
Recognised in the income statement during the period: (234) (221)
– amortisation  (114) (105)
– subsequent to unobservable inputs becoming observable (13) (39)
– maturity, termination or offsetting derivative  (107) (77)
– risk hedged  – –
Exchange differences  4 1
Unamortised balance at 31 December
1
  114 167
1 This amount is yet to be recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
Hedge accounting derivatives 
HSBC uses derivatives (principally interest rate swaps) for hedging purposes in the management of its own asset and 
liability portfolios and structural positions. This enables HSBC to optimise the overall cost to the Group of accessing debt 
capital markets, and to mitigate the market risk which would otherwise arise from structural imbalances in the maturity 
and other profiles of its assets and liabilities. 
The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for hedge accounting purposes indicate the nominal value of 
transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date; they do not represent amounts at risk.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
397 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Notional contract amounts of derivatives held for hedge accounting purposes by product type 
  HSBC HSBC Holdings
 2014 2013  2014  2013
 
  Cash flow 
  hedge
 Fair value
hedge
 Cash flow 
hedge
 Fair value
hedge
  Fair value 
 hedge 
  Fair value
 hedge
  US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m   US$m
Foreign exchange  25,340 – 25,799 226 1,120 1,120
Interest rate  190,902 90,338 201,197 90,354 5,477 1,977
At 31 December 216,242 90,338 226,996 90,580 6,597 3,097
Fair value hedges 
HSBC’s fair value hedges principally consist of interest rate swaps that are used to protect against changes in the fair value 
of fixed-rate long-term financial instruments due to movements in market interest rates.  
Fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges 
 2014 2013 
 Assets Liabilities Assets  Liabilities
 US$m US$m US$m US$m
HSBC  
Foreign exchange  – – 5 –
Interest rate  387 4,012 1,163 2,889
At 31 December 387 4,012 1,168 2,889
  
HSBC Holdings  
Foreign exchange  – 103 45 –
Interest rate  484 – 15 –
At 31 December 484 103 60 –
 
Gains or losses arising from fair value hedges 
 2014 2013  2012
 US$m US$m US$m
HSBC  
Gains/(losses):  
 – on hedging instruments  (2,542) 1,997 (898)
 – on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk 2,561 (1,932) 871
Year ended 31 December 19 65 (27)
  
HSBC Holdings  
Gains/(losses):  
 – on hedging instruments  423 14  –
 – on the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk (422) (21) –
Year ended 31 December 1 (7) –
The gains and losses on ineffective portions of fair value hedges are recognised immediately in ‘Net trading income’. 
Cash flow hedges 
HSBC’s cash flow hedges consist principally of interest rate swaps, futures and cross-currency swaps that are used to 
protect against exposures to variability in future interest cash flows on non-trading assets and liabilities which bear 
interest at variable rates or which are expected to be re-funded or reinvested in the future. The amounts and timing of 
future cash flows, representing both principal and interest flows, are projected for each portfolio of financial assets and 
liabilities on the basis of their contractual terms and other relevant factors, including estimates of prepayments and 
defaults. The aggregate principal balances and interest cash flows across all portfolios over time form the basis for 
identifying gains and losses on the effective portions of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges of forecast 
transactions.  
Fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 
 2014 2013 
 Assets Liabilities Assets  Liabilities
 US$m US$m US$m US$m
Foreign exchange  1,673 572 2,257 439
Interest rate  1,477 684 1,131 1,208
At 31 December  3,150 1,256 3,388 1,647
  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
17 – Non-trading reverse repos and repos / 18 – Financial investments 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
398 
Forecast principal balances on which interest cash flows are expected to arise 
 
 3 months
 or less 
More than 3 
 months but less 
 than 1 year 
5 years or less 
 but more than 
 1 year 
 
 More than
 5 years 
 US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Net cash inflows/(outflows) exposure  
Assets  131,694 122,728 79,529 959
Liabilities  (60,814) (46,582) (36,371) (8,169)
At 31 December 2014 70,880 76,146 43,158 (7,210)
  
Net cash inflows/(outflows) exposure  
Assets  135,857 124,670 89,405 2,156
Liabilities  (60,402) (46,990) (38,406) (10,221)
At 31 December 2013 75,455 77,680 50,999 (8,065)
 
This table reflects the interest rate repricing profile of the underlying hedged items. 
The gains and losses on ineffective portions of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recognised immediately in 
‘Net trading income’. During the year to 31 December 2014 a gain of US$34m (2013: gain of US$22m; 2012: gain of 
US$35m) was recognised due to hedge ineffectiveness. 
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations 
The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of certain consolidated net investments. Hedging is undertaken using 
forward foreign exchange contracts or by financing with currency borrowings. 
At 31 December 2014, the fair values of outstanding financial instruments designated as hedges of net investments 
in foreign operations were assets of US$55m (2013: US$4m), liabilities of US$1m (2013: US$23m) and notional contract 
values of US$3,525m (2013: US$2,840m). 
Ineffectiveness recognised in ‘Net trading income’ in the year ended 31 December 2014 was nil (2013 and 2012: nil). 
17 Non-trading reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements 
Accounting policy 
 
When securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price (‘repos’), they remain on the balance 
sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received. Securities purchased under commitments to resell (‘reverse 
repos’) are not recognised on the balance sheet and an asset is recorded in respect of the initial consideration paid.  
Non trading repos and reverse repos are measured at amortised cost. The difference between the sale and repurchase price or between 
the purchase and resale price is treated as interest and recognised in net interest income over the life of the agreement. 
Non-trading repos and reverse repos are presented as separate lines in the balance sheet. This separate presentation was adopted with 
effect from 1 January 2014 and comparatives are re-presented accordingly. Previously, non-trading reverse repos were included within 
‘Loans and advances to banks’ and ‘Loans and advances to customers’ and non-trading repos were included within ‘Deposits by banks’ 
and ‘Customer accounts’.  
The extent to which non-trading reverse repos and repos represent amounts with customers and banks is set out below. 
 2014  2013
 US$m US$m
Assets  
Banks  95,403 91,475
Customers  66,310 88,215
At 31 December 161,713 179,690
Liabilities  
Banks  27,876 42,705
Customers  79,556 121,515
At 31 December 107,432 164,220  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
399 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
18 Financial investments 
Accounting policy 
 
Treasury bills, debt securities and equity securities intended to be held on a continuing basis, other than those designated at fair value, 
are classified as available for sale or held to maturity. They are recognised on trade date when HSBC enters into contractual 
arrangements to purchase those instruments, and are normally derecognised when either the securities are sold or redeemed. 
(i) Available-for-sale financial assets are initially measured at fair value plus direct and incremental transaction costs. They are 
subsequently remeasured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in other comprehensive income until they are either sold 
or become impaired. When available-for-sale financial assets are sold, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as ‘Gains less losses from financial investments’.  
Interest income is recognised over a debt security’s expected life. Premiums and/or discounts arising on the purchase of dated debt 
securities are included in the interest recognised. Dividends from equity assets are recognised in the income statement when the 
right to receive payment is established. 
(ii) Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that HSBC 
positively intends and is able to hold to maturity. Held-to-maturity investments are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly 
attributable transaction costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any impairment losses. 
The accounting policy relating to impairments of available-for-sale securities is presented in Note 1(k). 
Available-for-sale financial assets are reclassified to held to maturity if there is a change in intention or ability to hold those assets to 
maturity due to a change in the way those assets are managed. The fair value on reclassification becomes the new amortised cost and 
the assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost rather than fair value. 
Financial investments 
 2014 2013
 US$m US$m
Financial investments:  
–  not subject to repledge or resale by counterparties 380,419 394,207 
–  which may be repledged or resold by counterparties 35,048 31,718 
At 31 December 415,467 425,925 
Carrying amount and fair value of financial investments 
 2014 2013 
 Carrying
 amount 
Fair 
 value 
Carrying 
 amount 
  Fair 
 value 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m
Treasury and other eligible bills 81,517 81,517 78,111 78,111
– available for sale  81,517 81,517 78,111 78,111
Debt securities
1
  323,256 324,668 338,674 339,007
– available for sale  285,505 285,505 313,590 313,590
– held to maturity  37,751 39,163 25,084 25,417
Equity securities 10,694 10,694 9,140 9,140
– available for sale  10,694 10,694 9,140 9,140
At 31 December 415,467 416,879 425,925 426,258
1 During the year US$11,043m of available-for-sale debt securities were reclassified to held-to-maturity debt securities. 
 
   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
18 – Financial investments / 19 – Assets charged as security 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
400 
Financial investments at amortised cost and fair value 
 
Amortised 
 cost
1
  
 Fair
 value
2
 US$m   US$m
US Treasury  33,931 34,745
US Government agencies
3
  18,326 18,516
US Government sponsored entities
3
  9,339 9,761
UK Government  28,680 29,758
Hong Kong Government  43,573 43,574
Other government  159,846 163,401
Asset-backed securities
4
  20,911 19,177
Corporate debt and other securities  84,387 87,252
Equities  7,421 10,694
At 31 December 2014 406,414 416,878
  
US Treasury  50,369 50,421
US Government agencies
3
  19,211 18,771
US Government sponsored entities
3
  5,263 5,445
UK Government  23,565 23,580
Hong Kong Government  49,570 49,579
Other government  153,619 156,208
Asset-backed securities
4
  25,961 24,115
Corporate debt and other securities  87,469 88,999
Equities  8,081  9,140 
At 31 December 2013 423,108 426,258
  
US Treasury  60,657 61,925
US Government agencies
3
  22,579 23,500
US Government sponsored entities
3
  5,262 5,907
UK Government  17,018 17,940
Hong Kong Government  42,687 42,711
Other government  146,507 149,179
Asset-backed securities
4
  29,960 26,418
Corporate debt and other securities  86,099 89,777
Equities  4,284 5,789
At 31 December 2012 415,053 423,146
1 Represents the amortised cost or cost basis of the financial investment. 
2 Included within these figures are debt securities issued by banks and other financial institutions of US$53,877m (2013: US$55,303m; 2012: 
US$59,908m), of which US$8,812m (2013: US$8,946m; 2012: US$6,916m) are guaranteed by various governments. The fair value of the debt 
securities issued by banks and other financial institutions was US$54,375m (2013: US$55,467m; 2012: US$60,616m). 
3 Include securities that are supported by an explicit guarantee issued by the US Government. 
4 Excludes ABSs included under US Government agencies and sponsored entities. 
Financial investments listed on a recognised exchange and unlisted 
 
Treasury and
 other eligible
  bills available
 for sale 
Debt
 securities
 available
 for sale 
Debt
 securities
 held to 
 maturity 
 Equity 
 securities 
 available  
 for sale 
 
 Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Carrying amount   
Listed
1
  4,101 168,879 6,037 5,928 184,945
Unlisted
2
  77,416 116,626 31,714 4,766 230,522
At 31 December 2014 81,517 285,505 37,751 10,694 415,467
  
Carrying amount   
Listed
1
  1,404 134,473 6,176 3,950  146,003
Unlisted
2
  76,707 179,117 18,908 5,190  279,922
At 31 December 2013 78,111 313,590 25,084 9,140  425,925
1 The fair value of listed held-to-maturity debt securities as at 31 December 2014 was US$6,459m (2013: US$6,281m). Included within listed 
investments were US$3,752m (2013: US$2,832m) of investments listed on a recognised exchange in Hong Kong. 
2 Unlisted treasury and other eligible bills available for sale primarily comprise treasury bills not listed on an exchange but for which there is a 
liquid market.
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
401 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Maturities of investments in debt securities at their carrying amount 
  1 year or less 
 5 years or less 
 but over 1 year 
 10 years or less 
but over 5 years  Over 10 years   Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 
Available for sale 68,344 134,815 44,938 37,408 285,505 
Held to maturity 1,396 9,622 7,087 19,646 37,751 
At 31 December 2014 69,740 144,437 52,025 57,054 323,256 
      
Available for sale 78,222 146,200 44,556 44,612 313,590 
Held to maturity 2,993 8,380 6,442 7,269 25,084 
At 31 December 2013 81,215 154,580 50,998 51,881 338,674 
 
Contractual maturities and weighted average yields of investment debt securities 
 
 
Within one year 
After one year but 
within five years 
After five years but 
within ten years  After ten years 
   Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield   Amount Yield
   US$m % US$m % US$m %   US$m %
Available for sale     
US Treasury    4,136 0.8 20,273 1.0 3,961 2.5   1,490 4.1
US Government agencies    – – 9 4.2 44 3.9   9,704 2.6
US Government-sponsored agencies    – – 1,939 3.2 1,393 3.3   1,138 3.3
UK Government    281 2.2 12,389 1.0 12,541 1.7   – –
Hong Kong Government    350 0.4 953 1.0 – –   – –
Other governments    46,946 2.2 65,497 2.7 12,806 2.9   2,864 2.4
Asset-backed securities    688 1.3 1,172 1.4 4,003 1.4   15,036 1.1
Corporate debt and other securities    16,392 2.3 30,687 2.1 7,048 2.7   6,459 3.3
Total amortised cost at 31 December 2014   68,793 132,919 41,796   36,691 
Total carrying value    68,344 134,815 44,938  37,408 
Held to maturity     
US Treasury    – – 75 4.8 44 4.8   115 4.2
US Government agencies    – – 1 7.6 50 2.6   8,506 2.4
US Government-sponsored agencies    – – 92 1.4 406 2.9   4,370 3.1
Hong Kong Government    1 0.5 37 1.3 20 1.8   2 1.2
Other governments    95 4.1 278 4.8 202 5.2   722 4.9
Asset-backed securities    – – – – – –   11 6.4
Corporate debt and other securities    1,300 3.5 9,139 3.6 6,365 4.0   5,920 4.1
Total amortised cost at 31 December 2014   1,396 9,622 7,087  19,646 
Total carrying value    1,396 9,622 7,087  19,646 
The maturity distributions of ABSs are presented in the above table on the basis of contractual maturity dates. The 
weighted average yield for each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year 
ended 31 December 2014 by the book amount of available-for-sale debt securities at that date. The yields do not include 
the effect of related derivatives. 
19 Assets charged as security for liabilities, assets transferred and collateral accepted as security 
for assets 
Financial assets pledged to secure liabilities 
 2014 2013
 US$m US$m
Treasury bills and other eligible securities  5,170 6,387 
Loans and advances to banks  17,294 17,733 
Loans and advances to customers 77,960 87,894 
Debt securities  138,991 190,095 
Equity shares  11,373 8,816 
Other  6,079 1,035 
Assets pledged at 31 December 256,867 311,960 
The table above shows assets where a charge has been granted to secure liabilities on a legal and contractual basis. The 
amount of such assets may be greater than the book value of assets utilised as collateral for funding purposes or to cover 
liabilities. This is the case for securitisations and covered bonds where the amount of liabilities issued, plus any mandatory 
over-collateralisation, is less than the book value of financial assets available for funding or collateral purposes in the 
relevant pool of assets. This is also the case where financial assets are placed with a custodian or settlement agent which 
has a floating charge over all the financial assets placed to secure any liabilities under settlement accounts.   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
19 – Assets charged as security / 20 – Interests in associates and joint ventures 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
402 
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to collateralised transactions including, 
where relevant, standard securities lending and repurchase agreements. 
Assets transferred 
Accounting policy  
 
Derecognition of financial assets  
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to receive cash flows from the assets has expired; or when HSBC has 
transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows of the financial assets, and either: 
• substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred; or  
• HSBC has neither retained nor transferred substantially all the risks and rewards, but has not retained control. 
HSBC enters into transactions in the normal course of business by which it transfers financial assets to third parties.  
Depending on the circumstances, these transfers may either result in these financial assets being derecognised or 
continuing to be recognised. 
The financial assets shown above include amounts transferred to third parties that do not qualify for derecognition, 
notably debt securities held by counterparties as collateral under repurchase agreements and equity securities lent under 
securities lending agreements. As the substance of these transactions is secured borrowings, the asset collateral continues 
to be recognised in full and the related liability reflecting the Group’s obligation to repurchase the transferred assets for 
a fixed price at a future date is recognised on the balance sheet. As a result of these transactions, the Group is unable to 
use, sell or pledge the transferred assets for the duration of the transaction. The Group remains exposed to interest rate 
risk and credit risk on these pledged instruments. The counterparty’s recourse is not limited to the transferred assets. 
Transferred financial assets not qualifying for full derecognition and associated financial liabilities 
 
  Carrying
 amount of
assets before
 transfer 
Carrying
 amount of
 transferred
 assets 
Carrying
 amount of
 associated
 liabilities 
Fair 
 value of 
 transferred 
 assets  
 Fair 
 value of 
 associated 
 liabilities 
 
 Net
 position 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
At 31 December 2014   
Repurchase agreements  78,541 79,141  
Securities lending agreements  13,177 10,643  
Other sales (recourse to transferred asset only)  3,775 4,049 4,007 4,018 (11)
Securitisations recognised to the extent of 
continuing involvement  17,427 11 5 11 5 6 
    
At 31 December 2013   
Repurchase agreements  125,508 126,175   
Securities lending agreements  9,175 8,884  
Other sales (recourse to transferred asset only)  6,707 7,019 6,827 6,707 120
Securitisations recognised to the extent of 
continuing involvement  17,427 16 8 16 8 8 
Collateral accepted as security for assets 
The fair value of assets accepted as collateral in relation to reverse repo and securities borrowing that HSBC is permitted 
to sell or repledge in the absence of default is US$269,019m (2013: US$259,617m). The fair value of any such collateral 
that has been sold or repledged was US$163,342m (2013: US$186,013m). HSBC is obliged to return equivalent securities. 
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard securities borrowing and reverse 
repurchase agreements.
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
403 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
20 Interests in associates and joint ventures 
Accounting policy 
 
Investments in which HSBC, together with one or more parties, has joint control of an arrangement set up to undertake an economic 
activity are classified as joint ventures. HSBC classifies investments in entities over which it has significant influence, and that are neither 
subsidiaries (Note 22) nor joint ventures, as associates.  
Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method. Under this method, such investments 
are initially stated at cost, including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in HSBC’s share of 
net assets. Goodwill arises on the acquisition of interests in joint ventures and associates when the cost of investment exceeds HSBC’s 
share of the net fair value of the associate’s or joint venture’s identifiable assets and liabilities.  
An investment in an associate is tested for impairment when there is an indication that the investment may be impaired. Goodwill on 
acquisitions of interests in joint ventures and associates is not tested separately for impairment. 
 Profits on transactions between HSBC and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of HSBC’s interest in the 
respective associates or joint ventures. Losses are also eliminated to the extent of HSBC’s interest in the associates or joint ventures 
unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
 
Impairment of interests in associates 
Impairment testing involves significant judgement in determining the value in use, and in particular estimating the present values of 
cash flows expected to arise from continuing to hold the investment. 
The most significant judgements relate to the impairment testing of our investment in Bank of Communications (‘BoCom’). Key 
assumptions used in estimating BoCom’s value in use, the sensitivity of the value in use calculation to different assumptions and a 
sensitivity analysis that shows the changes in key assumptions that would reduce the excess of value in use over the carrying amount 
(the ‘headroom’) to nil are described in the Note below. 
 
Associates 
At 31 December 2014, the carrying amount of HSBC’s interests in associates was US$17,940m (2013: US$16,417m).  
Principal associates of HSBC  
 2014 2013 
 
Carrying
 amount 
Fair
 value
1
Carrying 
 amount  
 Fair
 value
1
 US$m US$m US$m   US$m
Listed  
Bank of Communications Co., Limited  14,590 13,140 13,412   9,954 
The Saudi British Bank  2,811 6,220 2,437   4,693 
At 31 December 17,401 19,360 15,849   14,647 
1 Principal associates are listed on recognised stock exchanges. The fair values are based on the quoted market prices of the shares held (Level 1 in 
the fair value hierarchy). 
 At 31 December 2014 
 
Country of
 incorporation
 and principal
place of business 
 Principal
 activity 
HSBC’s 
 interest 
 in equity 
 capital  
 Issued
 equity
 capital 
Bank of Communications Co., Limited  PRC
1
Banking services 19.03%   RMB74,263m
The Saudi British Bank  Saudi Arabia Banking services 40.00%   SR10,000m
1 People’s Republic of China. 
Details of all HSBC associates and joint ventures, as required under Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, will be 
annexed to the next Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK Registrar of Companies. 
HSBC had US$14,590m (2013: US$13,412m) of interests in associates listed in Hong Kong. 
   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
20 – Interests in associates and joint ventures 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
404 
Bank of Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’) 
HSBC’s investment in BoCom was equity accounted with effect from August 2004. HSBC’s significant influence in BoCom 
was established as a result of representation on the Board of Directors and, in accordance with the Technical Cooperation 
and Exchange Programme, HSBC is assisting in the maintenance of financial and operating policies and a number of staff 
has been seconded to assist in this process. 
Impairment testing 
At 31 December 2014, the fair value of HSBC’s investment in BoCom had been below the carrying amount for 
approximately 32 months, apart from a short period in 2013. As a result, we performed an impairment test on the 
carrying amount of the investment in BoCom. The test confirmed that there was no impairment at 31 December 2014. 
The recoverable amount was US$15.7bn (2013: US$14.0bn), an excess over carrying amount (‘headroom’) of US$1.1bn 
at 31 December 2014 (2013: US$0.6bn). The increase in headroom is due to the improved capital position of BoCom.  
  At 31 December 2014 At 31 December 2013 
 
 
 VIU 
Carrying 
 value 
Fair 
 value  VIU  
 Carrying 
 value 
  Fair 
 value 
 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn
Bank of Communications Co., Limited   15.7 14.6 13.1 14.0   13.4   10.0
Basis of recoverable amount 
The impairment test was performed by comparing the recoverable amount of BoCom, determined by a value in use (‘VIU’) 
calculation, with its carrying amount. The VIU calculation uses discounted cash flow projections based on management’s 
estimates of earnings. Cash flows beyond the short- to medium-term are then extrapolated in perpetuity using a long-
term growth rate. An imputed capital maintenance charge (‘CMC’) is included to meet the expected regulatory capital 
requirements, and calculated as a deduction from forecast cash flows. The principal inputs to the CMC calculation include 
estimates of asset growth, the ratio of risk-weighted assets to total assets, and the expected regulatory capital 
requirements. Management judgement is required in estimating the future cash flows of BoCom.  
Key assumptions in VIU calculation 
Long-term growth rate: the growth rate used was 5% (2013: 5%) for periods after 2018 and does not exceed forecast GDP 
growth in China. 
Discount rate: the discount rate of 13% (2013: 13%) is derived from a range of values obtained by applying a Capital Asset 
Pricing Model (‘CAPM’) calculation for BoCom, using market data. Management supplements this by comparing the rates 
derived from the CAPM with discount rates available from external sources, and HSBC’s discount rate for evaluating 
investments in China. The discount rate used was within the range of 11.4% to 14.2% (2013: 10.5% to 15.0%) indicated 
by the CAPM and external sources. 
Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances: the ratio used ranges from 0.73% to 1% (2013: 0.64% to 
1%) in the short- to medium-term. The long-term ratio was assumed to revert to a historical rate of 0.65% (2013: 0.64%). 
The rates were within the short- to medium-term range forecasts of 0.51% to 1.08% (2013: 0.55% to 1.20%) disclosed by 
external analysts. 
Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets: the ratio used ranges from 70% to 72% in the short- to medium-term. 
The long-term ratio reverts to a rate of 70% (2013: 68.7%). 
Cost-income ratio: the ratio used ranges from 40.0% to 42.4% (2013: 39.7% to 43.2%) in the short- to medium-term. The 
ratios were within the short- to medium-term range forecasts of 37.2% to 44.5% (2013: 38.0% to 44.2%) disclosed by 
external analysts. 
Sensitivity analyses were performed on each key assumption to ascertain the impact of reasonably possible changes in 
assumptions. The following change to each key assumption used on its own in the VIU calculation would reduce the 
headroom to nil. 
Key assumption Changes to key assumption to reduce headroom to nil
• Long-term growth rate 
• Discount rate 
• Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer advances 
• Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets 
• Cost-income ratio 
• Decrease by 43 basis points 
• Increase by 53 basis points 
• Increase by 8 basis points  
• Increase by 3.3%  
• Increase by 1.6%  
 
The following table illustrates the effect on VIU of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions. This reflects the 
sensitivity of VIU to each key assumption on its own and it is possible that more than one favourable and/or unfavourable 
change will occur at the same time.
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
405 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 Favourable change Current model Unfavourable change
 US$bn US$bn US$bn  US$bn  US$bn
At 31 December 2014    
Carrying amount: US$14.6bn    
Long-term growth rate  +50bp +100bp 5%  -50bp  -100bp
VIU  17.0 18.6 15.7  14.5  13.4
Increase/(decrease) in VIU  1.3 2.9  (1.2)  (2.3)
Discount rate  -50bp -100bp 13%  +50bp  +100bp
VIU  16.8 18.1 15.7  14.7  13.9
Increase/(decrease) in VIU  1.1 2.4  (1.0)  (1.8)
Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer 
advances  0.65% throughout 
2014-18: 0.73% – 1% 
2019 onwards: 0.65% 
1% from 2014-18
2019 onwards: 0.65%  
VIU  16.2 15.7 14.9 
Increase/(decrease) in VIU  0.5 (0.8)
Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets   -100bp  -200bp 
2014-18: 70% – 72% 
2019 onwards: 70.0% 
 
 +100bp  +200bp 
VIU  16.0 16.3 15.7  15.4  15.1
Increase/(decrease) in VIU  0.3 0.6  (0.3)  (0.6)
Cost income ratio  -50bp -100bp 2014-18: 40.0% – 42.4% 
2019 onwards: 42.4% 
  +50bp  +100bp
VIU  16.0 16.3 15.7  15.4  15.1
Increase/(decrease) in VIU  0.3 0.6  (0.3)  (0.6)
    
At 31 December 2013    
Carrying amount: US$13.4bn    
Long-term growth rate  +50bp +100bp 5%  -50bp  -100bp
VIU  15.4 16.9 14.0  12.9  11.8
Increase/(decrease) in VIU  1.4 2.9  (1.1)  (2.2)
Discount rate  -50bp -100bp 13%  +50bp  +100bp
VIU  15.6 17.3 14.0  12.7  11.6
Increase/(decrease) in VIU  1.6 3.3  (1.3)  (2.4)
Loan impairment charge as a percentage of customer 
advances  0.64% throughout 
2013-18: 0.64% – 1.00% 
2019 onwards: 0.64% 1% from 2014-18  
VIU  14.8 14.0 13.5 
Increase/(decrease) in VIU   0.8   (0.5)
Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets  -100bp -200bp 68.7% throughout   +100bp  +200bp
VIU  14.4 14.7 14.0  13.7  13.4
Increase/(decrease) in VIU  0.4 0.7  (0.3)  (0.6)
Cost income ratio  -50bp -100bp 2013-18: 39.7% – 43.2% 
2019 onwards: 43.2% 
  +50bp  +100bp
VIU  14.3 14.7 14.0  13.7  13.4
Increase/(decrease) in VIU  0.3 0.7  (0.3)  (0.6)
 
Selected financial information of BoCom 
The statutory accounting reference date of BoCom is 31 December. For the year ended 31 December 2014, HSBC included 
the associate’s results on the basis of financial statements made up for the 12 months to 30 September 2014, taking into 
account changes in the subsequent period from 1 October 2014 to 31 December 2014 that would have materially affected 
the results. 
 At 30 September
 2014   2013
 US$m   US$m
Selected balance sheet information of BoCom  
Cash and balances at central banks  150,306 142,209
Loans and advances to banks and other financial institutions 79,960 88,049
Loans and advances to customers 547,706 516,161
Other financial assets  178,883 165,521
Other assets  45,140 34,392
Total assets  1,001,995 946,332
Deposits by banks and other financial institutions  209,935 170,916
Customer accounts  663,745 667,588
Other financial liabilities  28,860 20,564
Other liabilities  25,361 19,655
Total liabilities  927,901 878,723
Total equity  74,094 67,609 Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
20 – Interests in associates and joint ventures / 21 – Goodwill and intangible assets 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
406 
 At 30 September
 2014   2013
 US$m   US$m
Reconciliation of BoCom’s total shareholders’ equity to the carrying amount in 
HSBC’s consolidated financial statements as at 31 December  
 
HSBC’s share of total shareholders’ equity  14,040 12,810
Add: Goodwill and other intangible assets 550 602
Carrying amount  14,590 13,412
 
 For the 12 months ended
30 September 
 2014   2013
 US$m   US$m
Selected income statement information of BoCom  
Net interest income  22,030 20,768
Net fee and commission income 4,792 4,010
Loan impairment charges  (3,509) (2,811)
Depreciation and amortisation  (920) (809)
Tax expense  (3,102) (2,823)
Profit for the year  10,626 10,099
Other comprehensive income  217 (375)
Total comprehensive income  10,843 9,724
Dividends received from BoCom 597 549
Summarised aggregate financial information in respect of all associates excluding BoCom 
 2014 2013
 US$m US$m
Carrying amount  3,350 3,005
HSBC’s share of:  
– total assets  20,099 21,007
– total liabilities  16,837 18,056
– revenues  801 927
– profit or loss from continuing operations  519 408
– other comprehensive income  2 9
– total comprehensive income 521 417
Joint ventures 
At 31 December 2014, the carrying amount of HSBC’s interests in joint ventures was US$241m (2013: US$223m). 
Associates and joint ventures 
For the year ended 31 December 2014, HSBC’s share of associates and joint ventures’ tax on profit was US$600m 
(2013: US$556m), which is included within ‘Share of profit in associates and joint ventures’ in the income statement. 
Movements in interests in associates and joint ventures 
 2014 2013
 US$m US$m
At 1 January  16,640 17,834
Additions  30 26
Disposals  (133) (3,148)
Share of results  2,532 2,325
Dividends  (757) (694)
Exchange differences  (212) 396
Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) of associates and joint ventures 78 (35)
Other movements  3 (64)
At 31 December
1
 18,181 16,640
1 Includes goodwill of US$621m (2013: US$608m).   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
407 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
21 Goodwill and intangible assets 
 2014 2013
US$m  US$m
Goodwill  19,169 21,179
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business 5,307 5,335
Other intangible assets  3,101 3,404
At 31 December 27,577 29,918
Goodwill 
Accounting policy 
 
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries, when the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration transferred, the amount of 
any non-controlling interest and the fair value of any previously held equity interest in the acquiree exceed the amount of the identifiable 
assets and liabilities acquired. If the amount of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired is greater, the difference is recognised 
immediately in the income statement.  
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (‘CGU’s) for the purpose of impairment testing, which is undertaken at the lowest level at 
which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. HSBC’s CGU’s are based on geographical regions subdivided by global 
business. Impairment testing is performed at least annually, or whenever there is an indication of impairment, by comparing the 
recoverable amount of a CGU with its carrying amount. The carrying amount of a CGU is based on its assets and liabilities, including 
attributable goodwill. The recoverable amount of a CGU is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. VIU is the 
present value of the expected future CGU cash flows. If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is 
charged to the income statement. Goodwill is carried on balance sheet at cost less accumulated impairment losses. 
At the date of disposal of a business, attributable goodwill is included in HSBC’s share of net assets in the calculation of the gain or loss 
on disposal. 
Goodwill is included in a disposal group if the disposal group is a CGU to which goodwill has been allocated or it is an operation within 
such a CGU. The amount of goodwill included in a disposal group is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation 
disposed of and the portion of the CGU retained. 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
 Goodwill impairment 
The review of goodwill for impairment reflects management’s best estimate of the future cash flows of the CGUs and the rates used to 
discount these cash flows, both of which are subject to uncertain factors as follows: 
• the future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive to the cash flows projected for the periods for which detailed forecasts are available 
and to assumptions regarding the long-term pattern of sustainable cash flows thereafter. Forecasts are compared with actual 
performance and verifiable economic data, but they reflect management’s view of future business prospects at the time of the 
assessment; and 
• the rates used to discount future expected cash flows can have a significant effect on their valuation and are based on the costs of 
capital assigned to individual CGUs. The cost of capital percentage is generally derived from a Capital Asset Pricing Model, which 
incorporates inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables, including the risk-free interest rate in the country 
concerned and a premium for the risk of the business being evaluated. These variables are subject to fluctuations in external market 
rates and economic conditions beyond management’s control, are subject to uncertainty and require the exercise of significant 
judgement. 
A decline in a CGU’s expected cash flows and/or an increase in its cost of capital reduces the CGU’s estimated recoverable amount. If this 
is lower than the carrying value of the CGU, a charge for impairment of goodwill is recognised in our income statement for the year. 
The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject to a high degree of uncertainty in volatile market conditions. In such market conditions, 
management retests goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually to ensure that the assumptions on which the cash flow 
forecasts are based continue to reflect current market conditions and management’s best estimate of future business prospects. 
During 2014, no impairment of goodwill was identified (2013: nil). In addition to the annual impairment test which was performed as at 
1 July 2014, management reviewed the current and expected performance of the CGUs as at 31 December 2014 and determined that 
there was no indication of impairment of the goodwill allocated to them.  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
21 – Goodwill and intangible assets 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
408 
Reconciliation of goodwill 
  
 Europe  Asia  MENA 
North 
 America  
 Latin 
 America   Total 
  US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m  US$m
Gross amount   
At 1 January 2014  14,977 1,016 55 7,861  3,241  27,150 
Disposals  (168) − − −  −  (168)
Exchange differences  (1,594) (30) (1) 1  (240) (1,864)
Reclassified to held for sale (8) − − −  24  16 
Other  − 23 − (47) (18) (42)
At 31 December 2014  13,207 1,009 54 7,815  3,007  25,092 
Accumulated impairment losses  
At 1 January 2014  − − − (5,971) −  (5,971)
Exchange differences  − − − 1  −  1 
Other  − − − 47  −  47 
At 31 December 2014  − − − (5,923) −  (5,923)
Net carrying amount at 31 December 2014  13,207 1,009 54 1,892  3,007  19,169 
      
Gross amount   
At 1 January 2013  14,660 1,134 60 8,339  3,646  27,839 
Disposals  – – – – (1) (1)
Exchange differences  596 (129) (5) (2) (132) 328 
Reclassified to held for sale
1
  (611) – – – (272) (883)
Reinstated from held for sale 332 – – – – 332 
Other  – 11 – (476) – (465)
At 31 December 2013  14,977 1,016 55 7,861  3,241  27,150 
Accumulated impairment losses  
At 1 January 2013  – – – (6,449) – (6,449)
Exchange differences  – – – 2 – 2 
Other  – – – 476  – 476 
At 31 December 2013  – – – (5,971) – (5,971)
Net carrying amount at 31 December 2013  14,977 1,016 55 1,890  3,241  21,179 
1 During 2013, goodwill in Europe amounting to US$611m was reclassified to assets held for sale following the decision to sell the private banking 
operations of HSBC Private Bank Holdings (Suisse) S.A. in Monaco. On transfer to held for sale, a write down of the disposal group by US$279m 
was recorded and allocated to goodwill. Following the later decision to retain the operations, the reclassification of the assets and liabilities out 
of held for sale resulted in the reinstatement of the remaining goodwill. 
Impairment testing 
Timing of impairment testing 
HSBC’s impairment test in respect of goodwill allocated to each ‘CGU’ is performed as at 1 July each year.  
Basis of the recoverable amount  
The recoverable amount of all CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated was equal to its VIU at each respective testing 
date for 2013 and 2014. 
For each significant CGU, the VIU is calculated by discounting management’s cash flow projections for the CGU. The 
discount rate used is based on the cost of capital HSBC allocates to investments in the countries within which the CGU 
operates. The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term 
perspective within the Group of the business units making up the CGUs. For the goodwill impairment test conducted 
at 1 July 2014, management’s cash flow projections until the end of 2018 were used.  
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
409 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Key assumptions in VIU calculation  
  Nominal
 
 Goodwill 
 at 1 July 
 Discount 
 rate 
 growth rate
 beyond initial cash
  flow projections 
 US$m %   %
Cash-generating unit    
Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Europe  4,298 9.1  4.5
Commercial Banking – Europe  3,214 10.1  4.2
Global Private Banking – Europe 3,808 7.1  3.4
Global Banking and Markets – Europe  3,296 11.0  4.2
Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Latin America 1,762 12.8  7.9
2014 16,378  
    
Cash-generating unit   
Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Europe  4,135 8.0   3.9
Commercial Banking – Europe  3,062 10.0   3.8
Global Private Banking – Europe 3,607 7.3   3.0
Global Banking and Markets – Europe  3,101 9.9   3.7
Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Latin America 1,812 11.2   8.6
2013 15,717   
At 1 July 2014, aggregate goodwill of US$4,526m (1 July 2013: US$4,550m) had been allocated to CGUs that were not 
considered individually significant. The Group’s CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any significant intangible assets 
with indefinite useful lives, other than goodwill. 
Nominal long-term growth rate: this growth rate reflects GDP and inflation for the countries within which the CGU 
operates. The rates are based on IMF forecast growth rates as these rates are regarded as the most relevant estimate of 
likely future trends. The rates used for 2013 and 2014 do not exceed the long-term growth rate for the countries within 
which the CGU operates. 
Discount rate: the discount rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of capital assigned to each CGU, 
which is derived using a CAPM. The CAPM depends on inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables 
including the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated. These variables are 
based on the market’s assessment of the economic variables and management’s judgement. For the 1 July 2014 test, the 
methodology used to determine the discount rate for each CGU was refined to more accurately reflect the rates of 
inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates. In addition, for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, 
management supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM with 
cost of capital rates produced by external sources. HSBC uses externally-sourced cost of capital rates where, in 
management’s judgement, those rates reflect more accurately the current market and economic conditions. For 2013 and 
2014, internal costs of capital rates were consistent with externally-sourced rates. 
Management’s judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU: the cash flow projections for each CGU are based on 
plans approved by the GMB. The key assumptions in addition to the discount rate and nominal long-term growth rate for 
each significant CGU are discussed below. 
Global Private Banking – Europe: the cash flow forecast for GPB – Europe primarily reflects the repositioning of the 
business that is underway to concentrate on clients aligned with the Group’s priorities. Revenues in GPB – Europe are 
predominately generated through HSBC’s client relationships and the key assumption in the cash flow forecast is the level 
of assets under management and profitability therein following the strategic repositioning. The cash flow forecast 
includes increased profitability in GPB – Europe which is dependent on management achieving the planned strategic 
repositioning, in the context of the external environment. 
At 1 July 2014, GPB – Europe had an excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount (‘headroom’) of US$1.8bn. 
The following changes to the key assumptions in the value in use calculation would be necessary in order to reduce 
headroom to nil: 
Key assumption Change to key assumption to reduce headroom to nil 
Discount rate Increase by 90 basis points 
Long-term growth rate Decrease by 102 basis points 
Cash flow projection Decrease by 19.7%  
The following table illustrates the effect on VIU of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions. This reflects the 
sensitivity of VIU to each key assumption on its own and it is possible that more than one favourable and/or unfavourable 
change will occur at the same time.  
   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
21 – Goodwill and intangible assets  
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
410 
 Favourable 
change 
Current  
model 
 Unfavourable 
change 
 US$bn US$bn  US$bn
At 1 July  2014   
Carrying amount of CGU: US$7.3bn   
Excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount: $1.8bn  
Long-term growth rate +100bp 3.4%  -100bp
VIU 12.2 9.1  7.4
Increase/(decrease) in VIU 3.1  (1.7)
Discount rate -100bp 7.1%  +100bp
VIU 12.5 9.1  7.2
Increase/(decrease) in VIU 3.4  (1.9)
Forecast cash flow +20% 378  -20%
VIU 10.9 9.1  7.3
Increase/(decrease) in VIU 1.8   (1.8)
 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Europe and Commercial Banking – Europe: the assumptions included in the 
cash flow projections for RBWM – Europe and CMB – Europe reflect the economic environment and financial outlook of 
the European countries within these two CGUs. Key assumptions include the level of interest rates, nominal GDP growth, 
competitors’ positions within the market and the level and change in unemployment rates. While current economic 
conditions in Europe continue to be challenging, management’s cash flow projections are based primarily on these 
prevailing conditions. Risks include slower than expected growth and an uncertain regulatory environment. RBWM – 
Europe is sensitive to further customer remediation and regulatory actions. Based on the conditions at the balance sheet 
date, management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would 
not cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of RBWM – Europe or CMB – Europe. 
Global Banking and Markets – Europe: the key assumption included in the cash flow projection for GB&M – Europe is that 
European markets will continue to recover. Accordingly, recovery in European revenues is assumed to continue over the 
projection period to 2018. Interest rate fluctuations would put further pressure on European markets revenue recovery. 
Our ability to achieve the forecast cash flows for GB&M – Europe could be adversely impacted by regulatory change 
during the forecast period including but not limited to the extent that the recommendations set out in the final report 
by the Independent Commission on Banking are implemented. Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, 
management determined that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not 
cause an impairment to be recognised in respect of GB&M – Europe. 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management – Latin America: the assumptions included in the cash flow projections 
for RBWM – Latin America reflect the economic environment and financial outlook of the countries within this CGU, with 
Brazil and Mexico being the two largest. Key assumptions include growth in lending and deposit volumes and the credit 
quality of the loan portfolios. Potential challenges include unfavourable economic conditions restricting client demand 
and competitor pricing constraining margins. Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date, management determined 
that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions described above would not cause an impairment to be 
recognised in respect of RBWM – Latin America. 
Intangible assets 
Accounting policy 
 
Intangible assets are recognised, and those that are acquired in a business combination are distinguished from goodwill, when they are 
separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights, and their fair value can be measured reliably. 
Intangible assets include the present value of in-force long-term insurance business and long-term investment contracts with 
discretionary participating features (‘PVIF’), computer software, trade names, mortgage servicing rights, customer lists, core deposit 
relationships, credit card customer relationships and merchant or other loan relationships. Computer software includes both purchased 
and internally generated software. The cost of internally generated software comprises all directly attributable costs necessary to create, 
produce and prepare the software to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Costs incurred in the ongoing 
maintenance of software are expensed immediately as incurred. 
Intangible assets are subject to impairment review if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount 
may not be recoverable. Where:  
• intangible assets have an indefinite useful life, or are not yet ready for use, they are tested for impairment annually. An intangible 
asset recognised during the current period is tested before the end of the current year; and where 
• intangible assets have a finite useful life, except for PVIF, they are stated at cost less amortisation and accumulated impairment losses 
and are amortised over their estimated useful lives. Estimated useful life is the lower of legal duration and expected useful life. The 
amortisation of mortgage servicing rights is included within ‘Net fee income’. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
411 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortised, generally on a straight-line basis, over their useful lives as follows: 
Trade names  10 years 
Mortgage servicing rights  generally between 5 and 12 years 
Internally generated software  between 3 and 5 years 
Purchased software  between 3 and 5 years 
Customer/merchant relationships  generally between 3 and 10 years 
Other  generally 10 years 
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business 
The value placed on insurance contracts that are classified as long-term insurance business or long-term investment contracts with 
discretionary participating features (‘DPF’) and are in force at the balance sheet date is recognised as an asset. The asset represents the 
present value of the equity holders’ interest in the issuing insurance companies’ profits expected to emerge from these contracts written 
at the balance sheet date. The PVIF is determined by discounting the equity holders’ interest in future profits expected to emerge from 
business currently in force using appropriate assumptions in assessing factors such as future mortality, lapse rates and levels of expenses, 
and a risk discount rate that reflects the risk premium attributable to the respective contracts. The PVIF incorporates allowances for both 
non-market risk and the value of financial options and guarantees. The PVIF asset is presented gross of attributable tax in the balance 
sheet and movements in the PVIF asset are included in ‘Other operating income’ on a gross of tax basis. 
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business  
Our life insurance business is accounted for using the embedded value approach which, inter alia, provides a risk 
and valuation framework. The PVIF asset at 31 December 2014 was US$5.3bn (2013: US$5.3bn). 
Movements in PVIF 
 2014 2013
 US$m US$m
PVIF at 1 January  5,335  4,847 
Value of new business written during the year
1
  870 924 
Movements arising from in-force business:   
– expected return  (545) (505)
– experience variances
2
  62 (20)
– changes in operating assumptions  (69) 186 
Investment return variances  (34) 42 
Changes in investment assumptions  (75) (120)
Other adjustments 52  18 
Change in PVIF of long-term insurance business  261 525 
Transfer of assets classified as held for sale
3
 (122) –
Exchange differences and other (167) (37)
PVIF at 31 December  5,307  5,335 
1 Value of new business written during the year is the present value of the projected stream of profits from the business. 
2 Experience variances include the effect of the difference between demographic, expense and persistency assumptions used in the previous PVIF 
calculation and actual experience observed during the year to the extent this affects profits on future business. 
3 Relates to the UK Pensions business which was classified as held for sale in the first half of the year. See page 191 for further details. 
In the PVIF calculation, expected cash flows are projected after adjusting for a variety of assumptions made by 
each insurance operation to reflect local market conditions and management’s judgement of future trends, and after 
applying risk margins to reflect any uncertainty in the underlying assumptions. The main assumptions relate to economic 
and non-economic assumptions and policyholder behaviour. Variations in actual experience and changes to assumptions 
can contribute to volatility in the results of the insurance business. 
The key drivers of the movement in the value of the PVIF asset are the expected cash flows from: 
• new business adjusted for anticipated maturities and assumptions relating to policyholder behaviour (‘value of new 
business written during the year’); 
• unwind of the discount rate less the reversal of expected cash flows for the period (‘expected return’); 
• changes in non-economic operating assumptions such as mortality or lapse rates (‘change in operating assumptions’); 
• the effects of changes in projected future cash flows associated with operating assumption experience variances 
compared with those assumed at the start of the period (‘experience variances’); 
• changes related to future investment returns (‘changes in investment assumptions’); and  
• the effect of actual investment experience on existing assets compared with the assumptions at the start of the period 
(‘investment return variances’). 
The valuation of the PVIF asset includes explicit risk margins for non-economic risks in the projection assumptions and 
explicit allowances for financial options and guarantees using stochastic methods. Risk discount rates are set on an active 
basis with reference to market risk-free yields.  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
21 – Goodwill and intangible assets / 22 – Investments in subsidiaries 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
412 
Key assumptions used in the computation of PVIF for main life insurance operations 
Economic assumptions are either set in a way that is consistent with observable market values or, in certain markets 
(including those where the risk free curve is not observable at tenors matching the duration of our insurance contract 
liabilities) we make use of long-term economic assumptions. Setting such assumptions involves the projection of long-
term interest rates and the time horizon over which rates in less developed markets will tend towards the norms 
observed in mature markets. The assumptions are informed by relevant historical data and by research and analysis 
performed by the Group’s Economic Research team and external experts. The valuation of PVIF will be sensitive to any 
changes in these long-term assumptions in the same way that it is sensitive to observed market movements, and the 
impact of such changes is included in the sensitivities presented below. 
 2014 2013 
  UK Hong Kong France
1
UK   Hong Kong  France
1
  % % % %  %  %
Weighted average risk free rate  1.65 1.86 1.21 2.45  2.31  2.38
Weighted average risk discount rate   2.15 7.42 1.73 2.95  7.41  4.69
Expense inflation   4.67 3.00 2.00 3.39  3.00  2.00
1  For 2014, the calculation of France’s PVIF assumes a risk discount rate of 1.73% plus a risk margin of US$ 63m. For 2013, a composite rate of 
4.69% was used. This was equivalent to a rate of 3.08% plus a risk margin of US$64m. 
Sensitivity to changes in economic assumptions 
The Group sets the risk discount rate applied to the PVIF calculation by starting from a risk-free rate curve and adding 
explicit allowances for risks not reflected in the best estimate cash flow modelling. Where shareholders provide options 
and guarantees to policyholders the cost of these options and guarantees is an explicit reduction to PVIF, unless it is 
already allowed for as an explicit addition to the technical provisions required by regulators. See page 195 for further 
details of these guarantees. 
The following table shows the effect on the PVIF of reasonably possible changes in the main economic assumption, 
risk-free rates, across all insurance manufacturing subsidiaries. Due to certain characteristics of the contracts, the 
relationships are non-linear and the results of the sensitivity testing should not be extrapolated to higher levels of stress. 
The sensitivities shown are before actions that could be taken by management to mitigate effects and before resultant 
changes in policyholder behaviour. The sensitivities have increased from 2013 to 2014, driven mainly by falling yields and 
a flattening of the yield curve in France during 2014. In the low yield environment the PVIF asset is particularly sensitive to 
yield curve movements driven by the projected cost of options and guarantees described on page 195. 
 2014 2013
 US$m US$m
Effect on PVIF at 31 December of: 
+ 100 basis point shift in risk-free rate  320 184 
– 100 basis point shift in risk-free rate
1
  (589) (289)
1 Where a –100 basis point parallel shift in the risk-free rate would result in a negative rate, the effect on PVIF has been calculated using a 
minimum rate of 0%. 
Sensitivity to changes in non-economic assumptions 
Policyholder liabilities and PVIF for life manufacturers are determined by reference to non-economic assumptions 
including mortality and/or morbidity, lapse rates and expense rates. The table below shows the sensitivity of PVIF to 
reasonably possible changes in these non-economic assumptions at that date across all our insurance manufacturing 
subsidiaries. 
 2014 2013
 US$m US$m
Effect on PVIF at 31 December of: 
10% increase in mortality and/or morbidity rates  (66) (84)
10% decrease in mortality and/or morbidity rates  70  84
10% increase in lapse rates  (146) (154)
10% decrease in lapse rates  165  173
10% increase in expense rates  (93) (109)
10% decrease in expense rates  94  110 
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
413 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Other intangible assets 
Movement of intangible assets excluding goodwill and the PVIF 
 
Internally
generated 
software Other  Total 
 US$m US$m  US$m
Cost   
At 1 January 2014  5,999 2,975   8,974 
Additions  732 177   909 
Disposals  (35) (80)  (115)
Amount written off  (24) (53)  (77)
Other changes  (259) (156)  (415)
163
At 31 December 2014  6,413 2,863   9,276 
Accumulated amortisation   
At 1 January 2014  (3,809) (1,761)  (5,570)
Charge for the year
1
  (677) (261)  (938)
Impairment  (11) (54)  (65)
Disposals  32 77   109 
Amount written off  24 53   77 
Other changes  155 57   212 
At 31 December 2014  (4,286) (1,889)  (6,175)
Net carrying amount at 31 December 2014  2,127 974   3,101 
   
Cost   
At 1 January 2013  5,703 3,345  9,048 
Additions  731 142  873 
Disposals  (117) (196)  (313)
Amount written off  (57) (47)  (104)
Other changes  (261) (269)  (530)
At 31 December 2013  5,999 2,975   8,974 
Accumulated amortisation   
At 1 January 2013  (3,469) (1,963)  (5,432)
Charge for the year
1
  (675) (179)  (854)
Impairment  (39) (4)  (43)
Disposals  111 167   278 
Amount written off  57 47   104 
Other changes  206 171   377 
At 31 December 2013  (3,809) (1,761)  (5,570)
Net carrying amount at 31 December 2013  2,190 1,214   3,404 
1 The amortisation charge for the year is recognised within the income statement under ‘Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets’, with 
the exception of the amortisation of mortgage servicing rights which is recognised in ‘Net fee income’. The revaluation net of amortisation 
charge for mortgage servicing rights was US$67m in 2014 (2013: credit of US$34m). 
22 Investments in subsidiaries 
Accounting policy 
 
HSBC classifies investments in entities which it controls as subsidiaries. HSBC consolidation policy is described in Note 1(h). Subsidiaries 
which are structured entities are covered in Note 39. 
HSBC Holdings’ investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairment losses. Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are 
reversed through the income statement if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the investment’s recoverable 
amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. 
  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
22 – Investments in subsidiaries 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
414 
Principal subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings 
 At 31 December 2014 
 
 Country of
 incorporation
 or registration 
HSBC’s
interest in
equity capital
% 
Issued 
equity 
capital  
 Share
 class 
Europe    
HSBC Asset Finance (UK) Limited England 100 £265m   Ordinary £1
HSBC Bank A.S.  Turkey 100 TRL652m 
 
 A–Common TRL1
 B–Common TRL1 
HSBC Bank plc  England 100 £797m 
 
 Ordinary £1
 Preferred Ordinary £1
 Series 2 Third Dollar 
 Preference US$0.01
 Third Dollar 
 Preference US$0.01 
HSBC France  France 99.99 €337m   Shares €5.00
HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA  Switzerland 100 CHF1,363m   Ordinary CHF1,000
HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG  Germany 80.65 €75.4m   Shares of no par value
    
Asia    
Hang Seng Bank Limited
1
  Hong Kong 62.14 HK$9, 658m   Ordinary no par value
HSBC Bank Australia Limited  Australia 100 A$811m   Ordinary no par value
HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited  PRC
5
100 RMB15,400m   Ordinary CNY1.00
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad  Malaysia 100 RM115m   Ordinary RM0.50
HSBC Bank (Taiwan) Limited  Taiwan 100 TWD34,800m   Ordinary TWD10.00
HSBC Life (International) Limited Bermuda 100 HK$4,178m   Ordinary HK$1.00
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited Hong Kong 100 HK$96,052m 
 
 Ordinary no par value
 CIP
2
 US$1.00
 CRP
3
 US$1.00
 NIP
4
 US$1.00 
    
Middle East and North Africa    
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited Jersey 100 US$931m 
 
 Ordinary US$1.00
 CRP
3
 US$1.00 
HSBC Bank Egypt S.A.E.  Egypt 94.53 EGP2,796m   Ordinary EGP84.00
    
North America    
HSBC Bank Canada   Canada  100 C$1,225m  
 Common shares of no
 par value 
HSBC Bank USA, N.A.  USA 100 US$2m   Common US$100
HSBC Finance Corporation  USA 100 –
6
   Common US$0.01
HSBC Securities (USA) Inc.  USA 100 –
6
   Common US$0.05
    
Latin America    
HSBC Bank Argentina S.A.  Argentina 99.99 ARS1,244m 
 
 Ordinary–A ARS1.00
 Ordinary–B ARS1.00 
HSBC Bank Brasil S.A. – Banco Múltiplo  Brazil 100 BRL6,402m   Shares of no par value
HSBC Mexico, S.A., Institución de Banca Múltiple,  
Grupo Financiero HSBC   Mexico  99.99 MXN5,681m   Ordinary MXN2.00 
1 Listed in Hong Kong. 4 Non-cumulative Irredeemable Preference shares.  
2 Cumulative Irredeemable Preference shares. 5 People’s Republic of China.
3 Cumulative Redeemable Preference shares. 6 Issued equity capital is less than US$1m.
Details of the debt, subordinated debt and preference shares issued by the principal subsidiaries to parties external to the Group are included in the 
Notes 26 ‘Debt securities in issue’, 30 ‘Subordinated liabilities’ and 34 ‘Non-controlling interests’, respectively. 
All the above subsidiaries are included in the HSBC consolidated financial statements. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
415 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Details of all HSBC subsidiaries, as required under Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, will be annexed to the next 
Annual Return of HSBC Holdings filed with the UK Registrar of Companies. 
The principal countries of operation are the same as the countries of incorporation except for HSBC Bank Middle East 
Limited, which operates mainly in the Middle East and North Africa, and HSBC Life (International) Limited, which operates 
mainly in Hong Kong. 
HSBC is structured as a network of regional banks and locally incorporated regulated banking entities. Each bank is 
separately capitalised in accordance with applicable prudential requirements and maintains a capital buffer consistent 
with the Group’s risk appetite for the relevant country or region. Our capital management process culminates in the 
annual Group capital plan, which is approved by the Board. HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its 
subsidiaries and also provides them with non-equity capital where necessary. These investments are substantially funded 
by HSBC Holdings’ issuance of equity and non-equity capital and by profit retention. As part of its capital management 
process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a balance between the composition of its capital and its investment in 
subsidiaries. Subject to the above, there is no current or foreseen impediment to HSBC Holdings’ ability to provide such 
investments. The ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other 
things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, statutory reserves, and financial and operating 
performance. During 2014 and 2013, none of the Group’s subsidiaries experienced significant restrictions on paying 
dividends or repaying loans and advances. Also, there are no foreseen restrictions envisaged by our subsidiaries on paying 
dividends or repaying loans and advances. 
The amount of guarantees by HSBC Holdings in favour of other HSBC Group entities is set out in Note 37. 
Structured entities consolidated by HSBC where HSBC owns less than 50% of the voting rights 
 Carrying value of total
consolidated assets Nature of SPE 
 2014 2013
 US$bn US$bn
Solitaire Funding Ltd  9.0 10.2 Securities investment conduit
Mazarin Funding Limited  3.9 7.4 Securities investment conduit
Barion Funding Limited  2.0 3.8 Securities investment conduit
Malachite Funding Limited  1.4 3.0 Securities investment conduit
HSBC Home Equity Loan Corporation I  1.9 2.1 Securitisation 
HSBC Home Equity Loan Corporation II  0.9 1.6 Securitisation 
Regency Assets Limited  11.0 13.5 Conduit 
Bryant Park Funding LLC  – 0.4 Conduit 
In addition to the above, HSBC consolidates a number of individually insignificant structured entities with total assets of 
US$22.9bn (2013: US$26.1bn). For further details, see Note 39. 
In each of the above cases, HSBC controls and consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns 
from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.  
Subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests 
 2014 2013
Hang Seng Bank Limited  
Proportion of ownership interests and voting rights held by non-controlling interests 37.86%  37.86%
Place of business  Hong Kong Hong Kong
  
 US$m US$m
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests  760 1,332
Accumulated non-controlling interests of the subsidiary 5,765 4,591
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests  513 495
Summarised financial information:   
– total assets  160,769 145,380
– total liabilities  144,642 133,253
– net operating income before loan impairment  3,687 4,876
– profit for the year  2,007 3,517
– total comprehensive income for the year  4,460 3,145
 
  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
23 – Prepayments, accrued income and other assets / 24 – Trading liabilities / 25 – Financial liabilities at FV 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
416 
23 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 
Accounting policy 
 
Assets held for sale 
Assets and liabilities of disposal groups and non-current assets are classified as held for sale when their carrying amounts will be 
recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use. Held-for-sale assets are generally measured at the lower of their 
carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell, except for those assets and liabilities that are not within the scope of the measurement 
requirements of IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations’. 
Immediately before the initial classification as held for sale, the carrying amounts of the relevant assets and liabilities are measured in 
accordance with applicable IFRSs. On subsequent remeasurement of a disposal group, the carrying amounts of any assets and liabilities 
that are not within the scope of the measurement requirements of IFRS 5, but are included in a disposal group classified as held for sale, 
are remeasured under applicable IFRSs before the fair value less costs to sell of the disposal group is determined. 
Property, plant and equipment 
Land and buildings are stated at historical cost, or fair value at the date of transition to IFRSs (‘deemed cost’), less impairment losses and 
depreciation over their estimated useful lives, as follows: 
• freehold land is not depreciated; 
• freehold buildings are depreciated at the greater of 2% per annum on a straight-line basis or over their remaining useful lives; and 
• leasehold land and buildings are depreciated over the shorter of their unexpired terms of the leases or their remaining useful lives. 
Equipment, fixtures and fittings (including equipment on operating leases where HSBC is the lessor) are stated at cost less impairment 
losses and depreciation over their useful lives, which are generally between 5 years and 20 years. 
Property, plant and equipment is subject to an impairment review if their carrying amount may not be recoverable.  
HSBC holds certain properties as investments to earn rentals or for capital appreciation, or both, and those investment properties are 
included on balance sheet at fair value. 
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 
 2014  2013
 US$m  US$m
Prepayments and accrued income 10,554  11,006
Assets held for sale 7,647  4,050
Bullion  15,726  22,929
Endorsements and acceptances 10,775  11,624
Reinsurers’ share of liabilities under insurance contracts (Note 28) 1,032  1,408
Employee benefit assets (Note 6) 5,028  2,140
Other accounts  13,882  12,838
Property, plant and equipment 10,532  10,847
At 31 December 75,176  76,842
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets include US$40,622m (2013: US$37,635m) of financial assets, the majority 
of which are measured at amortised cost. 
Property, plant and equipment – selected information 
 2014  2013
 US$m  US$m
Cost or fair value 21,831  21,927
Accumulated depreciation and impairment  11,299  11,080
Net carrying amount at 31 December 10,532  10,847
Additions at cost 1,477  1,980
Disposals at net book value 69  267
Property, plant and equipment
1
:  
Land and buildings 5,234  5,661
– freehold 1,769  2,062
– long leasehold  1,252  1,266
– medium and short leasehold 2,213  2,333
Investment properties
2
 2,236  1,945
1 Includes nil freehold (2013: nil), US$1,306m long leasehold (2013: US$1,309m), US$2,638m medium leasehold (2013: US$2,472m) and nil short 
leasehold (2013: US$2m) in Hong Kong. 
2 Investment properties are valued on a market value basis as at 31 December each year by independent professional valuers who have recent 
experience in the location and type of properties. Investment properties in Hong Kong, the Macau Special Administrative Region and mainland 
China, which represent more than 74% by value of HSBC’s investment properties subject to revaluation, were valued by DTZ Debenham Tie Leung 
Limited whose valuers are members of the Hong Kong Institute of Surveyors. Properties in other countries, which represent 26% by value of 
HSBC’s investment properties, were valued by different independent professionally qualified valuers. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
417 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
24 Trading liabilities 
Accounting policy 
 
Trading liabilities are classified as held for trading if they have been acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or 
repurchasing in the near term, or form part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which 
there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit-taking. They are recognised on trade date, when HSBC enters into contractual 
arrangements with counterparties, and are normally derecognised when extinguished. They are initially measured at fair value, with 
subsequent changes in fair value and interest paid recognised in the income statement in ‘Net trading income’. 
The sale of borrowed securities is classified as trading liabilities. 
Trading liabilities 
 2014 
US$m  
2013
US$m 
Deposits by banks
1
   41,453 43,130
Customer accounts
1
  50,600 57,688
Other debt securities in issue (Note 26) 33,602 32,155
Other liabilities – net short positions in securities  64,917 74,052
At 31 December 190,572 207,025
1 Deposits by banks and customer accounts include repos, settlement accounts, stock lending and other amounts. 
At 31 December 2014, the cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in HSBC’s credit risk was a 
loss of US$79m (2013: loss of US$95m). 
25 Financial liabilities designated at fair value  
Accounting policy 
 
The criteria for designating instruments at fair value and their measurement are described in Note 15. The fair value designation, once 
made, is irrevocable. Designated financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC enters into contracts with counterparties and are normally 
derecognised when extinguished. This section provides examples of such designations:  
• Long-term debt issues. The interest payable on certain fixed rate long-term debt securities issued has been matched with the interest 
on certain interest rate swaps as part of a documented interest rate risk management strategy. An accounting mismatch would arise if 
the debt securities issued were accounted for at amortised cost, and this mismatch is eliminated through the fair value designation. 
• Financial liabilities under unit-linked and non-linked investment contracts.  
HSBC issues contracts to customers that contain insurance risk, financial risk or a combination thereof. A contract under which HSBC 
accepts insignificant insurance risk from another party is not classified as an insurance contract, but is accounted for as a financial 
liability. See Note 28 for contracts where HSBC accepts significant insurance risk. 
Customer liabilities under linked and certain non-linked investment contracts issued by insurance subsidiaries and the corresponding 
financial assets are designated at fair value. Liabilities are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is calculated by 
reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices. Premiums receivable and amounts withdrawn are accounted for as 
increases or decreases in the liability recorded in respect of investment contracts. The incremental costs directly related to the 
acquisition of new investment contracts or renewing existing investment contracts are deferred and amortised over the period during 
which the investment management services are provided. 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value – HSBC 
 2014  2013
 US$m  US$m
Deposits by banks and customer accounts  160  315 
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts  6,312  13,491 
Debt securities in issue (Note 26) 46,364  53,363 
Subordinated liabilities (Note 30) 21,822  18,230 
Preferred securities (Note 30)  1,495  3,685 
At 31 December 76,153  89,084 
The carrying amount at 31 December 2014 of financial liabilities designated at fair value was US$5,813m more than the 
contractual amount at maturity (2013: US$4,375m more). The cumulative amount of the change in fair value attributable 
to changes in credit risk was a loss of US$870m (2013: loss of US$1,334m). 
   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
26 – Debt securities in issue / 27 – Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities / 28 – Liabilities under insurance contracts 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
418 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value – HSBC Holdings 
 2014  2013
 US$m  US$m
Debt securities in issue (Note 26):  
–  owed to third parties  8,185  8,106 
Subordinated liabilities (Note 30):  
–  owed to third parties 9,513  9,760 
–  owed to HSBC undertakings 981  3,161 
At 31 December 18,679  21,027 
The carrying amount at 31 December 2014 of financial liabilities designated at fair value was US$2,694m more than 
the contractual amount at maturity (2013: US$2,309m more). The cumulative amount of the change in fair value 
attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of US$520m (2013: loss of US$859m). 
26 Debt securities in issue 
Accounting policy 
 
Financial liabilities for debt securities issued are recognised when HSBC enters into contractual arrangements with counterparties and 
initially measured at fair value, which is normally the consideration received, net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred. 
Subsequent measurement of financial liabilities, other than those measured at fair value through profit or loss and financial guarantees, 
is at amortised cost, using the effective interest method to amortise the difference between proceeds received, net of directly 
attributable transaction costs incurred, and the redemption amount over the expected life of the instrument. 
Debt securities in issue – HSBC 
 2014  2013
 US$m  US$m
Bonds and medium-term notes 132,539  146,116
Other debt securities in issue  43,374  43,482
 175,913  189,598
Of which debt securities in issue reported as:  
–  trading liabilities (Note 24) (33,602) (32,155)
–  financial liabilities designated at fair value (Note 25) (46,364) (53,363)
At 31 December 95,947 104,080
Debt securities in issue – HSBC Holdings 
 2014  2013
 US$m  US$m
Debt securities  9,194 10,897
Of which debt securities in issue reported as:  
–  financial liabilities designated at fair value (Note 25) (8,185) (8,106)
At 31 December 1,009 2,791 
27 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 
 2014  2013
 US$m  US$m
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 6,934  2,804
Accruals and deferred income 15,075  16,185
Amounts due to investors in funds consolidated by HSBC 782  1,008
Obligations under finance leases 67  252
Endorsements and acceptances 10,760  11,614
Employee benefit liabilities (Note 6) 3,208  2,931
Other liabilities  16,570  17,547
At 31 December 53,396  52,341
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities include US$43,840m (2013: US$46,258m) of financial liabilities, the 
majority of which are measured at amortised cost. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
419 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
28 Liabilities under insurance contracts 
Accounting policy 
 HSBC issues contracts to customers that contain insurance risk, financial risk or a combination thereof. A contract under which HSBC 
accepts significant insurance risk from another party by agreeing to compensate that party on the occurrence of a specified uncertain 
future event, is classified as an insurance contract. An insurance contract may also transfer financial risk, but is accounted for as an 
insurance contract if the insurance risk is significant. 
Liabilities under insurance contracts 
Liabilities under non-linked life insurance contracts are calculated by each life insurance operation based on local actuarial principles. 
Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts are at least equivalent to the surrender or transfer value which is calculated by 
reference to the value of the relevant underlying funds or indices. 
A liability adequacy test is carried out on insurance liabilities to ensure that the carrying amount of the liabilities is sufficient in the light 
of current estimates of future cash flows. When performing the liability adequacy test, all contractual cash flows are discounted and 
compared with the carrying value of the liability. When a shortfall is identified it is charged immediately to the income statement. 
Future profit participation on insurance contracts with DPF 
Where contracts provide discretionary profit participation benefits to policyholders, liabilities for these contracts include provisions for 
the future discretionary benefits to policyholders. These provisions reflect actual performance of the investment portfolio to date and 
management expectation of the future performance of the assets backing the contracts, as well as other experience factors such as 
mortality, lapses and operational efficiency, where appropriate. This benefit may arise from the contractual terms, regulation, or past 
distribution policy. 
Investment contracts with DPF 
While investment contracts with DPF are financial instruments, they continue to be treated as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4. 
The Group therefore recognises the premiums for those contracts as revenue and recognises as an expense the resulting increase in the 
carrying amount of the liability. 
In the case of net unrealised investment gains on these contracts, whose discretionary benefits principally reflect the actual performance 
of the investment portfolio, the corresponding increase in the liabilities is recognised in either the income statement or other 
comprehensive income, following the treatment of the unrealised gains on the relevant assets. In the case of net unrealised losses, a 
deferred participating asset is recognised only to the extent that its recoverability is highly probable. Movements in the liabilities arising 
from realised gains and losses on relevant assets are recognised in the income statement. 
Liabilities under insurance contracts 
 
Gross 
Reinsurers’ 
share  Net 
 US$m US$m  US$m
Non-linked insurance contracts
1
  
At 1 January 2014 33,950 (1,118)  32,832
Claims and benefits paid  (3,575) 175  (3,400)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders  7,764 (409)  7,355
Disposals/transfers to held-for-sale  (589) 527  (62)
Exchange differences and other movements  (577) 53  (524)
At 31 December 2014 36,973 (772)  36,201
   
Investment contracts with discretionary participation features  
At 1 January 2014 26,427 –  26,427
Claims and benefits paid  (2,175) –  (2,175)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders  3,188 –  3,188
Exchange differences and other movements
2
  (2,372) –  (2,372)
At 31 December 2014 25,068 –  25,068
   
Linked life insurance contracts   
At 1 January 2014 13,804 (290)  13,514
Claims and benefits paid  (1,499) 88  (1,411)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders  2,762 33  2,795
Disposals/transfers to held-for-sale (2,547) 74  (2,473)
Exchange differences and other movements
3
  (700) (165)  (865)
At 31 December 2014 11,820 (260)  11,560
Total liabilities to policyholders at 31 December 2014 73,861 (1,032)  72,829
   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
29 – Provisions 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
420 
 
Gross 
Reinsurers’ 
share  Net 
 US$m US$m  US$m
   
Non-linked insurance contracts
1
  
At 1 January 2013 30,765 (952)  29,813
Claims and benefits paid  (3,014) 164  (2,850)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders  6,892 (367)  6,525
Disposals/transfers to held-for-sale  (52) 13  (39)
Exchange differences and other movements  (641) 24  (617)
At 31 December 2013 33,950 (1,118)  32,832
   
Investment contracts with discretionary participation features   
At 1 January 2013 24,374 –  24,374
Claims and benefits paid  (2,308) –  (2,308)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders  3,677 –  3,677
Exchange differences and other movements
2
  684 –  684
At 31 December 2013 26,427 –  26,427
   
Linked life insurance contracts   
At 1 January 2013 13,056 (455)  12,601
Claims and benefits paid  (1,976) 426  (1,550)
Increase in liabilities to policyholders  3,379 111  3,490
Exchange differences and other movements
3
  (655) (372)  (1,027)
At 31 December 2013 13,804 (290)  13,514
Total liabilities to policyholders at 31 December 2013 74,181 (1,408)  72,773
1 Includes liabilities under non-life insurance contracts. 
2 Includes movement in liabilities relating to discretionary profit participation benefits due to policyholders arising from net unrealised investment 
gains recognised in other comprehensive income. 
3 Includes amounts arising under reinsurance agreements. 
The increase in liabilities to policyholders represents the aggregate of all events giving rise to additional liabilities to 
policyholders in the year. The key factors contributing to the movement in liabilities to policyholders include death claims, 
surrenders, lapses, liabilities to policyholders created at the initial inception of the policies, the declaration of bonuses and 
other amounts attributable to policyholders. 
29 Provisions 
Accounting policy 
 
Provisions are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle a present legal or 
constructive obligation, which has arisen as a result of past events and for which a reliable estimate can be made. 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 
 
Provisions 
Judgement is involved in determining whether a present obligation exists and in estimating the probability, timing and amount of any 
outflows. Professional expert advice is taken on the assessment of litigation, property (including onerous contracts) and similar 
obligations. 
Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory matters typically require a higher degree of judgement than other types of provisions. 
When matters are at an early stage, accounting judgements can be difficult because of the high degree of uncertainty associated with 
determining whether a present obligation exists, and estimating the probability and amount of any outflows that may arise. As matters 
progress, management and legal advisers evaluate on an ongoing basis whether provisions should be recognised, revising previous 
judgements and estimates as appropriate. At more advanced stages, it is typically easier to make judgements and estimates around 
a better defined set of possible outcomes. However, the amount provisioned can remain very sensitive to the assumptions used. There 
could be a wide range of possible outcomes for any pending legal proceedings, investigations or inquiries. As a result, it is often not 
practicable to quantify a range of possible outcomes for individual matters. It is also not practicable to meaningfully quantify ranges 
of potential outcomes in aggregate for these types of provisions because of the diverse nature and circumstances of such matters and 
the wide range of uncertainties involved. 
Provisions for customer remediation also require significant levels of estimation and judgement. The amounts of provisions recognised 
depend on a number of different assumptions, for example, the volume of inbound complaints, the projected period of inbound 
complaint volumes, the decay rate of complaint volumes, the population identified as systemically mis-sold and the number of policies 
per customer complaint. 
 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
421 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Provisions 
 
Restructuring
costs 
Contractual
commitments 
Legal
proceedings
and regulatory
matters 
Customer
remediation 
Other 
provisions Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
At 1 January 2014  271 177 1,832 2,382 555 5,217
Additional provisions/increase in 
provisions  147 136 1,752 1,440 154 3,629 
Provisions utilised  (143) (2) (1,109) (1,769) (112) (3,135)
Amounts reversed  (43) (46) (281) (184) (66) (620)
Unwinding of discounts  – 1 43 10 11 65
Exchange differences and other 
movements  (35) (32) (53) (48) 10 (158)
At 31 December 2014  197 234 2,184 1,831 552 4,998
  
At 1 January 2013  251 301 1,667 2,387 646  5,252 
Additional provisions/increase in 
provisions  179 57 1,209 1,536 230  3,211 
Provisions utilised  (111) (5) (709) (1,487) (167) (2,479)
Amounts reversed  (65) (66) (340) (94) (126) (691)
Unwinding of discounts  – – 38 7 13  58 
Exchange differences and other 
movements  17 (110) (33) 33 (41) (134)
At 31 December 2013  271 177 1,832 2,382 555  5,217 
Further details of legal proceedings and regulatory matters are set out in Note 40, including the provisions made on 
foreign exchange rate investigations and litigation. Legal proceedings include civil court, arbitration or tribunal 
proceedings brought against HSBC companies (whether by way of claim or counterclaim) or civil disputes that may, if not 
settled, result in court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings. Regulatory matters refer to investigations, reviews and other 
actions carried out by, or in response to the actions of, regulators or law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged 
wrongdoing by HSBC.  
Customer remediation refers to activities carried out by HSBC to compensate customers for losses or damages associated 
with a failure to comply with regulations or to treat customers fairly. Customer remediation is initiated by HSBC in 
response to customer complaints and/or industry developments in sales practices, and is not necessarily initiated by 
regulatory action. 
Payment protection insurance 
At 31 December 2014, a provision of US$1,079m (31 December 2013: US$946m) was held relating to the estimated 
liability for redress in respect of the possible mis-selling of payment protection insurance (‘PPI’) policies in previous 
years. An increase in provisions of US$960m was recognised during the year, primarily reflecting an increase in inbound 
complaints by claims management companies compared to previous forecasts. The current projected trend of inbound 
complaint volumes implies that the redress programme will be complete by the first quarter of 2018. However, this timing 
is subject to uncertainty as the trend may change over time based on actual experience.  
Cumulative provisions made since the Judicial Review ruling in the first half of 2011 amounted to US$4.2bn of which 
US$3.2bn had been paid as at 31 December 2014. 
The estimated liability for redress is calculated on the basis of total premiums paid by the customer plus simple interest of 
8% per annum (or the rate inherent in the related loan product where higher). The basis for calculating the redress liability 
is the same for single premium and regular premium policies. Future estimated redress levels are based on historically 
observed redress per policy. 
A total of approximately 5.4m PPI policies have been sold by HSBC since 2000, generating estimated revenues of US$4.3bn 
at 2014 average exchange rates. The gross written premiums on these polices was approximately US$5.6bn at 2014 
average exchange rates. At 31 December 2014, the estimated total complaints expected to be received was 1.9m, 
representing 36% of total policies sold. It is estimated that contact will be made with regard to 2.3m policies, representing 
42% of total policies sold. This estimate includes inbound complaints as well as HSBC’s proactive contact exercise on 
certain policies (‘outbound contact’). 
The following table details the cumulative number of complaints received at 31 December 2014 and the number of claims 
expected in the future: 
   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
29 – Provisions / 30 – Subordinated liabilities 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
422 
 Cumulative to 
 31 December 
 2014  
 Future 
 expected 
Inbound complaints
1
 (000s of policies)  1,215  344
Outbound contact (000s of policies)  448  291
Response rate to outbound contact  51%   51%
Average uphold rate per claim
2
77%   71%
Average redress per claim (US$) 2,611  3,115
1 Excludes invalid claims where the complainant has not held a PPI policy. 
2 Claims include inbound and responses to outbound contact. 
The main assumptions involved in calculating the redress liability are the volume of inbound complaints, the projected 
period of inbound complaints, the decay rate of complaint volumes, the population identified as systemically mis-sold and 
the number of policies per customer complaint. The main assumptions are likely to evolve over time as root cause analysis 
continues, more experience is available regarding customer initiated complaint volumes received, and we handle 
responses to our ongoing outbound contact.  
A 100,000 increase/decrease in the total inbound complaints would increase/decrease the redress provision by 
approximately US$222m at 2014 average exchange rates. Each 1% increase/decrease in the response rate to our 
outbound contact exercise would increase/decrease the redress provision by approximately US$13m.  
In addition to these factors and assumptions, the extent of the required redress will also depend on the facts and 
circumstances of each individual customer’s case. For these reasons, there is currently a high degree of uncertainty 
as to the eventual costs of redress. 
Interest rate derivatives 
At 31 December 2014, a provision of US$312m (31 December 2013: US$776m) was held relating to the estimated liability 
for redress in respect of the possible mis-selling of interest rate derivatives in the UK. The provision relates to the 
estimated redress payable to customers in respect of historical payments under derivative contracts, the expected write-
off by the bank of open derivative contract balances, and estimated project costs. An increase in the provision of 
US$288m was recorded during the year, reflecting updated claims experience and the announcement by the FCA on 
28 January 2015 of the extension of the scheme to 31 March 2015, and expectation of an additional population who will 
opt into the scheme following communications to affected customers. 
The extent to which HSBC is ultimately required to pay redress depends on the responses of contacted and other 
customers during the review period and analysis of the facts and circumstances of each individual case, including 
consequential loss claims received. For these reasons, there is currently a high degree of uncertainty as to the eventual 
costs of redress related to this programme. 
UK Consumer Credit Act 
HSBC has undertaken a review of compliance with the fixed-sum unsecured loan agreement requirements of the UK 
Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’). US$379m has been recognised at 31 December 2014 within ‘Accruals, deferred income and 
other liabilities’ for the repayment of interest to customers, primarily where annual statements did not remind them of 
their right to partially prepay the loan, notwithstanding that the customer loan documentation did refer to this right. The 
cumulative liability to date is US$591m, of which payments of US$212m have been made to customers. There is 
uncertainty as to whether other technical requirements of the CCA have been met, for which we have assessed the 
contingent liability as up to US$0.9bn. 
Brazilian labour, civil and fiscal claims 
Within ‘Legal proceedings and regulatory matters’ above are labour, civil and fiscal litigation provisions of US$501m 
(2013: US$500m). Of these provisions, US$246m (2013: US$232m) was in respect of labour and overtime litigation 
claims brought by past employees against HSBC operations in Brazil following their departure from the bank. The main 
assumptions involved in estimating the liability are the expected number of departing employees, individual salary levels 
and the facts and circumstances of each individual case. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
423 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
30 Subordinated liabilities  
HSBC  
 2014  2013
 US$m  US$m
Subordinated liabilities   
At amortised cost  26,664 28,976
–  subordinated liabilities  22,355 24,573
–  preferred securities  4,309 4,403
Designated at fair value (Note 25)  23,317 21,915
–  subordinated liabilities  21,822 18,230
–  preferred securities 1,495 3,685
At 31 December 49,981 50,891
Subordinated liabilities  
HSBC Holdings  25,277 22,308
Other HSBC  24,704 28,583
At 31 December 49,981 50,891
HSBC’s subordinated liabilities 
Subordinated liabilities rank behind senior obligations and generally count towards the capital base of HSBC. Where 
applicable, capital securities may be called and redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the PRA and, where 
relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator. If not redeemed at the first call date, coupons payable may step-up 
or become floating rate based on interbank rates. 
Interest rates on the floating rate capital securities are generally related to interbank offered rates. On the remaining 
capital securities, interest is payable at fixed rates of up to 10.176%. 
The balance sheet amounts disclosed below are presented on an IFRSs basis and do not reflect the amount that the 
instruments contribute to regulatory capital due to the inclusion of issuance costs, regulatory amortisation and regulatory 
eligibility limits prescribed in the grandfathering provisions under CRD IV. 
HSBC’s subordinated liabilities in issue 
  
First call
date
Maturity 
date 
 2014 
US$m 
2013
US$m 
Additional tier 1 capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings plc
1
   
€1,400m 5.3687% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities
2
Mar 2014  – 2,022
£500m 8.208% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Jun 2015  779 825
€750m 5.13% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Mar 2016  979 1,129
US$900m 
10.176% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities, 
series 2  Jun 2030 891 891 
    2,649 4,867
Additional tier 1 capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc
1
   
£300m 5.862% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Apr 2020  515 534
£700m 5.844% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities Nov 2031  1,091 1,157
    1,606 1,691
Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank plc    
£500m 4.75% callable subordinated notes
3
 Sep 2015 Sep 2020  802 866
£350m 5.00% callable subordinated notes
4
 Mar 2018 Mar 2023  605 635
£300m 6.50% subordinated notes  – Jul 2023  466 494
£350m 5.375% callable subordinated step-up notes
5
Nov 2025 Nov 2030  620 602
£500m 5.375% subordinated notes  – Aug 2033  905 884
£225m 6.25% subordinated notes  – Jan 2041  349 370
£600m 4.75% subordinated notes  – Mar 2046  924 980
€500m Callable subordinated floating rate notes
6
Sep 2015 Sep 2020  588 655
US$300m 7.65% subordinated notes  – May 2025  400 380
US$750m Undated floating rate primary capital notes Jun 1990  750 751
US$500m Undated floating rate primary capital notes Sep 1990  500 499
US$300m Undated floating rate primary capital notes, series 3 Jun 1992  300 299
    7,209 7,415 Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
30 – Subordinated liabilities 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
424 
  
First call
date
Maturity 
date 
 2014 
US$m 
2013
US$m 
Tier 2 securities issued by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd   
US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes Aug 1990  403 404
US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes (second series) Dec 1990  401 402
US$400m Primary capital undated floating rate notes (third series) Jul 1991  400 400
    1,204 1,206
Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank Australia Limited    
AUD200m Callable subordinated floating rate notes Nov 2015 Nov 2020  164  179
    164  179
Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad    
MYR500m 4.35% subordinated bonds Jun 2017 Jun 2022  143  152
MYR500m 5.05% subordinated bonds  Nov 2022 Nov 2027  144  154
    287  306
Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC USA Inc.     
US$200m 7.808% capital securities  Dec 2006 Dec 2026  200  200
US$200m 8.38% capital securities  May 2007 May 2027  200  200
US$150m 9.50% subordinated debt
7
 – Apr 2014  –  151
US$150m 7.75% Capital Trust pass through securities Nov 2006 Nov 2026  150  150
US$750m 5.00% subordinated notes  – Sep 2020  738  746
US$250m 7.20% subordinated debentures  – Jul 2097  216  215
 Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$150m   297  299
    1,801  1,961
Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank USA, N.A.     
US$1,000m 4.625% subordinated notes
7
 – Apr 2014  –  1,000
US$500m 6.00% subordinated notes  – Aug 2017  508  513
US$1,250m 4.875% subordinated notes  – Aug 2020  1,210  1,262
US$1,000m 5.875% subordinated notes  – Nov 2034  1,245  1,081
US$750m 5.625% subordinated notes  – Aug 2035  934  811
US$700m 7.00% subordinated notes  – Jan 2039  676  696
    4,573  5,363
Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Finance Corporation     
US$1,000m 5.911% trust preferred securities
8
 Nov 2015 Nov 2035  998  996
US$2,939m 6.676% senior subordinated notes
9
 – Jan 2021  2,185  2,182
    3,183  3,178
Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank Brazil S.A.     
BRL383m Subordinated certificates of deposit  – Feb 2015  144  162
BRL500m Subordinated floating rate certificates of deposit – Dec 2016  188  212
 Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$150m
10
  81  224
    413  598
Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank Canada     
CAD400m 4.80% subordinated debentures  Apr 2017 Apr 2022  367  403
CAD200m 4.94% subordinated debentures  Mar 2016 Mar 2021  172  188
CAD39m Floating rate debentures  Oct 1996 Nov 2083  34  37
    573  628
Securities issued by HSBC Mexico, S.A.     
MXN1,818m Non-convertible subordinated obligations
11
Sep 2013 Sep 2018  124  138
MXN2,273m Non-convertible subordinated obligations
11
Dec 2013 Dec 2018  154  173
US$300m Non-convertible subordinated obligations
11,12
Jun 2014 Jun 2019  240  240
    518  551
Securities issued by other HSBC subsidiaries     
Other subordinated liabilities each less than US$200m
11
  524  640
Total of subordinated liabilities issued by HSBC subsidiaries  24,704  28,583
  1 See paragraph below, ‘Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank’. 
  2 In March 2014, HSBC called and redeemed the €1,400m 5.3687% non-cumulative step-up perpetual preferred securities at par. 
  3 The interest rate payable after September 2015 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 0.82%. 
  4 The interest rate payable after March 2018 is the sum of the gross redemption yield of the then prevailing five-year UK gilt plus 1.80%. 
  5 The interest rate payable after November 2025 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 1.50%. 
  6 The interest margin increases by 0.5% from September 2015. 
  7 In April 2014, HSBC redeemed the $1,000m 4.625% subordinated notes and the 9.5% subordinated debt security at par. 
  8 The distributions change in November 2015 to three-month dollar Libor plus 1.926%. 
  9 Approximately 25% of the senior subordinated notes are held by HSBC Holdings. 
10 Some securities included here are ineligible for inclusion in the capital base of HSBC in accordance with guidance in PRA’s GENPRU as applied in 
2013 and CRD IV rules as applied in 2014. 
11 These securities are ineligible for inclusion in the capital base of HSBC in accordance with guidance in PRA’s GENPRU as applied in 2013 and 
CRD IV rules as applied in 2014. 
12 Approximately US$60m of the subordinated obligations are held by HSBC Holdings.    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
425 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
HSBC Holdings 
  2014  2013
  US$m  US$m
Subordinated liabilities:    
– at amortised cost   17,255  14,167 
– designated at fair value (Note 25)   10,494  12,921 
At 31 December 27,749  27,088 
HSBC Holdings’ subordinated liabilities 
  
First call
 date 
Maturity
 date  
2014 
US$m 
2013
US$m 
Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Holdings plc   
Amounts owed to third parties   
US$488m 7.625% subordinated notes
1
  – May 2032 538  554
US$222m 7.35% subordinated notes
1
  – Nov 2032 278  278
US$2,000m 6.5% subordinated notes
1
  – May 2036 2,029  2,029
US$2,500m 6.5% subordinated notes
1
  – Sep 2037 3,278  3,039
US$1,500m 6.8% subordinated notes
1
  – Jun 2038 1,487  1,487
US$2,000m 4.25% subordinated notes
2,5
 – Mar 2024 2,069  –
US$1,500m 5.25% subordinated notes
2,5
 – Mar 2044 1,735  –
£900m 6.375% callable subordinated notes
1,3
 Oct 2017 Oct 2022 1,558  1,672
£650m 5.75% subordinated notes
2
 – Dec 2027 1,176  1,158
£650m 6.75% subordinated notes
2
  – Sep 2028 1,005  1,066
£750m 7.0% subordinated notes
2
  – Apr 2038 1,217  1,288
£900m 6.0% subordinated notes
2
  – Mar 2040 1,379  1,464
€1,600m 6.25% subordinated notes
2
  – Mar 2018 1,950  2,210
€1,750m 6.0% subordinated notes
2
  – Jun 2019 2,623  2,884
€700m 3.625% callable subordinated notes
1,4
 Jun 2015 Jun 2020 878  1,007
€1,500m 3.375% callable subordinated notes
1,2,5
Jan 2019 Jan 2024 1,898  2,075
  25,098  22,211
    
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings    
€1,400m 5.3687% fixed/floating subordinated notes
6
Mar 2014 Dec 2043 –  2,024
£500m 8.208% subordinated step-up cumulative notes Jun 2015 Jun 2040 779  825
€750m 5.13% fixed/floating subordinated notes Mar 2016 Dec 2044 981  1,137
US$900m 10.176% subordinated step-up cumulative notes Jun 2030 Jun 2040 891  891
  2,651  4,877
At 31 December  27,749  27,088
1 Amounts owed to third parties represent securities included in the capital base of HSBC as tier 2 securities in accordance with the grandfathering 
provisions under CRD IV rules. 
2 These securities are included in the capital base of HSBC as fully CRD IV compliant tier 2 securities on an end point basis. 
3 The interest rate payable after October 2017 is the sum of the three-month sterling Libor plus 1.3%. 
4 The interest rate payable after June 2015 is the sum of the three-month Euribor plus 0.93%. 
5 These subordinated notes are measured at amortised cost in HSBC Holdings, where the interest rate risk is hedged using a fair value hedge, 
while they are measured at fair value in the Group. 
6 In March 2014, HSBC Holdings called and redeemed the €1,400m 5.3687% fixed/floating subordinated notes at par. 
Additional tier 1 capital securities 
Additional tier 1 capital securities are included in HSBC’s capital base as tier 1 capital and are perpetual subordinated 
securities on which investors are entitled, subject to certain conditions, to receive distributions which are non-cumulative. 
Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank above ordinary shares for coupon payments and in the event 
of a winding-up. The eligibility criteria for tier 1 securities changed on the introduction of CRD IV rules on 1 January 2014. 
For further guidance on the criteria for additional tier 1 securities, see note 35. Instruments issued before CRD IV comes 
into effect which do not meet the identifying criteria in full are eligible as regulatory capital subject to grandfathering 
limits and progressive phase-out. Capital securities that have been issued during 2014 are recognised as fully CRD IV 
compliant additional tier 1 capital securities on an end point basis and are accounted for as equity and detailed in Note 35. 
Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank 
The six capital securities guaranteed on a subordinated basis by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank are non-cumulative step-up 
perpetual preferred securities issued by Jersey limited partnerships. The proceeds of the issues were on-lent to the 
respective guarantors by the limited partnerships in the form of subordinated notes. These preferred securities qualify as 
additional tier 1 capital for HSBC under CRD IV by virtue of application of grandfathering provisions and the two capital 
securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank also qualify as additional tier 1 capital for HSBC Bank (on a solo and a consolidated 
basis) under CRD IV by virtue of application of grandfathering provisions. 
   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
30 – Subordinated liabilities / 31 – Maturity analysis  
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
426 
These preferred securities, together with the guarantee, are intended to provide investors with economic rights 
equivalent to the rights that they would have had if they had purchased non-cumulative perpetual preference shares 
of the relevant issuer. There are limitations on the payment of distributions if such payments are prohibited under UK 
banking regulations or other requirements, if a payment would cause a breach of HSBC’s capital adequacy requirements 
or if HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank have insufficient distributable reserves (as defined). 
HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank have individually covenanted that if prevented under certain circumstances from paying 
distributions on the preferred securities in full, they will not pay dividends or other distributions in respect of their 
ordinary shares, or effect repurchases or redemptions of their ordinary shares, until the distribution on the preferred 
securities has been paid in full. 
With respect to preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings – if (i) HSBC’s total capital ratio falls below 
the regulatory minimum ratio required, or (ii) the Directors expect, in view of the deteriorating financial condition of 
HSBC Holdings, that (i) will occur in the near term, then the preferred securities will be substituted by preference shares 
of HSBC Holdings which have economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent to those of the preferred 
securities and the guarantee taken together.  
With respect to preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank – if (i) any of the two issues of preferred securities are 
outstanding in April 2049 or November 2048, respectively, or (ii) the total capital ratio of HSBC Bank on a solo and 
consolidated basis falls below the regulatory minimum ratio required, or (iii) in view of the deteriorating financial 
condition of HSBC Bank, the Directors expect (ii) to occur in the near term, then the preferred securities will be 
substituted by preference shares of HSBC Bank having economic terms which are in all material respects equivalent 
to those of the preferred securities and the guarantee taken together. 
Tier 2 capital securities 
These capital securities are included within HSBC’s capital base as tier 2 capital under CRD IV by virtue of application of 
grandfathering provisions (with the exception of identified HSBC Holding securities which are compliant with CRD IV end 
point rules). Tier 2 capital securities are either perpetual subordinated securities or dated securities on which there is an 
obligation to pay coupons. In accordance with CRD IV, the capital contribution of all tier 2 securities is amortised for 
regulatory purposes in their final five years before maturity. 
31 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments 
The table on page 427 provides an analysis of consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments by 
residual contractual maturity at the balance sheet date. Asset and liability balances are included in the maturity analysis 
as follows:  
• except for reverse repos, repos and debt securities in issue, trading assets and liabilities (including trading derivatives) 
are included in the ‘Due not more than 1 month’ time bucket, and not by contractual maturity because trading 
balances are typically held for short periods of time;  
• financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity (such as equity securities) are included in the ‘Due over 
5 years’ time bucket. Undated or perpetual instruments are classified based on the contractual notice period which the 
counterparty of the instrument is entitled to give. Where there is no contractual notice period, undated or perpetual 
contracts are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket;  
• non-financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity (such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and 
intangible assets, current and deferred tax assets and liabilities and retirement benefit liabilities) are included in the 
‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket; 
• financial instruments included within assets and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale are classified on the basis 
of the contractual maturity of the underlying instruments and not on the basis of the disposal transaction; and 
• liabilities under insurance contracts are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket. Liabilities under investment 
contracts are classified in accordance with their contractual maturity. Undated investment contracts are classified 
based on the contractual notice period investors are entitled to give. Where there is no contractual notice period, 
undated contracts are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket. 
Loan and other credit-related commitments are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be drawn down.   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC
427 
Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview 
HSBC 
Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities 
At 31 December 2014
 Due not
 more than
 1 month 
Due over
 1 month
 but not
 more than
 3 months 
Due over
 3 months
 but not
 more than
 6 months 
Due over
 6 months
 but not
 more than
 9 months 
Due over
 9 months
 but not
 more than
 1 year 
Due over
 1 year
 but not
 more than
 2 years 
Due over
 2 years
 but not
 more than
 5 years 
 Due over
 5 years  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Financial assets 
Cash and balances at central banks 129,957 − − − − − − − 129,957  
Items in the course of collection from other banks 4,927 − − − − − − − 4,927  
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness  27,674 − − − − − − − 27,674  
Trading assets  303,463 − − − − − 730 − 304,193  
–  reverse repos 567 − − − − − 730 − 1,297  
–  other trading assets 302,896 − − − − − − − 302,896  
Financial assets designated at fair value  244 399 417 346 208 1,825 4,634 20,964 29,037  
Derivatives  341,558 56 463 220 32 1,003 1,033 643 345,008  
–  trading  341,416 − − − − − − − 341,416  
–  non-trading 142 56 463 220 32 1,003 1,033 643 3,592  
Loans and advances to banks
1
73,758 17,649 5,682 1,934 1,850 7,371 1,981 1,924 112,149  
Loans and advances to customers
1
  203,130 76,236 55,018 35,347 37,674 91,300 187,728 288,227 974,660  
–  personal  42,170 9,673 8,911 7,486 8,672 27,305 54,439 230,298 388,954  
–  corporate and commercial 146,250 61,809 41,924 23,720 23,697 56,398 124,796 56,590 535,184  
–  financial  14,710 4,754 4,183 4,141 5,305 7,597 8,493 1,339 50,522  
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
1
  116,002 30,490 9,076 2,230 582 868 2,465 − 161,713  
Financial investments 28,237 50,445 41,503 14,577 17,011 48,392 96,891 118,411 415,467  
Accrued income and other financial assets 17,870 7,572 2,415 605 327 748 1,282 9,803 40,622  
Financial assets at 31 December 2014 1,246,820 182,847 114,574 55,259 57,684 151,507 296,744 439,972 2,545,407  
Non-financial assets − − − − − − − 88,732 88,732  
Total assets at 31 December 2014 1,246,820 182,847 114,574 55,259 57,684 151,507 296,744 528,704 2,634,139  
   
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC
428 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
31 – Maturity analysis 
 
Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities (continued) 
At 31 December 2014
 Due not 
 more than
 1 month 
Due over 
 1 month 
 but not 
 more than 
 3 months 
Due over 
 3 months 
 but not 
 more than 
 6 months 
Due over 
 6 months 
 but not 
 more than 
 9 months 
Due over 
 9 months 
 but not 
 more than 
 1 year 
Due over 
 1 year 
 but not 
 more than 
 2 years 
Due over 
 2 years 
 but not 
 more than 
 5 years 
 Due
 over 
 5 years  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Financial liabilities
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation  27,674 − − − − − − − 27,674  
Deposits by banks
1
 66,829 2,890 2,539 511 810 621 2,963 263 77,426  
Customer accounts
1,2
1,216,574 57,127 32,925 15,023 13,586 9,278 5,819 310 1,350,642  
–  personal  572,459 28,580 16,728 10,609 9,625 7,220 3,967 125 649,313  
–  corporate and commercial 465,990 21,841 10,688 3,716 2,894 1,615 1,316 150 508,210  
–  financial  178,125 6,706 5,509 698 1,067 443 536 35 193,119  
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
1
  95,243 5,029 4,054 1,392 714 − − 1,000 107,432  
Items in the course of transmission to other banks 5,990 − − − − − − − 5,990  
Trading liabilities 155,604 2,041 2,636 1,439 2,918 5,744 9,603 10,587 190,572  
–  repos  746 909 224 264 1,249 406 − − 3,798  
–  debt securities in issue 1,686 1,132 2,412 1,175 1,669 5,338 9,603 10,587 33,602  
–  other trading liabilities 153,172 − − − − − − − 153,172  
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  981 912 4,264 972 1,557 8,500 15,037 43,930 76,153  
–  debt securities in issue: covered bonds  − − − 205 − − 2,705 2,942 5,852  
–  debt securities in issue: otherwise secured  − − − − − − − − −
–  debt securities in issue: unsecured  942 868 4,242 742 1,409 8,500 9,576 14,233 40,512  
–  subordinated liabilities and preferred securities  − 36 − − 18 − 2,623 20,640 23,317  
–  other  39 8 22 25 130 − 133 6,115 6,472  
Derivatives  335,802 23 86 223 54 621 1,121 2,739 340,669  
–  trading  335,400 − − − − − − − 335,400  
–  non-trading 402 23 86 223 54 621 1,121 2,739 5,269  
Debt securities in issue 14,741 15,424 13,027 7,854 6,050 14,209 19,481 5,161 95,947  
–  covered bonds – – − − − − 81 − 81  
–  otherwise secured 8,807 1,063 60 283 272 912 1,562 1,008 13,967  
–  unsecured  5,934 14,361 12,967 7,571 5,778 13,297 17,838 4,153 81,899  
Accruals and other financial liabilities 21,084 9,198 3,069 1,221 1,820 1,568 2,225 3,655 43,840  
Subordinated liabilities − 150 − 3 167 113 3,607 22,624 26,664  
Total financial liabilities at 31 December 2014 1,940,522 92,794 62,600 28,638 27,676 40,654 59,856 90,269 2,343,009  
Non-financial liabilities – – – – – – – 91,152 91,152  
Total liabilities at 31 December 2014 1,940,522 92,794 62,600 28,638 27,676 40,654 59,856 181,421 2,434,161  
 
   
  
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC
429 
Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview 
 
At 31 December 2013
Due not 
more than 
1 month 
Due over
1 month 
but not 
more than 
3 months 
Due over
3 months 
but not 
more than 
3 months 
Due over
6 months 
but not 
more than 
9 months 
Due over
9 months 
but not 
more than 
1 year 
Due over
1 year 
but not 
more than 
2 years 
Due over
2 years 
but not 
more than 
5 years 
Due over 
5 years Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Financial assets 
Cash and balances at central banks 166,599 – – – – – – – 166,599
Items in the course of collection from other banks 6,021 – – – – – – – 6,021
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness  25,220 – – – – – – – 25,220
Trading assets  296,396 3,098 1,536 2,062 100 − − − 303,192
–  reverse repos 3,324 3,098 1,536 2,062 100 − − − 10,120
–  other trading assets 293,072 – – – – – – – 293,072
Financial assets designated at fair value  1,929 254 494 426 328 2,145 2,819 30,035 38,430
Derivatives  277,747 48 88 389 552 716 1,486 1,239 282,265
–  trading  277,709 – – – – – – – 277,709
–  non-trading 38 48 88 389 552 716 1,486 1,239 4,556
Loans and advances to banks
1
76,551 22,107 5,397 1,429 1,290 6,129 2,779 4,364 120,046
Loans and advances to customers
1
 230,73673,46356,05329,27332,19487,942182,525299,903992,089
–  personal  43,805 8,929 8,561 6,603 7,578 26,915 58,611 243,124 404,126
–  corporate and commercial 171,713 60,827 43,723 19,505 21,093 53,183 113,897 53,981 537,922
–  financial  15,218 3,707 3,769 3,165 3,523 7,844 10,017 2,798 50,041
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading  134,242 35,329 5,287 1,239 2,072 1,136 385 – 179,690
Financial investments 34,331 48,053 35,877 22,353 18,816 50,711 105,340 110,444 425,925
Accrued income and other financial assets 18,719 7,684 2,467 1,369 700 1,133 1,027 4,536 37,635
Total financial assets at 31 December 2013 1,268,491 190,036 107,199 58,540 56,052 149,912 296,361 450,521 2,577,112
Non-financial assets – – – – – – – 94,206 94,206
Total assets at 31 December 2013 1,268,491 190,036 107,199 58,540 56,052 149,912 296,361 544,727 2,671,318
   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC
430 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
31 – Maturity analysis 
 
Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities (continued) 
At 31 December 2013
 Due not 
 more than
 1 month 
Due over 
 1 month 
 but not 
 more than 
 3 months 
Due over 
 3 months 
 but not 
 more than 
 6 months 
Due over 
 6 months 
 but not 
 more than 
 9 months 
Due over 
 9 months 
 but not 
 more than 
 1 year 
Due over 
 1 year 
 but not 
 more than 
 2 years 
Due over 
 2 years 
 but not 
 more than 
 5 years 
 Due
 over 
 5 years  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Financial liabilities
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation  25,220 – – – – – – – 25,220
Deposits by banks
1
76,298 3,931 1,796 858 318 737 1,922 647 86,507
Customer accounts
1,2
1,229,694 60,683 26,940 13,704 15,384 8,717 5,937 238 1,361,297
–  personal  572,514 33,956 16,953 10,544 10,520 6,093 5,138 59 655,777
–  corporate and commercial 494,612 18,084 3,414 1,717 1,786 1,643 674 140 522,070
–  financial  162,568 8,643 6,573 1,443 3,078 981 125 39 183,450
Repurchase agreements –non-trading 136,13713,0586,5833,7114,231 – – 500 164,220
Items in the course of transmission to other banks 6,910 – – – – – – – 6,910
Trading liabilities 161,231 11,405 4,886 2,844 3,653 6,323 7,979 8,704 207,025
–  repos  2,565 9,763 2,715 1,012 1,279 87 − – 17,421
–  debt securities in issue 1,217 1,642 2,171 1,832 2,374 6,236 7,979 8,704 32,155
–  other trading liabilities 157,449 – – – – – – – 157,449
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  4,907 157 92 2,266 68 9,348 21,544 50,702 89,084
–  debt securities in issue: covered bonds  − − − 1,268 − 230 2,841 3,257 7,596
–  debt securities in issue: otherwise secured  − − − − − − − − −
–  debt securities in issue: unsecured  3,511 5 45 945 11 8,876 18,117 14,256 45,766
–  subordinated liabilities and preferred securities  − 121 − − − 21 − 21,773 21,915
–  other  1,396 31 47 53 57 221 586 11,416 13,807
Derivatives  269,816 33 95 84 61 563 1,978 1,654 274,284
–  trading  269,739 – – – – – – – 269,739
–  non-trading 77 33 95 84 61 563 1,978 1,654 4,545
Debt securities in issue 20,739 8,280 15,734 7,442 8,106 18,552 19,850 5,377 104,080
–  covered bonds − − − − − 692 − 98
–  otherwise secured 10,450 1,051 675 1,260 764 1,857 2,313 1,013 19,383
–  unsecured  10,289 7,229 15,059 6,182 7,342 16,689 17,445 4,364 84,599
Accruals and other financial liabilities 25,267 10,475 3,278 1,280 1,599 1,831 1,592 936 46,258
Subordinated liabilities 21 28 1,171 144 6 1,435 3,406 22,765 28,976
Total financial liabilities at 31 December 2013 1,956,240 108,050 60,575 32,333 33,426 47,506 64,208 91,523 2,393,861
Non-financial liabilities – – – – – – – 86,998 86,998
Total liabilities at 31 December 2013 1,956,240 108,050 60,575 32,333 33,426 47,506 64,208 178,521 2,480,859
1 See footnote 3 on page 344. 
2 Includes US$342,927m (2013: US$355,980m) insured by guarantee schemes.   
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC
431 
Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview 
Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet commitments received 
 Due not
 more than
 1 month 
Due over
 1 month
 but not
 more than
 3 months 
Due over
 3 months
 but not
 more than
 6 months 
Due over
 6 months
 but not
 more than
 9 months 
Due over
 9 months
 but not
 more than
 1 year 
Due over
 1 year
 but not
 more than
 2 years 
Due over
 2 years
 but not
 more than
 5 years 
 Due over
 5 years  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
At 31 December 2014
Loan and other credit-related commitments  3,313 − 4,312 607 − − − − 8,232  
 
At 31 December 2013
Loan and other credit-related commitments  953 − − − − − − − 953
 
Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet commitments given 
 Due not
 more than
 1 month 
Due over
 1 month
 but not
 more than
 3 months 
Due over
 3 months
 but not
 more than
 6 months 
Due over
 6 months
 but not
 more than
 9 months 
Due over
 9 months
 but not
 more than
 1 year 
Due over
 1 year
 but not
 more than
 2 years 
Due over
 2 years
 but not
 more than
 5 years 
 Due over
 5 years  Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
At 31 December 2014
Loan and other credit-related commitments  455,319 52,398 8,919 14,163 41,500 13,979 48,333 16,769 651,380  
Of which: 
–  personal 179,088 15,784 452 305 14,036 1,432 1,003 955 213,055  
–  corporate and commercial 239,646 34,657 7,595 12,556 23,519 9,926 36,918 12,185 377,002  
–  financial  36,585 1,957 872 1,302 3,945 2,621 10,412 3,629 61,323  
 
At 31 December 2013
Loan and other credit-related commitments  404,598 45,255 18,770 16,927 20,242 13,320 46,652 21,839 587,603  
Of which: 
–  personal  148,541 14,700 454 10,683 12,131 1,273 704 6,469 194,955  
–  corporate and commercial 225,333 29,191 17,794 5,662 4,879 9,009 41,851 12,096 345,815  
–  financial  30,724 1,364 522 582 3,232 3,038 4,097 3,274 46,833  
   
 
Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
31 – Maturity analysis 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC
432 
HSBC Holdings 
Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments 
Due not 
more than 
1 month 
Due over
1 month 
but not 
more than 
3 months 
Due over
3 months 
but not 
more than 
6 months 
Due over
6 months 
but not 
more than 
9 months 
Due over
9 months 
but not 
more than 
1 year 
Due over
1 year 
but not 
more than 
2 years 
Due over
2 years 
but not 
more than 
5 years 
Due over 
5 years Total 
US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Financial assets 
Cash at bank and in hand:
–  balances with HSBC undertakings  249 – – – – – – – 249
Derivatives  2,287 – – – – – 127 357 2,771
–  trading 2,287 – – – – – – – 2,287
–  non-trading – – – – – – 127 357 484
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings  7,007 858 7,676 – 14 – – 28,355 43,910
Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 26 6 – – – – – 4,041 4,073
Accrued income and other financial assets 8 – – – – – – – 8
Total financial assets at 31 December 2014 9,577 864 7,676 – 14 – 127 32,753 51,011
Non-financial assets – – – – – – – 96,853 96,853
Total assets at 31 December 2014 9,577 864 7,676 – 14 – 127 129,606 147,864
 
Financial liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings  2,423 – 32 – 1 436 – – 2,892
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  – – – – – 1,110 2,623 14,946 18,679
–  debt securities in issue – – – – – 1,110 – 7,075 8,185
–  subordinated liabilities and preferred securities  – – – – – – 2,623 7,871 10,494
Derivatives  1,066 – – – – – 103 – 1,169
–  trading 1,066 – – – – – – – 1,066
–  non-trading – – – – – – 103 – 103
Debt securities in issue – – – – – – – 1,009 1,009
Accruals and other financial liabilities 924 208 137 21 – – – – 1,290
Subordinated liabilities – – – – – – 1,951 15,304 17,255
Total financial liabilities at 31 December 2014 4,413 208 169 21 1 1,546 4,677 31,259 42,294
Non-financial liabilities – – – – – – – 125 125
Total liabilities at 31 December 2014 4,413 208 169 21 1 1,546 4,677 31,384 42,419
 
Off-balance sheet commitments given 
Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments
to lend  16 – – – – – – – 16 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
Shareholder Information  Financial Statements Corporate Governance  Financial Review Strategic Report 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC
433 
 
 
 
Due not 
more than 
1 month 
Due over
1 month 
but not 
more than 
3 months 
Due over
3 months 
but not 
more than 
6 months 
Due over
6 months 
but not 
more than 
9 months 
Due over
9 months 
but not 
more than 
1 year 
Due over
1 year 
but not 
more than 
2 years 
Due over
2 years 
but not 
more than 
5 years 
Due over 
5 years Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
Financial assets 
Cash at bank and in hand:
–  balances with HSBC undertakings  407 – – – – – – – 407
Derivatives  2,729 – – – – – – 60 2,789
–  trading 2,729 – – – – – – – 2,729
–  non-trading – – – – – – – 60 60
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings  8,394 4,374 7,595 14 16 – – 32,951 53,344
Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 23 – 8 – – – 330 849 1,210
Accrued income and other financial assets 10 – – – – – – – 10
Total financial assets at 31 December 2013 11,563 4,374 7,603 14 16 – 330 33,860 57,760
Non-financial assets – – – – – – – 93,076 93,076
Total assets at 31 December 2013 11,563 4,374 7,603 14 16 – 330 126,936 150,836
 
Financial liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings  3,770 12 2,234 – 1 – 463 5,205 11,685
Financial liabilities designated at fair value  – – – – – – 1,283 19,744 21,027
–  debt securities in issue – – – – – – 1,283 6,823 8,106
–  subordinated liabilities and preferred securities  – – – – – – – 12,921 12,921
Derivatives  704 – – – – – – – 704
–  trading 704 – – – – – – – 704
–  non-trading – – – – – – – – –
Debt securities in issue – – 1,721 – – – – 1,070 2,791
Accruals and other financial liabilities 777 109 261 22 – – – – 1,169
Subordinated liabilities – – – – – – 2,210 11,957 14,167
Total financial liabilities at 31 December 2013 5,251 121 4,216 22 1 – 3,956 37,976 51,543
Non-financial liabilities – – – – – – – 206 206
Total liabilities at 31 December 2013 5,251 121 4,216 22 1 – 3,956 38,182 51,749
 
Off-balance sheet commitments given 
Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments 
to lend  1,245 – – – – – – – 1,245  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
32 – Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities / 33 – Foreign exchange exposure  
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
434 
32 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities 
Accounting policy 
 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable 
right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously (‘the offset criteria’). 
Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements 
 
Gross
amounts of
recognised
financial
assets 
Gross
amounts
offset in the
balance
sheet 
Amounts
presented
in the
balance
sheet 
Amounts not set off in 
the balance sheet  
 
Financial
instruments
1
Cash 
 collateral 
received 
Net 
amount 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
  
Derivatives
2
 (Note 16) 595,473 (250,465) 345,008 (271,040) (42,260) 31,708 
Reverse repos, stock borrowing 
and similar agreements
3
  259,655 (88,676) 170,979 (166,958) (249) 3,772 
Classified as:  
–  trading assets   9,656 (390) 9,266 (9,256) – 10
–  non-trading assets   249,999 (88,286) 161,713 (157,702) (249) 3,762 
Loans and advances to customers 
at amortised cost
4
 101,220 (37,527) 63,693 (55,989) (310) 7,394 
At 31 December 2014 956,348 (376,668) 579,680 (493,987) (42,819) 42,874 
  
  
Derivatives
2
 (Note 16) 569,595 (287,330) 282,265 (215,957) (36,387) 29,921 
Reverse repos, stock borrowing 
and similar agreements
3
  288,903 (88,775) 200,128 (197,287) (57) 2,784 
Classified as:  
–  trading assets   39,008 (18,570) 20,438 (20,438) – –
–  non-trading assets   249,895 (70,205) 179,690 (176,849) (57) 2,784 
Loans and advances to customers
at amortised cost
4
  192,437 (92,654) 99,783 (89,419) – 10,364 
At 31 December 2013 1,050,935 (468,759) 582,176 (502,663) (36,444) 43,069 
1 Including non-cash collateral. 
2 Including amounts that are both subject to and not subject to enforceable master netting agreements and similar agreements. 
3 For the amount of reverse repos, stock borrowing and similar agreements recognised in the balance sheet, see the ‘Funding sources and uses’ 
table on page 168. In the analysis above, the US$9,266m (31 December 2013: US$20,438m) of trading assets presented in the balance sheet 
comprised US$1,297m of reverse repos (31 December 2013: US$10,120m) and US$7,969m of stock borrowing (31 December 2013: 
US$10,318m). 
4 At 31 December 2014, the total amount of loans and advances to customers at amortised cost was US$974,660m (31 December 2013: 
US$992,089m) of which US$63,693m (31 December 2013: US$99,783m) was subject to offsetting. For the amount of loans and advances to 
customers at amortised cost recognised in the balance sheet, see the ‘Funding sources and uses’ table on page 168. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
435 
Strategic Report Operating & Financial 
Review
Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements 
 
Gross
amounts of
recognised
financial
liabilities 
Gross
amounts
offset in the
balance
sheet 
Amounts
presented
in the
balance
sheet 
Amounts not set off in 
the balance sheet  
 
Financial
instruments
1
Cash 
 collateral 
pledged 
Net 
amount 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m
  
Derivatives
2
 (Note 16) 591,134 (250,465) 340,669 (272,815) (40,291) 27,563 
Repos, stock lending and similar
agreements
3
  211,938 (88,676) 123,262 (121,722) (105) 1,435 
Classified as: 
–  trading liabilities   16,220 (390) 15,830 (15,828) – 2 
–  non-trading liabilities   195,718 (88,286) 107,432 (105,894) (105) 1,433 
Customer accounts at amortised cost
4
  107,088 (37,527) 69,561 (55,989) – 13,572 
At 31 December 2014 910,160 (376,668) 533,492 (450,526) (40,396) 42,570 
  
Derivatives
2
 (Note 16) 561,614 (287,330) 274,284 (216,596) (29,093) 28,595 
Repos, stock lending and similar 
agreements
3
  282,634 (88,775) 193,859 (193,354) (81) 424 
Classified as:  
–  trading liabilities   48,209 (18,570) 29,639 (29,625) – 14 
–  non-trading liabilities   234,425 (70,205) 164,220 (163,729) (81) 410
Customer accounts at amortised cost
4 
 195,153 (92,654) 102,499 (89,394) – 13,105 
At 31 December 2013 1,039,401 (468,759) 570,642 (499,344) (29,174) 42,124 
1 Including non-cash collateral. 
2 Including amounts that are both subject to and not subject to enforceable master netting agreements and similar agreements. 
3 For the amount of repos, stock lending and similar agreements recognised in the balance sheet, see the ‘Funding sources and uses’ table on 
page 168. In the analysis above, the US$15,830m (31 December 2013: US$29,639m) of trading liabilities presented in the balance sheet 
comprised US$3,798m of repos (31 December 2013: US$17,421m) and US$12,032m of stock lending (31 December 2013: US$12,218m). 
4 At 31 December 2014, the total amount of customer accounts at amortised cost was US$1,350,642m (31 December 2013: US$1,361,297m) of 
which US$69,561m (31 December 2013: US$102,499m) was subject to offsetting. For the amount of customer accounts at amortised cost 
recognised in the balance sheet, see the ‘Funding sources and uses’ table on page 168. 
The ‘Amounts not set off in the balance sheet’ for derivatives and reverse repurchase/repurchase, stock borrowing/ 
lending and similar agreements include transactions where: 
• the counterparty has an offsetting exposure with HSBC and a master netting or similar arrangement is in place with a 
right of set off only in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy, or the offset criteria are otherwise not satisfied; 
and  
• cash and non-cash collateral received/pledged in respect of the transactions described above. 
For loans and advances to customers and Customer accounts at amortised cost the amounts included in the table above 
typically relate to transactions entered into with corporate and commercial customers for working capital management 
purposes. The ‘Amounts not set off in the balance sheet’ relate to transactions where the customer has an offsetting 
exposure with HSBC and an agreement is in place with the right of offset but the offset criteria are otherwise not satisfied. 
For risk management purposes, the net amounts of such exposures are subject to limits which are monitored and the 
relevant customer agreements are subject to review and updated, as necessary, to ensure the legal right of offset remains 
appropriate. 
33 Foreign exchange exposures 
Structural foreign exchange exposures 
HSBC’s structural foreign exchange exposures are represented by the net asset value of its foreign exchange equity and 
subordinated debt investments in subsidiaries, branches, joint ventures and associates with non-US dollar functional 
currencies. Gains or losses on structural foreign exchange exposures are recognised in other comprehensive income. 
HSBC’s management of its structural foreign exchange exposures is discussed on page 181.  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
34 – Non-controlling interests / 35 – Share capital and other equity instruments 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
436 
Net structural foreign exchange exposures 
 2014  2013
 US$m  US$m
Currency of structural exposure 
Pound sterling
1
  30,071 28,403
Chinese renminbi 24,578 20,932
Hong Kong dollars 24,028 18,974
Euros  20,378 22,014
Mexican pesos  5,249 5,932
Brazilian real  4,910 5,581
Canadian dollars  4,187 4,372
Indian rupees  3,466 3,222
Saudi riyals 2,910 2,531
Malaysian ringgit 2,219 2,194
UAE dirhams 2,199 3,069
Swiss francs  1,864 1,940
Taiwanese dollars 1,721 1,527
Australian dollars 1,516 1,515
Turkish lira 1,366 1,533
Korean won  1,360 1,373
Indonesian rupiah  1,352 1,244
Singapore dollars 1,185 849
Argentine pesos 1,059 1,067
Egyptian pounds 868 739
Others, each less than US$700m 5,918 6,157
At 31 December 142,404 135,168 
1 During 2014, we entered into a forward foreign exchange contract amounting to US$1.6bn in order to manage our sterling structural foreign 
exchange exposure. 
Shareholders’ equity would decrease by US$2,522m (2013: US$2,521m) if euro and sterling foreign currency exchange 
rates weakened by 5% relative to the US dollar. 
34 Non-controlling interests 
 2014 2013
 US$m  US$m
Non-controlling interests attributable to holders of ordinary shares in subsidiaries              7,104   5,900
Preferred securities issued by subsidiaries               2,427   2,688
931
At 31 December              9,531   8,588
Preferred securities issued by subsidiaries 
Preferred securities are securities for which there is no obligation to pay a dividend and, if the dividend is not paid, it 
may not be cumulative. Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank higher than ordinary shares for 
dividend payments and in the event of a winding-up. These securities have no stated maturity date but may be called and 
redeemed by the issuer, subject to prior notification to the PRA and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking 
regulator. Dividends on floating rate preferred securities are generally related to interbank offer rates. 
Included in the capital base of HSBC are non-cumulative preferred securities classified as additional tier 1 capital and 
cumulative preferred securities classified as tier 2 capital in accordance with CRD IV rules, by virtue of the application of 
grandfathering provisions. 
Preferred securities issued by HSBC’s subsidiaries 
  
First call 
date 
2014 
US$m 
2013
US$m 
HSBC USA Inc.   
US$150m 
 
Depositary shares each representing 25% interest in a share of 
adjustable-rate cumulative preferred stock, series D  Jul 1999 150  150 
US$150m Cumulative preferred stock  Oct 2007 150  150
US$518m Floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, series F Apr 2010 518  518
US$374m Floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, series G Jan 2011 374  374
US$374m 6.50% non-cumulative preferred stock, series H Jul 2011 374  374
HSBC Finance Corporation.   
US$575m 6.36% non-cumulative preferred stock, series B Jun 2010 559  559
HSBC Bank Canada   
CAD175m Non-cumulative redeemable class 1 preferred shares, series C Jun 2010 151  164
CAD175m Non-cumulative class 1 preferred shares, series D Dec 2010 151  164
CAD250m
1
 Non-cumulative 5 year rate reset class 1 preferred shares, series E Jun 2014 – 235
At 31 December  2,427  2,688
1 In June 2014, HSBC redeemed its non-cumulative 5 year reset class 1 preferred shares series E for US$234m.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
437 
Strategic Report Operating & Financial 
Review
Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
35 Called up share capital and other equity instruments 
Accounting policy 
 Financial instruments issued are classified as equity when there is no contractual obligation to transfer cash, other financial assets or 
issue a variable number of own equity instruments. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of equity instruments are shown 
in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax. 
HSBC Holdings shares held by HSBC are recognised in equity as a deduction from retained earnings until they are cancelled. When such 
shares are subsequently sold, reissued or otherwise disposed of, any consideration received is included in equity, net of any directly 
attributable incremental transaction costs and related income tax effects. 
Issued and fully paid 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 each 
 2014 2013
 US$m US$m
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
1
at 31 December 9,609 9,415
  
 Number US$m
At 1 January 2014  18,830,007,039  9,415
Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans  119,391,238 60
Shares issued in lieu of dividends 268,475,983 134
At 31 December 2014  19,217,874,260 9,609
  
At 1 January 2013  18,476,008,664  9,238
Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans  120,033,493  60
Shares issued in lieu of dividends 233,964,882  117
At 31 December 2013  18,830,007,039  9,415
HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each 
 Number US$m
At 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014
2
  1,450,000  –
At 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013  1,450,000 –
1 All HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue confer identical rights, including in respect of capital, dividends and voting. 
2 Included in the capital base of HSBC as additional tier 1 capital in accordance with the CRD IV rules, by virtue of the application of grandfathering 
provisions. 
Dividends on the HSBC Holdings non-cumulative dollar preference shares in issue (‘dollar preference shares’) are paid 
quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors will not declare a dividend 
on the dollar preference shares if payment of the dividend would cause HSBC Holdings not to meet the applicable capital 
adequacy requirements of the PRA or the profit of HSBC Holdings available for distribution as dividends is not sufficient to 
enable HSBC Holdings to pay in full both dividends on the dollar preference shares and dividends on any other shares that 
are scheduled to be paid on the same date and that have an equal right to dividends. HSBC Holdings may not declare or 
pay dividends on any class of its shares ranking lower in the right to dividends than the dollar preference shares nor 
redeem nor purchase in any manner any of its other shares ranking equal with or lower than the dollar preference shares 
unless it has paid in full, or set aside an amount to provide for payment in full, the dividends on the dollar preference 
shares for the then current dividend period. The dollar preference shares carry no rights to conversion into ordinary shares 
of HSBC Holdings. Holders of the dollar preference shares will only be entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of 
shareholders of HSBC Holdings if the dividend payable on the dollar preference shares has not been paid in full for four 
consecutive dividend payment dates. In such circumstances, holders of the dollar preference shares will be entitled to vote 
on all matters put to general meetings until such time as HSBC Holdings has paid a full dividend on the dollar preference 
shares. HSBC Holdings may redeem the dollar preference shares in whole at any time on or after 16 December 2010, 
subject to prior notification to the PRA. 
HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference share of £0.01 
The one non-cumulative sterling preference share of £0.01 in issue (‘sterling preference share’) has been in issue since 
29 December 2010 and is held by a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings. Dividends on the sterling preference share are paid 
quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. The sterling preference share carries no rights of conversion 
into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings and no rights to attend and vote at general meetings of shareholders of HSBC 
Holdings. HSBC Holdings may redeem it in whole at any time at the option of the Company. 
Other equity instruments 
Other equity instruments which have been included in the capital base of HSBC comprise of additional tier 1 capital 
securities and additional tier 1 – contingent convertible securities.  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
35 – Called up share capital / 36 – Notes on the statement of cash flows  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
438 
Additional tier 1 capital securities 
Additional tier 1 capital securities are perpetual subordinated securities on which coupon payments may be deferred at 
the discretion of HSBC Holdings. While any coupon payments are unpaid or deferred, HSBC Holdings will not declare, pay 
dividends or make distributions or similar periodic payments in respect of, or repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire 
any securities of lower or equal rank. Such securities do not generally carry voting rights but rank higher than ordinary 
shares for coupon payments and in the event of a winding-up. These securities have been included in the capital base of 
HSBC in accordance with CRD IV rules by virtue of the application of grandfathering provisions. 
At HSBC Holdings’ discretion, and subject to certain conditions being satisfied, the capital securities may be exchanged on 
any coupon payment date for non-cumulative preference shares to be issued by HSBC Holdings and ranking pari passu 
with the dollar and sterling preference shares in issue. The preference shares would be issued at a nominal value of 
US$0.01 per share and a premium of US$24.99 per share, with both such amounts being subscribed and fully paid. These 
securities may be called and redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the PRA.  
HSBC’s additional tier 1 capital securities in issue which are accounted for in equity 
  
First call
date
2014 
US$m 
2013
US$m 
US$2,200m 8.125% perpetual subordinated capital securities Apr 2013 2,133 2,133
US$3,800m 8.00% perpetual subordinated capital securities, Series 2 Dec 2015 3,718 3,718
At 31 December 5,851 5,851
Additional tier 1 capital – contingent convertible securities 
During 2014, HSBC issued new contingent convertible securities that are included in HSBC’s capital base as fully CRD IV 
compliant additional tier 1 capital securities on an end point basis. The net proceeds of the issuances will be used for 
general corporate purposes and to further strengthen the capital base pursuant to requirements under CRD IV. These 
securities bear a fixed rate of interest until their initial call dates. After the initial call dates, in the event they are not 
redeemed, the securities will bear interest at rates which are fixed periodically in advance for five year periods based on 
prevailing market rates. Interest on the contingent convertible securities will be due and payable only at the sole 
discretion of HSBC, and HSBC has sole and absolute discretion at all times and for any reason to cancel (in whole or in 
part) any interest payment that would otherwise be payable on any interest payment date. There are limitations on the 
payment of distributions if such payments are prohibited under UK banking regulations, or other requirements, if HSBC 
Holdings has insufficient reserves available for distribution or if HSBC fails to satisfy the solvency condition as defined in 
the securities’ terms. 
The contingent convertible securities are undated and are repayable, at the option of HSBC, in whole at the initial call 
date, or on any fifth anniversary after the initial call date. In addition, the securities are repayable at the option of HSBC 
in whole for certain regulatory or tax reasons. Any repayments require the prior consent of the PRA. These securities rank 
pari passu with HSBC’s dollar and sterling preference shares and are therefore ahead of ordinary shares. The contingent 
convertible securities will be converted into ordinary shares of HSBC, at a pre-determined price, should HSBC’s 
consolidated, end-point CET1 ratio fall below 7.0%. Therefore, per the terms of the securities, on bail-in the securities 
will convert into ordinary shares at a conversion price of £2.70 subject to certain anti-dilution and foreign exchange 
adjustments and will rank pari passu with the fully paid ordinary shares in issue. 
HSBC’s additional tier 1 capital – contingent convertible securities in issue which are accounted for in equity 
  
First call
date
2014 
US$m 
2013
US$m 
US$2,250m 6.375% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Sep 2024 2,244 –
US$1,500m 5.625% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Jan 2020 1,494 –
€1,500m 5.25% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities Sep 2022 1,943 –
At 31 December 5,681 –
Shares under option 
For details of the options outstanding to subscribe for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings 
Group Share Option Plan, the HSBC Share Plan and HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans, see Note 6.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
439 
Strategic Report Operating & Financial 
Review
Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Aggregate options outstanding under these plans 
 
 Number of
 HSBC Holdings
ordinary shares Period of exercise   Exercise price
31 December 2014  63,918,042 2014 to 2020   £3.3116 – 7.9911 
 6,468,782 2014 to 2018   HK$37.8797 – 63.9864
 571,502 2014 to 2018   €3.6361 – 6.0657
 1,867,328 2014 to 2018   US$4.8876 – 8.2094
31 December 2013  119,085,250 2013 to 2019   £3.3116 – 7.9911
 24,215,341 2013 to 2018   HK$37.8797 –92.5881
 1,574,652 2013 to 2018   €3.6361 – 7.5571
 3,997,069 2013 to 2018   US$4.8876 – 11.8824
31 December 2012  159,703,771 2013 to 2018   £3.3116 – 7.9911
 31,637,840 2013 to 2018   HK$37.8797 – 94.5057
 2,180,263 2013 to 2018   €3.6361 – 9.5912
 6,488,894 2013 to 2018   US$4.8876 – 12.0958
Maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares 
At 31 December 2014, the maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under all of the above option 
arrangements, together with GPSP awards and restricted share awards granted under the HSBC Share Plan and/or the 
HSBC Share Plan 2011, was 193,154,512 (2013: 265,534,885). The total number of shares at 31 December 2014 held by 
employee benefit trusts that may be used to satisfy such obligations to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares was 
7,943,191 (2013: 12,068,136). 
36 Notes on the statement of cash flows 
Other non-cash items included in profit before tax 
 HSBC HSBC Holdings
 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment  2,251 2,330 2,531 39 35
(Gains)/losses arising from dilution of interests in associates 32 (1,051) – – –
Revaluations on investment property  (120) (113) (72) – –
Share-based payment expense  732 630 988 74 49
Loan impairment losses gross of recoveries and other credit 
risk provisions  5,125 7,356 9,358 – –
Provisions  3,074 2,578 5,732 – –
Impairment/(release of impairment) of financial investments 54 (36) 519 – –
Charge/(credit) for defined benefit plans  535 121 476 – –
Accretion of discounts and amortisation of premiums  (421) 180 246 (62) (10)
Year ended 31 December 11,262 11,995 19,778 51 74
Change in operating assets 
 HSBC HSBC Holdings
 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Change in loans to HSBC undertakings  – – – 1,364  (11,669)
Change in net trading securities and net derivatives  (18,498) (24,870) (36,829)  483  923
Change in loans and advances to banks  5,147 (4,739) 1,174 –  –
Change in loans and advances to customers  12,666 (46,551) (79,388)  –  –
Change in reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading 18,900 (70,403) 6,678 –  –
Change in financial assets designated at fair value  3,269 (4,922) (2,698)  –  –
Change in other assets  4,393 2,586 (5,458) 7 (49)
Year ended 31 December 25,877 (148,899) (116,521) 1,854 (10,795)
 
Change in operating liabilities 
 HSBC HSBC Holdings
 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Change in deposits by banks  (9,081) (7,781) 274 – –
Change in customer accounts  (8,362) 57,365 92,238 – –
Change in repurchase agreements – non-trading (56,788) 123,653 (7,834) – –
Change in debt securities in issue (8,133) (15,381) (11,552) (149) 98
Change in financial liabilities designated at fair value  (10,734) 994 2,549 (694) (550)
Change in other liabilities  (716) 5,907 13,395 (9,071) (609)
Year ended 31 December (93,814) 164,757 89,070 (9,914) (1,061)
  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
36 – Notes on the statement of cash flows / 37 – Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
440 
Cash and cash equivalents 
Accounting policy 
 
Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject 
to an insignificant risk of change in value. Such investments are normally those with less than three months’ maturity from the date of 
acquisition. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
 HSBC HSBC Holdings
 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Cash at bank with HSBC undertakings  – – – 249 407
Cash and balances at central banks  129,957 166,599 141,532 – –
Items in the course of collection from other banks  4,927 6,021 7,303 – –
Loans and advances to banks of one month or less  89,285 96,584 119,400 – –
Reverse repurchase agreements with banks of one month
or less 68,930 68,007 28,832 – – 
Treasury bills, other bills and certificates of deposit less than 
three months  14,192 15,980 25,379 – – 
Less: items in the course of transmission to other banks (5,990) (6,910) (7,138) – –
At 31 December 301,301 346,281 315,308 249 407
1 Measured at amortised cost from 2013. 
Interest and dividends 
 HSBC HSBC Holdings
 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013
 US$m US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Interest paid  (15,633) (17,262) (18,412) (2,463) (2,705)
Interest received  51,522 50,823 61,112 1,945 1,986
Dividends received  1,199 1,133 766 9,077 20,925
The amount of cash and cash equivalents not available for use by HSBC at 31 December 2014 was US$43,738m (2013: 
US$38,019m), of which US$29,883m (2013: US$21,811m) related to mandatory deposits at central banks. 
Disposal of subsidiaries and businesses 
During 2014, we completed the disposals of HSBC Bank Middle East Limited’s banking business in Jordan and operations 
in Pakistan. This resulted in a net US$303m outflow of cash and cash equivalents which is included under ‘Cash flow from 
investing activities’ in the Consolidated statement of cash flows on page 338. 
In October 2013, we completed the disposal of HSBC Bank (Panama) S.A., receiving total cash consideration of US$2,210m 
which is included under ‘Cash flow from investing activities’ in the Consolidated statement of cash flows on page 338. 
The effect of disposals of subsidiaries and businesses in 2012 is tabulated below. 
 2012 
 
US cards
business 
US branch
network 
Other 
disposals Total 
 US$m US$m US$m US$m
Total assets excluding cash and cash equivalents  28,007 2,166 7,302 37,475
Total liabilities 161 13,206 8,463 21,830
Aggregate net assets at date of disposal, excluding cash and cash 
equivalents  27,846 (11,040) (1,161) 15,645 
Non-controlling interests disposed  – – (81) (81)
Gain on disposal including costs to sell  3,148 864 355 4,367
Add back: costs to sell  72 15 56 143
Selling price  31,066 (10,161) (831) 20,074
Satisfied by:  
Cash and cash equivalents received/(paid) as consideration 31,066 (10,091) (542) 20,433
Cash and cash equivalents sold – (70) (321) (391)
Cash consideration received/(paid) up to 31 December 2012 31,066 (10,161) (863) 20,042
Cash still to be received at 31 December 2012  – – 32 32
Total cash consideration  31,066 (10,161) (831) 20,074
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
441 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
37 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees 
Accounting policy 
 
Contingent liabilities 
Contingent liabilities, which include certain guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security and contingent liabilities related 
to legal proceedings or regulatory matters (see Note 40), are possible obligations that arise from past events whose existence will be 
confirmed only by the occurrence, or non-occurrence, of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of HSBC; or 
are present obligations that have arisen from past events but are not recognised because it is not probable that settlement will require 
the outflow of economic benefits, or because the amount of the obligations cannot be reliably measured. Contingent liabilities are not 
recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the probability of settlement is remote. 
Financial guarantee contracts 
Liabilities under financial guarantee contracts which are not classified as insurance contracts are recorded initially at their fair value, 
which is generally the fee received or present value of the fee receivable. Subsequently, financial guarantee liabilities are measured at 
the higher of the initial fair value, less cumulative amortisation, and the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the 
obligations. 
HSBC Holdings has issued financial guarantees and similar contracts to other Group entities. HSBC elects to account for certain 
guarantees as insurance contracts in HSBC Holdings’ financial statements, in which case they are measured and recognised as insurance 
liabilities. This election is made on a contract by contract basis, and is irrevocable. 
Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees 
 HSBC HSBC Holdings 
 2014 2013 2014  2013
 US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Guarantees and contingent liabilities    
Guarantees  86,385 84,554 52,023  52,836
Other contingent liabilities  346 182 –  –
At 31 December 86,731 84,736 52,023  52,836
Commitments   
Documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 12,082 12,154 –  –
Forward asset purchases and forward forward deposits placed 823 1,005 –  –
Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other 
commitments to lend  638,475 574,444 16  1,245 
At 31 December 651,380 587,603 16  1,245
The above table discloses the nominal principal amounts of commitments, guarantees and other contingent liabilities. 
Contingent liabilities arising from legal proceedings, regulatory and other matters against Group companies are disclosed 
in Notes 29 and 40. Nominal principal amounts represent the amounts at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon 
and clients default. As a significant portion of guarantees and commitments is expected to expire without being drawn 
upon, the total of the nominal principal amounts is not indicative of future liquidity requirements. 
Social Security tax claims in Brazil  
In April 2008, a final judicial decision was issued in favour of HSBC insurance and leasing companies in Brazil, clarifying 
that the Profit participation contribution (‘PIS’) and the Social security financing contribution (‘COFINS’) should only be 
levied on the revenues from the sale of goods and services and not on income derived from insurance premiums and 
financial revenue. The resulting reduction of the tax basis and the offsetting of tax credits was made by HSBC at that time, 
in accordance with this decision, but later challenged by the Brazilian tax authority claiming that the basis of those taxes 
should include all revenues from the corporate activity of the tax payer. With the enactment of a new law in force from 1 
January 2015, the tax base for PIS and COFINS has been expanded to include all revenue from corporate activity, including 
insurance and financing income; therefore, any possible obligation for HSBC to pay any additional taxes only relates to tax 
years up to the end of 2014. These tax assessments are in various stages of the administrative process. Based on the facts 
currently known, it is not practicable for HSBC to predict the timing of the resolution of these matters. 
   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
38 – Lease commitments / 39 – Structured entities 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
442 
Guarantees 
 2014 2013 
 
Guarantees
in favour of
third parties 
Guarantees by
HSBC Holdings
in favour of
other
Group entities 
Guarantees 
in favour of 
third parties  
Guarantees by
HSBC Holdings
in favour of
other
Group entities 
 US$m US$m US$m  US$m
Guarantee type    
Financial guarantees
1
  30,406 36,800 31,224 36,800
Credit-related guarantees
2
  16,672 15,223 15,076 16,036
Other guarantees  39,307 – 38,254 –
At 31 December  86,385 52,023 84,554 52,836
1 Financial guarantees are contracts that require HSBC to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss incurred because a specified 
debtor fails to make payment when due. 
2 Credit-related guarantees are contracts that have similar features to financial guarantee contracts but fail to meet the definition of a financial 
guarantee contract under IAS 39. 
The amounts disclosed in the above table are nominal principal amounts and reflect HSBC’s maximum exposure under a 
large number of individual guarantee undertakings. The risks and exposures arising from guarantees are captured and 
managed in accordance with HSBC’s overall credit risk management policies and procedures. Approximately half of the 
above guarantees have a term of less than one year. Guarantees with terms of more than one year are subject to HSBC’s 
annual credit review process.  
Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (‘FSCS’) has provided compensation to consumers following the collapse of a 
number of deposit takers. The compensation paid out to consumers is currently funded through loans from the Bank of 
England and HM Treasury which at 31 December 2014 stood at approximately £16bn (US$24.9bn).  
In order to repay the loan principal which is not expected to be recovered, the FSCS levies participating financial 
institutions. In January 2015, the FSCS announced that the expected levy on participating financial institutions for Scheme 
Year 2015/2016 would be £347m (US$541m) (2014/2015: £399m (US$660m)). 
The ultimate FSCS levy to the industry as a result of the collapses cannot currently be estimated reliably as it is dependent 
on various uncertain factors including the potential recoveries of assets by the FSCS and changes in the level of protected 
deposits and the population of FSCS members at the time. 
Capital commitments 
In addition to the commitments disclosed on page 441, at 31 December 2014 HSBC had US$656m (2013: US$401m) of 
capital commitments contracted but not provided for and US$101m (2013: US$112m) of capital commitments authorised 
but not contracted for. 
Associates 
HSBC’s share of associates’ contingent liabilities amounted to US$47,593m at 31 December 2014 (2013: US$46,574m). 
No matters arose where HSBC was severally liable. 
38 Lease commitments 
Accounting policy 
 
Agreements which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of assets are classified as finance leases. 
As a lessor under finance leases, HSBC presents the amounts due under the leases, after deduction of unearned charges, in ‘Loans and 
advances to banks’ or ‘Loans and advances to customers’. As a lessee under finance leases, HSBC presents the leased assets in ‘Property, 
plant and equipment’ with the corresponding liability included in ‘Other liabilities’. A finance lease asset and its corresponding liability 
are recognised initially at the fair value of the asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases. As lessor, HSBC presents assets subject to operating leases in ‘Property, plant and 
equipment’. Impairment losses are recognised to the extent that carrying values are not fully recoverable. As a lessee, leased assets are 
not recognised on the balance sheet. 
Finance income or charges on the finance lease are recognised in ‘Net interest income’ over the lease periods so as to give a constant 
rate of return. Rentals payable or receivable under operating leases are spread on a straight-line basis over the lease periods and are 
recognised in ‘General and administrative expenses’ or in ‘Other operating income’. 
Operating lease commitments 
At 31 December 2014, future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for land, buildings and 
equipment were US$5,372m (2013 US$5,496m).   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
443 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Finance lease receivables 
HSBC leases a variety of assets to third parties under finance leases, including transport assets (such as aircraft), property 
and general plant and machinery. At the end of lease terms, assets may be sold to third parties or leased for further terms. 
Rentals are calculated to recover the cost of assets less their residual value, and earn finance income. 
  2014 2013 
 
  Total future
 minimum
 payments 
Unearned
 finance
 income 
 Present
 value 
Total future
 minimum
 payments 
 Unearned 
 finance 
 income 
 
 Present
 value 
   US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m   US$m
Lease receivables:      
–  no later than one year    3,383 (374) 3,009 3,370 (360)   3,010
–  later than one year and no later 
than five years  
 
 8,089  (980) 7,109  7,933  (990)   6,943 
–  later than five years    5,013 (744) 4,269 5,064 (856)   4,208
At 31 December   16,485 (2,098) 14,387 16,367 (2,206)   14,161
39 Structured entities 
Accounting policy 
 
A structured entity is an entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who 
controls the entity, for example when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only, and key activities are directed by contractual 
arrangements. Structured entities often have restricted activities and a narrow and well defined objective. 
Structured entities are assessed for consolidation in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 1(h). 
 
HSBC is involved with structured entities, mainly through securitisation of financial assets, conduits and investment funds. 
HSBC arrangements that involve structured entities are authorised centrally when they are established to ensure 
appropriate purpose and governance. The activities of structured entities administered by HSBC are closely monitored by 
senior management. HSBC has involvement with both consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities, which may be 
established by HSBC or by a third party, as detailed below. 
Consolidated structured entities 
Total assets of HSBC’s consolidated structured entities, split by entity type 
  
 Conduits  Securitisations 
HSBC
 managed
 funds  Other 
 
 Total 
  US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn  US$bn
At 31 December 2014   27.2 7.9 11.2 6.7  53.0
At 31 December 2013   38.9 7.1 13.9 8.2   68.1
Conduits 
HSBC has established and manages two types of conduits: securities investment conduits (‘SIC’s) and multi-seller conduits. 
These entities have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who has control; 
in such cases, the relevant activities are directed by means of contractual arrangement. The conduits are consolidated as 
HSBC is exposed or has the right to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect its 
returns through its power over the entity. 
Securities investment conduits 
Solitaire, HSBC’s principal SIC, purchases highly rated ABSs to facilitate tailored investment opportunities. At 31 December 
2014, Solitaire held US$8.0bn of ABSs (2013: US$9.0bn). These are included within the disclosures of ABSs ‘held through 
consolidated structured entities’ on page 162. HSBC’s other SICs, Mazarin, Barion and Malachite, evolved from the 
restructuring of HSBC’s structured investment vehicles in 2008. 
• Solitaire – Solitaire is currently funded entirely by commercial paper ‘CP’ issued to HSBC. Although HSBC continues to 
provide a liquidity facility, Solitaire has no need to draw on it so long as HSBC purchases the CP issued, which it intends 
to do for the foreseeable future. At 31 December 2014, HSBC held US$9.5bn of CP (2013: US$11.0bn). 
• Mazarin – HSBC is exposed to the par value of Mazarin’s assets through the provision of a liquidity facility equal to the 
lesser of the amortised cost of issued senior debt and the amortised cost of non-defaulted assets. At 31 December 
2014, this amounted to US$3.9bn (2013: US$7.4bn). First loss protection is provided through the capital notes issued 
by Mazarin, which are substantially all held by third parties. 
At 31 December 2014, HSBC held 1.2% of Mazarin’s capital notes (2013: 1.3%) with a par value of US$10m (2013: 
US$17m) and a carrying amount of US$1.4m (2013: US$0.3m).  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
39 – Structured entities 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
444 
• Barion and Malachite – HSBC’s primary exposure to these SICs is represented by the amortised cost of the debt 
required to support the non-cash assets of the vehicles. At 31 December 2014, this amounted to US$3.0bn (2013: 
US$6.3bn). First loss protection is provided through the capital notes issued by these vehicles, which are substantially 
all held by third parties. 
At 31 December 2014, HSBC held 9.9% of the capital notes (2013: 3.8%) issued by these vehicles with a par value of 
US$54.8m (2013: US$37m) and a carrying amount of US$10.1m (2013: US$3.3m). 
Multi-seller conduits 
These vehicles were established for the purpose of providing access to flexible market-based sources of finance for HSBC’s 
clients. HSBC bears risk equal to transaction-specific liquidity facilities offered to the multi-seller conduits amounting to 
US$15.4bn at 31 December 2014 (2013: US$15.7bn). First loss protection is provided by the originator of the assets, and 
not by HSBC, through transaction-specific credit enhancements. A layer of secondary loss protection is provided by HSBC 
in the form of programme-wide enhancement facilities. 
Securitisations 
HSBC uses structured entities to securitise customer loans and advances that it has originated in order to diversify its 
sources of funding for asset origination and capital efficiency purposes. The loans and advances are transferred by HSBC 
to the structured entities for cash or synthetically through credit default swaps, and the structured entities issue debt 
securities to investors. 
HSBC managed funds 
HSBC has established a number of money market and non-money market funds. Where it is deemed to be acting as 
principal rather than agent in its role as investment manager, HSBC controls and hence consolidates these funds. 
Other 
HSBC has also entered into a number of transactions in the normal course of business which include asset and structured 
finance transactions where it has control of the structured entity. In addition, HSBC is deemed to control a number 
of third-party managed funds through its involvement as a principal in the funds.  
Unconsolidated structured entities 
The term ‘unconsolidated structured entities’ refers to all structured entities that are not controlled by HSBC. HSBC 
enters into transactions with unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of business to facilitate customer 
transactions and for specific investment opportunities. 
The table below shows the total assets of unconsolidated structured entities in which HSBC had an interest at the 
reporting date and its maximum exposure to loss in relation to those interests. 
Nature and risks associated with HSBC interests in unconsolidated structured entities 
  
 Securitisations 
HSBC
 managed
 funds 
Non-HSBC
 managed
 funds  Other 
 
 Total 
   US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn   US$bn
At 31 December 2014     
Total assets of the entities   11.0 308.5 2,899.9 32.8  3,252.2
HSBC’s interest – assets    
Trading assets   – 0.1 0.1 4.6  4.8
Financial assets designated at fair value   – 5.2 2.3 –  7.5
Derivatives   – – – 1.3  1.3
Loans and advances to banks – – – 0.1  0.1
Loans and advances to customers  0.8 – – 1.5  2.3
Financial investments   – 2.5 5.9 0.1  8.5
Other assets   – – – 0.1  0.1
Total assets in relation to HSBC’s interests in 
the unconsolidated structured entities 
 
0.8 7.8 8.3 7.7  24.6 
HSBC’s interest – liabilities    
Other liabilities   – – – 0.1  0.1
Total liabilities in relation to HSBC’s interests in 
the unconsolidated structured entities  
 
– – – 0.1  0.1 
HSBC’s maximum exposure   0.8 7.8 8.3 11.1  28.0
Total income from HSBC interests
1
   – 0.1 0.3 0.4  0.8
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
445 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
  
 Securitisations 
HSBC
 managed
 funds 
Non-HSBC
 managed
 funds  Other 
 
 Total 
   US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn   US$bn
At 31 December 2013     
Total assets of the entities    9.6 290.3 2,843.3 26.7   3,169.9
HSBC’s interest – assets     
Trading assets    – 0.1 0.2 3.8   4.1
Financial assets designated at fair value    – 5.1 1.4 –   6.5
Derivatives    – – – 1.2   1.2
Loans and advances to customers    0.9 – – 1.5   2.4
Financial investments    – 2.3 5.4 0.1   7.8
Other assets    – 0.1 – –   0.1
Total assets in relation to HSBC’s interests in 
the unconsolidated structured entities 
 
 0.9  7.6  7.0  6.6   22.1 
HSBC’s interest – liabilities     
Trading liabilities    – – – 0.1   0.1
Total liabilities in relation to HSBC’s interests in 
the unconsolidated structured entities  
 
 –  –  –  0.1   0.1 
HSBC’s maximum exposure    1.0 7.6 7.0 10.6   26.2
Total income from HSBC interests
1
    – 0.1 0.3 0.3   0.7
1 Income includes recurring and non-recurring fees, interest, dividends, gains or losses on the re-measurement or derecognition of interests in 
structured entities, any mark-to-market gains/losses on a net basis and gains or losses from the transfer of assets and liabilities to the structured 
entity. 
The maximum exposure to loss from HSBC’s interests in unconsolidated structured entities represents the maximum loss 
that HSBC could incur as a result of HSBC’s involvement with unconsolidated structured entities regardless of the 
probability of the loss being incurred.  
• For commitments and guarantees, and written credit default swaps, the maximum exposure to loss is the notional 
amount of potential future losses. 
• For retained and purchased investments in and loans to unconsolidated structured entities, the maximum exposure to 
loss is the carrying value of these interests at the balance sheet reporting date. 
The maximum exposure to loss is stated gross of the effects of hedging and collateral arrangements entered into to 
mitigate HSBC’s exposure to loss. 
Securitisations 
HSBC has interests in unconsolidated securitisation vehicles through holding notes issued by these entities. In addition, 
HSBC has investments in asset-backed securities issued by third party structured entities as set out on page 162. 
HSBC managed funds 
HSBC establishes and manages money market funds and non-money market investment funds to provide customers with 
investment opportunities. Further information on ‘Funds under management’ is provided on page 106. 
HSBC, as fund manager, may be entitled to receive management and performance fees based on the assets under 
management. HSBC may also retain units in these funds.  
Non-HSBC managed funds 
HSBC purchases and holds units of third-party managed funds in order to facilitate both business and customer needs. 
In addition, HSBC enters into derivative contracts to facilitate risk management solutions for non-HSBC managed funds. At 
31 December 2014, the fair value of HSBC’s derivative exposures to non-HSBC managed funds was US$6.5bn. Note 16 sets 
out information in respect of derivatives entered into by HSBC. 
Other 
HSBC has established structured entities in the normal course of business such as structured credit transactions for 
customers, to provide finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and for asset and structured finance 
transactions. 
HSBC sponsored structured entities 
Accounting policy 
 
HSBC is considered to sponsor another entity if, in addition to ongoing involvement with the entity, it had a key role in establishing that 
entity or in bringing together the relevant counterparties so that the transaction, which is the purpose of the entity, could occur. HSBC is 
generally not considered a sponsor if the only involvement with the entity is merely administrative in nature.  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
40 – Legal proceedings and regulatory matters 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
446 
The amount of assets transferred to and income received from such sponsored entities during 2014 and 2013 was not 
significant. 
40 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters 
HSBC is party to legal proceedings and regulatory matters in a number of jurisdictions arising out of its normal business 
operations. Apart from the matters described below, HSBC considers that none of these matters are material. The 
recognition of provisions is determined in accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 29. While the outcome 
of legal proceedings and regulatory matters is inherently uncertain, management believes that, based on the information 
available to it, appropriate provisions have been made in respect of these matters as at 31 December 2014 (see Note 29). 
Where an individual provision is material, the fact that a provision has been made is stated and quantified. Any provision 
recognised does not constitute an admission of wrongdoing or legal liability. It is not practicable to provide an aggregate 
estimate of potential liability for our legal proceedings and regulatory matters as a class of contingent liabilities. 
Securities litigation 
As a result of an August 2002 restatement of previously reported consolidated financial statements and other corporate 
events, including the 2002 settlement with 46 states and the District of Columbia relating to real estate lending practices, 
Household International and certain former officers were named as defendants in a class action lawsuit, Jaffe v. 
Household International, Inc., et al., filed in August 2002 in the US District Court for the Northern District of Illinois (the 
‘Illinois District Court’). The complaint asserted claims under the US Securities Exchange Act and alleged that the 
defendants knowingly or recklessly made false and misleading statements of material fact relating to Household 
International’s Consumer Lending operations, including collections, sales and lending practices, some of which ultimately 
led to the 2002 state settlement agreement, and facts relating to accounting practices evidenced by the restatement. 
Ultimately, a class was certified on behalf of all persons who acquired and disposed of Household International common 
stock between July 1999 and October 2002.  
A jury trial concluded in April 2009, which was decided partly in favour of the plaintiffs. Various legal challenges to the 
verdict were raised in post-trial briefing. 
In December 2011, following the submission of claim forms by class members, the court-appointed claims administrator 
to the Illinois District Court reported that the total number of claims that generated an allowed loss was 45,921, and that 
the aggregate amount of these claims was approximately US$2.2bn. The defendants filed legal challenges regarding the 
presumption of reliance as to the class and compliance with the claim form requirements, which the Illinois District Court, 
in September 2012, rejected for the most part. The Illinois District Court directed further proceedings before a court-
appointed Special Master to address certain claims submission issues. 
In October 2013, the Illinois District Court denied the defendants’ additional post-trial motions for judgement as a matter 
of law or, in the alternative, for a new trial, and granted plaintiffs’ motions for a partial final judgement and awarded pre-
judgement interest at the prime rate, compounded annually. Subsequently, in October 2013, the Illinois District Court 
entered a partial final judgement against the defendants in the amount of approximately US$2.5bn (including pre-
judgement interest). In addition to the partial judgement that has been entered, there also remain approximately 
US$625m in claims, prior to imposition of pre-judgement interest, that still are subject to objections that have not yet 
been ruled upon by the Illinois District Court.   
The defendants filed a Notice of Appeal of the partial final judgement, and oral argument was heard by the US Court of 
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit (the ‘Court of Appeals’) in May 2014. We await a decision from the Court of Appeals. The 
defendants have also filed a supersedeas bond in the approximate amount of the partial final judgement (US$2.5bn) in 
order to stay execution on the judgement pending appeal. Despite the jury verdict, the various rulings of the Illinois 
District Court, and the partial final judgement, we continue to believe that we have meritorious grounds for relief on 
appeal.  
The timing and outcome of the ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain. Given the complexity and uncertainties 
associated with the actual determination of damages, including the outcome of any appeals, there is a wide range of 
possible outcomes. If the Court of Appeals rejects or only partially accepts our arguments, the amount of damages, based 
upon that partial final judgement, and other pending claims and the application of pre-judgement interest on those 
pending claims, may lie in a range from a relatively insignificant amount to an amount up to or exceeding US$3.6bn. Once 
a judgement is entered (such as the approximately US$2.5bn partial final judgement entered in October 2013), post-
judgement interest accrues on the judgement at a rate equal to the weekly average of the one-year constant maturity 
treasury yield as published by the Federal Reserve System. A provision has been made based on management’s best 
estimate of probable outflows.  
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
447 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC 
Bernard L. Madoff (‘Madoff’) was arrested in December 2008, and ultimately pleaded guilty to running a Ponzi scheme. He 
has acknowledged, in essence, that while purporting to invest his customers’ money in securities, he in fact never invested 
in securities and used other customers’ money to fulfil requests to return investments. His firm, Bernard L. Madoff 
Investment Securities LLC (‘Madoff Securities’), is being liquidated by a trustee (the ‘Trustee’).  
Various non-US HSBC companies provided custodial, administration and similar services to a number of funds 
incorporated outside the US whose assets were invested with Madoff Securities. Based on information provided by 
Madoff Securities, as at 30 November 2008, the purported aggregate value of these funds was US$8.4bn, an amount that 
includes fictitious profits reported by Madoff. Based on information available to HSBC, we have estimated that the funds’ 
actual transfers to Madoff Securities minus their actual withdrawals from Madoff Securities during the time that HSBC 
serviced the funds totalled approximately US$4bn. Various HSBC companies have been named as defendants in lawsuits 
arising out of Madoff Securities’ fraud.  
US/UK Litigation: The Trustee has brought suits against various HSBC companies in the US Bankruptcy Court and in the 
English High Court. The Trustee’s US actions included common law claims, alleging that HSBC aided and abetted Madoff’s 
fraud and breach of fiduciary duty. Those claims were dismissed on grounds of lack of standing. The Trustee’s remaining 
US claims seek recovery of prepetition transfers pursuant to US bankruptcy law. The amount of these remaining claims 
has not been pleaded or determined as against HSBC.  
Alpha Prime Fund Ltd (‘Alpha Prime’) and Senator Fund SPC, co-defendants in the Trustee’s US actions, have brought 
cross-claims against HSBC. These funds have also sued HSBC in Luxembourg (discussed below).  
The Trustee’s English action seeks recovery of unspecified transfers from Madoff Securities to or through HSBC. HSBC has 
not yet been served with the Trustee’s English action. The Trustee’s deadline for serving the claim has been extended 
through the third quarter of 2015.  
Fairfield Sentry Limited, Fairfield Sigma Limited and Fairfield Lambda Limited (collectively, ‘Fairfield’), funds whose assets 
were invested with Madoff Securities, commenced multiple suits in the US and the British Virgin Islands (the ‘BVI’) against 
fund shareholders, including various HSBC companies that acted as nominees for HSBC clients, seeking restitution of 
payments made in connection with share redemptions. The US actions brought by Fairfield are stayed pending the 
outcome of the Fairfield cases in the BVI (discussed below).   
In September 2013, the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the dismissal of purported class action claims 
against HSBC and others brought by investors in three Madoff-invested funds on grounds of forum non conveniens. The 
plaintiffs’ petitions for certiorari to the US Supreme Court were filed in December 2014. The Supreme Court’s decision on 
whether to grant certiorari review is expected in the first half of 2015. 
In December 2014, three new Madoff-related actions were filed. The first is a purported class action brought by direct 
investors in Madoff Securities who were holding their investments as of December 2008, asserting various common law 
claims and seeking to recover damages lost to Madoff Securities’ fraud on account of HSBC’s purported knowledge and 
alleged furtherance of the fraud. The other two actions were filed by SPV Optimal SUS Ltd (‘SPV Optimal’), the purported 
assignee of the Madoff Securities-invested company, Optimal Strategic US Equity Ltd. One of these actions was filed in 
New York state court and the other in US federal district court. In January 2015, SPV Optimal dismissed its federal lawsuit 
against HSBC. The state court action against HSBC remains pending. 
BVI Litigation: Beginning in October 2009, the Fairfield funds, whose assets were directly or indirectly invested with 
Madoff Securities, commenced multiple suits in the BVI against numerous fund shareholders, including various HSBC 
companies that acted as nominees for clients of HSBC’s private banking business and other clients who invested in the 
Fairfield funds. The Fairfield funds are seeking restitution of redemption payments made by the funds to defendants on 
the grounds that they were mistakenly based on inflated net asset values. In April 2014, the UK Privy Council issued a 
ruling on two preliminary issues in favour of other defendants in the BVI actions, and issued its order in October 2014. 
There is also a pending motion brought by other defendants before the BVI court challenging the Fairfield liquidator’s 
authorisation to pursue its claims in the US. The BVI court has adjourned the hearing on that pending motion until March 
2015.  
Bermuda Litigation: In January 2009, Kingate Global Fund Limited and Kingate Euro Fund Limited (collectively, ‘Kingate’), 
funds whose assets were directly or indirectly invested with Madoff Securities, commenced an action in Bermuda against 
HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited for recovery of funds held in Kingate’s accounts, fees and dividends. This action is currently 
pending, but is not expected to move forward until there is a resolution as to the Trustee’s separate US actions against 
Kingate and HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited.  
Thema Fund Limited (‘Thema’) and Hermes International Fund Limited (‘Hermes’), funds invested with Madoff Securities, 
each also brought three actions in Bermuda in 2009. The first set of actions were brought against HSBC Institutional Trust 
Services (Bermuda) Limited and seek recovery of funds in frozen accounts held at HSBC. The second set of actions asserts 
liability against HSBC Institutional Trust Services (Bermuda) Limited in relation to claims for mistake, recovery of fees and 
damages for breach of contract. The third set of actions seeks return of fees from HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited and HSBC  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
40 – Legal proceedings and regulatory matters 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
448 
Securities Services (Bermuda). There has been little progress in these actions for several years, although in January 2015, 
Thema and Hermes served notice of intent to proceed in respect of the second set of actions referred to above.  
Cayman Islands Litigation: In February 2013, Primeo Fund, a Cayman Islands-based fund invested in Madoff Securities, 
brought an action against the fund administrator, Bank of Bermuda (Cayman), and the fund custodian, HSBC Securities 
Services (Luxembourg) (‘HSSL’), alleging breaches of contract. Primeo Fund claims damages from defendants to 
compensate it for alleged losses, including loss of profit and any liability to the Trustee. Trial has been postponed to 
January 2016.  
Luxembourg Litigation: In April 2009, Herald Fund SPC (‘Herald’) (in official liquidation since July 2013) commenced action 
against HSSL before the Luxembourg District Court seeking restitution of all cash and securities Herald purportedly lost 
because of Madoff Securities’ fraud, or in the alternative, money damages in the same amount. In March 2013, the 
Luxembourg District Court dismissed Herald’s restitution claim for the return of the securities. Herald’s restitution claim 
for return of the cash and claim for money damages were reserved. Herald appealed this judgement in May 2013. 
Judgement on the issue of a judicial bond is expected to be rendered in May 2015. Proceedings on the reserved 
restitution claim were suspended pending resolution of the appeal. 
In October 2009, Alpha Prime sued HSSL before the Luxembourg District Court, alleging breach of contract and negligence 
in the appointment of Madoff Securities as a sub-custodian of Alpha Prime’s assets. Alpha Prime was ordered to provide a 
judicial bond. Alpha Prime requested a stay of these proceedings pending its negotiations with the Trustee in the US 
proceedings. The matter has been temporarily suspended. 
In March 2010, Herald (Lux) SICAV (‘Herald (Lux)’) (in official liquidation since April 2009) brought an action against HSSL 
before the Luxembourg District Court seeking restitution of securities, or the cash equivalent, or money damages in the 
alternative. Herald (Lux) has also requested the restitution of fees paid to HSSL as custodian and service agent of the fund. 
The last preliminary hearing is scheduled to take place in March 2015.  
In December 2014, Senator Fund SPC commenced an action against HSSL before the Luxembourg District Court, seeking 
the restitution of securities held as of the latest net asset value statement from November 2008, or in the alternative, 
money damages. The first preliminary hearing is scheduled to take place in February 2015.  
HSSL has been sued in various actions by shareholders in the Primeo Select Fund, Herald, Herald (Lux), and Hermes funds. 
These actions are in different stages, most of which have been dismissed, suspended or postponed.  
Ireland Litigation: In November 2013, Defender Limited, a fund invested with Madoff securities, commenced an action 
against HSBC Institutional Trust Services (Ireland) Limited (‘HTIE’), alleging breach of the custodian agreement and 
claiming damages and indemnification for claims against Defender Limited for fund losses. The action also includes four 
non-HSBC parties, who served as directors and investment managers to Defender Limited. 
In July 2013 and December 2013, settlements were reached in respect of claims filed against HTIE in the Irish High Court 
by Thema International Fund plc (‘Thema International’) and Alternative Advantage Plc (‘AA’), respectively. Five actions by 
individual Thema International shareholders remain pending. 
In December 2014, a new proceeding against HTIE and HSBC Securities Services (Ireland) Limited was brought by SPV 
Optimal, alleging breach of the custodian agreement and claiming damages and indemnification for fund losses. 
There are many factors that may affect the range of possible outcomes, and the resulting financial impact, of the various 
Madoff-related proceedings described above, including but not limited to the multiple jurisdictions in which the 
proceedings have been brought and the number of different plaintiffs and defendants in such proceedings. For these 
reasons, amongst others, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to estimate reliably the aggregate liabilities, or ranges 
of liabilities, that might arise as a result of all claims in the various Madoff-related proceedings, but they could be 
significant. 
US mortgage-related investigations  
In April 2011, following completion of a broad horizontal review of industry residential mortgage foreclosure practices, 
HSBC Bank USA N.A. (‘HSBC Bank USA’) entered into a consent cease-and-desist order with the Office of the Comptroller 
of the Currency (the ‘OCC’). HSBC Finance Corporation (‘HSBC Finance’) and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. (‘HNAH’) 
also entered into a similar consent order with the Federal Reserve Board (the ‘FRB’) (together with the OCC order, the 
‘Servicing Consent Orders’). The Servicing Consent Orders require prescribed actions to address the deficiencies noted in 
the joint examination and described in the consent orders. HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and HNAH continue to work 
with the OCC and the FRB to align their processes with the requirements of the consent orders and are implementing 
operational changes as required. 
Pursuant to the Servicing Consent Orders, an independent consultant was retained to conduct an independent review of 
foreclosures pending or completed between January 2009 and December 2010 (the ‘Independent Foreclosure Review’) to 
determine if any borrower was financially injured as a result of an error in the foreclosure process. In February 2013, HSBC 
Bank USA entered into an agreement with the OCC, and HSBC Finance and HNAH entered into an agreement with the FRB 
(together, the ‘IFR Settlement Agreements’), pursuant to which the Independent Foreclosure Review was replaced by a 
broader framework under which HSBC and 12 other participating servicers agreed to provide, in the aggregate, over   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
449 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
US$9.3bn in cash payments and other assistance to help eligible borrowers. Pursuant to the IFR Settlement Agreements, 
HNAH made a cash payment of US$96m into a fund used to make payments to borrowers that were in active foreclosure 
during 2009 and 2010, and in addition, is providing other assistance (e.g. loan modifications) to help eligible borrowers. 
Borrowers who receive compensation will not be required to execute a release or waiver of rights and will not be 
precluded from pursuing litigation concerning foreclosure or other mortgage servicing practices. For participating 
servicers, including HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Finance, fulfilment of the terms of the IFR Settlement Agreements will 
satisfy the Independent Foreclosure Review requirements of the Servicing Consent Orders, including the wind-down of 
the Independent Foreclosure Review. 
The Servicing Consent Orders do not preclude additional enforcement actions against HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance or 
HNAH by bank regulatory, governmental or law enforcement agencies, such as the US Department of Justice (the ‘DoJ’) or 
state Attorneys General, which could include the imposition of civil money penalties and other sanctions relating to the 
activities that are the subject of the Servicing Consent Orders. Pursuant to the IFR Settlement Agreement with the OCC, 
however, the OCC has agreed that it will not assess civil money penalties or initiate any further enforcement action with 
respect to past mortgage servicing and foreclosure-related practices addressed in the Servicing Consent Orders, provided 
the terms of the IFR Settlement Agreements are fulfilled. The OCC’s agreement not to assess civil money penalties is 
further conditioned on HNAH making payments or providing borrower assistance pursuant to any agreement that may be 
entered into with the DoJ in connection with the servicing of residential mortgage loans. The FRB has agreed that any 
assessment of civil money penalties by the FRB will reflect a number of adjustments, including amounts expended in 
consumer relief and payments made pursuant to any agreement that may be entered into with the DoJ in connection with 
the servicing of residential mortgage loans. The IFR Settlement Agreements do not preclude private litigation concerning 
these practices. 
Separate from the Servicing Consent Orders and the settlements related to the Independent Foreclosure Review 
discussed above, in February 2012, five of the largest US mortgage servicers (not including any HSBC companies) reached 
a settlement with the DoJ, the US Department of Housing and Urban Development and state Attorneys General of 49 
states with respect to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices. Following the February 2012 settlement, these 
government agencies initiated discussions with other mortgage industry servicers, including HSBC, HSBC Bank USA, HSBC 
Finance and HNAH have had discussions with US bank regulators and other governmental agencies regarding a potential 
resolution. Any such settlement, however, may not completely preclude other enforcement actions by state or federal 
agencies, bank regulators or law enforcement bodies related to foreclosure and other mortgage servicing practices, 
including, but not limited to, matters relating to the securitisation of mortgages for investors. These practices have in the 
past resulted in private litigation, and such a settlement would not preclude further private litigation concerning these 
practices. 
US mortgage securitisation activity and litigation 
HSBC Bank USA has been involved as a sponsor/seller of loans used to facilitate whole loan securitisations underwritten 
by HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. (‘HSI’). From 2005 to 2007, HSBC Bank USA purchased and sold US$24bn of such loans to HSI 
which were subsequently securitised and sold by HSI to third parties. The outstanding principal balance on these loans 
was approximately US$5.7bn as at 31 December 2014. 
Participants in the US mortgage securitisation market that purchased and repackaged whole loans have been the subject 
of lawsuits and governmental and regulatory investigations and inquiries, which have been directed at groups within the 
US mortgage market such as servicers, originators, underwriters, trustees or sponsors of securitisations, and at particular 
participants within these groups. As the industry’s residential mortgage foreclosure issues continue, HSBC Bank USA has 
taken title to an increasing number of foreclosed homes as trustee on behalf of various securitisation trusts. As nominal 
record owner of these properties, HSBC Bank USA has been sued by municipalities and tenants alleging various violations 
of law, including laws regarding property upkeep and tenants’ rights. While HSBC believes and continues to maintain that 
the obligations at issue and any related liabilities are properly those of the servicer of each trust, HSBC continues to 
receive significant adverse publicity in connection with these and similar matters, including foreclosures that are serviced 
by others in the name of ‘HSBC, as trustee’. 
Between June and December 2014, a number of lawsuits were filed in state and federal court in New York against HSBC 
Bank USA as trustee of over 250 mortgage securitisation trusts. These lawsuits are brought derivatively on behalf of the 
trusts by a class of investors including, amongst others, BlackRock and PIMCO funds. Similar lawsuits were filed 
simultaneously against other non-HSBC financial institutions that served as mortgage securitisation pool trustees. The 
complaints against HSBC Bank USA allege that the trusts have sustained losses in collateral value of over US$34bn. The 
lawsuits seek unspecified damages resulting from alleged breaches of the US Trust Indenture Act, breach of fiduciary 
duties, negligence, breach of contract and breach of the common law duty of trust. HSBC filed a motion to dismiss three of 
these lawsuits in January 2015.  
Various HSBC companies have also been named as defendants in a number of actions in connection with residential 
mortgage-backed securities (‘RMBS’) offerings, which generally allege that the offering documents for securities issued by 
securitisation trusts contained material misstatements and omissions, including statements regarding the underwriting 
standards governing the underlying mortgage loans. In September 2011, an action was filed by the Federal Housing  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
40 – Legal proceedings and regulatory matters 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
450 
Finance Agency (‘FHFA’), acting in its capacity as conservator for the Federal National Mortgage Association (‘Fannie Mae’) 
and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (‘Freddie Mac’) in the US District Court for the Southern District of New 
York (the ‘New York District Court’) against HSBC Bank USA, HNAH, HSI and HSI Asset Securitization (‘HASCO’), as well as 
five former and current officers and directors of HASCO. FHFA sought money damages or rescission of mortgage-backed 
securities purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that were either underwritten or sponsored by HSBC companies. As 
announced in September 2014, this matter was resolved between the parties by final settlement requiring HSBC to pay a 
total of US$550m to FHFA. 
HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Finance and Decision One Mortgage Company LLC (an indirect subsidiary of HSBC Finance) have 
been named as defendants in various mortgage loan repurchase actions brought by trustees of securitisation trusts. In the 
aggregate, these actions seek to have the HSBC defendants repurchase mortgage loans, or pay compensatory damages in 
lieu of repurchase totalling at least US$1bn. Motions to dismiss have been filed and are fully briefed and pending in two of 
these actions. 
Since 2010, various HSBC entities have received subpoenas and requests for information from US authorities seeking the 
production of documents and information regarding HSBC’s involvement, and the involvement of its affiliates, in 
particular private-label RMBS transactions as an issuer, sponsor, underwriter, depositor, trustee, custodian or servicer. 
HSBC continues to cooperate with these US authorities. In November 2014, HNAH, on behalf of itself and various 
subsidiaries including, but not limited to, HSBC Bank USA, HASCO, HSI, HSI Asset Loan Obligation, HSBC Mortgage 
Corporation (USA), HSBC Finance and Decision One Mortgage Company LLC, received a subpoena from the US Attorney’s 
Office for the District of Colorado, pursuant to the Financial Industry Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act, concerning 
the origination, financing, purchase, securitisation and servicing of subprime and non-subprime residential mortgages. 
This matter is at an early stage and HSBC is cooperating fully. 
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, 
including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC. 
HSBC expects the focus on mortgage securitisations to continue. As a result, HSBC companies may be subject to additional 
claims, litigation and governmental or regulatory scrutiny relating to its participation in the US mortgage securitisation 
market, either as a member of a group or individually.  
Anti-money laundering and sanctions-related matters 
In October 2010, HSBC Bank USA entered into a consent cease-and-desist order with the OCC, and HNAH entered into a 
consent cease-and-desist order with the FRB (the ‘Orders’). These Orders required improvements to establish an effective 
compliance risk management programme across HSBC’s US businesses, including risk management related to US Bank 
Secrecy Act (the ‘BSA’) and anti-money laundering (‘AML’) compliance. Steps continue to be taken to address the 
requirements of the Orders.  
In December 2012, HSBC Holdings plc (‘HSBC Holdings’), HNAH and HSBC Bank USA entered into agreements with US and 
UK government agencies regarding past inadequate compliance with the BSA, AML and sanctions laws. Among those 
agreements, HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank USA entered into a five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the DoJ, 
the US Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York, and the US Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of 
West Virginia (the ‘US DPA’); HSBC Holdings entered into a two-year deferred prosecution agreement with the New York 
County District Attorney (the ‘DANY DPA’); and HSBC Holdings consented to a cease-and-desist order and HSBC Holdings 
and HNAH consented to a civil money penalty order with the FRB. In addition, HSBC Bank USA entered into a civil money 
penalty order with FinCEN and a separate civil money penalty order with the OCC. HSBC Holdings also entered into an 
agreement with the Office of Foreign Assets Control (‘OFAC’) regarding historical transactions involving parties subject to 
OFAC sanctions and an undertaking with the UK Financial Conduct Authority (the ‘FCA’) to comply with certain forward-
looking AML and sanctions-related obligations.  
Under these agreements, HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank USA made payments totalling US$1.9bn to US authorities and are 
continuing to comply with ongoing obligations. In July 2013, the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York 
approved the US DPA and retained authority to oversee implementation of that agreement. Under the agreements with 
the DoJ, FCA, and FRB, an independent monitor (who is, for FCA purposes, a ‘skilled person’ under Section 166 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act) is evaluating and regularly assessing the effectiveness of HSBC’s AML and sanctions 
compliance function and HSBC’s progress in implementing its remedial obligations under the agreements.  
HSBC Holdings has fulfilled all of the requirements imposed by the DANY DPA, which expired by its terms at the end of the 
two-year period of that agreement in December 2014. If HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank USA fulfil all of the requirements 
imposed by the US DPA, the DoJ charges against those entities will be dismissed at the end of the five-year period of that 
agreement. The DoJ may prosecute HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank USA in relation to any matters that are the subject of the 
US DPA if HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank USA breaches the terms of the US DPA.  
HSBC Bank USA also entered into a separate consent order with the OCC, requiring it to correct the circumstances and 
conditions as noted in the OCC’s then most recent report of examination, and imposing certain restrictions on HSBC Bank 
USA directly or indirectly acquiring control of, or holding an interest in, any new financial subsidiary, or commencing a   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
451 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
new activity in its existing financial subsidiary, unless it receives prior approval from the OCC. HSBC Bank USA also entered 
into a separate consent order with the OCC requiring it to adopt an enterprise-wide compliance programme.  
These settlements with US and UK authorities have led to private litigation, and do not preclude further private litigation 
related to HSBC’s compliance with applicable BSA, AML and sanctions laws or other regulatory or law enforcement actions 
for BSA, AML, sanctions or other matters not covered by the various agreements. 
In May 2014, a shareholder derivative action was filed by a shareholder of HSBC Holdings purportedly on behalf of HSBC 
Holdings, HSBC Bank USA, HNAH and HSBC USA Inc. (the ‘Nominal Corporate Defendants’) in New York State Supreme 
Court against certain current and former directors and officers of those HSBC companies (the ‘Individual Defendants’). The 
complaint alleges that the Individual Defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the Nominal Corporate Defendants and 
caused a waste of corporate assets by allegedly permitting and/or causing the conduct underlying the US DPA. In October 
2014, the Nominal Corporate Defendants moved to dismiss the action, and the Individual Defendants who had been 
served also responded to the complaint. Plaintiff filed an amended complaint in February 2015. 
In July 2014, a claim was filed in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice against HSBC Holdings and a former employee 
purportedly on behalf of a class of persons who purchased HSBC common shares and ADSs between July 2006 and July 
2012. The complaint, which seeks monetary damages of up to CA$20bn, alleges that the defendants made statutory and 
common law misrepresentations in documents released by HSBC Holdings and its wholly owned subsidiary, HSBC Bank 
Canada, relating to HSBC’s compliance with BSA, AML, sanctions and other laws.  
In November 2014, a complaint was filed in the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York on behalf of 
representatives of US persons killed or injured in Iraq between April 2004 and November 2011. The complaint was filed 
against HSBC Holdings, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Bank Middle East, as well as other non-HSBC banks and 
the Islamic Republic of Iran (together, the ‘Defendants’). The plaintiffs allege that defendants conspired to violate the US 
Anti-Terrorism Act, by altering or falsifying payment messages involving Iran, Iranian parties and Iranian banks for 
transactions processed through the US. Defendants’ motion to dismiss is due to be filed in March 2015. 
These private lawsuits are at an early stage. Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC 
to predict the resolution of these private lawsuits, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC. 
Tax and broker-dealer investigations 
HSBC continues to cooperate in ongoing investigations by the DoJ and the US Internal Revenue Service regarding whether 
certain HSBC companies and employees acted appropriately in relation to certain customers who had US tax reporting 
obligations. In connection with these investigations, HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA (‘HSBC Swiss Private Bank’), with due 
regard for Swiss law, has produced records and other documents to the DoJ. In August 2013, the DoJ informed HSBC Swiss 
Private Bank that it was not eligible for the ‘Program for Non-Prosecution Agreements or Non-Target Letters for Swiss 
Banks’ since a formal investigation had previously been authorised. The DoJ has requested additional information from 
HSBC Swiss Private Bank and other Swiss banks regarding the transfer of assets to and from US person-related accounts 
and employees who serviced those accounts. HSBC Swiss Private Bank is preparing this data, in a manner consistent with 
Swiss law.  
Other HSBC companies have received subpoenas and requests for information from US and other authorities, including 
with respect to US-based clients of an HSBC company in India.  
In November 2014, HSBC Swiss Private Bank reached a final settlement with the SEC relating to cross-border brokerage 
and advisory services provided by HSBC Swiss Private Bank and its predecessor entities to US resident clients between 
2003 and 2011. 
In addition, various tax administration, regulatory and law enforcement authorities around the world, including in 
Belgium, France, Argentina, Switzerland and India, are conducting investigations and reviews of HSBC Swiss Private Bank 
in connection with allegations of tax evasion or tax fraud, money laundering and unlawful cross-border banking 
solicitation. HSBC Swiss Private Bank has been placed under formal criminal examination by magistrates in both Belgium 
and France. In February 2015, HSBC was informed that the French magistrates are of the view that they have completed 
their investigation with respect to HSBC Swiss Private Bank and have referred the matter to the public prosecutor for a 
recommendation on any potential charges to be brought, whilst reserving the right to continue investigating other 
conduct at HSBC. In addition, in November 2014, the Argentine tax authority filed a complaint alleging an unlawful 
association between HSBC Swiss Private Bank, HSBC Bank Argentina, HSBC Bank USA and certain current and former HSBC 
officers, which allegedly enabled HSBC customers to evade Argentine tax obligations. In February 2015, a public 
prosecutor in Switzerland commenced an investigation of HSBC Swiss Private Bank, and the Indian tax authority issued a 
summons and request for information to an HSBC company in India.  
With respect to each of these ongoing matters, HSBC is cooperating with the relevant authorities. Based on the facts 
currently known, there is a high degree of uncertainty as to the terms on which they will be resolved and the timing of 
such resolutions, including the amounts of fines, penalties and/or forfeitures imposed on HSBC, which could be significant.   Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
40 – Legal proceedings and regulatory matters 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
452 
In light of the recent media attention regarding these matters, it is possible that other tax administration, regulatory or 
law enforcement authorities will also initiate or enlarge similar investigations or regulatory proceedings.   
London interbank offered rates, European interbank offered rates and other benchmark interest rate 
investigations and litigation 
Various regulators and competition and law enforcement authorities around the world, including in the UK, the US, the 
EU, Switzerland and elsewhere, are conducting investigations and reviews related to certain past submissions made by 
panel banks and the processes for making submissions in connection with the setting of London interbank offered rates 
(‘Libor’), European interbank offered rates (‘Euribor’) and other benchmark interest rates. As certain HSBC companies are 
members of such panels, HSBC has been the subject of regulatory demands for information and is cooperating with those 
investigations and reviews.  
In December 2013, the European Commission (the ‘Commission’) announced that it had imposed fines on eight financial 
institutions under its cartel settlement procedure for their participation in illegal activity related to euro interest rate 
derivatives and/or yen interest rate derivatives. Although HSBC was not one of the financial institutions fined, the 
Commission announced that it had opened proceedings against HSBC in connection with its Euribor-related investigation 
of euro interest rate derivatives only. This investigation will continue under the standard Commission cartel procedure. In 
May 2014, HSBC received a Statement of Objections from the Commission, alleging anti-competitive practices in 
connection with the pricing of euro interest rate derivatives. The Statement of Objections sets out the Commission’s 
preliminary views and does not prejudge the final outcome of its investigation. HSBC responded partially to the 
Commission’s Statement of Objections in November 2014, and will have the opportunity to complete its response on a 
date to be decided by the Commission, once various procedural issues are resolved.  
Based on the facts currently known, with respect to each of these ongoing investigations, there is a high degree of 
uncertainty as to the terms on which they will be resolved and the timing of such resolution, including the amounts of 
fines and/or penalties, which could be significant. 
In addition, HSBC and other US dollar Libor panel banks have been named as defendants in a number of private lawsuits 
filed in the US with respect to the setting of US dollar Libor. The complaints assert claims under various US laws, including 
US antitrust and racketeering laws, the US Commodity Exchange Act (‘CEA’), and state law. The lawsuits include individual 
and putative class actions, most of which have been transferred and/or consolidated for pre-trial purposes before the 
New York District Court. 
In March 2013, the New York District Court overseeing the consolidated proceedings related to US dollar Libor issued a 
decision in the six oldest actions, dismissing the plaintiffs’ federal and state antitrust claims, racketeering claims, and 
unjust enrichment claims in their entirety, but allowing certain of their CEA claims that were not barred by the applicable 
statute of limitations to proceed. Some of those plaintiffs appealed the New York District Court’s decision to the US Court 
of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which later dismissed those appeals. In January 2015, the US Supreme Court reversed 
the Court of Appeals’ decision and remanded the case to the Court of Appeals for consideration of the merits of the 
plaintiffs’ appeal.  
Other plaintiffs sought to file amended complaints in the New York District Court to assert additional allegations. In June 
2014, the New York District Court issued a decision that, amongst other things, denied the plaintiffs’ request for leave to 
amend their complaints to assert additional theories of Libor manipulation against HSBC and certain non-HSBC banks, but 
granted leave to assert such manipulation claims against two other banks; and granted defendants’ motion to dismiss 
certain additional claims under the CEA as barred by the applicable statute of limitations. Proceedings with respect to all 
other actions in the consolidated proceedings were stayed pending this decision. The stay was lifted in September 2014. 
Amended complaints were filed in previously stayed non-class actions in October 2014; and amended complaints were 
filed in several of the previously stayed class actions in November 2014. Motions to dismiss were filed in November 2014 
and January 2015, respectively, and remain pending.   
Separately, HSBC and other panel banks have also been named as defendants in a putative class action filed in the New 
York District Court on behalf of persons who transacted in euroyen futures and options contracts related to the euroyen 
Tokyo interbank offered rate (‘Tibor’). The complaint alleges, amongst other things, misconduct related to euroyen Tibor, 
although HSBC is not a member of the Japanese Bankers Association’s euroyen Tibor panel, as well as Japanese yen Libor, 
in violation of US antitrust laws, the CEA, and state law. In March 2014, the New York District Court issued an opinion 
dismissing the plaintiffs’ claims under US antitrust law and state law, but sustaining their claims under the CEA. In June 
2014, the plaintiffs moved for leave to file a third amended complaint. HSBC has opposed that motion, which remains 
pending.  
In November 2013, HSBC and other panel banks were also named as defendants in a putative class action filed in the New 
York District Court on behalf of persons who transacted in euro futures contracts and other financial instruments related 
to Euribor. The complaint alleges, amongst other things, misconduct related to Euribor in violation of US antitrust laws, 
the CEA and state law. The plaintiffs filed a second and later third amended complaint in May 2014 and October 2014, 
respectively. HSBC intends to respond to the third amended complaint once a court-ordered stay expires, currently set for 
May 2015.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
453 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
In September and October 2014, HSBC Bank plc and other panel banks were named as defendants in a number of putative 
class actions that were filed and consolidated in the New York District Court on behalf of persons who transacted in 
interest rate derivative transactions or purchased or sold financial instruments that were either tied to USD ISDAfix rates 
or were executed shortly before, during, or after the time of the daily ISDAfix setting window. The complaint alleges, 
amongst other things, misconduct related to these activities in violation of US antitrust laws, the CEA and state law. In 
October 2014, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint. A motion to dismiss that complaint was filed in 
December 2014 and remains pending. In February 2015, plaintiffs filed a second consolidated amended complaint 
replacing HSBC Bank plc with HSBC Bank USA. 
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these private 
lawsuits, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC. 
Foreign exchange rate investigations and litigation 
Various regulators and competition and law enforcement authorities around the world, including in the UK, the US, the EU 
and elsewhere, are conducting investigations and reviews into a number of firms, including HSBC, related to trading on 
the foreign exchange markets.  
In November 2014, HSBC Bank plc entered into regulatory settlements with the FCA and the US Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission (‘CFTC’) in connection with their respective investigations of HSBC’s trading and other conduct 
involving foreign exchange benchmark rates. Under the terms of those settlements, HSBC Bank plc agreed to pay a 
financial penalty of £216m (US$336m) to the FCA and a civil monetary penalty of US$275m to the CFTC, and to undertake 
various remedial actions.   
In December 2014, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’) announced the completion of its investigation into the 
foreign exchange trading operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (‘HBAP’). The 
investigation found no evidence of market manipulation by HBAP and no monetary penalty was imposed. HBAP was 
required to implement various remedial actions.  
The remaining investigations and reviews in the UK, the US and elsewhere are ongoing. Based on the facts currently 
known there is a high degree of uncertainty as to the terms on which they will be resolved and the timing of such 
resolutions, including the amounts of fines and/or penalties, which could be significant. As at 31 December 2014, HSBC 
has recognised a provision in the amount of US$550m in respect of these matters. 
In addition, in late 2013 and early 2014, HSBC Holdings, HSBC Bank plc, HNAH and HSBC Bank USA were named as 
defendants, amongst other banks, in various putative class actions filed in the New York District Court. In March 2014, the 
plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint alleging, amongst other things, that defendants conspired to manipulate 
the WM/ Reuters foreign exchange benchmark rates by sharing customers’ confidential order flow information, thereby 
injuring plaintiffs and others by forcing them to pay artificial and non-competitive prices for products based on these 
foreign currency rates (‘the Consolidated Action’). Separate putative class actions were also brought on behalf of non-US 
plaintiffs (the ‘Foreign Actions’). Defendants moved to dismiss all actions. In January 2015, the court denied defendants’ 
motion to dismiss as to the Consolidated Action, but granted defendants’ motion to dismiss as to the Foreign Actions. 
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these private 
lawsuits, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC.  
Precious metals fix-related litigation and investigations 
Since March 2014, numerous putative class actions have been filed in the US District Courts for the Southern District of 
New York, the District of New Jersey and the Northern District of California naming HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Bank plc, HSI 
and other members of The London Gold Market Fixing Limited as defendants. The complaints allege that, from January 
2004 to the present, defendants conspired to manipulate the price of gold and gold derivatives during the afternoon 
London gold fix in order to reap profits on proprietary trades. These actions have been assigned to and consolidated in the 
New York District Court. An amended consolidated class action complaint was filed in December 2014, and HSBC’s 
response was filed in February 2015.  
Since July 2014, putative class actions were filed in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York and the 
Eastern District of New York naming HSBC Holdings, HNAH, HSBC Bank USA, HSBC USA Inc. and other members of The 
London Silver Market Fixing Ltd as defendants. The complaints allege that, from January 2007 to the present, defendants 
conspired to manipulate the price of physical silver and silver derivatives for their collective benefit in violation of US 
antitrust laws and the CEA. These actions have been assigned to and consolidated in the New York District Court. An 
amended consolidated class action complaint was filed in January 2015, and HSBC’s response is due in March 2015.  
Between late 2014 and early 2015, numerous putative class actions were filed in the New York District Court naming HSBC 
Bank USA and other members of The London Platinum and Palladium Fixing Company Limited as defendants. The 
complaints allege that, from January 2007 to the present, defendants conspired to manipulate the price of physical 
Platinum Group Metals (‘PGM’) and PGM-based financial products for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust 
laws and the CEA.  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
40 – Legal proceedings and regulatory matters / 41 – Related party transactions 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
454 
In November 2014, the DoJ issued a document request to HSBC Holdings, seeking the voluntary production of certain 
documents relating to a criminal antitrust investigation that the DoJ is conducting in relation to precious metals. In 
January 2015, the CFTC issued a subpoena to HSBC Bank USA, seeking the production of certain documents related to 
HSBC Bank USA’s precious metals trading operations. HSBC is cooperating with the US authorities in their respective 
investigations. 
These matters are at an early stage. Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to 
predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC. 
Credit default swap regulatory investigation and litigation 
In July 2013, HSBC received a Statement of Objections from the Commission relating to its ongoing investigation of alleged 
anti-competitive activity by a number of market participants in the credit derivatives market between 2006 and 2009. The 
Statement of Objections sets out the Commission’s preliminary views and does not prejudge the final outcome of its 
investigation. HSBC has submitted a response and attended an oral hearing in May 2014. Following the oral hearing, the 
Commission decided to conduct a further investigation phase before deciding whether or how to proceed with the case. 
HSBC is cooperating with this further investigation. Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for 
HSBC to predict the resolution of this matter, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC.  
In addition, HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank plc have been named as defendants, amongst others, 
in numerous putative class actions filed in the New York District Court and the Illinois District Court. These class actions 
allege that the defendants, which include ISDA, Markit and several other financial institutions, conspired to restrain trade 
in violation of US antitrust laws by, amongst other things, restricting access to credit default swap pricing exchanges and 
blocking new entrants into the exchange market, with the purpose and effect of artificially inflating the bid/ask spread 
paid to buy and sell credit default swaps in the US. The plaintiffs in these suits purport to represent a class of all persons 
who purchased credit default swaps from or sold credit default swaps to defendants primarily in the US.  
In October 2013, these cases were consolidated in the New York District Court. An amended consolidated complaint was 
filed in January 2014, naming HSBC Bank USA and HSBC Bank plc as defendants, amongst other non-HSBC defendants. 
Following the filing of defendants’ initial motions to dismiss in March 2014, plaintiffs filed a second amended consolidated 
complaint, which defendants also moved to dismiss. In September 2014, the court granted in part and denied in part the 
defendants’ motion to dismiss. Discovery is in process. 
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these private 
lawsuits, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC. 
Economic plans: HSBC Bank Brasil S.A.  
In the mid-1980s and early 1990s, certain economic plans were introduced by the government of Brazil to reduce 
escalating inflation. The implementation of these plans adversely impacted savings account holders, thousands of which 
consequently commenced legal proceedings against financial institutions in Brazil, including HSBC Bank Brasil S.A. (‘HSBC 
Brazil’), alleging, amongst other things, that savings account balances were adjusted by a different price index than that 
contractually agreed, which caused them a loss of income. Certain of these cases have reached the Brazilian Supreme 
Court (the ‘Supreme Court’). The Supreme Court has suspended all cases pending before lower courts until it delivers a 
final judgement on the constitutionality of the changes resulting from the economic plans. It is anticipated that the 
outcome of the Supreme Court’s final judgement will set a precedent for all cases pending before the lower courts. 
Separately, the Brazilian Superior Civil Court (the ‘Superior Civil Court’) is considering matters relating to, amongst other 
things, contractual and punitive interest rates to be applied to calculate any loss of income.  
There is a high degree of uncertainty as to the terms on which the proceedings in the Supreme Court and Superior Civil 
Court will be resolved and the timing of such resolutions, including the amount of losses that HSBC Brazil may be liable to 
pay in the event of an unfavourable judgement. Such losses may lie in a range from a relatively insignificant amount to an 
amount up to US$800m, although the upper end of this range is considered unlikely. 
Regulatory Review of Consumer ‘Enhancement Services Products’ 
HSBC Finance, through its legacy Cards and Retail Services business, offered or participated in the marketing, distribution, 
or servicing of products, such as identity theft protection and credit monitoring products, that were ancillary to the 
provision of credit to the consumer. HSBC Finance ceased offering these products by May 2012. The offering and 
administration of these and other enhancement services products, such as debt protection products, has been the subject 
of enforcement actions against other institutions by regulators, including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the 
OCC, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Such enforcement actions have resulted in orders to pay restitution 
to customers and the assessment of penalties in substantial amounts. We have made restitution to certain customers in 
connection with certain enhancement services products, and we continue to cooperate with our regulators in connection 
with their on-going review. In light of the actions that regulators have taken in relation to other non-HSBC credit card 
issuers regarding their enhancement services products, one or more regulators may order us to pay additional restitution 
to customers and/or impose civil money penalties or other relief arising from the prior offering and administration of such 
enhancement services products by HSBC Finance. There is a high degree of uncertainty as to the terms on which this   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
455 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
matter will be resolved and the timing of such resolution, including the amount of any additional remediation which may 
lie in a range from zero to an amount up to US$500m. 
41 Related party transactions 
Related parties of the Group and HSBC Holdings include subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, post-employment benefit 
plans for HSBC employees, Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management Personnel and entities 
which are controlled or jointly controlled by Key Management Personnel or their close family members. 
Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and 
controlling the activities of HSBC Holdings, being the Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings. 
Compensation of Key Management Personnel 
 HSBC 
 2014 2013 2012
 US$m US$m US$m
Short-term employee benefits  41 38  37 
Post-employment benefits  1 2  1 
Other long-term employee benefits  7 10  10 
Share-based payments  54 35  43
Year ended 31 December 103 85 91
Transactions, arrangements and agreements involving related parties 
Particulars of advances (loans and quasi-loans), credits and guarantees entered into by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings 
during 2014 with Directors, disclosed pursuant to section 413 of the Companies Act 2006, are shown below:  
 2014  2013
 US$m   US$m
Advances and credits at 31 December 5   7
Particulars of transactions with related parties, disclosed pursuant to the requirements of IAS 24, are shown below. The 
disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest amounts outstanding during the year in the table below is considered 
to be the most meaningful information to represent the amount of the transactions and the amount of outstanding 
balances during the year. 
 2014 2013 
 
 Balance at 
 31 December 
Highest amounts 
 outstanding
 during year 
 Balance at 
 31 December  
 Highest amounts 
 outstanding
 during year 
 US$m US$m US$m   US$m
Key Management Personnel
1
    
Advances and credits  194 227 146   171
Guarantees  – – –   8
1 Includes Key Management Personnel, close family members of Key Management Personnel and entities which are controlled or jointly controlled 
by Key Management Personnel or their close family members. 
Some of the transactions were connected transactions, as defined by the Rules Governing The Listing of Securities on The 
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited but were exempt from any disclosure requirements under the provisions of those 
rules. The above transactions were made in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including 
interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with persons of a similar standing or, where applicable, with 
other employees. The transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable 
features. 
Shareholdings, options and other securities of Key Management Personnel 
 
2014 
 (000s) 
 2013
 (000s)
Number of options held over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans 28 225
Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held beneficially and non-beneficially 17,533 14,704
Number of HSBC Bank 2.875% Notes 2015 held beneficially and non-beneficially 5 5
At 31 December 17,566 14,934
 
Transactions with other related parties of HSBC 
Associates and joint ventures 
The Group provides certain banking and financial services to associates and joint ventures, including loans, overdrafts, 
interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts. Details of the interests in associates and joint ventures  Notes on the Financial Statements (continued) 
41 – Related party transactions / 42 – Events after the balance sheet date 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
456 
are given in Note 20. Transactions and balances during the year with associates and joint ventures were as follows: 
 2014 2013 
 
Highest balance 
during the year
1
Balance at
 31 December
1
Highest balance  
 during the year
1
Balance at
 31 December
1
 US$m US$m US$m US$m
Amounts due from joint ventures:  
– subordinated  – – 1 –
– unsubordinated  205 205 300  300 
Amounts due from associates:   
– subordinated 58 – – –
– unsubordinated  5,451 4,273 4,884  4,084 
At 31 December 5,714 4,478 5,185  4,384 
  
Amounts due to joint ventures  – – 7  7 
Amounts due to associates  650 162 1,178  290 
At 31 December 650 162 1,185  297 
  
Commitments  17 – 70  17 
1 The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest balance during the year is considered the most meaningful information to represent 
transactions during the year. 
The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, 
including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties. 
Post-employment benefit plans 
At 31 December 2014, US$4.5bn (2013: US$5.2bn) of HSBC post-employment benefit plan assets were under 
management by HSBC companies. Fees of US$12m (2013: US$23m) were earned by HSBC companies for these 
management services provided to its post-employment benefit plans. HSBC’s post-employment benefit plans had placed 
deposits of US$223m (2013: US$620m) with its banking subsidiaries, on which interest payable to the schemes amounted 
to US$6m (2013: US$1m). The above outstanding balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on 
substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party 
counterparties. 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme entered into swap transactions with HSBC as part of the management of the inflation 
and interest rate sensitivity of its liabilities. At 31 December 2014, the gross notional value of the swaps was US$24bn 
(2013: US$38bn), the swaps had a positive fair value of US$0.9bn (2013: positive fair value of US$2.8bn) to the scheme 
and HSBC had delivered collateral of US$2.0bn (2013: US$3.8bn) to the scheme in respect of these swaps, on which HSBC 
earned US$5m of interest (2013: US$33m). All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard 
market bid/offer spreads. Over the year, the Scheme reduced its level of swap transactions with HSBC. 
The International Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme entered into swap transactions with HSBC to manage the inflation and 
interest rate sensitivity of the liabilities and selected assets. At 31 December 2014, the gross notional value of the swaps 
was US$1.9bn (2013: US$1.8bn) and the swaps had a net negative fair value of US$107m to the scheme (2013: US$399m 
positive). All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid/offer spreads. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
457 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
HSBC Holdings 
Details of HSBC Holdings’ principal subsidiaries are shown in Note 22. Transactions and balances during the year with 
subsidiaries were as follows: 
 2014 2013 
 
Highest  balance
 during the year
1
Balance at
 31 December
1
Highest balance 
during the year
1
  
 Balance at
 31 December
1
 US$m US$m US$m   US$m
Assets   
Cash at bank  436 249 420 407 
Derivatives  3,179 2,771 3,768  2,789 
Loans and advances  55,026 43,910 53,344  53,344 
Financial investments  4,073 4,073 1,220  1,210 
Investments in subsidiaries  96,264 96,264 92,695  92,695 
Total related party assets  at 31 December 158,978 147,267 151,447  150,445 
  
Liabilities  
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings  12,046 2,892 12,856  11,685 
Derivatives  1,169 1,169 1,154  704 
Subordinated liabilities:  
– at amortised cost  1,743 1,670 1,716  1,716 
– designated at fair value  3,186 981 4,350  3,161 
Total related party liabilities at 31 December 18,144 6,712 20,076  17,266 
  
Guarantees  53,180 52,023 52,836  52,836 
Commitments  1,245 16 1,245  1,245 
1 The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest balance during the year is considered the most meaningful information to represent 
transactions during the year. The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and were on substantially the same terms, 
including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties. 
Some employees of HSBC Holdings are members of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme, which is sponsored by 
a separate Group company. HSBC Holdings incurs a charge for these employees equal to the contributions paid into the 
scheme on their behalf. Disclosure in relation to the scheme is made in Note 6 to the accounts. 
42 Events after the balance sheet date 
A fourth interim dividend for 2014 of US$0.20 per ordinary share (a distribution of approximately US$3,844m) was 
declared by the Directors after 31 December 2014. 
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 February 2015 and authorised for issue.  Shareholder information 
Interim dividends / Shareholder profile / 2014 AGM 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
458 
Shareholder information 
Fourth interim dividend for 2014  458
Interim dividends for 2015  458
Shareholder profile  458
2014 Annual General Meeting  459
Interim Management Statements and Interim Results  459
Shareholder enquiries and communications  460
Stock symbols  461
Investor relations  461
Where more information about HSBC is available  461
Simplified structure chart  462
Taxation of shares and dividends  463
Abbreviations  466
Glossary and Index  470
 
Fourth interim dividend for 2014 
The Directors have declared a fourth interim dividend for 2014 of US$0.20 per ordinary share. Information on the scrip 
dividend scheme and currencies in which shareholders may elect to have the cash dividend paid will be sent to 
shareholders on or about 20 March 2015. The timetable for the dividend is: 
Announcement  23 February 2015
ADSs quoted ex-dividend in New York  4 March 2015
Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong, Paris and Bermuda 5 March 2015
Record date – London, Hong Kong, New York, Paris, Bermuda
1
6 March 2015
Mailing of Annual Report and Accounts 2014 and/or Strategic Report 2014, Notice of Annual General Meeting and dividend 
documentation  20 March 2015 
Final date for receipt by registrars of forms of election, Investor Centre electronic instructions and revocations of standing 
instructions for scrip dividends  16 April 2015 
Exchange rate determined for payment of dividends in sterling and Hong Kong dollars 20 April 2015
Payment date: dividend warrants, new share certificates or transaction advices and notional tax vouchers mailed and 
shares credited to stock accounts in CREST  30 April 2015 
1 Removals to and from the Overseas Branch register of shareholders in Hong Kong will not be permitted on this date. 
Interim dividends for 2015 
The Board has adopted a policy of paying quarterly interim dividends on the ordinary shares. Under this policy it is 
intended to have a pattern of three equal interim dividends with a variable fourth interim dividend. It is envisaged that 
the first interim dividend in respect of 2015 will be US$0.10 per ordinary share.  
Dividends are declared in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a combination of, 
US dollars, sterling and Hong Kong dollars, or, subject to the Board’s determination that a scrip dividend is to be offered in 
respect of that dividend, may be satisfied in whole or in part by the issue of new shares in lieu of a cash dividend. 
Shareholder profile 
At 31 December 2014 the share register recorded the following details: 
 
Number of  
shareholders  
Total ordinary 
shares held 
1 - 100  37,254  1,086,273
101 - 400  28,970  7,109,335
401 - 500  7,269  3,294,206
501 - 1,000  30,675  22,589,447
1,001 - 5,000 70,515  166,806,864
5,001 - 10,000  18,455  130,271,174
10,001 - 20,000  10,964  152,651,126
20,001 - 50,000  6,616  203,096,923
50,001 - 200,000  3,229  296,665,889
200,001 - 500,000  713  223,855,824
500,001 and above  1,092  18,010,447,199
Total  215,752  19,217,874,260
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
459 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
2014 Annual General Meeting 
All resolutions considered at the 2014 Annual General Meeting held at 11.00am on 23 May 2014 at The Barbican Centre, 
London EC2 were passed on a poll as follows:  
  Votes
Resolution  For
1
% Against % Total  %
2
  Withheld
3
 1 To receive the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2013  
 
9,757,667,883 98.77  121,991,215 1.23 9,879,659,098  51.81  67,631,467 
 2 To approve the Directors’ 
remuneration policy 
 
7,762,051,505 79.35 2,019,902,686 20.65 9,781,954,191  51.29  167,509,544 
 3 To approve the Directors’
Remuneration Report 
 
8,180,579,271 83.95 1,563,541,883 16.05 9,744,121,154  51.10  205,528,859 
4 To approve the variable pay cap  9,722,737,304 98.01 197,867,631 1.99 9,920,604,935  52.06  29,824,365
5 To elect or re-elect the following 
as Directors: 
 
         
 (a)  Kathleen Casey  9,919,351,912 99.90 9,703,995 0.10 9,929,055,907  52.07  22,579,886
 (b)  Safra Catz   9,907,586,080 99.79 21,027,161 0.21 9,928,613,241  52.06  22,549,669
 (c)  Laura Cha   9,780,982,617 99.65 34,767,318 0.35 9,815,749,935  51.47  134,402,361
 (d)  Marvin Cheung   9,896,844,476 99.68 32,093,388 0.32 9,928,937,864  52.07  22,444,096
 (e)  Sir Jonathan Evans  
(now Lord Evans of Weardale) 
 9,919,562,434 99.90 9,445,023 0.10 9,929,007,457 
 
52.07 
 
22,647,584
 (f)  Joachim Faber  9,777,856,091 99.57 41,751,739 0.43 9,819,607,830  51.49  130,404,838
 (g)  Rona Fairhead  9,850,526,539 99.23 75,986,608 0.77 9,926,513,147  52.05  23,410,104
 (h)  Renato Fassbind  8,877,803,961 89.45 1,047,345,520 10.55 9,925,149,481  52.05  26,491,483
 (i)  Douglas Flint  9,648,640,713 97.44 253,257,525 2.56 9,901,898,238  51.92  49,764,237
 (j)  Stuart Gulliver  9,901,917,449 99.73 27,013,216 0.27 9,928,930,665  52.07  22,318,409
 (k)  Sam Laidlaw  9,905,841,880 99.76 23,398,827 0.24 9,929,240,707  52.07  22,425,383
 (l)  John Lipsky  9,916,726,269 99.88 11,952,583 0.12 9,928,678,852  52.06  22,478,974
 (m)  Rachel Lomax  9,907,427,658 99.78 21,476,877 0.22 9,928,904,535  52.07  22,307,009
 (n)  Iain Mackay  9,896,296,230 99.67 32,591,433 0.33 9,928,887,663  52.06  22,328,752
 (o)  Marc Moses  9,903,345,079 99.76 24,023,003 0.24 9,927,368,082  52.06  22,605,039
 (p)  Sir Simon Robertson  8,879,523,428 89.43 1,049,218,853 10.57 9,928,742,281  52.06  22,459,665
 (q)  Jonathan Symonds  9,909,069,564 99.80 19,845,278 0.20 9,928,914,842  52.07  22,747,741
6  To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as 
auditor to the Company   
 
9,858,281,428 99.29 70,691,207  0.71 9,928,972,635  52.07  22,181,297 
7 To authorise the Group Audit 
Committee to determine the 
auditor’s remuneration  
 
9,899,311,128 99.70 30,047,667 0.30 9,929,358,795  52.07  22,178,082 
8 To authorise the Directors to allot 
shares 
 
8,960,671,117 90.89 898,368,702 9.11 9,859,039,819  51.70  92,477,179 
9  To disapply pre-emption rights   9,782,952,816 98.97 101,914,263 1.03 9,884,867,079  51.83  66,129,918
10 To authorise the Directors to allot 
repurchased shares 
 
9,397,626,368 95.18 475,964,720 4.82 9,873,591,088  51.77  77,459,228 
11 To authorise the Company to  
purchase its own ordinary shares  
 
9,785,002,326 99.58 41,076,933 0.42 9,826,079,259  51.53  123,932,000 
12 To authorise the Directors to allot 
equity securities in relation to 
Contingent Convertible Securities 
 
9,558,599,010 97.49 246,293,361 2.51 9,804,892,371  51.41  142,376,638 
13 To disapply pre-emption rights in 
relation to the issue of Contingent 
Convertible Securities 
 
8,915,406,730 89.85 1,007,452,174 10.15 9,922,858,904  52.03  25,542,467 
14 To approve general meetings (other 
than annual general meetings) being 
called on a minimum of 14 clear 
days’ notice  
 
8,798,744,951 88.64 1,127,707,377 11.36 9,926,452,328  52.05  23,437,179 
1 Includes discretionary votes. 
2 Percentage of Issued Share Capital voted. 
3 A ‘vote withheld’ is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes ‘For’ and ‘Against’ the resolution. 
Interim Management Statements and Interim Results 
Interim Management Statements are expected to be issued on or around 5 May 2015 and 2 November 2015. The Interim 
Results for the six months to 30 June 2015 are expected to be issued on 3 August 2015. 
   Shareholder information (continued) 
Shareholder enquiries / Stock symbols / Investor relations / Information on HSBC 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
460 
Shareholder enquiries and communications 
Enquiries 
Any enquiries relating to shareholdings on the share register, for example transfers of shares, change of name or address, 
lost share certificates or dividend cheques, should be sent to the Registrars at the address given below. The Registrars 
offer an online facility, Investor Centre, which enables shareholders to manage their shareholding electronically. 
Principal Register:  Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register: Bermuda Overseas Branch Register:
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: 44 (0) 870 702 0137 
Email via website: 
www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus 
 Computershare Hong Kong Investor
   Services Limited 
Rooms 1712-1716, 17
th 
Floor 
Hopewell Centre  
183 Queen’s Road East  
Hong Kong 
Telephone: 852 2862 8555 
Email: hsbc.ecom@computershare.com.hk 
Investors Relations Team 
HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited 
6 Front Street 
Hamilton HM 11 
Bermuda 
Telephone: 1 441 299 6737 
Email: hbbm.shareholder.services@hsbc.bm 
Investor Centre: 
www.investorcentre.co.uk 
 Investor Centre:
www.investorcentre.com/hk 
Investor Centre: 
www.investorcentre.com/bm 
 
Any enquiries relating to ADSs should be sent to the depositary: 
The Bank of New York Mellon 
Depositary Receipts 
PO Box 43006 
Providence, RI 02940-3006 
USA 
Telephone (US): 1 877 283 5786 
Telephone (International): 1 201 680 6825 
Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com 
Website: www.bnymellon.com/shareowner 
Any enquiries relating to shares held through Euroclear France, the settlement and central depositary system for NYSE 
Euronext Paris, should be sent to the paying agent: 
HSBC France 
103, avenue des Champs Elysées 
75419 Paris Cedex 08 
France 
Telephone: 33 1 40 70 22 56 
Email: ost-agence-des-titres-hsbc-reims.hbfr-do@hsbc.fr 
Website: www.hsbc.fr 
If you have been nominated to receive general shareholder communications directly from HSBC Holdings, it is important 
to remember that your main contact for all matters relating to your investment remains the registered shareholder, or 
perhaps custodian or broker, who administers the investment on your behalf. Therefore any changes or queries relating 
to your personal details and holding (including any administration thereof) must continue to be directed to your existing 
contact at your investment manager or custodian. HSBC Holdings cannot guarantee dealing with matters directed to it in 
error. 
Further copies of this Annual Report and Accounts 2014 may be obtained by writing to the following departments: 
For those in Europe, the Middle East  
and Africa: 
 For those in Asia-Pacific: For those in the Americas: 
Global Communications 
HSBC Holdings plc 
8 Canada Square 
London E14 5HQ 
United Kingdom 
 Communications (Asia)
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited  
1 Queen’s Road Central 
Hong Kong  
Global Publishing Services 
HSBC – North America 
SC1 Level, 452 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10018 
USA 
   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
461 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Electronic communications 
Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or to receive notifications of 
their availability on HSBC’s website. To receive future notifications of the availability of a corporate communication 
on HSBC’s website by email, or revoke or amend an instruction to receive such notifications by email, go to 
www.hsbc.com/ecomms. If you provide an email address to receive electronic communications from HSBC, we will also 
send notifications of your dividend entitlements by email. If you received a notification of the availability of this document 
on HSBC’s website and would like to receive a printed copy or, if you would like to receive future corporate 
communications in printed form, please write or send an email (quoting your shareholder reference number) to the 
appropriate Registrars at the address given above. Printed copies will be provided without charge. 
Chinese translation 
A Chinese translation of this Annual Report and Accounts 2014 is available upon request after 20 March 2015 from the 
Registrars: 
Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
Rooms 1712-1716, 17th Floor  
Hopewell Centre  
183 Queen’s Road East 
Hong Kong 
 
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
United Kingdom  
Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents or if you have received a 
Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive such translations in future. 
 
Stock symbols 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares trade under the following stock symbols: 
London Stock Exchange HSBA Euronext Paris HSB 
Hong Kong Stock Exchange 5 Bermuda Stock Exchange HSBC.BH 
New York Stock Exchange (ADS) HSBC 
 
Investor relations 
Enquiries relating to HSBC’s strategy or operations may be directed to: 
Senior Manager Investor Relations 
HSBC Holdings plc 
8 Canada Square 
London E14 5HQ 
United Kingdom 
 SVP Investor Relations
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 
26525 N Riverwoods Boulevard, Suite 100 
Mettawa, Illinois 60045 
USA 
Head of Investor Relations, Asia 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited 
1 Queen’s Road Central 
Hong Kong 
 
 
 
 
Telephone: 44 (0) 20 7991 3643 1 224 880 8008 852 2822 4908 
Email: investorrelations@hsbc.com  investor.relations.usa@us.hsbc.com investorrelations@hsbc.com.hk 
 
Where more information about HSBC is available 
This Annual Report and Accounts 2014, and other information on HSBC, may be viewed on HSBC’s website: 
www.hsbc.com. 
Reports, statements and information that HSBC Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available 
at www.sec.gov. Investors can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee by writing 
to the SEC at the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549-0123 or by emailing 
PublicInfo@sec.gov. Investors should call the Commission at (202) 551 8090 if they require further assistance. Investors 
may also obtain the reports and other information that HSBC Holdings files at www.nyse.com (telephone number 
(1) 212 656 3000). 
HM Treasury has transposed the requirements set out under CRD IV and issued the Capital Requirements Country-by-
Country Reporting Regulations 2013, effective 1 January 2014. The legislation will require HSBC Holdings to publish 
additional information, in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014, by 1 July 2015. This information will be available 
at the time on HSBC’s website: www.hsbc.com.  Shareholder information  
Organisation chart / Taxation of shares and dividends 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
462 
 
99.99%
Simplified Structure Chart of HSBC Holdings plc
80.65%
99.99%
94.53%
62.14%
The Hongkong and
Shanghai Banking
Corporation Limited
Hang Seng
Bank Limited
HSBC Bank Egypt 
S.A.E.
HSBC Asia 
Holdings (UK) Ltd
HSBC Bank 
Middle East Ltd
HSBC Bank 
Malaysia Berhad
HSBC Holdings 
BV
HSBC Finance 
(Netherlands)
HSBC Bank 
Argentina S.A.
HSBC Bank Brasil 
S.A. - Banco 
Múltiplo
HSBC Latin 
America Holdings 
(UK) Limited
HSBC Overseas 
Holdings (UK) Ltd
HSBC Finance 
Corporation
HSBC Bank 
Australia Ltd
HSBC 
Investments 
(North America) 
Inc.
HSBC North 
America Holdings 
Inc.
HSBC Bank plc
HSBC Private 
Banking Holdings 
(Suisse) S.A.
HSBC Germany 
Holdings GmbH
HSBC Trinkaus & 
Burkhardt AG
HSBC Asset 
Finance (UK) Ltd
HSBC Bank A.S.
HSBC France
HSBC Bank 
Canada
HSBC Bank USA, 
N.A.
HSBC Holdings plc
HSBC Securities 
(USA) Inc.
HSBC México 
S.A., Institución 
de Banca 
Múltiple, Grupo 
Financiero HSBC
HSBC Bank 
(China) Company 
Limited
HSBC Asia 
Holdings BV
HSBC Middle 
East Holdings BV
HSBC Life 
(International) Ltd
HSBC Bank 
(Taiwan) Limited
HSBC Bank 
(Vietnam) Limited
99.99%
• This simplified Group structure of principal subsidiaries is at 31 December 2014.  
• Not all intermediate holding companies are shown. 
• Unless shown otherwise, all subsidiaries are wholly owned.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
463 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Taxation of shares and 
dividends 
Taxation – UK residents 
The following is a summary, under current law, of certain 
UK tax considerations that are likely to be material to the 
ownership and disposition of HSBC Holdings ordinary 
shares. The summary does not purport to be a 
comprehensive description of all the tax considerations 
that may be relevant to a holder of shares. In particular, 
the summary deals principally with shareholders who are 
resident solely in the UK for UK tax purposes and only 
with holders who hold the shares as investments and 
who are the beneficial owners of the shares, and does 
not address the tax treatment of certain classes of 
holders such as dealers in securities. Holders and 
prospective purchasers should consult their own advisers 
regarding the tax consequences of an investment 
in shares in light of their particular circumstances, 
including the effect of any national, state or local laws. 
Taxation of dividends 
Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by 
HSBC Holdings. However, dividends are paid with an 
associated tax credit which is available for set-off by 
certain shareholders against any liability they may have 
to UK income tax. Currently, the associated tax credit is 
equivalent to 10% of the combined cash dividend and tax 
credit, i.e. one-ninth of the cash dividend. 
For individual shareholders who are resident in the UK 
for taxation purposes and liable to UK income tax at the 
basic rate, no further UK income tax liability arises on 
the receipt of a dividend from HSBC Holdings. Individual 
shareholders who are liable to UK income tax at the 
higher rate or additional rate are taxed on the combined 
amount of the dividend and the tax credit at the dividend 
upper rate (currently 32.5%) and the dividend additional 
rate (currently 37.5%), respectively. The tax credit is 
available for set-off against the dividend upper rate 
and the dividend additional rate liability. Individual UK 
resident shareholders are not entitled to any tax credit 
repayment. 
Although non-UK resident shareholders are generally not 
entitled to any repayment of the tax credit in respect of 
any UK dividend received, some such shareholders may 
be so entitled under the provisions of a double taxation 
agreement between their country of residence and the 
UK. However, in most cases no amount of the tax credit 
is, in practice, repayable. 
Information on the taxation consequences of the HSBC 
Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the 2013 
fourth interim dividend and the first, second and third 
interim dividends for 2014 was set out in the Secretary’s 
letters to shareholders of 25 March, 5 June, 3 September 
and 5 November 2014. In no case was the difference 
between the cash dividend foregone and the market 
value of the scrip dividend in excess of 15% of the 
market value. Accordingly, the amount of the dividend 
income chargeable to tax, and, the acquisition price of 
the HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for UK capital gains 
tax purposes, was the cash dividend foregone. 
Taxation of capital gains 
The computation of the capital gains tax liability arising 
on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by shareholders 
subject to UK tax on capital gains can be complex, partly 
depending on whether, for example, the shares were 
purchased since April 1991, acquired in 1991 in exchange 
for shares in The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited, or acquired subsequent to 1991 
in exchange for shares in other companies.  
For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition cost 
for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account 
of subsequent rights and capitalisation issues. Any 
capital gain arising on a disposal by a UK company 
may also be adjusted to take account of indexation 
allowance. If in doubt, shareholders are recommended 
to consult their professional advisers. 
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax 
Transfers of shares by a written instrument of transfer 
generally will be subject to UK stamp duty at the rate of 
0.5% of the consideration paid for the transfer, and such 
stamp duty is generally payable by the transferee. 
An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest therein, 
normally will give rise to a charge to stamp duty reserve 
tax at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration. However, 
provided an instrument of transfer of the shares is 
executed pursuant to the agreement and duly stamped 
before the date on which the stamp duty reserve tax 
becomes payable, under the current practice of UK HM 
Revenue and Customs (‘HMRC’) it will not be necessary 
to pay the stamp duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such 
tax to be cancelled. Stamp duty reserve tax is generally 
payable by the transferee. 
Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the UK’s 
paperless share transfer system, are liable to stamp duty 
reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration. In 
CREST transactions, the tax is calculated and payment 
made automatically. Deposits of shares into CREST 
generally will not be subject to stamp duty reserve tax, 
unless the transfer into CREST is itself for consideration. 
Following the case HSBC pursued before the European 
Court of Justice (Case C-569/07 HSBC Holdings plc and 
Vidacos Nominees Ltd v The Commissioners for HM 
Revenue & Customs) and a subsequent case in relation to 
depositary receipts, HMRC now accepts that the charge 
to stamp duty reserve tax at 1.5% on the issue of shares 
to a depositary receipt issuer or a clearance service is 
prohibited.  
Taxation – US residents 
The following is a summary, under current law, 
of the principal UK tax and US federal income tax 
considerations that are likely to be material to the 
ownership and disposition of shares or American  Shareholder information (continued)  
Taxation  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
464 
Depositary Shares (‘ADS’s) by a holder that is a resident 
of the US for US federal income tax purposes (a ‘US 
holder’) and who is not resident in the UK for UK tax 
purposes. 
The summary does not purport to be a comprehensive 
description of all of the tax considerations that may be 
relevant to a holder of shares or ADSs. In particular, the 
summary deals only with US holders that hold shares or 
ADSs as capital assets, and does not address the tax 
treatment of holders that are subject to special tax rules, 
such as banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, 
dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold 
shares or ADSs as part of an integrated investment 
(including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a share or ADS and 
one or more other positions, and persons that own, 
directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock 
of HSBC Holdings. This discussion is based on 
laws, treaties, judicial decisions and regulatory 
interpretations in effect on the date hereof, all of 
which are subject to change. 
Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their 
own advisers regarding the tax consequences of an 
investment in shares or ADSs in light of their particular 
circumstances, including the effect of any national, state 
or local laws. 
Any US federal tax advice included in this Annual Report 
and Accounts is for informational purposes only; it was 
not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, 
for the purpose of avoiding US federal tax penalties. 
Taxation of dividends 
Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by HSBC 
Holdings. For US tax purposes, a US holder must include 
cash dividends paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary 
income on the date that such holder or the ADS 
depositary receives them, translating dividends paid in 
UK pounds sterling into US dollars using the exchange 
rate in effect on the date of receipt. A US holder that 
elects to receive shares in lieu of a cash dividend must 
include in ordinary income the fair market value of such 
shares on the dividend payment date, and the tax basis 
of those shares will equal such fair market value. 
Subject to certain exceptions for positions that are held 
for less than 61 days or are hedged, and subject to a 
foreign corporation being considered a ‘qualified foreign 
corporation’ (which includes not being classified for 
US federal income tax purposes as a passive foreign 
investment company), certain dividends (‘qualified 
dividends’) received by an individual US holder generally 
will be subject to US taxation at preferential rates. Based 
on the company’s audited financial statements and 
relevant market and shareholder data, HSBC Holdings 
does not anticipate being classified as a passive foreign 
investment company. Accordingly, dividends paid on the 
shares or ADSs generally should be treated as qualified 
dividends. 
Taxation of capital gains 
Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other 
disposition of shares or ADSs normally will not be subject 
to UK taxation unless at the time of the sale or other 
disposition the holder carries on a trade, profession 
or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency or 
permanent establishment and the shares or ADSs are or 
have been used, held or acquired for the purposes of 
such trade, profession, vocation, branch or agency or 
permanent establishment. Such gains will be included in 
income for US tax purposes, and will be long-term capital 
gains if the shares or ADSs were held for more than one 
year. A long-term capital gain realised by an individual 
US holder generally will be subject to US tax at 
preferential rates. 
Inheritance tax 
Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose domicile is 
determined to be the US for the purposes of the United 
States-United Kingdom Double Taxation Convention 
relating to estate and gift taxes (the ‘Estate Tax Treaty’) 
and who is not for such purposes a national of the UK 
will not, provided any US federal estate or gift tax 
chargeable has been paid, be subject to UK inheritance 
tax on the individual’s death or on a lifetime transfer of 
shares or ADSs except in certain cases where the shares 
or ADSs (i) are comprised in a settlement (unless, at the 
time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the 
US and was not a national of the UK), (ii) is part of the 
business property of a UK permanent establishment of 
an enterprise, or (iii) pertains to a UK fixed base of an 
individual used for the performance of independent 
personal services. In such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty 
generally provides a credit against US federal tax liability 
for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where 
the shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax 
and to US federal estate or gift tax. 
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax – ADSs 
If shares are transferred to a clearance service or 
American Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) issuer (which will 
include a transfer of shares to the Depositary) under the 
current HMRC practice UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty 
reserve tax will be payable. The stamp duty or stamp 
duty reserve tax is generally payable on the consideration 
for the transfer and is payable at the aggregate rate of 
1.5%. 
The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such 
a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty paid in 
connection with the same transfer. 
No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, or 
agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that the ADR 
and any separate instrument of transfer or written 
agreement to transfer remain at all times outside the UK, 
and provided further that any such transfer or written 
agreement to transfer is not executed in the UK. No 
stamp duty reserve tax will be payable on a transfer of, 
or agreement to transfer, an ADS effected by the transfer 
of an ADR.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
465 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
US backup withholding tax and information 
reporting 
Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds from 
the sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, or 
through certain financial intermediaries to US holders, 
are subject to information reporting and may be subject 
to a US ‘backup’ withholding tax unless, in general, the 
US holder complies with certain certification procedures 
or is a corporation or other person exempt from such 
withholding. Holders that are not US persons generally 
are not subject to information reporting or backup 
withholding tax, but may be required to comply with 
applicable certification procedures to establish that they 
are not US persons in order to avoid the application 
of such information reporting requirements or backup 
withholding tax to payments received within the US 
or through certain financial intermediaries.  Shareholder information (continued) 
Abbreviations 
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
466 
Abbreviations 
Abbreviation Brief description 
A  
A$ Australian dollar 
ABCP Asset-backed commercial paper
ABS
1
 Asset-backed security
ACF Advances to core funding
ADR American Depositary Receipt
ADS American Depositary Share
AED United Arab Emirates dirham
AIEA Average interest-earning assets
ALCM Asset, Liability and Capital Management
ALCO Asset and Liability Management Committee
AML Anti-money laundering
ARM
1
 Adjustable-rate mortgage
ARS Argentine peso 
B  
Basel Committee Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
Basel II
1
 2006 Basel Capital Accord
Basel III
1
 Basel Committee’s reforms to strengthen global capital and liquidity rules 
BBA British Bankers’ Association
BoCom Bank of Communications Co., Limited, one of China’s largest banks 
Bps
1
 Basis points. One basis point is equal to one-hundredth of a percentage point 
BRRD
1 
Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (EU)
BRL Brazilian real 
BSA Bank Secrecy Act (US)
BSM Balance Sheet Management
C  
C$ Canadian dollar 
CAPM Capital Asset Pricing Model
CCA Consumer Credit Act (UK)
CCB
1 
Capital conservation buffer
CCR
1
 Counterparty credit risk
CCyB
1 
Countercyclical capital buffer 
CD Certificate of deposit
CDO
1
 Collateralised debt obligation
CDS
1
 Credit default swap
CET1
1
 Common equity tier 1
CGU Cash-generating unit
CHF Swiss franc 
CMB Commercial Banking, a global business
CML
1
 Consumer and Mortgage Lending (US)
CNY Chinese yuan 
COSO 2013 Committee of the Sponsors of the Treadway Commission (US)
CP
1
 Commercial paper
CPB
1
 Capital planning buffer
CPI Consumer price index
CRD
1
 Capital Requirements Directive
CRR
1
 Customer risk rating
CRR/CRD IV Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive
CRS Card and Retail Services
CVA
1
 Credit valuation adjustment
D  
DANY DPA Two-year deferred prosecution agreement with the New York County District Attorney (US) 
Dodd-Frank Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (US)
DoJ Department of Justice (US)
DPA Deferred Prosecution Agreement (US) 
DPF Discretionary participation feature of insurance and investment contracts 
DVA
1
 Debit valuation adjustment
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
467 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Abbreviation Brief description 
E  
EAD
1
 Exposure at default
EBA European Banking Authority
ECB European Central Bank
EDTF Enhanced Disclosure Task Force
EGP Egyptian pound 
EL
1
 Expected loss 
EMIR European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EU)
EU European Union 
Euribor European Interbank Offered Rate
F  
Fannie Mae Federal National Mortgage Association (US)
FCA Financial Conduct Authority (UK)
FCA Direction Undertaking originally with the FSA to comply with certain forward-looking obligations with respect to 
AML and sanctions requirements 
FFVA Funding fair value adjustment estimation methodology on derivative contracts 
First Direct A division of HSBC Bank plc
FPC Financial Policy Committee (UK)
FRB Federal Reserve Board (US)
Freddie Mac Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (US)
FSA Financial Services Authority (UK)
FSB Financial Stability Board
FSC Forestry Stewardship Council
FSVC Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee
FTE Full-time equivalent staff
FTSE Financial Times – Stock Exchange index
FuM Funds under management
G  
GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles
GAC Group Audit Committee
GB&M Global Banking and Markets, a global business
GDP Gross domestic product
GENPRU PRA’s rules, as set out in the General Prudential Sourcebook
GLBA Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (US)
GMB Group Management Board
GPB Global Private Banking, a global business
GPSP Group Performance Share Plan
GRC Group Risk Committee
Group HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings
G-SIB
1
 Global systemically important bank
G-SII Global systemically important institution
H  
Hang Seng Bank Hang Seng Bank Limited, one of Hong Kong’s largest banks
HK$ Hong Kong dollar 
HNAH HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 
Hong Kong Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China 
HSBC HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings
HSBC Bank HSBC Bank plc 
HSBC Bank Middle East HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
HSBC Bank USA HSBC Bank USA, N.A., HSBC’s retail bank in the US
HSBC Canada The sub-group, HSBC Bank Canada, HSBC Trust Company Canada, HSBC Mortgage Corporation Canada 
and HSBC Securities Canada, consolidated for liquidity purposes 
HSBC Finance HSBC Finance Corporation, the US consumer finance company (formerly Household International, Inc.)
HSBC France HSBC’s French banking subsidiary, formerly CCF S.A.
HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings plc, the parent company of HSBC 
   Shareholder information (continued) 
Abbreviations 
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
468 
Abbreviation Brief description 
HSBC Premier HSBC’s premium personal global banking service
HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA, HSBC’s private bank in Switzerland
HSBC USA The sub-group, HSBC USA Inc (the holding company of HSBC Bank USA) and HSBC Bank USA, 
consolidated for liquidity purposes 
HSI HSBC Securities (USA) Inc.
HSSL HSBC Securities Services (Luxembourg)
I  
IAS International Accounting Standards
IASB International Accounting Standards Board
ICB Independent Commission on Banking (UK)
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards
Industrial Bank Industrial Bank Co. Limited, a national joint-stock bank in mainland China in which Hang Seng Bank 
Limited has a shareholding 
IRB
1
 Internal ratings-based
ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association
K  
KPMG KPMG Audit Plc and its affiliates
L  
LCR Liquidity coverage ratio
LFRF Liquidity and funding risk management framework
LGD
1
 Loss given default 
Libor London Interbank Offer Rate
LIC Loan impairment charge and other credit risk provision
LMU Loan Management Unit, part of Wholesale Credit and Market Risk
LTV
1
 Loan-to-value ratio
M  
Madoff Securities Bernard L Madoff Investment Securities LLC
Mainland China People’s Republic of China excluding Hong Kong
Markets HSBC’s treasury and capital markets services in Global Banking and Markets 
Mazarin Mazarin Funding Limited, an asset-backed CP conduit
MBS US mortgage-backed security
MENA Middle East and North Africa
MME Mid-market enterprise
Monoline
1
 Monoline insurance company
MSCI Morgan Stanley Capital International index
MTN Medium-term notes
MXN Mexican peso 
N  
NII Net interest income
NSFR Net stable funding ratio
NYSE New York Stock Exchange
O  
OCC Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (US)
OIS Overnight index swap
ORMF Operational risk management framework
OTC
1
 Over-the-counter 
P  
PD
1
 Probability of default
PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification
Performance Shares
1
 Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans that are subject to corporate 
performance conditions 
Ping An Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd, the second-largest life insurer in the PRC 
PPI Payment protection insurance product
PRA Prudential Regulation Authority (UK)
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
469 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
Abbreviation Brief description 
PRC People’s Republic of China
Premier HSBC Premier, HSBC’s premium personal global banking service
PVIF Present value of in-force long-term insurance business and long-term investment contracts with DPF
PwC PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its network of firms
Q  
QIS Quantitative Impact Study 
R  
RBWM Retail Banking and Wealth Management, a global business
Repo
1
 Sale and repurchase transaction
Restricted Shares Awards of Restricted Shares define the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee 
will become entitled, generally between one and three years from the date of the award, and normally 
subject to the individual remaining in employment  
Reverse repo Security purchased under commitments to sell
Risk Management Meeting A meeting of the Group Management Board providing oversight of enterprise-wide management of all 
risks 
RM Malaysian ringgit  
RMB Renminbi 
RMBS Residential mortgage-backed securities
RMs Relationship managers
RNIV Risk not in Var 
RoRWA Return on average risk-weighted assets
ROTE Return on tangible equity
RPI Retail price index (UK)
RSPO Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil
RTS Regulatory Technical Standards 
RWA
1
 Risk-weighted assets
S  
SE Structured entity 
SEC Securities and Exchange Commission (US)
SIC Securities investment conduit
SME Small and medium-sized enterprise
Solitaire Solitaire Funding Limited, a special purpose entity managed by HSBC
SPE
1
 Special purpose entity
SRB
1 
Systemic Risk Buffer
T  
The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, the founding member of HSBC 
TLAC
1 
Total loss absorbing capacity 
TRL Turkish lira 
TSA Transaction Services Agreement – relating to the sale of the CRS business in the US 
TSR Total shareholder return
U  
UAE United Arab Emirates
UK United Kingdom 
US$ United States dollar
US United States of America
US DPA Five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the Department of Justice and others (US) 
US run-off portfolio Includes our CML, vehicle finance and Taxpayer Financial Services businesses and insurance, 
commercial, corporate and treasury activities in HSBC Finance on an IFRSs management basis 
V  
VaR
1
 Value at risk 
Visa Visa Inc. 
VIU Value in use 
1 Full definition included in Glossary on page 470.  Shareholder information (continued) 
Glossary 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
470 
Glossary 
Term Definition 
A  
Adjustable-rate mortgages (‘ARM’s) Mortgage loans in the US on which the interest rate is periodically changed based on a reference price. These are 
included within ‘affordability mortgages’.  
Affordability mortgages Mortgage loans where the customer’s monthly payments are set out at a low initial rate, either variable or fixed, 
before resetting to a higher rate once the introductory period is over. 
Agency exposures Exposures to near or quasi-government agencies including public sector entities fully owned by government 
carrying out non-commercial activities, provincial and local government authorities, development banks and 
funds set up by government. 
Alt-A A US description for loans regarded as lower risk than sub-prime, but with higher risk characteristics than lending 
under normal criteria. 
Arrears Customers are said to be in arrears (or in a state of delinquency) when they are behind in fulfilling their obligations, 
with the result that an outstanding loan is unpaid or overdue. When a customer is in arrears, the total 
outstanding loans on which payments are overdue are described as delinquent. 
Asset-backed securities  
(‘ABS’s) 
Securities that represent an interest in an underlying pool of referenced assets. The referenced pool can comprise 
any assets which attract a set of associated cash flows but are commonly pools of residential or commercial 
mortgages.  
B  
Back-testing A statistical technique used to monitor and assess the accuracy of a model, and how that model would have 
performed had it been applied in the past. 
Bail-inable debt Bail-in refers to imposition of losses at the point of non viability (but before insolvency) on bank liabilities (bail-
inable debt) that are not exposed to losses while the institution remains a viable, going concern. Whether by 
way of write-down or conversion into equity, this has the effect of recapitalising the bank (although it does not 
provide any new funding). 
Bank levy A levy that applies to UK banks, building societies and the UK operations of foreign banks from 1 January 2011. The 
amount payable is based on a percentage of the group’s consolidated liabilities and equity as at 31 December 
after deducting certain items the most material of which are those related to insured deposit balances, tier 1 
capital, insurance liabilities, high quality liquid assets and items subject to a legally enforceable net settlement 
agreement. 
Bank Recovery and Resolution 
Directive (‘BRRD’) 
A European legislative package issued by the European Commission and adopted by EU Member States. This 
directive was finalised in July 2014 with the majority of provisions coming into effect 1 January 2015. This 
introduces a common EU framework for how authorities should intervene to address banks which are failing or 
are likely to fail. The framework includes early intervention and measures designed to prevent failure and in 
the event of bank failure for authorities to ensure an orderly resolution.  
Basel II The capital adequacy framework issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in June 2006 in the form of 
the ‘International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards’, amended by subsequent 
changes to the capital requirements for market risk and re-securitisations, commonly known as Basel 2.5, 
which took effect from 31 December 2011. 
Basel III In December 2010, the Basel Committee issued ‘Basel III rules: a global regulatory framework for more resilient 
banks and banking systems’ and ‘International framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and 
monitoring’. Together these documents present the Basel Committee’s reforms to strengthen global capital 
and liquidity rules with the goal of promoting a more resilient banking sector. In June 2011, the Basel 
Committee issued a revision to the former document setting out the finalised capital treatment for 
counterparty credit risk in bilateral trades. 
Basis point (‘bps’) One hundredth of a per cent (0.01%), so 100 basis points is 1%. For example, this is used in quoting movements in 
interest rates or yields on securities. 
C  
Capital conservation buffer 
(‘CCB’) 
A capital buffer prescribed by regulators under Basel III and designed to ensure banks build up capital buffers 
outside periods of stress which can be drawn down as losses are incurred. Should a bank’s capital levels fall 
within the capital conservation buffer range, capital distributions will be constrained by the regulators.  
Capital planning buffer  
(‘CPB’) 
A capital buffer, prescribed by the PRA under Basel II, and designed to ensure banks build up capital buffers outside 
periods of stress which can be drawn down as losses are incurred. Should a bank’s capital levels fall within the 
capital planning buffer range, a period of heightened regulatory interaction would be triggered.  
Capital requirements directive 
(‘CRD’) 
A capital adequacy legislative package issued by the European Commission and adopted by EU member states. The 
first CRD legislative package gave effect to the Basel II proposals in the EU and came into force on 20 July 2006. 
CRD II, which came into force on 31 December 2010, subsequently updated the requirements for capital 
instruments, large exposure, liquidity risk and securitisation. A further CRD III amendment, updated market risk 
capital and additional securitisation requirements, and came into force on 31 December 2011. 
CRD IV package comprises a recast Capital Requirements Directive and a new Capital Requirements Regulation. The 
package implements the Basel III capital proposals together with transitional arrangements for some of its 
requirements. CRD IV came into force on 1 January 2014. 
Capital securities Capital securities include perpetual subordinated capital securities and contingent convertible capital securities. 
Central counterparty (‘CCP’) An intermediary between a buyer and a seller (generally a clearing house). 
Clawback Remuneration already paid to an individual, which has to be returned to an organisation under certain 
circumstances. 
Collateralised debt obligation (‘CDO’) A security issued by a third-party which references ABSs and/or certain other related assets purchased by the 
issuer. CDOs may feature exposure to sub-prime mortgage assets through the underlying assets.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
471 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Term Definition 
Collectively assessed  
impairment 
Impairment assessment on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually 
significant and to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to 
individual assessment. 
Commercial paper (‘CP’) An unsecured, short-term debt instrument issued by a corporation, typically for the financing of accounts 
receivable, inventories and meeting short-term liabilities. The debt is usually issued at a discount, reflecting 
prevailing market interest rates. 
Commercial real estate Any real estate, comprising buildings or land, intended to generate a profit, either from capital gain or rental 
income. 
Common equity tier 1 capital 
(‘CET1’) 
The highest quality form of regulatory capital under Basel III that comprises common shares issued and related 
share premium, retained earnings and other reserves excluding the cash flow hedging reserve, less specified 
regulatory adjustments. 
CET 1 ratio A Basel III measure, of CET 1 capital expressed as percentage of total risk exposure amount. 
Common reporting  
(‘COREP’) 
Harmonised European reporting framework established in the Capital Requirements Directives, to be mandated by 
the European Banking Authority. 
Compliance risk The risk that the Group fails to observe the letter and spirit of all relevant laws, codes, rules, regulations and 
standards of good market practice, and incurs fines and penalties and suffers damage to its business as a 
consequence. 
Comprehensive Capital  
Analysis and Review (‘CCAR’) 
CCAR is an annual exercise by the Federal Reserve to ensure that institutions have robust, forward-looking capital 
planning processes that account for their unique risks and sufficient capital to continue operations throughout 
times of economic and financial stress. 
Conduits HSBC sponsors and manages multi-seller conduits and ‘SIC’s. The multi-seller conduits hold interests in diversified 
pools of third-party assets such as vehicle loans, trade receivables and credit card receivables funded through 
the issuance of short-dated commercial paper and supported by a liquidity facility. The SICs hold predominantly 
asset-backed securities referencing such items as commercial and residential mortgages, vehicle loans and 
credit card receivables funded through the issuance of both long-term and short-term debt. 
Constant currency A non-GAAP financial measure that adjusts for the year-on-year effects of foreign currency translation differences 
by comparing reported results for the reported period with reported results for comparative period 
retranslated at exchange rates for the reported period. The foreign currency translation differences reflect the 
movements of the US dollar against most major currencies during the reported period.  
Constant net asset value fund (‘CNAV’) A fund that prices its assets on an amortised cost basis, subject to the amortised book value of the portfolio 
remaining within 50 basis points of its market value. 
Consumer and Mortgage Lending  
(‘CML’) 
In the US, the CML portfolio consists of our Consumer Lending and Mortgage Services businesses, which are in run-
off. 
The Consumer Lending business offered secured and unsecured loan products, such as first and second lien 
mortgage loans, open-ended home equity loans and personal non-credit card loans through branch locations 
and direct mail. The majority of the mortgage lending products were for refinancing and debt consolidation 
rather than home purchases. In the first quarter of 2009, we discontinued all originations by our Consumer 
Lending business. 
Prior to the first quarter of 2007, when we ceased loan purchase activity, the Mortgage Services business 
purchased non-conforming first and second lien real estate secured loans from unaffiliated third parties. The 
business also included the operations of Decision One Mortgage Company (‘Decision One’), which historically 
originated mortgage loans sourced by independent mortgage brokers and sold these to secondary market 
purchasers. Decision One ceased originations in September 2007. 
Contractual maturities The date on which the final payment (principal or interest) of any financial instrument is due to be paid, at which 
point all the remaining outstanding principal and interest have been repaid. 
Core tier 1 capital The highest quality form of regulatory capital, under Basel II, that comprises total shareholders’ equity and related 
non-controlling interests, less goodwill and intangible assets and certain other regulatory adjustments. 
Core tier 1 capital ratio A Basel II measure, of core tier 1 capital expressed as a percentage of the total risk-weighted assets. 
Countercyclical capital buffer 
(‘CCyB’) 
A capital buffer prescribed by regulators under Basel III which aims to ensure that capital requirements take 
account of the macro-financial environment in which banks operate. This will provide the banking sector with 
additional capital to protect it against potential future losses, when excess credit growth in the financial system 
as a whole is associated with an increase in system-wide risk. 
Counterparty credit risk  
(‘CCR’) 
Counterparty credit risk, in both the trading and non-trading books, is the risk that the counterparty to a 
transaction may default before completing the satisfactory settlement of the transaction. 
Credit default swap (‘CDS’) A derivative contract whereby a buyer pays a fee to a seller in return for receiving a payment in the event of a 
defined credit event (e.g. bankruptcy, payment default on a reference asset or assets, or downgrades by a 
rating agency) on an underlying obligation (which may or may not be held by the buyer). 
Credit enhancements Facilities used to enhance the creditworthiness of financial obligations and cover losses due to asset default.  
Credit risk Risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a contract. It arises mainly from 
direct lending, trade finance and leasing business, but also from products such as guarantees, derivatives and 
debt securities. 
Credit risk mitigation A technique to reduce the credit risk associated with an exposure by application of credit risk mitigants such as 
collateral, guarantee and credit protection. 
Credit risk spread  The premium over the benchmark or risk-free rate required by the market to accept a lower credit quality. The 
yield spread between securities with the same coupon rate and maturity structure but with different 
associated credit risks. The yield spread rises as the credit rating worsens. 
Credit spread risk The risk that movements in credit spreads will affect the value of financial instruments. 
Credit valuation adjustment 
(‘CVA’) 
An adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect the creditworthiness of OTC derivative 
counterparties. 
Customer deposits Money deposited by account holders. Such funds are recorded as liabilities.  Shareholder information (continued) 
Glossary 
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
472 
Term Definition 
Customer remediation Activities carried out by HSBC to compensate customers for losses or damages associated with a failure to comply 
with regulations. Customer remediation is initiated by HSBC in response to customer complaints, and not 
specifically initiated by regulatory action. 
Customer risk rating (‘CRR’) A scale of 23 grades measuring obligor PD. 
CVA risk capital charge A capital charge under CRDIV to cover the risk of mark-to-market losses on expected counterparty risk to 
derivatives. 
D  
Debit valuation adjustment (‘DVA’) An adjustment made by an entity to the valuation of OTC derivative liabilities to reflect within fair value the entity’s 
own credit risk. 
Debt restructuring A restructuring by which the terms and provisions of outstanding debt agreements are changed. This is often done 
in order to improve cash flow and the ability of the borrower to repay the debt. It can involve altering the 
repayment schedule as well as debt or interest charge reduction. 
Debt securities Financial assets on the Group’s balance sheet representing certificates of indebtedness of credit institutions, public 
bodies or other undertakings, excluding those issued by central banks. 
Debt securities in issue Transferable certificates of indebtedness of the Group to the bearer of the certificates. These are liabilities of the 
Group and include certificates of deposits. 
Deed-in-lieu An arrangement in which a borrower surrenders the deed for a property to the lender without going through 
foreclosure proceedings and is subsequently released from any further obligations on the loan. 
Defined benefit obligation The present value of expected future payments required to settle the obligations of a defined benefit plan resulting 
from employee service. 
Deposits by banks All deposits received from domestic and foreign banks, excluding deposits or liabilities in the form of debt 
securities or for which transferable certificates have been issued. 
Down-shock Term given to the effect on our future net interest income of an incremental parallel fall in all yield curves 
worldwide at the beginning of each quarter during the 12 months from 1 January 2015, assuming no 
management response. An equivalent rise in yield curves is referred to as an up-shock. 
E  
Economic capital The internally calculated capital requirement which is deemed necessary by HSBC to support the risks to which it is 
exposed. 
Economic profit The difference between the return on financial capital invested by shareholders and the cost of that capital. 
Economic profit may be expressed as a whole number or as a percentage. 
Economic Value of Equity  
(‘EVE’) sensitivity 
Considers all re-pricing mismatches in the current balance sheet and calculates the change in market value that 
would result from a set of defined interest rate shocks. 
Encumbered assets Assets on our balance sheet which have been pledged as collateral against an existing liability. 
Enhanced Variable Net Asset  
Value Fund (‘ENAV’) 
A fund that prices its assets on a fair value basis. Consequently, process may change from one day to the next. 
Equator Principles The Equator Principles are used by financial institutions to reduce the potential impact of large projects, which they 
finance, on people or on the environment. 
Equity risk The risk arising from positions, either long or short, in equities or equity-based instruments, which create exposure 
to a change in the market price of the equities or equity instruments. 
Eurozone The 18 European Union countries using the euro as their common currency. The 18 countries are Austria, Belgium, 
Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, 
Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain. 
Expected loss (‘EL’) A regulatory calculation of the amount expected to be lost on an exposure using a 12-month time horizon and 
downturn loss estimates. EL is calculated by multiplying the PD (a percentage) by the EAD (an amount) and LGD 
(a percentage). 
Exposure A claim, contingent claim or position which carries a risk of financial loss. 
Exposure at default (‘EAD’) The amount expected to be outstanding after any credit risk mitigation, if and when the counterparty defaults. EAD 
reflects drawn balances as well as allowance for undrawn amounts of commitments and contingent exposures.
F  
Fair value adjustment An adjustment to the fair value of a financial instrument which is determined using a valuation technique (level 2 
and level 3) to include additional factors that would be considered by a market participant that are not 
incorporated within the valuation model. 
Fiduciary risk The risk to the Group of breaching its fiduciary duties where it acts in a fiduciary capacity as trustee, investment 
manager or as mandated by law or regulation. 
Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) The Financial Conduct Authority regulates the conduct of financial firms and, for certain firms, prudential standards 
in the UK. It has a strategic objective to ensure that the relevant markets function well. 
Financial Policy Committee (‘FPC’) The Financial Policy Committee, at the Bank of England, is charged with a primary objective of identifying, 
monitoring and taking action to remove or reduce systemic risks with a view to protecting and enhancing the 
resilience of the UK financial system. The FPC has a secondary objective to support the economic policy of the 
UK Government. 
Financial Reporting  
(‘FINREP’) 
Harmonised European financial reporting framework, proposed by the European Union, which will be used to 
obtain a comprehensive view of a firm’s risk profile. 
First lien A security interest granted over an item of property to secure the repayment of a debt that places its holder first in 
line to collect repayment from the sale of the underlying collateral in the event of a default on the debt.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
473 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Term Definition 
Forbearance strategies Employed in order to improve the management of customer relationships, maximise collection opportunities and, 
if possible, avoid default, foreclosure or repossession. Such arrangements include extended payment terms, a 
reduction in interest or principal repayments, approved external debt management plans, debt consolidations, 
the deferral of foreclosures, other modifications and re-ages. 
Funded exposure A situation where the notional amount of a contract is or has been exchanged. 
Funding risk A form of liquidity risk arising when the liquidity needed to fund illiquid asset positions cannot be obtained at the 
expected terms and when required. 
G  
Gap risk The risk of financial loss arising from a significant change in market price with no accompanying trading 
opportunity. 
Global systemically important bank  
(‘G-SIB’) 
The FSB established in November 2011 a methodology to identify G-SIBs based on 12 principal indicators. 
Designation will result in the application of a CET1 buffer between 1% and 3.5%, to be phased in by 1 January 
2019. 
The list of G-SIBs is re-assessed through annual re-scoring of banks and a triennial review of the methodology. 
National regulators have discretion to introduce higher charges than the minima. In CRD IV this is implemented 
via the Global Systemically Important Institutions (G-SII) Buffer. 
Government-sponsored enterprises 
(‘GSE’s) 
A group of financial services enterprises created by the US Congress to reduce the cost of capital for certain 
borrowing sectors of the economy, and to make them more efficient and transparent. Examples in the 
residential mortgage borrowing segment are Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. GSEs carry the implicit backing, but 
are not direct obligations, of the US government. 
GPSP Awards Awards that define the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will become entitled, 
generally five years from the date of the award, and normally subject to individual remaining in employment. 
The shares to which the employee becomes entitled are subject to a retention requirement until cessation of 
employment. 
Guarantee An undertaking by a party to pay a creditor should a debtor fail to do so. 
H  
Haircut A discount applied by management when determining the amount at which an asset can be realised. The discount 
takes into account the method of realisation including the extent to which an active market for the asset exists.
Historical rating transition  
matrices  
The probability of a counterparty with a particular rating moving to a different rating over a defined time horizon. 
Home equity lines of credit (‘HELoC’s) A form of revolving credit facility provided to US customers, which is supported in the majority of cases by a second 
lien or lower ranking charge over residential property. Holdings of HELoCs are classified as sub-prime. 
I  
Impaired loans Loans where the Group does not expect to collect all the contractual cash flows or expects to collect them later 
than they are contractually due. 
Impairment allowances  Management’s best estimate of losses incurred in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date. 
Individually assessed  
impairment 
Exposure to loss is assessed on all individually significant accounts and all other accounts that do not qualify for 
collective assessment.   
Insurance Manufacturing The writing of contracts that fall within the scope of insurance regulation by a Group subsidiary authorised to write 
such business. The risks and rewards of writing the insurance business are retained by HSBC (or reinsured in 
line with our reinsurance strategy). The balance sheet analysis presented in the Risk Management of Insurance 
Operations section shows the aggregated full balance sheets of these entities. 
Insurance risk A risk, other than a financial risk, transferred from the holder of a contract to the insurance provider. The principal 
insurance risk is that, over time, the combined cost of claims, administration and acquisition of the contract 
may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums received and investment income. 
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process  
The Group’s own assessment of the levels of capital that it needs to hold through an examination of its risk profile 
from regulatory and economic capital viewpoints. 
Internal Model Method  One of three approaches defined in the Basel Framework to determine exposure values for counterparty credit 
risk. 
Internal ratings-based approach (‘IRB’) A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal, rather than supervisory, estimates of risk 
parameters. 
Invested capital Equity capital invested in HSBC by its shareholders, adjusted for certain reserves and goodwill previously amortised 
or written off. 
Investment grade Represents a risk profile similar to a rating of BBB- or better, as defined by an external rating agency. 
IRB advanced approach  
(‘AIRB’) 
A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal PD, LGD and EAD models. 
IRB foundation approach 
(‘FIRB’) 
A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal PD models but with supervisory estimates of 
LGD and conversion factors for the calculation of EAD. 
ISDA Master agreement Standardised contract developed by ISDA used as an umbrella contract under which bilateral derivatives contracts 
are entered into. 
K  
Key management personnel Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings. 
L  
Legacy credit in GB&M A separately identifiable, discretely managed business comprising Solitaire Funding Limited, the securities 
investment conduits, the asset-backed securities trading portfolios and credit correlation portfolios, derivative 
transactions entered into directly with monoline insurers, and certain other structured credit transactions. 
  Shareholder information (continued) 
Glossary 
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
474 
Term Definition 
Legal proceedings Civil court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings brought against HSBC companies (whether by way of claim or 
counterclaim) or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings. 
Legal risk The risk of financial loss, sanction and/or reputational damage resulting from contractual risk (the risk that the 
rights and/or obligations of a Group member within a contractual relationship are defective); dispute risk (the 
risk due to an adverse dispute environment or the management of potential or actual disputes); legislative risk 
(the risk that a Group member fails to adhere to laws of the jurisdiction in which it operates); and non-
contractual rights risk (the risk that a Group member’s assets are not properly owned or are infringed by 
others or the infringement by a Group member of another party’s rights). 
Level 1 – quoted market price Financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. 
Level 2 – valuation technique using 
observable inputs 
Financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or 
similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models where all significant 
inputs are observable. 
Level 3 – valuation technique with 
significant unobservable inputs 
Financial instruments valued using valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable. 
Leveraged finance Funding provided for entities with higher than average indebtedness, which typically arises from sub-investment 
grade acquisitions or event-driven financing. 
Leverage ratio A measure, prescribed by regulators under Basel III, which is the ratio of tier 1 capital to total exposures. Total 
exposures include on-balance sheet items, off-balance sheet items and derivatives, and should generally 
follow the accounting measure of exposure. This supplementary measure to the risk-based capital 
requirements is intended to constrain the build-up of excess leverage in the banking sector. 
Liquidity coverage ratio  
(‘LCR’) 
The ratio of the stock of high quality liquid assets to expected net cash outflows over the following 30 days. High 
quality liquid assets should be unencumbered, liquid in markets during a time of stress and, ideally, be central 
bank eligible. The Basel III rules require this ratio to be at least 100% with effect from 2015. The LCR is still 
subject to an observation period and review to address any unintended consequences. 
Liquidity enhancement Liquidity enhancement makes funds available if required for reasons other than asset default, e.g. to ensure 
timely repayment of maturing commercial paper. 
Liquidity risk The risk that HSBC does not have sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due, or will have 
to do so at an excessive cost. This risk arises from mismatches in the timing of cash flows. 
Loan modification An account management action that results in a change to the original terms and conditions of a loan either 
temporarily or permanently without resetting its delinquency status, except in case of a ‘modification re-age’ 
where delinquency status is also reset to up-to-date. Account modifications may include revisions to one or 
more terms of the loan including, but not limited to, a change in interest rate, extension of the amortisation 
period, reduction in payment amount and partial forgiveness or deferment of principal. 
Loan re-age An account management action that results in the resetting of the contractual delinquency status of an account to 
up-to-date upon fulfilment of certain requirements which indicate that payments are expected to be made in 
accordance with the contractual terms. 
Loans past due Loans on which repayments are overdue. 
Loan to value ratio (‘LTV’) A mathematical calculation that expresses the amount of the loan as a percentage of the value of security. A high 
LTV indicates that there is less cushion to protect the lender against house price falls or increases in the loan if 
repayments are not made and interest is added to the outstanding loan balance. 
Loss given default (‘LGD’) The estimated ratio (percentage) of the loss on an exposure to the amount outstanding at default (EAD) upon 
default of a counterparty. 
Loss severity The realised amount of losses incurred (including ancillary amounts owed) when a loan is foreclosed or disposed 
of through the arrangement with the borrower. The loss severity is represented as a percentage of the 
outstanding loan balance. 
M  
Malus An arrangement that permits an organisation to prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of a deferred 
remuneration award in relation to risk outcomes or performance. 
Market risk The risk that movements in market risk factors, including foreign exchange rates and commodity prices, interest 
rates, credit spreads and equity prices will reduce income or portfolio values. 
Medium term notes (‘MTN’s) Issued by corporates across a range of maturities. Under MTN Programmes notes are offered on a regular and 
continuous basis to investors. 
Mortgage-backed securities (‘MBS’s) Securities that represent interests in groups of mortgages, which may be on residential or commercial properties. 
Investors in these securities have the right to cash received from future mortgage payments (interest and/or 
principal). When the MBS references mortgages with different risk profiles, the MBS is classified according to 
the highest risk class.  
Mortgage-related assets Referenced to underlying mortgages. 
Mortgage vintage The year a mortgage was originated. 
N  
Negative equity mortgages Equity is the value of the asset less the outstanding balance on the loan. Negative equity arises when the value of 
the property purchased is below the balance outstanding on the loan.  
Net asset value per share Total shareholders’ equity, less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities, divided by the number of 
ordinary shares in issue. 
Net interest income The amount of interest received or receivable on assets net of interest paid or payable on liabilities. 
Net interest income sensitivity Considers all pricing mismatches in the current balance sheet, with suitable assumptions for balance sheet growth 
in the future, and calculates the change in net interest income that would result from a set of defined interest 
rate shocks. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
475 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Term Definition 
Net principal exposure The gross principal amount of a financial asset after taking account of credit protection purchased but excluding 
the effect of any counterparty credit valuation adjustment to that protection. It includes assets that benefit 
from monoline protection, except where this protection is purchased with a CDS. 
Net stable funding ratio (‘NSFR’) The ratio of available stable funding to required stable funding over a one year time horizon, assuming a stressed 
scenario. Available stable funding would include items such as equity capital, preferred stock with a maturity 
of over one year and liabilities with an assessed maturity of over one year. The Basel III rules require this ratio 
to be over 100% with effect from 2018. The NSFR is still subject to an observation period and review to 
address any unintended consequences. 
Non-conforming mortgages US mortgages that do not meet normal lending criteria. Examples include mortgages where the expected level of 
documentation is not provided (such as with income self-certification), or where poor credit history increases 
the risk and results in pricing at a higher than normal lending rate. 
Non-trading portfolios Portfolios that comprise positions that primarily arise from the interest rate management of our retail and 
commercial banking assets and liabilities, financial investments designated as available for sale and held to 
maturity, and exposures arising from our insurance operations. 
Non-trading risk The market risk arising from non-trading portfolios. 
O  
Offset mortgages A flexible type of mortgage where a borrower’s savings balance(s) held at the same institution can be used to 
offset the mortgage balance outstanding. The borrower pays interest on the net balance which is calculated 
by subtracting the credit balance(s) from the debit balance. As part of the offset mortgage a total facility limit 
is agreed and the borrower may redraw up to a pre-agreed limit. 
Overnight Index Swap (‘OIS’)  
discounting 
A method of valuing collateralised interest rate derivatives which uses a discount curve that reflects the overnight 
interest rate typically earned or paid in respect of collateral received.  
Operational risk The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external 
events, including legal risk. 
Over-the-counter (‘OTC’) A bilateral transaction (e.g. derivatives) that is not exchange traded and that is valued using valuation models. 
P  
Pension risk The risk that contributions from Group companies and members fail to generate sufficient funds to meet the cost 
of accruing benefits for the future service of active members, and the risk that the performance of assets held 
in pension funds is insufficient to cover existing pension liabilities. 
Performance shares Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans that are subject to the achievement of 
corporate performance conditions. 
Personal lending See ‘Retail loans’. 
PRA standard rules The method prescribed by the PRA for calculating market risk capital requirements in the absence of VaR model 
approval. 
Prime A US description for mortgages granted to the most creditworthy category of borrowers. 
Private equity investments Equity securities in operating companies not quoted on a public exchange, often involving the investment of 
capital in private companies or the acquisition of a public company that results in its delisting. 
Probability of default (‘PD’) The probability that an obligor will default within one year. 
Profit participation contribution (‘PIS’)  A federal tax which is imposed monthly on gross revenue earned by legal entities in Brazil.  It is a mandatory 
employer contribution to an employee savings initiative. 
Prudential Regulation Authority  
(‘PRA’) 
The Prudential Regulation Authority in the UK is responsible for prudential regulation and supervision of banks, 
building societies, credit unions, insurers and major investment firms. 
R  
Refi rate The refi (or refinancing) rate is set by the European Central Bank (‘ECB’) and is the price banks pay to borrow from 
ECB. 
Regulatory capital The capital which HSBC holds, determined in accordance with rules established by the PRA for the consolidated 
Group and by local regulators for individual Group companies. 
Regulatory matters Investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response to the actions of, regulators or law 
enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC. 
Renegotiated loans Loans for which the contractual payment terms have been changed because of significant concerns about the 
borrower’s ability to meet the contractual payments when due.  
Repo/reverse repo  
(or sale and repurchase agreement) 
A short-term funding agreement that allows a borrower to create a collateralised loan by selling a financial asset 
to a lender. As part of the agreement the borrower commits to repurchase the security at a date in the future 
repaying the proceeds of the loan. For the party on the other end of the transaction (buying the security and 
agreeing to sell in the future) it is reverse repurchase agreement or a reverse repo. 
Reputational risk The risk that illegal, unethical or inappropriate behaviour by the Group itself, members of staff or clients or 
representatives of the Group will damage HSBC’s reputation, leading, potentially, to a loss of business, fines or 
penalties. 
Restricted Shares Awards that define the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will become entitled, 
generally between one and three years from the date of the award, and normally subject to the individual 
remaining in employment. The shares to which the employee becomes entitled may be subject to retention 
requirement. 
Retail loans Money lent to individuals rather than institutions. This includes both secured and unsecured loans such 
as mortgages and credit card balances. 
Return on equity Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company divided by average ordinary shareholders’ 
equity. 
   Shareholder information (continued) 
Glossary 
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
476 
Term Definition 
Risk appetite The aggregate level and types of risk a firm is willing to assume within its risk capacity to achieve its strategic 
objectives and business plan. 
Risk capacity The maximum level of risk the firm can assume before breaching constraints determined by regulatory capital and 
liquidity needs and its obligations, also from a conduct perspective, to depositors, policyholders, other 
customers and shareholders. 
Risk-weighted assets  
(‘RWA’s) 
Calculated by assigning a degree of risk expressed as a percentage (risk weight) to an exposure value in 
accordance with the applicable Standardised or IRB approach rules. 
Run-off portfolios Legacy credit in GB&M, the US CML portfolio and other US run-off portfolios, including the treasury services 
related to the US CML businesses and commercial operations in run-off. Origination of new business in the 
run-off portfolios has been discontinued and balances are being managed down through attrition and sale.  
S  
Sale and repurchase agreement See repo above. 
Second lien A security interest granted over an item of property to secure the repayment of a debt that is issued against the 
same collateral as a first lien but that is subordinate to it. In the case of default, repayment for this debt will 
only be received after the first lien has been repaid. 
Securitisation A transaction or scheme whereby the credit risk associated with an exposure, or pool of exposures, is tranched 
and where payments to investors in the transaction or scheme are dependent upon the performance of the 
exposure or pool of exposures. A traditional securitisation involves the transfer of the exposures being 
securitised to an SE which issues securities. In a synthetic securitisation, the tranching is achieved by the use 
of credit derivatives and the exposures are not removed from the balance sheet of the originator. 
Securitisation swap An interest rate or cross currency swap with notional linked to the size of the outstanding asset portfolio in a 
securitisation. Securitisation swaps are typically executed by securitisation vehicles to hedge interest rate risk 
arising from mismatches between the interest rate risk profile of the asset portfolio and that of the securities 
issued by the vehicle. 
Short sale In relation to credit risk management, a ‘short sale’ is an arrangement in which a bank permits the borrower to 
sell the property for less than the amount outstanding under a loan agreement. The proceeds are used to 
reduce the outstanding loan balance and the borrower is subsequently released from any further obligations 
on the loan. 
Single-issuer liquidity facility A liquidity or stand-by line provided to a corporate customer which is different from a similar line provided to a 
conduit funding vehicle. 
Six filters An internal measure designed to improve capital deployment across the Group. Five of the filters examine the 
strategic relevance of each business in each country, in terms of connectivity and economic development, and 
the current returns, in terms of profitability, cost efficiency and liquidity. The sixth filter requires adherence to 
global risk standards. 
Social security financing contribution 
(‘COFINS’) 
A federal tax imposed monthly on gross revenue earned by legal entities in Brazil.  It is a contribution to finance 
the social security system. 
Sovereign exposures Exposures to governments, ministries, departments of governments, embassies, consulates and exposures on 
account of cash balances and deposits with central banks.  
Special Purpose Entity (‘SPE’) A corporation, trust or other non-bank entity, established for a narrowly defined purpose, including for carrying 
on securitisation activities. The structure of the SPE and its activities are intended to isolate its obligations 
from those of the originator and the holders of the beneficial interests in the securitisation. 
Structured entities  
(‘SE’s) 
An entity that has been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding who 
controls the entity, such as when voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities 
are directed by means of contractual arrangements. 
Standardised approach  
(‘STD’) 
In relation to credit risk, a method for calculating credit risk capital requirements using External Credit Assessment 
Institutions (‘ECAI’) ratings and supervisory risk weights. In relation to operational risk, a method of calculating 
the operational capital requirement by the application of a supervisory defined percentage charge to the 
gross income of eight specified business lines. 
Stressed VaR A market risk measure based on potential market movements for a continuous one-year period of stress for a 
trading portfolio 
Structured finance/notes An instrument whose return is linked to the level of a specified index or the level of a specified asset. The return 
on a structured note can be linked to equities, interest rates, foreign exchange, commodities or credit. 
Structured notes may or may not offer full or partial capital protection in the event of a decline in the 
underlying index or asset. 
Student loan-related assets Securities with collateral relating to student loans. 
Subordinated liabilities Liabilities which rank after the claims of other creditors of the issuer in the event of insolvency or liquidation. 
Sub-prime  A US description for customers with high credit risk, for example those who have limited credit histories, modest 
incomes, high debt-to-income ratios, high loan-to-value ratios (for real estate secured products) or have 
experienced credit problems caused by occasional delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other 
credit-related problems. 
Sustainability risk The risk that the environmental and social effects of providing financial services outweigh the economic benefits. 
Sustainable cost savings Permanent cost reductions at a given level of business activity. Sustainable cost savings exclude cost avoidance 
and revenue and loan impairment charge benefits as these do not represent operational expense reductions. 
Cost savings resulting from business disposals are not classified as sustainable. 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
477 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Term Definition 
Systemic Risk Buffer (‘SRB’) A capital buffer prescribed in the EU under CRD IV, to address risks in the financial sector as a whole, or one or 
more sub-sectors, to be deployed as necessary by each EU member state with a view to mitigate structural 
macro-prudential risk. In the UK this was transposed in January 2015 and is to be applied to ring-fenced banks 
and building societies over a certain threshold. 
Systems risk The risk of failure or other deficiency in the automated platforms that support the Group’s daily execution and the 
systems infrastructure on which they reside, including data centres, networks and distributed computers. 
T  
Tier 1 capital A component of regulatory capital, comprising common equity tier 1 and additional tier 1. Additional tier 1 capital 
includes eligible non-common equity capital securities and any related share premium. 
Under Basel II, Tier 1 capital comprises of core tier 1 and other tier 1 capital. Other tier 1 capital includes 
qualifying capital instruments such as non-cumulative perpetual preference shares and hybrid capital 
securities.  
Tier 2 capital A component of regulatory capital, comprising eligible capital securities and any related share premium.   
Under Basel II, Tier 2 capital comprises of qualifying subordinated loan capital, related non-controlling interests, 
allowable collective impairment allowances and unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of equity 
instruments held as available-for-sale. Tier 2 capital also includes reserves arising from the revaluation of 
properties. 
Total Loss Absorbing Capacity  
(‘TLAC’) 
A proposal by the FSB and not yet finalised for global systemically important banks to have a sufficient amount of 
specific types of liabilities which can be used to absorb losses and recapitalise a bank in resolution. These 
proposals are intended to facilitate an orderly resolution that minimises any impact on financial stability, 
ensures the continuity of critical functions, and avoids exposing taxpayers to loss.  
Trading portfolios Positions arising from market-making and warehousing of customer-derived positions. 
Trading risk Market risk arising from trading portfolios. 
Troubled debt restructuring A US description for restructuring a debt whereby the creditor for economic or legal reasons related to a debtor’s 
financial difficulties grants a concession to the debtor that it would not otherwise consider. 
U  
Unencumbered assets Assets on our balance sheet which have not been pledged as collateral against an existing liability. 
Unfunded exposures An exposure where the notional amount of a contract has not been exchanged. 
Up-shock See down-shock. 
US government agency and 
US government sponsored enterprises 
mortgage-related assets 
Securities that are guaranteed by US government agencies such as Ginnie Mae, or by US government sponsored 
entities including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
V 
 
Value-at-risk  
(‘VaR’) 
A measure of the loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of adverse movements in market risk factors 
(e.g. rates, prices, volatilities) over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence. 
W  
Wholesale loans Money lent to sovereign borrowers, banks, non-bank financial institutions and corporate entities. 
Write-down/write-off When a financial asset is written down or written off, a customer balance is partially or fully removed, 
respectively, from the balance sheet. Loans (and related impairment allowance accounts) are normally written 
off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of recovery. Where loans are secured, this is 
generally after receipt of any proceeds from the realisation of security. In circumstances where the net 
realisable value of any collateral has been determined and there is no reasonable expectation of further 
recovery, write-off may be earlier. 
Wrong-way risk An adverse correlation between the counterparty’s PD and the mark-to-market value of the underlying transaction.
  Shareholder information (continued) 
Index 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
478 
Index 
A 
Abbreviations 466 
Accounting  
developments (future) 345 
estimates and judgements 349, 366, 378, 403, 407, 420  
policies (critical) 62 
policies 345, 354, 355, 357, 359, 365, 371, 377, 378, 392, 394, 398, 
399, 402, 403, 407, 410, 413, 416, 417, 418, 419, 420, 434, 437, 440, 
441, 442, 443, 445  
Accounts  
approval 457 
basis of preparation 63, 345 
consolidation and related disclosures 348 
presentation of information 347 
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 418 
Acquisitions and disposals 41, 241, 244, 260 
Actuarial assumptions 363 
Adjusted performance 29, 40 
Advances to core funding ratio 165, 169, 216 
Ageing analysis 136  
Annual General Meeting293, 459  
Anniversary (150th) 6,8 
Anti-money laundering and sanctions 450 
Areas of special interest 124 
Asia 84 
adjusted performance 87 
balance sheet data 89, 375 
collateral 147 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 158 
country business highlights 86  
customer accounts 82 
economic background 84 
financial overview 85 
impaired loans 137 
lending 131, 132, 160 
loan impairment charges/allowances 141, 142 
mortgage loans 156 
operating expenses 88 
personal lending 151 
principal operations 84 
profit 84, 89, 374 
profit/(loss) by country 85, 86 
renegotiated loans 139, 140 
reverse repos 151 
risk-weighted assets 240 
staff numbers 84 
wholesale lending 144, 145 
Asset-backed securities 214 
Assets  
average balance sheet 46 
by country 376 
by geographical region 78, 82, 89, 94, 99, 104, 375 
by global business 63, 82, 89, 94, 99, 104 
charged as security 401 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 59 
customer accounts 61 
deferred tax 331, 365, 366, 367, 368 
encumbered/unencumbered 171, 220, 472 
financial accounting/regulatory reconciliation 249  
five years 57 
held for sale 349, 352, 416 
held in custody and under administration 106 
intangible 407, 410, 413 
liquid assets of principal operating entities 166 
maturity analysis 426 
movement in 2014 58 
other 416 
risk-weighted 31, 62, 63, 78, 239-244, 476 
total 30, 57, 59, 76, 82, 89, 94, 99, 104, 337, 341, 427  
trading 377 
transferred (accounting policy) 402 
Associates and joint ventures 403 
accounting policy 403 
Bank of Communications 404  
contingent liabilities 442 
critical accounting estimates and judgements 403  
interests in 332, 406 
reported/adjusted reconciliation 44  
share of profit in 30, 55 
transactions with other related parties 456 
Auditor 
arrangements 279 
remuneration 364 
report 329 
B 
Back-testing 177, 224, 470  
Balance sheet  
average 46 
consolidated 57, 337 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 59 
data 57, 76, 82, 89, 94, 99, 104 
HSBC Holdings 341 
insurance manufacturing subsidiaries 191 
linkages 179 
movement in 2014 30, 58 
regulatory 248 
Balance Sheet Management 181, 227 
Bancassurance 190 
Banking standards 5 
Basel 31, 123, 164, 218, 239, 251, 470 
Behaviouralisation 181, 218, 226  
Board of Directors 270 
balance and independence 272 
changes 6 
committees 15, 276 
information and support 272 
meetings 271 
powers 271 
Brand 32 
Brazilian labour claims 422 
Brazilian social security claims 441  
Buffers (capital) 239, 252 
Business model 12 
C 
Capital 239 
generation 245, 258 
management 257 
measurement and allocation 258 
movement in regulatory capital in 2014 245 
overview 239 
ratios 31, 239, 471  
regulatory 245, 247 
resources 57 
risks to capital 257 
strength 3, 31 
structure 245 
Carbon dioxide emissions 38 
Cash and cash equivalents 440 
accounting policy 440 
Cash flow  
consolidated statement 338 
Hedges 397  
HSBC Holdings 342 
notes 439 
payable by contractual maturities 173 
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 2 
Chairman’s Committee 15, 288 
Chinese translation 461 
Client assets 73 
Climate business 37 
Collateral and credit enhancements 146, 150, 156, 171, 213 
management 220 
Commercial Banking 16, 17, 22, 67 
Commercial real estate 145 
Committees (Board) 276 
Communication with shareholders 298, 460 
Compliance risk 115, 189 
Concentration of exposure 132 
Conduct & Values committee 15, 286 
Conduits 443 
Consent orders 120  
Constant currency 41 
Consumer Credit Act 422 
Contents inside front cover   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
479 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees 441 
accounting policy 441  
Contractual maturity of financial liabilities 173 
Corporate governance 263 
codes report 275 
Cost efficiency ratio 3, 28, 55, 79, 84, 91, 96, 101 
Counterparty credit risk 243 
Country business highlights 80, 86, 92  
Credit default swap regulatory investigation 454 
Credit exposure 130, 149 
Credit quality 207 
classifications 207 
Credit risk 129, 206, 258, 260 
in 2014 129 
insurance 196 
management thereof 206 
policies and practices 206 
risk-weighted assets 240 
Credit valuation adjustment 382 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 349, 366, 378, 403,  
407, 420 
Cross-border exposures 169 
Customer accounts 30, 61, 82, 89, 94, 99, 104 
Customers 16, 17, 18 
Customer deposit markets 164 
Customer lending and deposit (combined) 60 
Customers service and satisfaction 17 
D 
Dealings in HSBC Holdings plc shares 299 
Debit valuation adjustment 382 
Debt securities in issue 418 
accounting policy 418 
Defined terms inside front cover 
Deposits  
combined view 60  
core 216 
average balances and average rates 46 
Derivatives 149, 382, 394, 422 
accounting policy 394 
Directors 270 
appointments and re-election 271 
benefits 318 
biographies 264 
conflicts of interest 274 
emoluments 324, 364 
executive 270 
exit payments 318 
fees 318 
induction 273 
interests 297, 320 
loss of office 318 
non-executive 270 
other directorships 307 
pensions 318 
performance evaluation 274 
relations with shareholders 274 
remuneration (executive) 34, 300, 303, 311, 313 
remuneration (non-executive) 306 
responsibilities (statement of) 328 
service contracts 306 
training and development 273 
variable pay 303, 309, 310 
Disclosure philosophy 107  
Disposal gains / groups 41 
Disposals 440 
Dispute risk 122  
Diversity and inclusion 19, 291 
Dividends 298, 370, 458 
income 353  
payout ratio 32 
per share 3, 45 
Donations 38 
E 
Earnings per share 29, 45, 371 
Economic background 
Asia 84 
Europe 79 
Latin America 101 
Middle East and North Africa 91 
North America 96 
Economic contribution 33 
Economic plans: HSBC Bank Brazil 454 
Employees  
compensation and benefits 356 
development 19, 291 
disabled 291 
diversity and inclusion 19, 291 
engagement 21, 288 
gender balance 20 
health, welfare and safety 20, 291 
highest paid 325 
material risk takers 327  
numbers 1, 18, 54, 79, 84, 91, 96, 101 
profile of leadership 19  
relations 291 
remuneration policy 34, 292 
reward 291 
risk 112  
share plans 292 
sign-on and severance 327 
volunteering 37 
whistleblowing 20 
Encumbered assets 171, 220, 472 
Enhanced Disclosure Task Force 108 
Enquiries (from shareholders) 460 
Equity  
constant currency/reported reconciliation 59  
movement in 2014 59  
Equity securities 179, 226 
Europe 79 
adjusted performance 81  
balance sheet data 82, 375 
collateral 147 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 158 
country business highlights 80 
customer accounts 61 
economic background 79 
financial overview 79  
impaired loans 137  
lending 131, 132, 160 
loan impairment charges/allowances 141, 142 
mortgage loans 156  
operating expenses 81 
personal lending 151  
principal operations 79 
profit/(loss) 79, 82, 374 
profit/(loss) by country 80 
regulatory update 254 
profit/(loss) by country 80  
renegotiated loans 139, 140  
reverse repos 151  
risk-weighted assets 240 
staff numbers 79 
wholesale lending 144, 145 
Eurozone 126 
Events after the balance sheet date 457 
Executive risk 122 
F 
Fair value  
accounting policy 378 
adjustments 381 
control framework 378 
reconciliation 384 
valuation bases 383 
Fee income (net) 48, 353 
Fiduciary risk 115, 200 
Filters (six) 12 
Financial assets 392 
accounting policy 392, 402 
designated at fair value 181 
not qualifying for de-recognition 402 
Financial crime compliance and regulatory compliance 124 
Financial guarantee contracts 442 
accounting policy 441 
Financial instruments 378, 390 
accounting policy (fair value) 378  Shareholder information (continued) 
Index 
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
480 
accounting policy (valuation) 354 
at fair value 330 
credit quality 133, 207 
critical accounting estimates and judgements (valuation) 378  
net income from 50, 354 
not at fair value 390 
past due but not impaired 136 
Financial investments 60, 399 
accounting policy 399 
gains less losses from 51 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 181, 379, 417 
accounting policy 417  
contractual maturities 173 
Financial overview 79, 85, 91, 96, 101  
Financial risks (insurance) 194 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme 442 
Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 15, 282 
Financial statements 334 
changes to presentation 346 
Five-year comparison 45, 57, 157, 159 
Fixed pay 39, 40, 303, 311 
Footnotes 39, 109, 202, 256, 344 
Forbearance 139, 208, 350 
Foreclosures 208, 449 
Foreign currencies/exchange 
accounting policy 348 
exposures 435 
investigations and litigation 453  
rates 57 
translation differences 41 
Funding fair value adjustments 353  
Funding sources (diversity) 168, 215 
Funds transfer pricing 219  
Funds under management 106 
G 
Geographical regions 13,78 
Global businesses 16, 63 
Global Banking and Markets 16, 17, 22, 70, 381 
Global functions 13 
Global People Survey 19 
Global Private Banking 4, 16, 18, 22, 72, 124 
Glossary 470 
Going concern 290, 348 
Goodwill 407 
accounting policy 407 
critical accounting estimates and judgements 407  
impairment 331  
Governance 15, 27 
Group Audit Committee 15, 277, 290 
Group CEO 
annual performance 316 
biography 264 
bonus scorecard 264 
interests in shares 320 
remuneration 313 
remuneration history 319 
responsibilities 270 
review 7 
Group Chairman 
biography 264 
interest in shares 320 
letter 263 
responsibilities 270 
statement 4 
Group Chief Risk Officer  
annual performance 317 
biography 267 
bonus scorecard 323 
interests in shares 320 
remuneration 311, 313 
Group Company Secretary  
biography 268 
role 272 
Group Finance Director  
annual performance 317 
biography 267 
bonus scorecard 323 
interests in shares 320 
remuneration 311, 313 
Group Management Board 15, 276 
Group Remuneration Committee 15, 284, 300, 307 
Group Risk Committee 15, 280, 290 
Growth priorities 66, 68, 71, 74 
Guarantees 442 
H  
Health and safety 291 
Held for sale assets 349, 352 
accounting policy 416 
Highlights 3 
HSBC Finance  
foreclosures 153 
loan modifications 154 
HSBC Holdings plc 
balance sheet 341 
cash flow 174, 221, 342 
credit risk 161 
deferred tax 370 
Directors’ emoluments 364 
dividends 370 
employee compensation 364 
financial assets and liabilities 389 
financial instruments not at fair value 392 
foreign exchange VaR 183  
liquidity and funding 174 
market risk 183 
maturity analysis of assets and liabilities 432 
net income from financial instruments 354 
operating model 13 
related parties 457 
repricing gap maturities 185  
share capital 439 
statement of changes in equity 343 
structural foreign exchange exposures 435 
subordinated liabilities 425 
Human rights 38 
I 
Impairment  
accounting policy 350 
allowances 142, 159 
assessment 212 
available-for-sale financial assets 352  
charges 29, 53, 141, 159 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 158 
critical accounting estimates and judgements 349  
goodwill 407 
impaired loans 137, 329 
methodologies 213 
movement by industry and geographical region 142 
reported/adjusted reconciliation 44 
Income statement (consolidated) 45, 335 
Information on HSBC (availability thereof) 461 
Insurance 190 
accounting policy 354, 355 
asset and liability matching 191 
balance sheet of manufacturing subsidiaries 193 
bancassurance model 190 
claims incurred (net) and movements in liabilities to policyholders 53, 
355  
in 2014 191 
net earned premiums 51 
premium income 354  
PVIF business 52 
reinsurers’ share of liabilities 197 
risk 116, 117, 194, 198 
Intangible assets 410  
accounting policy 410 
movements 413 
Interest income/expense (net) 46, 353 
accounting policy 354 
average balance sheet 46 
sensitivities 181, 184 
Interest rate derivatives 422 
Interim management statements 459 
Interim results 459 
Internal control 288 
Internet crime 123   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
481 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards comparison 345 
Investment criteria 12 
Investment properties 416 
Investor relations 461 
J 
Joint ventures 403, 406, 456 
K 
Key management personnel 455 
Key performance indicators 29, 30, 31, 32 
L 
Latin America 101 
adjusted performance 102  
balance sheet data 104, 375 
collateral 147 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 158 
country business highlights 102  
customer accounts 61 
economic background 101 
financial overview 101 
impaired loans 137  
lending 131, 132, 160 
loan impairment charges/allowances 141, 142 
mortgage loans 156 
operating expenses 103 
personal lending 151 
principal operations 101 
profit 101, 104, 374  
profit/(loss) by country 102 
renegotiated loans 139, 140  
reverse repos 151  
risk-weighted assets 240 
staff numbers 101 
wholesale lending 144, 145 
Lease commitments 442 
accounting policy 442 
Legal 
proceedings and regulatory matters 330, 446 
risk 229 
Lending – combined view 60 
Leveraged finance transactions 383, 474 
Leverage ratio 251, 255, 261 
Liabilities  
average balance sheet 46 
by geographical region 375 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 59 
deferred tax 367 
financial accounting/regulatory reconciliations 249  
five years 57 
maturity analysis 426 
movement in 2014 58  
of disposal groups 418 
other 418 
retirement benefits 359 
subordinated 423, 476 
total 57, 59, 337, 341, 427  
trading 417 
under insurance contracts 28, 419 
Libor, Euribor and other rates investigations 452 
Liquidity and funding 163, 215 
assets 166 
behaviouralisation 218  
description 164 
funds transfer pricing 219 
in 2014 164 
insurance 197 
management of risk 114, 165 
net contractual cash flows 166 
policies and procedures 215 
primary sources of funding 168 
regulation 164 
Loans and advances  
accounting policy 349 
by country 160 
by geographical region 131  
by industry over 5 years 157 
collateral 146, 150, 156, 171, 213 
concentration of exposure 132 
credit quality of 133 
delinquency in the US 153 
impairment 137, 141 
past due but not impaired 136 
renegotiated 138 
to banks 291  
to customers 30, 132 
write-off 212 
Loans Management Unit 213  
M 
Madoff 447 
Market capitalisation 1, 33 
Market risk 114, 175, 221, 259 
balance sheet linkages 179 
description 176 
governance 222 
in 2014 176 
insurance 194 
measures 223  
risk-weighting assets 244 
sensitivity analysis 181 
Material risk takers 300, 327  
Maturity analysis of assets and liabilities 426 
Maximum exposure to credit risk 130 
Middle East and North Africa 91 
adjusted performance 92  
balance sheet data 94, 375 
collateral 147 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 158 
country business highlights 92  
customer accounts 61 
economic background 91 
financial overview 91 
impaired loans 137 
lending 131, 132, 160 
loan impairment charges/allowances 141, 142 
mortgage loans 156 
operating expenses 93 
personal lending 151  
principal operations 91 
profit 91, 94, 374 
profit/(loss) by country 92 
renegotiated loans 139, 140  
risk-weighted assets 240 
staff numbers 91 
wholesale lending 144, 145 
Model risk 25, 122, 223 
Monitor 27 
Mortgages 
lending 152 
mortgage-backed securities 214, 474 
US mortgage-related investigations 449 
N 
Nomination Committee 15, 284 
Non-controlling interests 436 
Non-GAAP measures 40 
Non-interest income 353 
Non-trading portfolios 178, 221, 225 
North America 96 
adjusted performance 97  
balance sheet data 99, 375 
collateral 147 
constant currency/reported reconciliation 158 
country business highlights 97  
customer accounts 61 
delinquency trends in the US 153  
economic background 96 
financial overview 96  
impaired loans 137  
lending 131, 132, 160 
loan impairment charges/allowances 141, 142 
mortgage lending 156 
operating expenses 98  
personal lending 151 
principal operations 96 
profit 96, 99, 374 
profit/(loss) by country 97 
renegotiated loans 139, 140   Shareholder information (continued) 
Index 
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
482 
reverse repos 151  
risk-weighted assets 240 
staff numbers 96 
wholesale lending 144 
O 
Offsetting 130, 434 
accounting policy 434 
Oil and gas prices 125  
Operating expenses 30, 42, 54 
by geographical region 81, 88, 93, 96, 103 
by global business 65, 68, 71, 73, 75 
reported/adjusted reconciliation 44 
Operating income 52, 353, 375, 376 
Operating profit 356 
Operational risk 115, 186, 259 
in 2014 187 
losses/incidents 188 
Ordinary shares 294 
Organisation 13  
Organisational structure chart 462 
Other 75 
Outlook 6 
P 
Paper use 37  
Payment protection insurance 421 
Pension plans 200, 237 
accounting policy 359 
defined benefit plans 183, 361 
for directors 318 
risk 116, 200 
People risk 122  
Performance 1, 5, 64 
adjusted 29, 40, 65, 67, 70, 73, 75, 87, 92, 97, 102  
reported 29, 64, 67, 70, 73, 75  
Perpetual subordinated capital securities 370 
Personal lending 151 
Philanthropic and Community Investment Oversight Committee 15, 288 
Pillar I, II and III 253, 258, 259, 260, 326 
Ping An 77 
Post-employment benefit plans 359, 456 
accounting policy 359 
Precious metals fix-related litigation and investigations 454  
Preference shares 294, 437 
Preferred securities 57 
Prepayment, accrued income and other assets 416  
accounting policy 416 
Products and services 16, 371 
Profit before tax 3, 28, 63, 76 
by country 80, 85, 86, 92, 97, 102 
by geographical region 44, 78, 79, 82, 84, 85, 89, 94, 96, 99, 101, 102, 
104 
by global business 44, 64, 65, 67, 70, 72, 73, 75, 76, 82, 89, 94, 99, 104
consolidated 45 
reported/adjusted reconciliation 44 
Profit for the year 28, 335, 372 
Property plant and equipment 107, 416 
accounting policy 416 
Provisions 420 
accounting policy 420 
critical accounting estimates and judgements 420 
Purpose 1 
PVIF 52, 411 
R 
Ratios  
advances to core funding 165, 169, 216 
capital 239 
capital strength 3, 31 
common equity tier 1  31 
core tier 1 (CET 1) 471 
cost efficiency 3, 28, 55, 79, 84, 91, 96, 101, 104 
customer advances to deposits 30 
dividend payout 32 
dividends per share 3 
earnings per share 29, 45, 371 
leverage 31, 251, 255, 261 
return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity 3 
return on average total assets 30 
return on risk-weighted assets 32, 79, 84, 91, 96, 101 
return on tangible equity 29 
stressed coverage 165, 216 
Reconciliation of reported and adjusted items 44 
Reconciliation of RoRWA 62 
Recovery and resolution 14, 255  
Regulatory 
balance sheet 248  
capital 239, 258 
capital buffers 252 
CRD IV 470  
developments 252  
landscape 5 
reconciliation to financial accounting 248 
review of consumer enhancement services products 455 
risk 119, 120 
stress tests 125, 254, 257  
structured banking reform 14, 255 
systemically important banks 15, 252, 473 
UK update 254 
Related party transactions 455 
Remuneration  
adjustment, malus & clawback 306  
benefits 311 
bonus scorecards 323  
business context 301  
committee 284, 300 
committee members 284, 307 
Directors 73  
exit factors 318 
fixed pay 39, 40, 303, 311 
GPSP 314 
in 2014 318 
in 2015/16 302, 322  
letter 300 
Pillar 3 remuneration policy 326 
policy 35, 303, 304, 305, 306 
report 307 
reward strategy 34, 300 
scenarios 313 
single figure 311 
variable pay 34, 309 
Renegotiated loans 138, 154, 208 
Renewable energy 37  
Representations and warranties 162 
Repricing gap 185 
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements 48, 151, 219, 398  
accounting policy 398 
Reputational risk 115, 199 
Resolution strategy 14  
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 16, 22, 64 
principal RBWM business 63 
Revenue 29, 42 
by country 81, 87, 92, 97, 102 
by geographical region 81, 87, 92, 97, 102 
by global business 65, 67, 70, 73, 75 
Ring-fencing (UK) 14 
Risk 111 
appetite 25, 27, 205 
banking risks 114 
committee 16, 276, 280 
compliance 115, 189 
conduct of business 121  
contingent liquidity 167 
counterparty 150, 243, 261, 471 
credit 114, 129, 196, 206 
credit spread 178, 226 
cross-currency 221 
data management 123 
de-peg 225  
dispute 122 
economic outlook 118  
eurozone 126 
execution 122 
factors 113 
fiduciary 115, 200 
financial (insurance) 116, 194 
    
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
483 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
 
foreign exchange 183 
gap risk 225 
geopolitical 118 
governance 111, 204 
in 2014 21 
information security 123 
insurance operations 116, 117, 190, 198 
interest rate 181, 226 
internet crime 123 
investigations 120 
legal 229 
liquidity and funding 114, 197 
management 24, 112, 117, 215 
market 114 
model 25, 122, 223 
oil and gas prices 125 
operational 115 
overview 21  
people 122  
pension 116, 200 
policies and practices 204 
profile 111, 117 
refinance 214 
regulatory 119, 120 
reputational 115, 199 
Russia 126  
security and fraud 187, 230 
stress testing 117 
sustainability 116, 201 
systems 231 
third party 124  
top and emerging 22, 111, 118 
vendor 190, 231 
Risk-weighted assets 31, 62, 260, 476 
adjusted reconciliation 62 
by geographical region 78 
by global businesses 63 
developments 254 
five year trend 57 
movement in 2014 239-244 
run-off portfolios 32 
targets 257 
RoRWA (reconciliation of measures) 62, 79, 84 
Russia 126 
S 
Sale and repurchase agreements 398, 476 
accounting policy 398 
Securities litigation 446 
Securitisation 
exposures 161, 214, 445 
litigation 449 
Security and fraud risk 187, 230 
Segmental analysis 371 
accounting policy 371 
Senior management 
biographies 268 
emoluments 324 
Sensitivities to non-economic assumptions (insurance) 198  
Share-based payments 357 
accounting policy 357 
Share capital 294, 437 
accounting policy 437 
five year trend 57  
in 2014 296 
notifiable interests 298 
rights and obligations 294 
treasury shares 297 
Share information 33 
 
 
Share options 321, 359 
Share plans  
for directors 297, 320 
for employees 292, 296 
Shareholder (communications with) 460 
numbers 1  
profile 458 
Significant items (other) 42, 47, 49, 51, 52, 54  
Sources of funds 168  
Standards (Global) 26, 27 
Statement of changes in equity 339 
Statement of comprehensive income 336 
Stock symbols 461 
Strategy 1, 11, 26, 64, 67, 70, 72  
Streamlining 27  
Stress testing 117, 125, 216, 224 
Stressed coverage ratios 165, 216 
Structural banking reform 14, 255 
Structural foreign exchange exposure 181, 226, 435 
Structured entities 415, 443, 476 
accounting policy 443 
Subordinated loan capital 57 
Subsidiaries 413, 440 
accounting policy 413 
Sustainable savings 32 
Sustainability 9, 36 
committee 286 
risk 116, 201 
Systemically important banks 15, 255, 473 
Systems risk 231, 477 
T 
Targets 32 
Tax 365 
accounting policy 365 
collected for government 33  
critical accounting estimates and judgements 366  
deferred tax 331, 365, 366, 367, 368 
expense 56 
of shares and dividends 463 
paid 33 
paid by region and country 106  
reconciliation 366 
tax and broker-dealer investigations 451 
Three lines of defence 112, 186 
Tier 1 capital 258, 425, 438, 477 
Total loss absorbing capacity 256  
Total shareholder return 33, 319 
Trading assets 377 
accounting policy 377 
Trading income (net) 49, 353 
Trading liabilities 417 
accounting policy 417 
Trading portfolios 176, 221, 225 
U 
Unobservable inputs 386 
V 
Value at risk 176, 178, 223 
Value creation 9 
Values (HSBC) 10, 19 
Vendor risk management 231 
Volunteering 37 
W 
Whistleblowing 20, 287 
Wholesale funding 169, 218 
Wholesale lending 144 
   
 
 
 
 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
484 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Incorporated in England on 1 January 1959 with limited 
liability under the UK Companies Act 
Registered in England: number 617987 
 
REGISTERED OFFICE AND  
GROUP HEAD OFFICE 
 8 Canada Square 
London E14 5HQ 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: 44 020 7991 8888 
Facsimile: 44 020 7992 4880 
Web: www.hsbc.com 
 
REGISTRARS 
Principal Register 
Computershare Investor Services PLC 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol BS99 6ZZ 
United Kingdom 
Telephone: 44 0870 702 0137 
Email: via website 
Web: www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus  
 
Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register 
Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services 
Limited 
 Rooms 1712-1716, 17th floor 
Hopewell Centre  
183 Queen’s Road East 
Hong Kong 
Telephone: 852 2862 8555 
 Email: hsbc.ecom@computershare.com.hk 
 Web: www.computershare.com/hk/investors 
 
Bermuda Overseas Branch Register 
Investor Relations Team 
HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited 
6 Front Street 
Hamilton HM11 
Bermuda 
Telephone: 1 441 299 6737 
Email: hbbm.shareholder.services@hsbc.bm 
Web: www.computershare.com/investor/bm 
ADR Depositary 
The Bank of New York Mellon  
Depositary Receipts 
PO Box 43006 
Providence, RI 02940-3006 
USA 
Telephone (US): 1 877 283 5786 
 Telephone (International): 1 201 680 6825 
 Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com 
 Web: www.bnymellon.com/shareowner 
 
Paying Agent (France) 
HSBC France 
103 avenue des Champs Elysées 
75419 Paris Cedex 08 
France 
Telephone: 33 1 40 70 22 56 
Email: ost-agence-des-titres-hsbc-reims.hbfr- 
   do@hsbc.fr 
 Web: www.hsbc.fr 
 
STOCKBROKERS 
Goldman Sachs International 
Peterborough Court 
133 Fleet Street 
London EC4A 2BB 
United Kingdom 
 
Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Limited 
1 Cabot Square 
London E14 4QT 
United Kingdom 
 
HSBC Bank plc 
8 Canada Square 
London E14 5HQ 
United Kingdom 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© Copyright HSBC Holdings plc 2015 
All rights reserved 
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in 
a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any 
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, 
or otherwise, without the prior written permission of 
HSBC Holdings plc. 
Published by Group Finance, HSBC Holdings plc, London 
Cover designed by Black Sun Plc, London; text pages 
designed by Black Sun Plc and Group Finance, HSBC 
Holdings plc, London 
Printed by DG3 Group (Holdings) Limited, London 
 Photography 
 Cover: (top) HSBC Archives; (bottom) Matthew Mawson 
  
 Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive  
 by George Brooks 
 
  HSBC Holdings plc
8 Canada Square
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom
Telephone: 44 020 7991 8888
www.hsbc.com
 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
HSBC: then and now
It is 150 years since HSBC was founded in 
Hong Kong to finance trade between Asia 
and Europe. Much has changed since 
then, as our cover photos demonstrate. 
The top photo shows Hong Kong 
harbour, with the HSBC office (extreme 
left) a few years after it was established 
in 1865. The bottom image shows the 
harbour today, with the HSBC building 
sixth from left (partially hidden).
Hong Kong has been transformed both 
physically and economically, from 
trading outpost to international financial 
centre. HSBC has mirrored Hong Kong’s 
rise to global prominence, growing from 
a small regional trading bank into one of 
the world’s largest banking and financial 
services organisations today.
HSBC’s Hong Kong office is still at  
1 Queen’s Road Central, as it was in 
1865. The current HSBC building is the 
fourth to occupy the site, but the values 
on which the bank was founded remain 
the same. HSBC still aims to be where 
the growth is, connecting customers to 
opportunities, enabling businesses to 
thrive and economies to prosper, and 
helping people to fulfil their hopes and 
realise their ambitions.  
We are proud to have served our 
customers with distinction for 150 years.
