 Annual Report
for the year ended 31 March 2004 ICAP is the world’s largest interdealer
broker with an average daily transaction
volume in excess of $600 billion, more
than 50% of which is electronic. The Group
is active in the wholesale markets for OTC
derivatives, fixed income securities, money
market products, foreign exchange, energy,
credit and equity derivatives. 
01 Financial Highlights
02 Group Profile
05 Developments
06 Chairman’s Statement
08 Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review
10 Operating Review
12 Group Finance Director’s Review
18 Directors and Secretary
20 Directors’ Report
23 Corporate Governance Report
28 Remuneration Committee Report
37 Independent Auditors’ Report
38 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
40 Consolidated Balance Sheet
41 Consolidated Statement of Total 
Recognised Gains and Losses
41 Reconciliation of Movements 
in Consolidated Shareholders’ Funds
42 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
43 Company Balance Sheet
44 Notes to the Financial Statements
74 Principal Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures 
and Associates
76 Information for Shareholders
78 Notice of Annual General Meeting
82 Contact Information
84 Definitions
ICAP plc
Registered number: 3611426 TURNOVER
Financial Highlights 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 01
Year ended Year ended
31 March 2004 31 March2003
£m US$m
(3)
£m US$m
(3)
Turnover 801.4 1,362.4 664.3 1,023.0
Expenses 641.1 1,090.0 550.8 848.2
Profit before tax - adjusted (1) 170.2 289.3 123.7 190.5
Earnings per share - adjusted (2,4) 18.4p 31.2c 15.5p 23.9c
Dividends per share (4) 7.4p 12.6c 6.0p 9.2c
Profit before tax - statutory 130.5 221.9 117.5 181.0
Earnings per share - basic (4) 15.1p 25.7c 15.4p 23.7c
Notes
1 Excludes goodwill amortisation of £38.8 million 
(2003 - £17 million) and a net exceptional cost
of £0.9 million (2003 gain - £10.8 million).
2 Excludes goodwill amortisation and exceptional 
items but includes 34.5 million contingently 
issuable shares.
3 Converted at the average exchange rate for the
year of US$1.70 and for the year to March 
2003 at US$1.54.
4 Reflects the share split in February 2004 of 
ordinary shares of 50p each into five ordinary
shares of 10p each.
Profit (before tax, goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items)
(1)
Statutory profit before tax
Adjusted EPS (before tax, goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items)
(2)
Basic EPS
2001 2002 2003
472.6
527.9
664.3
2004
801.4
£m
DIVIDENDS PER SHARE
2001 2002 2003
4.0
4.8
6.0
2004
7.4
pence
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
£m
2002 2001
EARNINGS PER SHARE
pence
9.9
8.1
11.6
10.6
2003
15.4
2004
18.4
15.1
15.5
2002 2001
75.6
67.2
89.1
83.8
2003
123.7
117.5
2004
170.2
130.5 GLOBAL MARKETS
With more than 2,900 staff, ICAP
has a strong presence in each of
the three major financial markets;
London, New York and Tokyo,
together with a local presence 
in 20 other financial centres.
Group Profile  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 02
HOW IT COULD DEVELOP %
HOW THE INDUSTRY IS %
ELECTRONIC
GLOBAL MARKETS
MEXICO CITY LOUISVILLE NEW YORK LONDON AMSTERDAM
BERGEN 
COPENHAGEN
PARIS
FRANKFURT 
MADRID 
PRAHA
WARSAW
THE ROLE OF THE INTERDEALER BROKER
ICAP provides a specialist intermediary
broking service to commercial banks and
investment banks in the wholesale financial
markets. An interdealer broker works in these
markets to draw together liquidity and to
match buyers and sellers so that deals can
be executed by its banking customers. 
Banks pay a commission when they use a
broker to complete a deal.
ICAP offers banks significant economies 
of scale in price discovery by having a
number of staff covering each product and
in constant contact with a range of
counterparties. Access to a broker
therefore allows a bank to increase
market coverage in busy times without
incurring additional overheads. In many
markets ICAP operates as an agent or
matched principal broker providing banks
with the opportunity to deal anonymously
through a neutral party at the most
attractive price available.
ICAP has created a powerful combination:
the world’s largest voice and electronic
interdealer broker. There is growing
demand for electronic broking of liquid
products, which is totally complementary
to voice broking of more bespoke, less
liquid products. The majority of the
markets in which ICAP operates rely on,
and will continue to rely on, voice broking
skills. ICAP’s version of electronic broking
naturally complements voice broking and
in most markets combines voice and/or
electronic access to a common pool of
liquidity. This hybrid solution provides 
customers with both voice support and
electronic execution.
THE WHOLESALE FINANCIAL MARKETS
ICAP is an interdealer broker in the over
the counter (OTC) markets for derivatives,
fixed income securities, money market
products, foreign exchange, energy, credit
and equity derivatives. These markets
have grown significantly in recent years
driven by:
• demand for significant deficit financing
in many of the G7 countries; 
• increased issuance in the corporate bond
and mortgage backed securities markets;
• volatility in medium term interest rates; 
• increased allocation of capital for trading
and position taking by the banks and
hedge funds;
• shifts in foreign exchange rates;
• increased use by banks and other
financial institutions of the derivatives
market to unbundle and redistribute a
range of financial risks including credit,
interest rate and exchange rate risks; and
• changes in the demand for commodities
such as oil, coal and gas. 
HYBRID VOICE MANAMA MUMBAI BANGKOK
JAKARTA 
HONG KONG
KUALA LUMPUR
MANILA
SINGAPORE
TOKYO
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 03
The strong growth exhibited in the OTC
derivatives markets clearly underscores the
benefits these products provide as financial
risk management tools. Furthermore, the
growth of both the credit and the interest
rate derivatives markets demonstrates the
value they provide firms seeking to transfer
these types of risk. 
The credit default swap market, for example,
has been effective at redistributing risk away
from the banking system to other
institutions such as insurance companies
and pension funds, facilitating a transfer of
credit risk out of the banking system. 
There are two types of derivative market:
the OTC market and the exchange-traded
futures market. Significant trading
opportunities exist between these closely
related markets. There is ongoing and rapid
convergence between the exchange-traded
and OTC markets due to a greater
penetration of electronic trading, lower
financial barriers to entry, risk mitigation
with greater emphasis on common clearing
pools, a demand for more transparent
valuation methodology and common
trading protocols. 
MARKET GROWTH
ICAP estimates that the global interdealer
broker market for OTC derivatives, fixed
income securities, money market products,
foreign exchange, energy, credit and equity
derivatives increased in 2003 by
approximately 7%, after adjusting for the
impact of exchange rate movements and 
is worth approximately $4.6 billion. ICAP
continues to be the global leader with an
estimated 27% share of the market, an
increase of approximately 3% from the prior
year as a result of organic growth and the
acquisition of BrokerTec in May 2003. 
The Bank of International Settlements has
announced continued strong growth in interest
rate derivatives in the first half of 2003,
which reached a record $121.8 trillion of
notional amounts outstanding. Interest rate
swaps grew by 20% and interest rate options
by 23% compared with the second half 
of 2002. 
Overall business in the foreign exchange
derivatives markets was especially buoyant
with currency options surging by 42% over
the previous six months. According to a recent
survey by the International Swaps Dealers
Association, the notional principal outstanding
volume of credit derivatives grew at an even
stronger rate in the second half (33%) than
in the preceding six months (25%); notional
amounts now stand at $3.58 trillion. This
represents a year-on-year growth of 29%. 
In the US fixed income markets in the year
to February 2004, according to the New
York Federal Reserve Board, volumes
transacted by interdealer brokers grew by
19% in the US Treasuries market, 23% in
the Mortgage Backed Securities market, 
but declined by 21% in the US Agencies
market. In Europe, according to ISMA, Repo
markets volumes transacted by interdealer
brokers grew by 22%.
NOW 
FUTURE 
SYDNEY WELLINGTON USING TECHNOLOGY TO INCREASE
TRADING EFFICIENCY
The completion of ICAP’s acquisition 
of BrokerTec in May 2003 was a key
strategic objective, transforming the
Group’s electronic broking capability. 
ICAP is now the leading global electronic
interdealer broker, as well as the leading
voice broker. In the first quarter of 2004,
ICAP’s electronic broking volumes had
grown to an average of $305 billion per
day. A peak daily electronic broking
volume of $410 billion was recorded 
on 4 May 2004.
A technology project to cross-connect
BrokerTec’s and ICAP’s electronic platforms
in the US Treasury markets was completed
in September 2003 and now successfully
provides voice and/or electronic access 
to a common pool of liquidity. 
ICAP’s electronic broking footprint is much
more extensive than any other broker and
currently includes active and off-the-run
US Treasuries, Bills, Notes, Bonds, Strips,
TIPS and Basis trading as well as Agencies
and Mortgages; European, UK, Australian,
Japanese and South African government
bonds; US$ and euro repurchase agreements
and Eurobonds.
Outside the fixed income markets, 39 banks
have now been connected and are using
ICAP’s iSwap platform (non-interactively)
for euro interest rate swaps, 10 more are
at various stages of installation. The next
steps will be to launch iSwap for electronic
trading of EONIAS (short term IRS) in
September 2004.
A project to provide improved price discovery
and straight through processing in Forward
FX and money market cash products is
expected to go live in late 2004. It will
involve offices in Europe, the US and Asia
sharing access to the liquidity generated
across the ICAP network.
REGULATION
ICAP has a strong balance sheet to meet
the commercial demands of customers
and to comply with regulatory capital
adequacy requirements. The ICAP Group is
regulated on a consolidated basis by the
UK Financial Services Authority (FSA)
with the Group’s UK businesses being
authorised by the FSA to carry on
regulated activities in the UK. In the US,
the Group’s activities are regulated by the
Securities and Exchange Commission. The
Group operates in other countries and its
operations are subject to the relevant
local regulatory requirements. 
Group Profile continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 04
ELECTRONIC
VOICE Developments
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 05
2003
APRIL – TriOptima executed the largest
derivatives transaction ever, terminating
over €420 billion in interest rate swaps in
its launch run. Since April the triReduce
service has become the established method
for reducing interest rate swap portfolios
for the world's largest banks with the total
nominal value of mass swap termination
transactions through TriOptima's service
standing at $4,454 billion. ICAP owns
30% of TriOptima.
MAY – ICAP completed the acquisition of
BrokerTec’s electronic securities broking
business to combine the world’s leading
interdealer voice broker with one of the
world’s leading electronic brokers of fixed
income securities.  
MAY – ICAP entered a partnership with
Deutsche Bank and The Goldman Sachs
Group to expand the distribution of economic
derivatives into the interdealer market.
The development of liquid markets in this
product will enable the measurement 
of independent market views on the
economy and accurate pricing on co-
dependent markets. 
JUNE – ICAP acquired Intercontinental
Energy Brokers, a London based energy
business with strong positions in the
natural gas and some electricity markets.
These were combined with ICAP Energy’s
existing market positions in oil, electricity,
coal and precious metals.
SEPTEMBER – The technology project to
cross-connect BrokerTec’s and ICAP’s
electronic broking platforms was completed.
This provided both combined voice and
electronic access into a combined liquidity
pool, initially in the US Treasury markets.
2004
FEBRUARY – ICAP announced plans to
launch an independent global futures
business by expanding its small existing
futures activities, focusing particularly on
North America and Europe. Leveraging off
ICAP’s strengths in the OTC markets, ICAP
aims to become one of the small number
of truly global futures execution
businesses within two years. 
FEBRUARY – ICAP and Trading
Technologies International, Inc. agreed to
launch an alternative marketplace in US
Treasury benchmark issues. Using Trading
Technologies’ system, market professionals
worldwide are able to trade US Treasury
issues with futures-style execution on
ICAP’s BrokerTec platform.
MARCH – ICAP and MarketAxess Inc.
formed a strategic alliance to provide
electronic trading of government bonds,
including US Treasury benchmark securities,
over the MarketAxess platform. MarketAxess
is the leading electronic multi-dealer-to-
client trading platform for US and European
high-grade corporate and emerging markets
bond trading.  DIVIDEND 2003 pence
This was the fourth successive year in
which ICAP has performed extremely well.
Group turnover during that period has
risen by 73% and profit before tax,
goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items by 225%. ICAP’s total return to
shareholders over the past four years has
been 507%. This reflects our continuing
ability to produce very good results in a
highly competitive environment. This year
there have been strong contributions
from almost all products and markets.
The markets that have shown outstanding
growth have been medium term interest
rate derivatives, credit derivatives and
segments of the fixed income securities
markets.
The directors recommend a final dividend of
5.7p per share to be paid on 27 August
2004 to shareholders on the register on
30 July 2004 making a total dividend of
7.4p per share for the year. The increase
of 23% is consistent with our progressive
approach to the dividend and our confidence
in the cash generative nature of the business.
To improve further the marketability and
liquidity in ICAP’s shares, on 9 February
2004 we implemented a split of the
Company’s ordinary shares of 50p into 
five new ordinary shares of 10p each. 
The daily average volume of shares
traded in the first three months following
the share split increased from the equivalent
of 2.7 million (0.52% of issued share
capital) in 2003 to 4.7 million (0.82% 
of issued share capital) in 2004. 
Issues of corporate governance command
a significant profile in the management 
of public companies and we respect the
demand for high standards of governance.
We comply fully with the provisions of the
Combined Code for the year ended 31 March
2004 and believe that we are already
substantially compliant with the new
Combined Code that will apply to the
Group for the year ending 31 March 2005. 
Chairman’s Statement   The Group’s profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
was £170.2 million for the year to 31 March 2004 compared with £123.7 million for the previous year.
Shareholders’ funds at 31 March 2004 were £468.2 million, up £215.6 million. Profit before tax on
a statutory basis was £130.5 million, up £13.0 million.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 06
DIVIDEND 2004 pence
7.4
6.0 Two of our non-executive directors, Bob Knox
and Don Marshall, retired from the board
during the year. I would like to thank them
both for their considerable contributions to
ICAP during a period when the business
has grown significantly. Two non-executive
directors have joined the board, Duncan
Goldie-Morrison and Jim McNulty. They
bring broad experience of the global
financial markets including management,
technology and risk management
together with exchange and OTC trading. 
I am sure that the combination of their
expertise will be extremely valuable to 
the Group.
ICAP’s annual Charity Day, held in December,
is a very special day for the charities that
benefit from the proceeds of one day’s
broking revenue. In 2003 an astonishing
£4 million was raised. Over the past 11 years,
ICAP staff and customers have raised
more than £17 million. During this time
we have been able to help many people
around the world and none of this could
have been achieved without the generosity
and enthusiasm of ICAP’s staff and customers.
Once again I would like to thank them 
all - every deal really counted!
Staff numbers have increased during the
year from 2,700 to 2,900, largely as a
result of the acquisition of the BrokerTec
business. Although competition for quality
staff remains high, we have continued to
strengthen our business through selective
recruitment. I would like to take the
opportunity to thank all our staff for the
tremendous effort that they have made
this year. 
We have a proven business model that is
based on a successful combination of our
staff and our technologies. Our strategy is
clear and our implementation has been
extremely effective, including the
integration of BrokerTec. As a result we
are in a strong position to benefit from
the continuing development of our
markets. 
Charles Gregson
Chairman
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004
CHARLES 
GREGSON
07
YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2004 
YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2003  Without doubt the most significant event 
for the Group this past year was the
completion in May 2003 of the purchase
of BrokerTec. This landmark event, after
nearly two years of negotiations with the
owners, has transformed ICAP overnight
from a modest operator in electronic broking
of fixed income securities into the clear
global leader.
Our timing could not have been more
propitious as the pace of electronic
broking has accelerated even further since
then and we now transact over $300 billion
per day (yes, per day) on the BrokerTec
platform. This is some 60% higher than
BrokerTec was transacting only a year ago
and the ongoing rapid adoption of electronic
broking in the fixed income universe suggests
to me that these high growth rates are
sustainable. BrokerTec has performed ahead
of our best expectations.
It is no exaggeration to observe that ICAP
is now not only the clear global leader in
wholesale voice broking, as we have been
for many years, but also the leader in
electronic broking. This is a unique critical
combination as our three largest voice
competitors have no effective electronic
broking capability and our electronic
competitors have little or no voice capability.
Our strategy going forward remains the
same as we have espoused for several
years – with the important exception that
we now have a powerful electronic arm
which perfectly complements our long
established market leading voice business.
We intend to expand further our share of
the electronic and voice markets by a
combination of acquisition and organic
growth. We anticipate that the electronic
division is likely to grow more rapidly than
the voice divisions in volume and profit
terms as more products are traded
electronically and we benefit from the
major operating leverage of electronic
broking. We believe that by pursuing this
strategy it is possible to increase our
global market share of industry revenues
from a current estimated 27%. Our margins
over time will also improve from the
economies of scale generated by our
electronic capabilities.
Industry volumes have been robust during
most of the financial year with derivatives
and fixed income volumes both posting
sharp increases. The threat of deflation
that had been of some concern to us a
year ago, threatening to lead to low and
stable interest rates, has now completely
receded. With increasing G7 deficits and 
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review   This has been another year of considerable progress
at ICAP . We have again outpaced our competitors and significantly increased our share of the
interdealer broking market, our turnover and profit. This has been reflected in the rise of the ICAP
share price during the year by 49% and a cumulative appreciation, since the September 1999
creation of ICAP , of 444%.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 08
MARKET SHARE 2003 %
MARKET SHARE 2004 %
27.2
24.2 higher economic growth, I remain optimistic
that we have another year of reasonable
volatility and rising volumes ahead of us.
The rapidly expanding hedge fund industry
has also contributed significantly to increased
derivative and fixed income trading. ICAP
is very well positioned to capture more
than our previous share of this business.  
We are also embarking upon building 
a global futures broking business. We have
small existing futures activities in some
centres but we now intend to build a
global capability, focusing particularly on
North America and Europe. The overlap in
terms of clients and products as well as
convergence between OTC products and
futures exchanges drives us inexorably in
this direction. Within a few years I expect
that futures will make a material contribution
to our overall profit. 
Further strategic and structural changes
are in our opinion likely to take place in our
industry within the next year or so. Our
management team is well prepared and
we will take advantage of the opportunities
that will add shareholder value.
I have been fortunate for many years to 
work with an exceptional and committed
management team: broadly the same
group has led ICAP since the 1999
merger. I am delighted, however, this year
that our management resources have
been strengthened by the appointment
of Jay Spencer as Global Chief Information
Officer, Humphrey Percy as global head of
futures and Garry Jones and David Rutter
as heads of electronic broking in Europe
and North America respectively.
Outlook
There was an upturn in market sentiment in
April regarding the US economic outlook
and the prospect for further policy tightening,
which has lifted the US yield curve and
the euro curve has followed in its wake.
The likelihood of a further global economic
upswing is improving and this is expected
to apply continued upward pressure on
changes in interest rate expectations. As a
result we anticipate that industry activity
levels will continue to grow steadily and
ICAP will continue to benefit from its strong
position in and broad coverage of the
wholesale markets in fixed income securities
and derivatives. 
2003/2004 was a good year for ICAP; we
look forward to another successful year.
Michael Spencer
Group Chief Executive Officer
ICAP Executive Team
Group Chief Operating Officer
David Gelber
Group Finance Director
Jim Pettigrew
Chief Operating Officer – Americas
Steve McDermott
Americas
Ron Purpora and Doug Rhoten 
Europe & Africa
George MacDonald, David Casterton, 
Paul McMenemy and Gary Smith
Asia Pacific
Bryan Massey and Mark Webster
Electronic Broking
Garry Jones and David Rutter
Futures
Humphrey Percy
Global Chief Information Officer
Jay Spencer
Information Services
John Nixon
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 09
YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2004 
YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2003 
MICHAEL 
SPENCER ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 10
Securities markets
Group turnover in the securities markets
grew by 5% to £365.0 million and profit
(1)
by 17% to £66.5 million with an improved
margin of 18%. The securities markets
have had mixed results; US Treasuries and
Mortgages, UK Gilts, Eurobonds and
Japanese Government Bonds have all
been active as a result of higher levels of
new issuance for government deficit
financing or movements in the medium
and longer end of the yield curve. Credit
derivatives in London, New York and Hong
Kong have been very busy. In the
Americas and Europe the low interest rate
environment boosted the volumes of
Repurchase Agreements as customers
were reluctant to undertake longer term
trades. BrokerTec, which operates mainly
in the shorter dated Repurchase Agreement
markets, benefited with an increase in
volumes. US agencies saw slower markets.
Overall corporate bond markets were slower
than the very busy markets in the previous
year. However volatility returned to these
markets in the second half. 
Derivatives and money markets 
Derivatives and money market Group
turnover grew by 17% to £309.2 million and
profit
(1)
by 31% to £68.5 million, with an
improved margin of 22%. There was
reasonable volatility in the medium term
interest rate markets in 2003 and our
interest rate swaps and options desks
have been very busy. The Americas and
Europe are by far the largest markets and
the most significant contributors to profits.
Inflation swaps have continued their rapid
expansion in Europe. ICAP’s significantly
increased market share in US TIPS has
added the potential to expand the inflation
swaps market. Having got off to a slow
start at the beginning of 2004, activity in
the interest rate swaps market picked up
significantly as a run of economic data
announcements from the US caused huge
swings in market sentiment regarding the
outlook for the US economy. This, in turn,
has exerted a strong influence on medium
and long term interest rates. 
Operating Review   A particularly buoyant first half of the year was followed by lower levels of activity 
in quarter three and a generally more active quarter four. ICAP’s Group turnover rose by 21% 
to £801.4 million for the year to 31 March 2004. Excluding the impact of acquisitions and foreign
exchange movements, turnover growth was 12% compared with a 7% growth in the global
interdealer broker market.
Note
1 Profit is defined as pre-tax operating profit before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items, interest and share 
of operating profit of joint ventures and associates. We continue to believe that this measure better reflects the
Group’s performance and it is reconciled to statutory profit before interest and tax in the segmental analysis 
shown in note 2 to the Financial Statements.
GROUP TURNOVER 
BY ACTIVITY 2003 £m
GROUP TURNOVER 
BY ACTIVITY 2004 £m
365.0
SECURITIES 
BROKING
347.4 ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 11
Energy markets 
The energy businesses Group turnover
grew by 45% to £41.4 million and profit
(1)
by 21% to £5.2 million. Margins were slightly
reduced to 13% as we invest in building
market share. These results include the
effect of a full year of the acquisition of
APB Energy (completed in October 2002)
and the results of Intercontinental Energy
Brokers since the acquisition in London 
in June 2003. The overall market has not
seen significant volume growth this year
but we have strong market positions in
electricity, natural gas, coal, oil and other
energy related products and believe that
energy broking has significant long term
potential. Continuing turbulence in the 
oil market created ideal market conditions
and made significant contribution to 
the results.
Electronic broking 
Electronic broking Group turnover
increased to £62.0 million largely as a
result of the successful acquisition of
BrokerTec in May 2003. Profit
(1)
rose to
£4.7 million and the margin increased 
to 8% after a loss in the previous year.
We estimate that electronic broking now
accounts for 14% of the global interdealer
broking market with most of the growth 
in the securities markets. Electronic
broking is particularly successful in highly
liquid and commoditised products where
trading volumes can be very high
compared with the revenues generated.
Following the BrokerTec acquisition,
ICAP’s electronic broking footprint is much
more extensive than any other broker
and currently includes active and off-
the-run US Treasuries, Bills, Notes,
Bonds, Strips, TIPS and Basis trading as
well as Agencies and Mortgages; European,
UK, Australian, Japanese and South African
government bonds; US$ and euro
repurchase agreements and Eurobonds. 
There are significant opportunities to link
ICAP’s electronic broking capabilities with
other distribution channels. In February
2004 ICAP and Trading Technologies
International, Inc. agreed to launch an
alternative marketplace in US Treasury
benchmark issues using Trading
Technologies’ system. It provides market
professionals worldwide with the ability to
trade US Treasury issues with futures-
style execution on ICAP’s BrokerTec
platform. We have also formed a strategic
alliance with MarketAxess Inc. to provide
electronic trading of government bonds,
including US Treasury benchmark securities,
over the MarketAxess platform. 
Information services 
Turnover increased by 87% to £23.8 million,
largely due to the addition of the BrokerTec
information contracts in May 2003 and
profit
(1)
before tax rose from £8.1 million to
£15.4 million giving a margin of 65%. The
data vendors market remains tight but we
are working to expand new product coverage.
Acquisitions 
The key strategic objective in 2003/2004
was to complete the acquisition of BrokerTec
in May 2003 and to integrate BrokerTec
into the business. The technology project to
cross-connect BrokerTec’s and ICAP’s
electronic platforms in the US Treasury
markets was completed in September
providing combined voice and electronic
access into a combined liquidity pool.
ICAP has seen significant growth in its
market share in the US Treasuries market.
Estimated (voice and electronic) market
share in US Treasury products* increased
to 51% in March 2004 from 41% in
September 2003, thus making ICAP the
clear overall market leader in US Treasury
broking. 
* US Treasury products include bills, notes and
bonds, strips, TIPS and basis trading.
ENERGY 
BROKING
E-BROKING
INFORMATION 
SERVICES
309.2
DERIVATIVES AND 
MONEY BROKING
264.9 28.5
62.0 41.4 23.8
10.8 12.7 Results
The Group reported profit of £170.2 million
before taxation, goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items; this represents a 38%
increase over the prior year. On a statutory
basis profit on ordinary activities before
taxation was £130.5 million (2003 -
£117.5 million). We continue to believe
that profit before tax, goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items better reflects the
Group’s performance. This measure is
reconciled to profit before tax on the face 
of the profit and loss account.
Group turnover grew by 21%, with a
number of the Group’s broking operations
increasing their market share and the
majority continuing to benefit from
uncertain and volatile financial markets.
The acquisition of BrokerTec on 7 May
2003 also had a positive effect on
turnover. Excluding contributions from
acquisitions and foreign exchange
movements, turnover growth was 12%.
Cost management
Costs continue to be tightly controlled.
Although they increased, in headline
terms, over the prior year by £90.3 million
(16%), costs before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items increased by only
£11.3 million (3%) if the impact of
acquisitions, currency movements and
higher revenue and profit-linked bonuses
are excluded. 
Broker employment costs, the largest
component of the Group’s cost base, were
51% of Group turnover in the financial year
to 31 March 2004. This represents a
reduction from 54% in the previous period
and continues to demonstrate the Group’s
determination to maintain control over broker
remuneration. The variable component of
broker remuneration cost, which is linked to
revenue and profit growth, has now
increased to 56% of total broker employment
costs, and this compares with 54% in the
prior year. A further element of the Group’s
cost base, estimated to be some 10% of
Group turnover, is also of a variable nature.
In total cost terms, under the present
business model, it is estimated that just
under 40% of the Group’s costs are variable.
However, the increase in contribution from
electronic broking is starting to, and will
continue to, change the Group’s cost base
and profit margin profile. The Group’s
electronic business has a lower overall cost
base and a higher fixed cost component than
the traditional voice broking business. With
the relatively low incremental cost of
transacting business on the Group’s
electronic platform, advantage can be taken
of operational leverage by increasing volumes
traded on the Group’s electronic platform. If
this can be achieved, it provides the Group
with an opportunity to deliver further profit
growth and margin improvement.
Effective cost management continues 
to be a major priority.  
Operating margins
The strong revenue performance, combined
with prudent cost management, has enabled
the Group to increase its operating margin to
20% in the financial year ended 31 March
2004 (17% in the prior year). This is the
fourth year in succession that this margin
has increased.
Group Finance Director’s Review  Delivery on strategic objectives has enabled the Group to report
another strong financial performance in the year ended 31 March 2004. This is the fourth year in
succession that turnover, profit, EPS (on an adjusted basis) and dividend per share have increased
substantially.  Costs continue to be effectively controlled and margins have risen to 20%. 
The Group remains highly cash generative.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 12 ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 13
The Group continues to focus on operating
profit margin enhancement through a
combination of growth in market share and
the application of strict cost controls.  
This year in our segmental disclosures 
we have shown profit before and after
goodwill amortisation. The operating profit
margins summarised in the table below,
by business segment and geographic
location, are based on profit before
interest, share of profit of joint ventures
and associates, exceptional items and
goodwill amortisation.
Year-on-year margin improvement has been
achieved in most segments. The modest
margin reduction in energy broking reflects
the difficulties in the energy sector in the
post Enron environment. In addition, the
Group’s conscious decision to grow its
energy business organically as well as by
acquisition resulted in a number of costs
being incurred in the current financial year
which should place the business in a
stronger position for the future. There have
been demonstrable signs of an upturn in
business activity levels in the Group’s
energy division in recent months.
A particularly encouraging element of this
year is the electronic broking segment’s
performance following the BrokerT ec acquisition.
In the post acquisition period (7 May 2003
- 31 March 2004) BrokerTec (excluding the
Group’s other electronic broking operations
but including the related information
services income) reported an operating
margin of 29%. The overall electronic
broking margin performance (8%) was
achieved against a background of the
integration of its operations with the Group’s
existing ETC business. In the year to 
31 March 2004 we more than exceeded
our cost savings target of £2.2 million.
Once this integration process is completed
it should deliver further savings to the
existing cost base.
Acquisitions
The major acquisition in the financial year
was BrokerTec which has been consolidated
into the Group’s Financial Statements since
7 May 2003. As discussed in the Group
Chief Executive Officer’s Review this
acquisition has transformed the Group’s
electronic broking capabilities. In last year’s
Group Finance Director’s Review the
financial profile of the transaction was
discussed. More detail is provided in note
15 to the Financial Statements, including
the calculation of the goodwill arising on
an acquisition (£189.3 million). Goodwill is
being amortised over a 10-year period for
accounting purposes.
During the financial year the Group also
completed the acquisition of Intercontinental
Energy Brokers, a London-based energy
business, for £4.9 million in cash. The
Group continues to seek to expand its
energy business organically and through
appropriate acquisition opportunities.
Exceptional items
Net exceptional costs before tax of 
£0.9 million were incurred in the financial
year to 31 March 2004.
Year ended Year ended 
Operating margins 31 March 2004 31 March 2003
Activity
Securities broking 18% 16%
Derivatives and money broking 22% 20%
Energy broking 13% 15%
Electronic broking 8% (75%)
Information services 65% 64%
Geographic location
Americas 19% 14%
Europe 24% 22%
Asia Pacific 9% 8%
JIM 
PETTIGREW Group Finance Director’s Review  continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 14
Cash flow
The effective management of cash resources
remains a key management objective.
Regular reviews of cash retained in operating
subsidiaries are undertaken and where
appropriate surplus cash is repatriated to
the centre. Capital expenditure is rigorously
controlled and monitored by the Group’s
capital expenditure committee and also
through the annual budgeting and quarterly
forecasting cycles. All acquisition opportunities
are the subject of detailed due diligence
and financial evaluation, including the use
of discounted cash flow and return on
investment criteria.
The Group’s FRS1 cash flow is set out on
page 42 of the Financial Statements.
Consistent with previous years, cash flow 
is best understood by reference to the
movement in net funds (defined as cash,
current asset investments less overdrafts
and borrowings).
On this basis, net funds, as defined in note
31 (c) to the Financial Statements,
increased during the year by £42.6 million
to £227.2 million (2003 - £184.6 million).
The movement in the net funds position is
summarised in the table opposite. This
table demonstrates the continuing cash
generative nature of the business.
Net capital expenditure was slightly higher
than depreciation reflecting the increase in
expenditure as a result of the move, in the
UK, to Broadgate and investment in
BrokerTec’s system development. These
The Group received its final insurance
reimbursement of £4.4 million in respect 
of the World Trade Center disaster. A number
of BrokerTec integration costs have been
incurred, mainly provisions for surplus
property in the US and London, and
redundancy costs, amounting to £5.6 million.
In the financial year to 31 March 2005, it
is anticipated that the Group will incur some
£8 million exceptional costs in respect of
the relocation of its UK operations to its
new premises in Broadgate, London. There
may also be some additional exceptional costs
in respect of the BrokerTec integration.
Taxation
The effective tax rate, which excludes goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items, has
been maintained at 34%. The Group’s
budget for the financial year to 31 March
2005 anticipates a 35% effective tax rate.  
The Group has recorded a £12 million tax
deduction in respect of goodwill amortisation
in the US. This is represented by current
tax of £4 million and deferred tax of £8 million,
reflecting the 15 year tax amortisation
period compared to 10 years for
accounting purposes.
Earnings and earnings per share (EPS)
All the Group’s EPS calculations are based on
the number of shares in issue following the
Group’s five for one share split in February 2004.
The 2% reduction in basic EPS reflects
the net impact of the growth in pre-tax
profit, the increase in goodwill
amortisation (mainly arising from the
BrokerTec acquisition), and the fact that
the year ended 31 March 2003 benefited
from a net exceptional credit item of
£11.3 million. 
We continue to believe that the most
appropriate EPS measurement ratio for
the Group is adjusted EPS, which better
reflects the business’s underlying cash
earnings. Adjusted EPS excludes goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items, but
includes share capital which is contingently
issuable in respect of the First Brokers,
APB and BrokerTec acquisitions.
Calculation of EPS is set out in note 11 
to the Financial Statements.  
During the year 3.7 million of shares were
issued following the exercise of options held
under employee share schemes.
Adjusted EPS increased by 19% to 18.4p.
Dividend
Subject to shareholder approval, a 5.7p final
dividend is proposed. This compares with
4.6p in the prior year and would result in a
full-year dividend of 7.4p, which represents
a 23% increase on the prior year. This is the
fourth consecutive year that we have been
able to increase the dividend and reflects the
strong earnings performance. The full-year
dividend remains more than twice covered
by the profit before tax, goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items.  ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 15
trends are likely to continue in the new
financial year.
The £13 million net cash outflow for
acquisitions and investments relates to
cash outflows of £32.3 million comprising
£24.7 million of the deferred consideration
payable for the acquisitions of First Brokers,
ICAP Energy, formerly APB, and acquired
Asian businesses; a £5.5 million payment,
the majority of which was for
Intercontinental Energy Brokers; and 
£2.1 million of acquisition related costs in
respect of BrokerTec. This is offset by net
funds received under the BrokerTec acquisition
of £19.3 million.
As highlighted in the table, the Group’s net
funds have increased by £42.6 million to
£227.2 million at 31 March 2004. Some
80% of these balances are required for
regulatory capital, commercial and general
working capital requirements. These can vary
from time to time depending on regional
mix, regulatory capital rule changes and
counterparty perception of the appropriate
level of capital required to be retained in
the business.
The implications of Basle II and how, if at
all, it applies to interdealer brokers and its
impact on their regulatory capital
requirements is not yet clear. This issue
continues to be kept under review.
Year ended Year ended 
31 March 2004 31 March 2003
£m £m
Profit before tax* 170.2 123.7
Joint ventures and associates (4.7) (3.2)
Depreciation 26.9 15.8
Net capital expenditure (28.0) (16.0)
Exchange adjustments (21.7) (6.5)
Working capital and other 0.9 17.8
Tax (49.7) (35.7)
93.9 95.9
Acquisitions/investments (13.0) (36.4)
Dividends (37.1) (26.5)
Exceptional items (1.2) (14.1)
Change in net funds 42.6 18.9
*excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
As at 31 March 2004 bank term borrowings
were nil and there was a small overdraft of
£0.3 million. The Group is in the process of
renewing its £50 million bank loan facility.
Balance sheet and capital
On 9 February 2004 the Group undertook 
a five for one share split which divided the
Group’s ordinary shares of 50p into five
ordinary shares of 10p each. Given the
significant rise in the Group’s share price
since the merger of Garban and Intercapital
in 1999 it was felt that the share price
might be at a level which could impair the
marketability and liquidity of the Group’s
shares. These Financial Statements reflect
this change and comparative information
has been restated where appropriate.
Net assets increased by £217.9 million
during the year and, as at 31 March 2004,
were £478.9 million. The Group acquired
£30 million of net assets as part of the
BrokerTec acquisition (after fair value
adjustments). After taking account of the
cost of acquisition this resulted in an
increase of £189.3 million in goodwill on
the balance sheet.  
The BrokerTec acquisition was funded by
the issue of 59.9 million shares, with up to
a further 33.7 million shares issuable
subject to various earnout conditions being
met in the first 12 months post acquisition.
The performance of BrokerTec has
exceeded expectations and consequently is
likely to result in the issue of the maximum
number of shares under the deferred gains arising from the Group’s transactional
hedging programme which is in place to
manage its UK business’s transactional
exposure to the US dollar. It has also
been offset by a £6 million positive
impact on pre-tax profit as the euro has
appreciated against sterling and this has
had a beneficial impact on the Group’s
UK business’s transactional euro exposure. 
The Group’s overall pre-tax profit (pre-
hedging) sensitivities to movements in
exchange rates in respect of its
transactional and translational exposures
are as follows; a 10 cent movement in
the US dollar equates to £7 million; a
10 cent movement in the euro equates
to £4 million.
The Group policy, determined by the Treasury
Committee, is to hedge its transactional foreign
exchange exposures by the use of foreign
exchange contracts and options. The Group’s
major transactional exposures are to US
dollar and euro inflows into the UK. A 10
cent movement in the US dollar before
hedging, at current exposure levels and
exchange rates, has a £2.5 million impact
on pre-tax profit. A 10 cent movement in
the euro before hedging has a £4 million
impact. As at the date of this report the
Group has 100% of its US dollar exposure
for the year to 31 March 2005 hedged at
$1.72 (worse case basis) and for the year
to 31 March 2006, 4% is hedged at
$1.74. As at the date of this report the
Group had 61% of its euro exposure for
the year to 31 March 2005 hedged at a
Group Finance Director’s Review  continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 16
consideration provisions of the acquisition
agreement. In accordance with accounting
standards, the 33.7 million of earnout
shares are included as contingent share
capital in the Group’s balance sheet as at
31 March 2004.
The increase in share capital and share
premium during the year is principally
because of the shares issued as the initial
consideration under the BrokerTec
acquisition.
Deferred consideration is also payable 
in respect of the First Brokers and APB
acquisitions and is dependent on their
future performance. At the Company’s
option part of this consideration may be
paid by way of issue of shares and this 
is reflected in the balance sheet as
contingent share capital. The Group has
elected, where it has the option to pay in
either shares or cash, to pay the first and
second instalments of consideration due in
connection with both of these acquisitions
in cash. The cash element of the second
instalments is included within creditors
under one year, the first instalment having
been paid in cash during the financial year
to 31 March 2004. 
Risk management
The identification, control and monitoring
of risks facing the business remain a
management priority and steps continue
to be taken to further improve our risk
management procedures. The risks monitored
include credit, market, treasury,
operational and reputational risk. Details
of our approach to risk management are
provided in the Corporate Governance
statement on pages 23 to 27.
Foreign exchange 
The Group conducts business in many
currencies. As a result, it is subject to
foreign currency exchange risk due to the
effects that exchange rate movements
have on the translation of the results and
underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The Group also has transactional foreign
exchange exposures in its UK business
which has underlying US dollar and euro
revenue streams.  
Currency movements had a net £4 million
adverse impact on the Group’s pre-tax
profit in the financial year to 31 March 2004
when compared with the prior financial year.
During the financial year, the US dollar
depreciated significantly in value against
sterling. With the Group’s substantial US
operations, in terms of both profit and net
assets, this has had a number of
ramifications for the financial year ended
31 March 2004. The average US
dollar/sterling rate in the financial year
was $1.70 compared with $1.54 in the
previous financial year and this has
resulted in a £12 million adverse impact
on pre-tax profit. (The translation of the
Group’s US dollar profits in sterling had an
£8 million impact and the transactional
exposure to the US dollar in the UK
business had a £4 million impact.) This has
been mitigated by £2 million of hedging ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 17
blended euro rate of €1.45. There is no
euro cover in place for the financial year
to 31 March 2006.
The Group does not hedge its translational
profit and loss foreign exchange exposures.
The impact of foreign exchange movements
on the translation of the Group’s overseas
subsidiaries’ profits into sterling is mitigated
by the Group’s policy of translating overseas
profits at average exchange rates. Where
appropriate, structural hedges via inter-
company debt are put in place to further
mitigate translational foreign exchange
exposures. The only major translational
foreign exchange exposure is to the US dollar,
where a 10 cent movement would have a
£4.5 million impact on pre-tax profit.  
The Group’s only significant balance sheet
translational foreign exchange exposure is to
the US dollar. This exposure, after structural
hedging, is some $270 million
represented by US dollar net assets
excluding goodwill. The Group has hedged
37% of this exposure at $1.80 through to
March 2005 using a cross currency
swap. The impact of exchange rate
movements on the translation of non-sterling
denominated net assets into sterling for
accounting purposes is shown as a unrealised
exchange adjustment on net investments in
overseas undertakings in the consolidated
statement of total recognised gains and
losses shown on page 41 of the Financial
Statements. Mainly as a consequence of
the decline in the US dollar against sterling
from $1.58 at 31 March 2003 to $1.84
at 31 March 2004, there is a £27.5 million
exchange adjustment taken to reserves.
Credit and interest rate risk
We continue to ensure that strict investment
criteria apply to the management of the
Group’s cash balances. Investments must
be AA rated or better and for a duration of
no longer than two years. Limits are also
in place to restrict the amount of funds
that can be invested in any one institution.
Compliance with policy and criteria is
subject to regular review by the Treasury
Committee. The overall Group philosophy
is one of capital preservation, liquidity
management and then yield enhancement.
The Group has an exposure to interest rate
movements in a number of geographic
regions. The main exposures are to US
interest rates where a 1% movement in
interest rates has a £0.6 million sensitivity to
the Group’s pre-tax profit and loss account
and to UK interest rates, where a 1%
movement impacts profits by £0.4 million.
The Group has hedged the following variable
interest rate exposures: UK 10% is fixed,
US 35% is fixed.  
International Financial Reporting
Standards
Under the current proposed timetable we will
be required to adopt International Financial
Reporting Standards in the preparation of
our Financial Statements for the year ending
31 March 2006. The international standard
setter, the International Accounting Standards
Board (IASB), has undertaken an extensive
exercise to develop new standards and
improve existing ones. 
The Group recognises the significant
complexities which such a conversion
involves and is working to ensure a timely
and efficient transition. A Group-wide project
with the objective of ensuring compliance
with International Financial Reporting
Standards is well advanced but the impact
on the Group cannot be definitively
quantified at this juncture. We believe,
however, that the major areas of impact for
the Group will include goodwill amortisation
and share based payments.
The new financial year
The financial priorities for the new financial
year are to increase profit through a
combination of growth in market share
and continuing effective cost
management. A key factor in achieving
these objectives will be our ability to take
advantage of operational leverage through
increased trading volumes on the Group’s
electronic trading platforms.
Jim Pettigrew
Group Finance Director Charles Gregson was appointed non-
executive Chairman on 1 August 2001
having been executive Chairman since 
6 August 1998. Between 1978 and 1998,
he was responsible for the Garban businesses
that demerged from United and later merged
with Intercapital. He is also an executive
director of United. In addition, he is non-
executive Deputy Chairman of Provident
Financial plc. Aged 56. N
Michael Spencer is Group Chief Executive
Officer. He was the founder of IPGL in 1986
and became Chairman and Chief Executive
of Intercapital in October 1998, following
the Exco/Intercapital merger. He was
appointed non-executive Chairman of Numis
Corporation plc in April 2003. Aged 48. N
David Gelber was appointed Group Chief
Operating Officer on 9 September 1999,
having been the Chief Operating Officer of
Intercapital, following the Exco/Intercapital
merger. Prior to joining the Intercapital
companies, he held senior trading positions
with Citibank and Chemical Bank and was
Chief Operating Officer for HSBC Global
Markets. He joined IPGL in 1994 as Group
Managing Director. In addition to his role as
Group Chief Operating Officer , he has managerial
responsibility for the Group’s operations in
the Asia Pacific region. Aged 56. GR, T
Nicholas Cosh, independent non-executive
director, was appointed on 5 December
2000. He is a director of Hornby plc,
Bradford & Bingley plc and Computacenter
plc. From 1991 to 1997 he was Finance
Director of JIB Group plc and until 1991
Finance Director of MAI plc. He is a
chartered accountant and is Chairman of
the Audit Committee. Aged 57. A,N,R,GR
Duncan Goldie-Morrison, independent
non-executive director, was appointed on
20 November 2003. He is senior managing
director of Ritchie Capital Management, a
multi-strategy hedge fund based in Geneva,
Illinois. Between 1993 and 2003 he was 
Managing Director, Head of Global Markets
Group and Head of Asia at Bank of America.
He was also a member of Bank of America’s
Management Operating Committee, the
Asset and Liability Committee and the
Trading Risk Committee. Aged 48. A,N,R
Stephen McDermott was appointed an
executive director on 28 October 1998. 
He is Chief Operating Officer of the Americas.
Prior to joining the Company, he managed
the forward foreign exchange business at
Tullett & Tokyo and joined the foreign
exchange business of Garban in 1986. 
He was appointed a director of the US
Operations in December 1995. He is also 
a board member of Columbia University’s
division of special programs and services.
Aged 47. GR
James McNulty, independent non-executive
director, was appointed on 30 March 2004.
He has 29 years’ experience in the Global
Financial Markets, including futures, securities,
derivatives and foreign exchange. He was
President and Chief Executive Officer of
Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings Inc
from its formation in August 2001 and
Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc (CME)
from February 2000 until 1 January 2004.
Before joining the CME he was managing
director and co-head of the Corporate
Analysis and Structuring Team in the
Corporate Finance division of the investment
banking firm now known as UBS Warburg.
Aged 53. N,R,GR
William Nabarro, independent non-executive
director, was appointed on 28 October
1998 and is Chairman of the Nomination
and Remuneration Committees. He was
Vice Chairman of KPMG Corporate Finance
between July 1999 and July 2003. Before
joining KPMG he was a managing director of
SG Hambros Corporate Finance. He joined
Hambros Bank in 1978 and became head
of the Corporate Finance Division of
Hambros in 1997. He is a non-executive
director of William Ransom & Son plc and 
a member of Council of the University of
Leeds; he also acts as a strategic consultant
to Jardine Lloyd Thompson UK Limited. 
Aged 48. A,N,R
Jim Pettigrew was appointed Group Finance
Director on 18 March 1999, having become
an executive director on 25 January 1999.
In 1988 he joined Sedgwick Group plc as
the Finance Director of its Financial Services
Division.  Between 1993 and 1996 he was
the Group Treasurer of Sedgwick Group plc
and, from 1996, Deputy Group Finance
Director. He is a chartered accountant and
a member of the Association of Corporate
Treasurers. Aged 45. GR,T
Paul Zuckerman, independent non-
executive director, was appointed on 
28 October 1998. He is Deputy Chairman
and the Senior Independent Director. He is
Chairman of Zuckerman & Associates LLC,
a boutique specialising in start-up companies.
He is also a director of a number of
companies including Merrill Lynch European
Equity Hedge Fund Ltd and Dabur Oncology
plc. He was a founding member and
Managing Director in charge of investment
banking at Caspian Securities. Prior to
joining Caspian, he was Chairman of SG
Warburg Latin America Ltd, Vice Chairman
of SG Warburg International and an executive
director of SG Warburg & Co Ltd. Aged 58.
A,N,R
Helen Broomfield FCIS was appointed
Group Company Secretary on 1 August 2003
having previously been Deputy Company
Secretary since 2000. She is also secretary
of all board committees. Aged 38.
Directors and Secretary  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 18
Key to membership of committees
A Audit Committee
N Nomination Committee 
R Remuneration Committee 
GR Group Risk Committee 
T Treasury Committee  ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 19
MICHAEL 
SPENCER
CHARLES 
GREGSON
NICHOLAS
COSH
DAVID
GELBER
STEPHEN
McDERMOTT
DUNCAN
GOLDIE-MORRISON
WILLIAM
NABARRO
JAMES
McNULTY
PAUL
ZUCKERMAN
JIM
PETTIGREW Directors’ Report  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 20
The directors present their report and the
audited Financial Statements of the Group
for the year ended 31 March 2004.
Activities, business review and
development
A review of business activities and future
developments of the Group is given in the
Group Profile, Chairman’s Statement,
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review,
Operating Review and Group Finance
Director’s Review on pages 2 to 17.
Related party transactions
Details of related party transactions are set
out in note 29 to the Financial Statements.
Post balance sheet event
On 7 April 2004 it was decided that ICAP
would exercise its option to satisfy £4.8
million ($8.8 million) of the second deferred
consideration payment in respect of the
First Brokers acquisition in cash rather than
shares. Further information is given in note
32 to the Financial Statements.
Results and dividends
The results of the Group for the year are 
set out in the consolidated profit and loss
account on page 38. Following payment of
the interim dividend, details of which are
set out in note 10 to the Financial
Statements, the directors recommend a
final dividend of 5.7 pence per share for the
year ended 31 March 2004 to be paid on
27 August 2004 to shareholders on the
Register on 30 July 2004 (ex-dividend date
being 28 July 2004). After allowing for the
payment of the proposed dividend, the
profit for the year transferred to reserves
was £39.6 million.
Directors and directors’ interests
Biographical details of the directors who
held office throughout the year including
Duncan Goldie-Morrison and James McNulty
who were appointed on 20 November 2003
and 30 March 2004 respectively, are
given on page 18 and also in the notice
of the Annual General Meeting on pages
78 to 81 for those to be re-elected and
re-appointed (with the exception of Robert
Knox and Donald Marshall who did not
stand for re-election at the Annual
General Meeting held on 16 July 2003).
Details of the service contracts of the
current directors and of the interests of 
the directors in the Company’s shares are
shown in the Remuneration Committee
Report on pages 28 to 36.
In accordance with the Company’s articles
of association Duncan Goldie-Morrison and
James McNulty will stand for re-appointment
and Nicholas Cosh will stand for re-election
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Edward Pank resigned as Company Secretary
on 1 August 2003 and Helen Broomfield
was appointed Group Company Secretary
on this date.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Employee involvement and
employment practices
The Group is committed to achieving the
highest standards in its workplace. The
policies and practices in place within the
Group to deter acts of harassment and
discrimination are regularly monitored. 
The Group maintains a zero tolerance 
policy concerning sexual harassment,
discrimination and retaliation against
individuals who report problems in the
Group’s workplace. These topics are
covered in the training of all US employees.
All managers in the UK take part in
externally managed diversity training
courses which cover discussion on the
expected and acceptable standards of
conduct and behaviour for employees. 
The Group recognises the value of
communication with employees at all
levels and incentive schemes and share
ownership schemes are run for the benefit
of employees. Information on these
schemes is set out in the Remuneration
Committee Report on page 31. 
During the year an intranet site was
developed in the UK allowing employees
easy access to the Company website for
information on current developments. 
The intranet brings together information
on employment opportunities, the staff
handbook, including policies and procedures,
details of arrangements whereby employees
are able to raise, in confidence, any
concerns they may have, and compliance
procedures and manuals.
A structured graduate training programme
is offered in the UK. The programme is 
run over a three-month period and is
complemented by hands on experience on
each broking desk so that all participants may
obtain a good understanding of the business.
Charity Day and charitable donations
During the year the Group donated £4 million
(2003 - £3.3 million) to charitable
organisations globally, of which £2.1 million
(2003 - £2.0 million) was donated to
charitable organisations in the UK. For the
past 11 years ICAP has held an annual
charity day and our offices around the
world have raised a total of £17 million.
Many charities have received significant
donations enabling them to receive enough
money to make dreamed of projects a
reality without spending money fundraising.
Further information can be found on our
website, www.icap.com, and in the brochure
which was sent to all shareholders with the
2003 interim report.
Equal opportunities
The Group is committed to employment
policies that follow best practice and offers
opportunities for employment, training and
career development and promotion based
on individual abilities, regardless of gender,
race, national origin, disability, age, sexual
orientation, or religious or political beliefs.
Health and safety
The Company has a health and safety
policy approved by the board and is
committed to providing for the health,
safety and welfare of all its employees
and to maintaining standards at least
equal to the best practice in the financial
services industry. 
Environment
Recognising that the Group’s operations
are themselves of minimal environmental
impact, ICAP’s policy is to operate, as far
as practicable, environmentally friendly
policies and meet the statutory requirements
placed on the Group. 
Creditor payment policy
The Group’s policy with regard to the
payment of its suppliers is to agree the
terms of payment at the start of business
with each supplier, ensure that the suppliers
are made aware of the terms of payments
and pay in accordance with its contractual
and legal obligations. The Company does
not have any trade creditors. ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 21
Political donations
In the UK the board approved a donation to
Business for Sterling of £10,000. (2003 -
£50,000 to Business for Sterling).
Share capital
Share split At an Extraordinary General
Meeting held on 4 February 2004
shareholders approved a five for one share
subdivision which divided the Group's ordinary
shares of 50p each into five ordinary shares
of 10p each. The subdivision was effective
from 9 February 2004. These Financial
Statements (including comparatives) reflect
the change following the share subdivision.
Changes in share capital All changes in
share capital are detailed in note 23 to the
Financial Statements. As at 31 March 2004,
options existed over 23,648,930 of the
Company’s ordinary shares of 10 pence in
relation to employee share option schemes.
Of this figure 7,263,345 are options over
existing shares which are held in Trust and
the remainder are expected to be satisfied
by new issues of shares. Changes in options
under the various schemes are detailed 
in note 24 to the Financial Statements. 
In accordance with the provisions of the
acquisition agreement entered into in
connection with the acquisition of BrokerTec,
up to a maximum of 33,720,495 ordinary
shares may be issued to the former
shareholders of BrokerTec as deferred
consideration depending on the revenue
created by the acquired business. In 
addition, shares may be issued as deferred
consideration in respect of the acquisition
of First Brokers and APB. More information
is given in the Group Finance Director’s
Review. 
At the Annual General Meeting held on 
16 July 2003, the Company was given
authority to purchase up to 11,493,644
ordinary shares of 50 pence now  57,468,220
of 10 pence each. This authority will expire
at the conclusion of the Annual General
Meeting to be held on 14 July 2004.
Annual General Meeting
The sixth Annual General Meeting of the
Company will be held on Wednesday, 
14 July 2004. The Notice of meeting is
set out on pages 78 to 81.
In addition to the ordinary business of voting
upon receiving the Financial Statements,
declaring a dividend, the re-election and
re-appointment of directors and the
appointment of auditors, the following
special business will be considered:
Resolution 7 will be proposed as an
Ordinary Resolution to approve the
Remuneration Committee Report.
Resolution 8 will be proposed as an Ordinary
Resolution. It is to authorise the directors
to allot ordinary shares of the Company to
an amount equal to approximately one
third of the existing issued share capital. 
Resolution 9 will be proposed as a Special
Resolution. It is to empower the directors 
to allot ordinary shares, otherwise than on a 
pro-rata basis to existing shareholders, in
connection with any future rights issue or
grant rights over shares or sell treasury
shares for cash, up to an aggregate
nominal amount of £2,891,481 (being
approximately 5% in value of the existing
issued share capital at 31 March 2004 
and 4.99% of the issued share capital at
29 April 2004).
The authorities in Resolutions 8 and 9 last
for periods of five and one year respectively,
in accordance with institutional guidelines.
The directors have no present intention of
exercising these authorities other than to
comply with the Company’s obligations
pursuant to the acquisition agreements in
connection with BrokerTec, First Brokers
and APB. It is normal for boards of listed
companies to have these authorities 
in order to take advantage of market
opportunities as they arise.
Resolution 10 will be proposed as a Special
Resolution. It will empower the Company to
purchase its own ordinary shares by market
purchases not exceeding approximately
10% of the Company’s issued share capital
as at 29 April 2004. The maximum and
minimum prices are stated in the resolution.
Your directors believe that it is advantageous
for the Company to continue to have this
flexibility to make market purchases of its
own shares. In the event that shares are
purchased, they would either be cancelled
(and the number of shares in issue would
be reduced accordingly) or, subject to the
Companies (Acquisition of Own Shares)
(Treasury Shares) Regulations 2003 (the
Regulations) which came into force on 
1 December 2003, retained as treasury
shares with a view to possible re-sale at a
future date rather than having to cancel
them. The Company would consider holding
repurchased shares pursuant to the authority
conferred by this resolution as treasury
shares.  This would give the Company the 
Number of ordinary % of ordinary
shares held shares held
Mr & Mrs Michael Spencer, together
with INCAP Netherlands (Holdings) B.V
and Intercapital Private Group Limited* 132,782,775 22.96
Jupiter Asset Management Limited 44,429,180 7.68
Fidelity Investments 34,964,350 6.05
Legal and General Group plc 17,853,073 3.09
*Mr and Mrs Michael Spencer own approximately 46.70%  of IPGL which in turn owns approximately 99.24% of
INHBV . Accordingly, Mr and Mrs Spencer are deemed by Schedule 13 of the Companies Act 1985 to be interested in
all the shares held by IPGL (6,312,070) and INHBV (125,545,705) respectively. A Trust fund of which their children
are beneficiaries holds a further 50,000 shares and Michael Spencer holds 875,000 shares in his own name.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 19 May 2004, the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more 
in its issued ordinary share capital: Directors’ Report  continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 22
ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly
and cost effectively and would provide the
Company with additional flexibility in the
management of its capital base. The directors
would exercise this authority only if they
were satisfied that a purchase would result
in an increase in expected earnings per
share and would be in the interests of
shareholders generally. There is no present
intention of exercising this authority and the
authority given in the resolution will expire
at the conclusion of the Annual General
Meeting to be held in 2005.
Resolutions 11 and 12 will be proposed
as Ordinary Resolutions to approve the
making of political donations and incurring
of political expenditure by the Company
and its subsidiary Garban-Intercapital
Management Services Limited of up to an
aggregate amount of £100,000 in the
period to the Company’s Annual General
Meeting to be held in 2005. The Political
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act
2000, contains restrictions on companies
making donations to EU political organisations
or incurring EU political expenditure
without prior shareholder approval.
Details on electronic proxy voting can be
found in the Notice of the Annual General
Meeting on pages 78 to 81. 
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP were
appointed auditors to the Company on 
16 July 2003. A resolution to re-appoint
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and to
authorise the directors to set their
remuneration will be proposed. Note 5 to
the Financial Statements sets out details
of the auditors’ remuneration.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
for the Financial Statements
The directors are required by the Companies
Act 1985 to prepare Financial Statements
for each accounting period that give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of
the Company and Group as at the end of
the financial year and of the profit or loss
of the Group for the year. The directors
confirm that suitable accounting policies
have been used and applied consistently
and reasonable and prudent judgements
and estimates have been made in the
preparation of the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 March 2004. 
The directors also confirm that applicable
United Kingdom Accounting Standards
have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping
proper accounting records, for taking
reasonable steps to safeguard the Group’s
assets and to prevent and detect fraud
and other irregularities.
Going concern
The directors are satisfied that the Company
and the Group have adequate resources
to continue to operate for the foreseeable
future and confirm that the Company and
the Group are going concerns. For this
reason they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing these financial
statements.
By order of the board
Helen Broomfield
Group Company Secretary ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 23
Corporate Governance Report
New directors to the board are provided
with appropriate training and briefings
which take into account their individual
qualifications and experience. All directors
receive, during their term of office, regular
briefings on changes and developments in
the Group’s business and legislative and
regulatory changes which are relevant to
the Group. 
During the year the board evaluated its
performance and that of its committees
and individual directors. This was done by
way of a questionnaire which was completed
by each director to evaluate the board’s
effectiveness and accountability. The results
of this exercise were then summarised to
the board by the Chairman. The Chairman’s
performance was evaluated by the non-
executive directors led by the Senior
Independent Director who then provided
the Chairman with the results of this
evaluation. 
The board manages the Group through board
meetings and a number of committees, each
of which has detailed terms of reference
and meets regularly. The minutes of each
of the Committees are made available to
all directors and the board receives a verbal
update from each committee’s Chairman.
(i) Audit Committee
The Committee comprises four independent
non-executive directors. The directors who
served on the Committee during the year
and at the year end are:
Nicholas Cosh FCA
(Chairman)
Duncan Goldie-Morrison
(appointed 20 November 2003)
William Nabarro
Paul Zuckerman
Donald Marshall
(did not stand for re-election at 2003 AGM)
The Committee’s full terms of reference
were reviewed, in light of the Smith Report
on Audit Committees, and approved by the
board during the year. They are available
on the Group’s website, www.icap.com, 
or from the Group Company Secretary.
Corporate Governance Statement
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2004
and up to the date of this report, the board
confirms that it fully complied with the
provisions of the Code of Best Practice set
out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on
Corporate Governance issued in June 1998
by the UK Listing Authority. The board has
considered the impact of the new revised
Combined Code issued in July 2003 which
will apply to the Group for the 2004/2005
financial year and believes that it is already
substantially compliant with the 2003
Combined Code and will make such
adjustments as are necessary to ensure it
can report full compliance with the new
code in its Annual Report and Accounts for
2005. This section on corporate governance
together with the Remuneration Committee
Report details how the Group has applied
the Combined Code and includes additional
disclosures, where appropriate, as a step
towards compliance with the revised code.
Directors
Directors and the board The Company 
is headed by an experienced board of
directors consisting of a non-executive
Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer,
three further executive directors and five
non-executive directors. The board meets
at least six times a year, half of those
meetings being held in the US. During the
year ended 31 March 2004 two additional
board meetings were held to review and
approve the BrokerTec acquisition.
The board has a schedule of matters
specifically reserved to it for decision and
approval which include, but are not
limited, to:
• the Group’s long term objectives and
commercial strategy;
• acquisitions, disposals and major
investments;
• the Group’s annual and interim financial
statements;
• any significant change in accounting
policies or practices;
• any interim dividend and
recommendation of the final dividend;
• the annual operating and capital
expenditure budgets;
• any changes to the company’s capital
structure or its status as a listed
company;
• risk management strategy; and
• treasury policy.
Information, including monthly management
accounts, is provided in a timely and regular
manner to directors for all meetings to enable
them to exercise their judgement in the
discharge of their duties. All directors have
access to the advice and services of the
Group Company Secretary who is responsible
for ensuring that board procedures and
applicable rules are observed. Procedures
exist to enable the directors to obtain
independent professional advice in respect
of their duties.
There is a clear division of roles and
responsibilities between the Chairman 
and Group Chief Executive Officer with the
Chairman being responsible for leadership
of the board and ensuring effective
communication with shareholders and the
Chief Executive Officer being responsible
for leading and managing the business.
There is a balance between non-executive
and executive directors on the board such
that there is a majority of independent
non-executives who provide a wide range
of skills and experience to the board. 
Paul Zuckerman, the Deputy Chairman, 
is the Senior Independent Director. With
the exception of the Chairman, who was
executive Chairman until 31 July 2001, 
all the non-executive directors are
independent of management and considered
by the board to be free from any business
or other relationships which could interfere
with the exercise of their independence.
Biographies of each of the directors and
details of their membership of board
committees is given on page 18. 
Board nominations are recommended to
the board by the Nomination Committee
under its terms of reference. In accordance
with the Combined Code and the Company’s
articles of association all directors are
subject to re-appointment by shareholders
at the first opportunity following their
appointment and, subsequently, must seek
re-election at least once every three years. The Audit Committee is responsible for:
• monitoring the integrity of the Group’s
Financial Statements and any formal
announcements relating to the Group’s
financial performance;
• reviewing the Company’s internal
financial controls and risk management
systems;
• assessing the independence, objectivity
and effectiveness of the external
auditors;
• developing and implementing policies on
the engagement of the external auditors
for the supply of non-audit services;
• making recommendations for the
appointment, re-appointment and
removal of the external auditors and
approving their remuneration and terms
of engagement; 
• monitoring and reviewing the
effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
audit function; and
• reviewing arrangements by which staff
may, in confidence, raise concerns about
possible improprieties in matters of
financial reporting or other matters.
Appointments to the Committee are made
by the board on the recommendation of
the Group’s Nomination Committee
following consultation with the Chairman
of the Audit Committee.
The board has satisfied itself that collectively
the Committee possesses recent and
relevant financial experience to enable the
Committee to function effectively and to
discharge its responsibilities.
The Committee meets four times a year with
the meetings coinciding with the start of
the external audit cycle, the financial year-
end and the publication of the annual and
interim Financial Statements. The attendance
record of Committee members is set out
above. Also in attendance at such meetings,
by invitation only, were the Chairman, Group
Chief Operating Officer, Group Finance
Director, the Group Head of Internal Audit
and Compliance and representatives from
the external auditors. The Chairman of the
Audit Committee also maintains contact
with those attendees throughout the year.
At the end of each Committee meeting,
the Group Head of Internal Audit and
Compliance and representatives from the
external auditors are given the opportunity
to raise any issues they wish, in private,
without management being present.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee
reports on the Committee’s deliberations
and any significant issues that may have
arisen to the board meeting following each
meeting of the Committee. Minutes of each
Committee meeting are provided to all
board members.
In the 2003/2004 financial year, the
Committee reviewed the Group’s annual
and interim Financial Statements, prior to
their approval by the board. In doing this it
ensured that accounting policies adopted,
judgements and disclosures made in the
preparation of those Financial Statements
were the most appropriate to the
circumstances of the Group.
In the course of the year the Committee
has been kept up to date on developments
in accounting standards and their likely
impact on the Group’s financial statements.
This has also included receiving regular
updates on the Group’s preparation for the
introduction of International Financial
Reporting Standards.
During the year the Committee received
regular reports on the work of the Internal
Audit department and reviewed the authority,
scope of work, resources and effectiveness
of the department. The Group Head of
Internal Audit and Compliance has direct
access to the Audit Committee and its
Chairman. The Committee also considered
the external auditors’ Group management
letter on accounting procedures and systems
of internal financial control.
During the financial year, the Committee
reviewed the effectiveness of the external
audit process and the qualification,
expertise and resources of the external
auditors. This included receiving from
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP a report on
their own internal quality procedures. 
The Committee also reviewed and approved
the proposed audit fee and terms of
engagement for the 2003/2004 audit 
and has recommended to the board that
it propose to shareholders that
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP be
reappointed as the Group’s external
auditors. It also monitored the balance 
of audit and non-audit fees to ensure that
the independence and objectivity of the
external auditors is maintained. 
Board and Committee attendance table
Audit Remuneration Nomination
Board Committee Committee Committee
Total number of meetings in
the financial year 2003/2004 84 7 3
Current directors
Charles Gregson 8/8 - - 3/3
Michael Spencer 7/8 - - 2/3
Nicholas Cosh 7/8 3/4 7/7 1/1
David Gelber 8/8 - - -
Duncan Goldie-Morrison 3/3 1/1 4/4 1/1
Stephen McDermott 8/8 - - -
James McNulty 1/1 - - -
William Nabarro 8/8 4/4 7/7 3/3
Jim Pettigrew 8/8 - - -
Paul Zuckerman 7/8 4/4 7/7 3/3
Past directors
Donald Marshall 3/3 2/2 - -
Robert Knox 3/3 - - -
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 24
Corporate Governance Report  continued ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 25
The Committee has recommended to the
board a policy as to the types of non-audit
work that can and cannot be undertaken
by the external auditors to ensure that the
independence of the external auditors is
not compromised by any non-audit work
performed. Any such proposed non-audit
assignments, with a fee in excess of
£50,000, are subject to the Committee’s
prior review and approval. As part of its
consideration of the annual Financial
Statements the Committee has reviewed
and is satisfied that the auditors have
remained independent of the Group
during the financial year and continue to
do so to the date of this report. The
Committee also received details from
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP of its own
independence procedures and confirmation
that, in its opinion, it remained independent
throughout the year.
Management is responsible for maintaining
an effective system of internal controls
with the board being responsible for reviewing
its effectiveness. To assist the board in
this duty, the Committee reviews the
Group’s internal financial controls and risk
management systems. Details of the
steps taken by the Committee to review
the effectiveness of the Group’s system 
of internal control are set out below. 
The Committee also reviewed, during the
year, whistleblowing arrangements within
the group to enable employees to raise,
in confidence, any concerns they may
have. It has satisfied itself that such
arrangements are appropriate.
(ii) Nomination Committee The
Nomination Committee comprises all the
non-executive directors and one executive
director:
William Nabarro
(Chairman)
Nicholas Cosh
(appointed 23 September 2003)
Duncan Goldie-Morrison
(appointed 20 November 2003)
Charles Gregson
James McNulty
(appointed 30 March 2004)
Michael Spencer
Paul Zuckerman
Robert Knox
(did not stand for re-election at 2003 AGM)
The Committee recommends to the board
appointments for the role of Chairman,
Group Chief Executive Officer, executive
and non-executive directors. The procedure
for appointments is set out in its terms of
reference and the Committee meets as
required. The Committee’s full terms of
reference were reviewed during the year
and are available on the Group’s website,
www.icap.com, or from the Group
Company Secretary.
Early in the 2003/2004 financial year, the
Committee identified specific attributes
that it particularly sought in candidates to
join the board as non-executive directors.
This list of attributes was agreed by all the
directors, the most important of which
was extensive experience in the financial
markets in which the Group is engaged.
The Committee decided that ICAP Group
executives’ knowledge of candidates
possessing such attributes was likely to
be more relevant than that of executive
search agencies whose activity is, of
necessity, less specialised and that the
limited number of prospective candidates
rendered it impracticable to proceed by
advertising. After interviewing several
prospective directors suggested by Group
executives, the Committee determined to
recommend the appointment of Duncan
Goldie-Morrison and James McNulty.
(iii) Remuneration Committee The report
of the Remuneration Committee is set out
on pages 28 to 36.
(iv) Group Risk Committee The Group Risk
Committee comprises:
David Gelber
(Chairman) 
Nicholas Cosh
Stephen McDermott
James McNulty
(appointed 30 March 2004)
Jim Pettigrew
Group Chief Risk Officer
Group Head of Internal Audit and
Compliance
The Committee is responsible for ensuring
that the Group’s risk management
framework, risk appetite, risk strategy and
policies are appropriate to the activities of
the Group. The Committee reviews the
Group’s risk exposures and ensures
adherence to Group risk policy (particularly
in relation to credit, market and operational
risk). It also reviews major new business
initiatives to ensure that a proper consideration
of risks has been undertaken at the outset.
It is management’s responsibility to identify,
monitor and assess the significant risks
the Group may be exposed to and develop
procedures for managing risk in line with
board approved polices and limits. This
includes establishing and maintaining an
adequate, sound and appropriate internal
control structure, evaluating its effectiveness
and promptly identifying material weaknesses
and taking corrective steps.
The Chairman of the Group Risk Committee
reports on its deliberations to the board.
(v) Treasury Committee The Treasury
Committee, which comprises such persons
as are appointed by the board (who may or
may not be directors), is chaired by the
Group Finance Director. It meets monthly
and is responsible for developing,
implementing and monitoring Group
treasury policies. Further details on the
activities of the Treasury Committee during
2003/2004 are provided in the Group
Finance Director’s Review.
Relations and dialogue with shareholders
The board is accountable to the Company’s
shareholders for the performance and
activities of the Group and is very much
aware of the importance of maintaining
good relations and communications with all
its shareholders. All company announcements
are posted on the investor relations section
of the Company’s website, www.icap.com,
as soon as they are released and major
shareholder presentations are also available.
The board recognises that the Annual
General Meeting provides shareholders
with an opportunity to receive information
on the Group’s business performance and
to question senior management on any
business matters. Corporate Governance Report  continued
The Group has an established programme
of communication with its institutional
investors and analysts. At the time of the
announcement of the final and interim results,
presentations are made to analysts, the
press and institutional investors. In addition,
there are regular meetings during the year
(subject to relevant regulatory constraints)
with analysts and investors to update them
on developments in the Group’s strategy
and performance.
Accountability and audit
Directors’ responsibilities The directors’
statement regarding their responsibility for
preparing the Group’s Financial Statements
is set out in the Directors’ Report on page
22 and the Independent Auditors’ Report
regarding their reporting responsibility is
detailed on page 37.
Risk management
General As with all businesses the Group
faces and manages a number of risks.
The board is responsible for setting the
Group’s risk appetite and for ensuring that
the Group’s risk management processes
are appropriate and operating effectively.
It does this through two board committees:
Group Risk and Treasury, and regional
credit committees.
The board has conducted an annual review
of the effectiveness of the internal controls
within the Group by way of a risk
assessment process. This process involved
senior business and support management
identifying the key risks facing their
business/area, the controls in place to
manage, monitor and mitigate those risks
and confirmation that those controls have
been in operation throughout the year.
Credit and market risk The Group
transacts business on an agency or
matched principal basis. In its role as an
intermediary matching buyers and sellers,
its exposure to credit and market risk is
therefore limited. However, the Group has
established policies and procedures to
mitigate further its exposure to both credit
and market risk.
Credit risk arises from the potential that a
counterparty is unable or unlikely to perform
on an obligation resulting in a loss to the
Company. All counterparties are subject to
regular review and assessment by regional
credit officers who then propose for
approval, by the relevant credit committee,
appropriate limits taking into account the
creditworthiness of the counterparty and the
nature of the business they transact with
the Group. Limits set are based on Group
set parameters determining the maximum
loss any one subsidiary can suffer as a
result of a counterparty default. Where
appropriate, country limits are applied to
limit the exposure of a company within the
Group to that country. Regional credit
committees monitor the limits given and
their utilisation and are required to approve
all excesses. Typically, the Group’s
counterparties are highly credit rated large
financial institutions.
The Group’s exposure to market risk is
limited as the Group does not run a
proprietary trading book. Market risk can
arise in those instances where one or
both counterparties in a matched principal
transaction fail to fulfil their obligations
(i.e an initially unsettled transaction) or
through trade mismatches or other errors.
The risk in these situations is restricted to
short-term price movements in the underlying
stock held by the Group and movements
in foreign exchange rates. Any such market
risk arising is identified and monitored on
a daily basis. Policies and procedures
exist to reduce the likelihood of such
trade mismatches and, in the event that
they arise, the Group’s policy is to close
out such positions immediately or, with
senior management approval, to carry
them with an appropriate hedge in place.
The Group does, in certain limited
circumstances, take positions, usually 
in highly illiquid markets, primarily for
customer facilitation purposes and these
can give rise to market risk in the event 
of any price movement. Such risks are
monitored and controlled by the setting of
limits and the use of hedging arrangements
where appropriate.
The Group Risk Committee receives regular
reports on the adherence of Group companies
to credit limits and of any positions arising.
Treasury risk The Group’s Treasury
Committee manages and monitors the
Group’s free cash resources to ensure, inter
alia, that any country or institutional risk
arising from the deposit of such funds is
managed and that the rate of return on
such funds is maximised. In addition, the
Treasury Committee manages the Group’s
exposure to foreign currency and interest
rate risk.
Operational risk During the year the
Group has sought to formalise and
enhance its existing risk management
structures with the introduction of a risk
management framework designed to
record the key risks facing the Group and
the controls in place to address and
mitigate such risks. This framework, which
will become operational throughout the
Group during 2004, enables individual
managers to record their risk assessment
of their area and then self-certify their
adherence to Group policies and
standards. The results of this risk and
control identification process are maintained
on a central database and are summarised
for and considered by the Group Risk
Committee. 
Internal control The board of directors 
is responsible for the Group’s system of
internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. Such a system of internal
control is designed to manage rather than
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
business objectives, and can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant
risks faced by the Group, which has been in
place throughout the year under review and
up to the date of approval of these
Financial Statements. The process involves
local management identifying and
evaluating risks specific to their businesses
and regions and then periodically reporting
formally on this risk assessment and the
controls over such risks to the Group’s
management. 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 26 ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 27
The key elements of the internal control
system are: 
• a comprehensive budgetary process, with
both annual and regular forecasts being
considered and approved by the board;
• monthly monitoring of trading results,
balance sheet and cash flow against
budget and prior periods with significant
variances being investigated and
appropriate action taken;
• formulation and review of specific policy
covering credit, market and treasury risks
faced by the business;
• regular visits to Group operating
companies by board members and senior
management;
• all transactions authorised in accordance
with delegated authority limits approved
by the board;
• regular internal audit visits to Group
operating companies to carry out reviews
of systems and procedures and
compliance with Group policies;
• senior management within each region
have responsibility for the establishment
of appropriate control frameworks within
their operations to ensure compliance
with Group policies, procedures and
standards. They are also responsible for
ensuring that risks within their businesses
are identified, assessed, controlled and
monitored on an ongoing basis; and
• regular reports from both the external
and internal auditors on the internal
control systems operating within the Group.
The board, through the Audit Committee,
has conducted an annual review of the
effectiveness of the system of internal
control covering all controls including
financial, operational and compliance
controls and risk management systems. 
The Group has investments in a number
of joint ventures and associated companies.
Where the Group is not directly involved in
the management of the investment it can
influence, through board representation,
but not control the internal control systems
present in those entities. The board’s
review of the effectiveness of the system
of internal controls in those entities is
consequently less comprehensive than 
in its directly owned subsidiaries.
Internal audit The Group has an internal
audit function which undertakes reviews
within the Group and provides objective
assurance to the board, via the Audit
Committee, on the operation and
effectiveness of the system of internal
controls within the Group and assesses
compliance with such systems.
Regulation The Group is regulated on a
consolidated basis by the UK Financial
Services Authority (FSA) with the Group’s
UK businesses being authorised by the
FSA to carry on regulated activities within
the UK. The FSA adopts a risk based
approach to supervision and does this 
in various ways including the review of
prudential returns, visits to firms and
meetings with senior management. In the
US, the Group’s activities are regulated by
the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Group operates in other countries and
its operations are subject to relevant local
regulatory requirements. Adherence to
these regulations is monitored, where
applicable, by local compliance officers
who report regularly via the Group Head 
of Internal Audit and Compliance to the
board. The Group is monitoring developments
and regulation from the EU and the
forthcoming Basle II proposals and has
commented on them accordingly and will
implement such changes as become
necessary once those proposals are finalised.
By order of the board
Helen Broomfield
Group Company Secretary ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 28
Remuneration Committee Report  
who were appointed by the Committee in
December 2003 succeeding Mercer
Human Resource Consulting. Neither
organisation has any other connection 
with the Group.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee
reviewed its terms of reference and made
appropriate amendments in light of the
2003 Combined Code which were then
approved by the board. The terms of
reference are available on the Company’s
website, www.icap.com, or from the Group
Company Secretary. 
Details of the number of meetings and
attendance at board and committee
meetings during the year are set out in 
the table on page 24. 
Remuneration policy
In determining remuneration policy and the
size of awards the Remuneration Committee
takes account of structures and levels of
remuneration for executive directors in other
substantial companies that it regards as
appropriate comparators and of such
companies’ stated remuneration policies. 
The comparator companies, selected
because their and the Group’s activities are
in broadly comparable areas of the financial
services sector, include Amvescap, Chicago
Mercantile Exchange, Collins Stewart Tullet,
eSpeed, Jardine Lloyd Thompson, London
Stock Exchange, Man Group and Schroders.
In the interest of consistency, the
Remuneration Committee has sought to
minimise changes to the principles applied
in determining executive directors’
remuneration in 2003. The Committee has
continued to develop the principles so that
the structure and level of executive
directors’ remuneration are:
(i) appropriate in light of remuneration 
arrangements among senior executives 
and managers employed by competitors 
and other participants in the markets in 
which ICAP is active;
(ii) compatible with the remuneration of 
senior brokers and managers employed 
within the Group who are not directors 
of ICAP plc;
(iii)structured to take account of the 
absence of committed future revenue 
in the Group’s businesses, which means
that the major part of revenues has to 
be secured in the year in which it is 
earned; 
The remuneration policy for executive
directors and the determination of individual
directors’ remuneration packages are
delegated to the board’s Remuneration
Committee.
This Remuneration Committee Report sets
out the Group’s remuneration policy and
details the remuneration of each of the
directors for the financial year ended 
31 March 2004. The executive directors’
remuneration comprises basic salary,
performance related bonus, participation
in the Bonus Share Matching Plan (BSMP),
pension contributions, life insurance,
medical insurance and, on occasion, car
allowance. The Remuneration Committee is
responsible for determining the salaries
and other remuneration of the executive
directors and the Group Company
Secretary. Remuneration strategy, policy
and approach is reviewed annually for
executive directors. Directors are not
involved in deciding their own
remuneration. The Committee does not
determine the fees payable to the non-
executive directors, which are considered and
approved by the executive directors. 
This report will be put to an advisory vote of
the Company’s shareholders at the Annual
General Meeting to be held on 14 July 2004.
The audited part of this report comprises
sections headed; Salaries and benefits,
Directors’ emoluments and compensation,
Bonus Share Matching Plan (BSMP), Share
options and Directors’ interests in ordinary
shares.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists
exclusively of non-executive directors all 
of whom are independent:
William Nabarro
(Chairman) 
(appointed Chairman 16 July 2003)
Nicholas Cosh 
Duncan Goldie-Morrison
(appointed 20 November 2003)
James McNulty
(appointed 30 March 2004)
Paul Zuckerman
(resigned as Chairman 16 July 2003)
The Remuneration Committee has been
assisted in its deliberations on executive
directors’ remuneration by Towers Perrin  ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 29
(iv) structured to reflect Group profit and 
profit growth, with low fixed base salaries
and negligible pension and other benefits;
(v) simple, with the amounts to which 
executive directors are entitled capable 
of being calculated by reference to the 
published Financial Statements of the 
Group;
(vi) integrated so that executive directors
participate in a single comprehensive 
bonus and incentive structure rather
than participating in several different
schemes;    
(vii) structured rather than discretionary:
remuneration is primarily determined
arithmetically by reference to the
published financial performance of the
Group, with the non-arithmetic element
(which will be smaller, other than in
exceptional circumstances) determined
by reference to progress towards
specific management objectives agreed
at the start of the relevant year;
(viii)structured to maximise the likelihood 
of retaining a proven and stable senior
management team; and
(ix) structured to align executive directors’
interests with those of ICAP
shareholders. 
Since the Garban and Intercapital merger
in September 1999 the Group has
recorded rapid and substantial growth.
The Remuneration Committee continues
to believe that remuneration for executive
directors should both reward profit and
profit growth for the year in which it is
earned and also reflect the importance to
the Group of sustaining and consolidating
past progress.
Salaries and benefits
The executive directors did not receive a
salary increase in 2003/2004 and have not
done so since 1999 as the Remuneration
Committee believes that performance-related
pay should be the major component of the
package to align executives’ interests with
those of shareholders.
Michael Spencer receives a salary of
£360,000, a pension contribution of 5%
of salary being £18,000 for the year
ended 31 March 2004 (2003 - £18,000),
life assurance, long term disability insurance,
private medical insurance and a performance-
related bonus of £4,500,000 comprising
cash of £2,250,000 and £2,250,000
which will be used to buy shares to be
held in Trust for the basic award under
the BSMP . 91% of total compensation
was performance related for the year
ended 31 March 2004.
As non-executive Chairman of Numis
Corporation plc Michael Spencer receives
fees of £25,000 per annum which are 
paid to IPGL.
David Gelber receives a salary of £225,000,
a pension contribution of 5% of salary being
£11,250 for the year ended 31 March 2004
(2003 - £11,250), life assurance, long
term disability insurance, private medical
insurance and a performance-related
bonus of £1,200,000 comprising cash of
£600,000 and £600,000 which will be
used to buy shares to be held in Trust for
the basic award under the BSMP . 82% 
of total compensation was performance
related for the year ended 31 March 2004.
David Gelber is a non-executive director of
a private investment company and receives
fees equivalent to $15,000 per annum
which he retains.
Stephen McDermott receives a salary of
$450,000. Benefits include a car lease of
$18,000 per annum, a maximum pension
payment of $5,000 equivalent to £2,949 
for the year ended 31 March 2004 (2003 -
£3,237), various insurances and a
performance-related bonus of £950,000
comprising cash of £475,000 and a promise
to deliver a number of shares currently
valued at £475,000 in three years’ time. 
($350,000, equivalent to £206,453, of 
the bonus is guaranteed.) 59% of total
compensation was performance related for
the year ended 31 March 2004.
Jim Pettigrew receives a salary of £175,000,
a car allowance of £10,000, pension
contribution of 10% of salary being £17,500
for the year ended 31 March 2004 (2003
- £17,500), life assurance, long term
disability insurance, private medical
insurance and a performance-related
bonus of £1,000,000 comprising cash of
£500,000 and £500,000 which will be
used to buy shares to be held in Trust for
the basic award under the BSMP .  82% of
total compensation was performance related
for the year ended 31 March 2004.
In addition, all the executive directors will
be granted matching award options
under the BSMP .
Remuneration of non-executive directors
The remuneration of non-executive directors
is considered and approved by the
executive directors. The basic remuneration
for Nicholas Cosh, Duncan Goldie-
Morrison, William Nabarro and Paul
Zuckerman was £30,000 per annum until
31 January 2004. With effect from 
1 February 2004 it was increased to £50,000
per annum for all non-executive directors,
including James McNulty, reflecting the
increasing level of responsibility, time
commitment and fees paid by comparable
companies to non-executive directors. 
A subsidiary of United receives fees from
the Group of £93,617 per annum plus
VAT for Charles Gregson. Donald Marshall
and Robert Knox III did not stand for re-
election at the Annual General Meeting
held on 16 July 2003. 
Nicholas Cosh as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and William Nabarro
as Chairman of the Remuneration and
Nomination Committees receive an
additional £20,000 and £15,000 per
annum respectively for those functions.
(Paul Zuckerman in his capacity as
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
until 16 July 2003 received an extra
£10,000 per annum pro rata.)
Breakdown of remuneration
The fixed and performance-related elements
of directors’ remuneration are illustrated in
the tables on page 32 and 33. Remuneration Committee Report  continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 30
Performance graph
The line graph shows, for the financial year
ended 31 March 2004 and for each of the
previous four financial periods, the total
shareholder return on a holding of the
Company’s ordinary shares compared with
the FTSE 250 index. ICAP plc has been a
constituent of the FTSE 250 index since
March 2001 and that index is considered
to be an appropriate benchmark.
Calculation of the executive directors’
variable remuneration
The structure put in place by the
Remuneration Committee, by which
executive directors’ variable remuneration is
determined, comprises three elements: a
bonus pool representing a percentage of
profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items and after all remuneration
costs, of which:
(i) half of the bonus pool is paid to the 
executive directors in cash; 
(ii) the other half of the bonus pool is used
to purchase shares of the Company
held by a Trust and over which the
executive directors are granted awards
but which are not released to the
respective executive directors until the
end of three years unless they cease
employment earlier; and 
(iii) a matching award of an equal number
of shares, to be secured through
market purchase, which will (normally)
be released after three years only if the
executive director is still employed and
has not disposed of his basic award
and, for the matching award in respect
of 2003/2004 onwards, provided
performance related criteria are met.
This is a comprehensive structure,
consolidating annual bonus, medium term
incentive and long-term share-related
benefit scheme. Since the implementation
of the BSMP in 2003 the executive
directors do not participate in any other
remuneration schemes operated by the
Company, over and above their existing
options, except for the SAYE scheme.
The structure is designed to result in two
thirds of each executive director’s variable
remuneration in respect of each year being
locked into the Company’s shares for the
subsequent three years, its value varying in
direct relation to the price of the Company’s
shares; of which half is (normally) released
after three years only if the executive
director is still employed and has not
disposed of his basic award and if the
Company’s financial performance is such
that previous success is sustained and the
forward momentum in profit maintained
during the subsequent three year period.
Under the structure adopted by the
Remuneration Committee which establishes
the pool from which executive directors’
bonuses will be paid, the bonus pool
comprises a fixed percentage of the Group’s
profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items and after all remuneration
costs, (subject to the achievement of a
minimum level of profit for the year set by
the Remuneration Committee at the
beginning of the year) and a smaller,
variable percentage set by the
Remuneration Committee to reflect, first,
the progress made towards agreed specific
objectives set for each individual and,
secondly, financial results substantially
outperforming the minimum level in the
relevant year.
The Remuneration Committee does not
consider it appropriate to put a cap on the
size of the bonus pool that may be
generated in light of remuneration practices
prevalent in the financial services sector
and because the major part of the bonus
pool is set as a direct reflection of the
financial performance of the Group. 
Bonus arrangements for year ended
31 March 2004
The arrangements in effect for the
executive directors’ bonuses for the year
ended 31 March 2004 were set down 
in the Financial Statements for the year
ended 31 March 2003:
• if profit before tax, goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items and after all
remuneration costs is £140 million or
more and provided that adjusted EPS is
greater than that for the year ended 
31 March 2003 the executive directors’
bonus pool will be 3% of that profit;
• an additional amount of up to 1.5% of
that profit may be payable as determined
by the Remuneration Committee based
on the actual profit before tax, goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items and
the achievement of certain specified
personal objectives for executive
directors;
• if such profit is below £140 million or
there is no increase in adjusted EPS the
amount of the executive directors’ bonus
pool will be at the discretion of the
Remuneration Committee; and
• the Remuneration Committee will retain
the overriding discretion to make such
changes to the bonus arrangements as it
believes the circumstances warrant. Such
changes may lead to either an increase
or a decrease in the bonus pool.
As profit before tax, goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items and after all
remuneration costs was greater than 
£140 million and adjusted EPS showed 
an increase year-on-year, the executive
directors' bonus pool will be 3% of that
profit. The Remuneration Committee has
further determined that the additional
amount will be 1.5% of that profit. In
making this determination, the Committee
took into account the substantial growth in
profit and EPS achieved in the year ended 
31 March 2004 and the considerable
progress that the Group has made towards
specific objectives specified at the
beginning of the year including objectives
related to the successful integration of
acquisitions, the development of Group
strategy, the perception of the Company
among investors, and the financial
management and regulatory structures of
the Group. Bonus payments are disclosed
in the table on page 32.
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
31 Dec 98
ICAP plc
FTSE 250
31 Mar 00 31 Mar 01
Value of £100 invested
31 Mar 02 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 04
Date
£ The performance related criterion for release
of the matching award made in respect 
of the year ended 31 March 2004 has
been set by the Remuneration Committee
as a requirement that adjusted EPS should
increase in the three years to 31 March
2007 by no less than RPI plus 9%. This
criterion has been determined by the
Remuneration Committee to act as a
mechanism to safeguard the progress that
has been made in the performance of the
Group and to underpin continuing forward
movement in ICAP’s earnings. If this
performance related criterion is not met
at the end of three years the matching
award will lapse.
Bonus arrangements for year ending 
31 March 2005
The arrangements for the year ending 
31 March 2005 are as follows:
• so long as profit before tax, goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items and
after all remuneration costs is greater
than the comparable profit figure for 
the year ended 31 March 2004, the
executive directors’ bonus pool will be 
3% of that profit; 
• an additional amount of up to 1.5% of
that profit may be payable as determined
by the Remuneration Committee based
on the actual financial performance for
the year and progress made towards
specified personal objectives for the
executive directors;
• if such profit is below that profit for the
previous year the amount of the
executive directors’ bonus pool will be at
the discretion of the Remuneration
Committee; 
• the Remuneration Committee will retain 
the overriding discretion to make such
changes to the bonus arrangements as it
believes the circumstances warrant. Such
changes may lead to either an increase
or a decrease in the bonus pool; and
• the matching award will be released only
if adjusted EPS has grown by at least 9%
above RPI over the three years from the
date of grant. If this performance related
criterion is not met at the end of three
years the matching award will lapse. 
Share schemes and long term incentive
arrangements
The Company has five share schemes:
(i) ICAP 1998 Approved Share Option Plan
(ESOP)
(ii) ICAP 1998 Unapproved Share Option
Plan (UESOP)
(iii) ICAP 1998 Sharesave Scheme (SAYE)
(iv) ICAP Senior Executive Equity
Participation Plan (SEEPP)
(v) ICAP 2001 Unapproved Company
Share Option Plan (UCSOP)
Following the approval of the BSMP ,
executive directors no longer receive any
awards under any of the above schemes
with the exception of the SAYE scheme.
The policy in respect of these share options
is that they will be heavily restricted and
allocation made only to key executives and
senior brokers. Awards will be of a size, 
up to the limits allowed by the plans, to
provide a meaningful incentive and an
effective retention tool for this particular
group of employees. The SAYE scheme is
open to those eligible employees who are
on an invitation date employed by a Group
company designated by the board as a
participating company to encourage regular
saving linked to investing in the shares of
the Company. The SEEPP is a tool for
aligning senior employees’ interests and is
an element of the total remuneration
package awarded to those senior employees,
with allocations being proposed by the
Group Chief Executive and approved by the
Remuneration Committee. It is open to
executives and brokers who have earned
significant bonuses and whom the board
deem to be key to the future of the business.
Some of the Group’s employees also retain
interests in United shares through
continued participation in the United SEEPP .
Under the terms of the Demerger,
employees with interests in United shares
under the United SEEPP and the United
Inland Revenue approved SAYE scheme
automatically received interests in the
Company’s shares on a one ICAP for every
two United share basis. United’s SEEPP was
not triggered by the Demerger and rights
over the Company’s shares under this plan
are shown on page 34. 
Performance conditions The table on page
34 shows the share options and interests
under long-term incentive schemes held by
directors of the Company. Details of the
performance conditions applicable to these
options are detailed in the notes to the table.
Description of share schemes 
(i) ESOP The ESOP is approved by the
Inland Revenue. Options with an
aggregate exercise price not exceeding
£30,000 may be granted to UK
resident executives under this scheme.
No options have been granted under
this scheme.
(ii) UESOP The UESOP is not approved 
by the Inland Revenue. Options are
granted under this scheme to UK
resident executives and to non-UK
resident executives. The grants of
options have a maximum overall grant
value of four times annual salary
including bonuses. Options granted
cannot be exercised until the Group has
achieved certain performance criteria
(currently growth in earnings per share
in excess of growth in the Retail Price
Index by an average of 3% per annum
over a three year period). 
(iii) SAYE The SAYE scheme enables directors
and eligible employees to acquire options
over ordinary shares of the Company at
a discount of up to 20% of their market
price, using the proceeds of a related
SAYE contract. All employees who have
worked for the minimum qualifying
period on an invitation date are eligible
to join the scheme. Options granted
under the SAYE scheme are not subject
to performance conditions. 
(iv) SEEPP The SEEPP is a long term
incentive plan for senior executives
through which those executives invest in
shares of the Company. Occasionally
the plan may be used as a “signing on”
incentive although, in general, senior
executives are invited to waive part of
their potential cash bonus in return for
rights over the number of shares (Basic
Award) which can be purchased with
the foregone bonus at the market value
of the Company’s shares on the date of
grant. 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 31 Remuneration Report  continued 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 32
Participants may also be granted a
provisional allocation over additional shares
(matching award); these matching shares
are transferred to the executive on a sliding
scale if he/she remains in employment as
follows: no shares up to three years; 40%
following completion of three but less than
four years; and 100% on the fourth
anniversary of the date of grant. Subject to
the vesting of shares, matching awards are
not subject to performance conditions
because at the time of the original grant in
1999 it was not deemed appropriate to
attach performance criteria. A similar
version of the plan operates in the US. 
(v) UCSOP The UCSOP is not approved by
the Inland Revenue. Options may be
granted to any full time employee within
the Group. No option may be granted to
any individual at any time if, as a result,
the aggregate number of shares issued
or issuable pursuant to options granted
to him under the Plan would exceed
1,250,000. Options are exercisable in
three equal instalments on the third,
fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date
of grant, provided that on the date of
exercise of an option, as a minimum,
earnings per share growth exceeds
growth in the Retail Price Index by an
average of 3% per annum over the
preceding three years.  
Directors’ emoluments and compensation
The remuneration of the directors of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2004 was as follows:
Directors’ remuneration 
Bonus Amounts
in lieu of over which
dividend on Basic
the BSMP Awards Year Year
Basic will be ended ended
Award granted 31 March 31 March
granted Cash under 2004 2003
Executive Salaries Fees Benefits in 2003 bonus BSMP Total Total
directors Notes £ £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Executive directors
Michael Spencer 1,4,6 360,000 - 5,758 61,380 2,250,000 2,250,000 4,927,138 3,664,823
David Gelber 1,4,6 225,000 - 3,359 17,670 600,000 600,000 1,446,029 1,181,177
Stephen McDermott (US) 1,4,5,6 265,440 - 35,097 10,972 475,000 475,000 1,261,509 1,078,205
Jim Pettigrew 1,4,6 175,000 - 13,620 13,950 500,000 500,000 1,202,570 939,351
Non-executive directors
Charles Gregson – Chairman 2 - 110,000 - - - - 110,000 110,000
Nicholas Cosh - 53,297 - - - - 53,297 35,000
Duncan Goldie-Morrison (US)
(appointed 20 November 2003) 14,139 - - - - 14,139 -
James McNulty (US)
(appointed 30 March 2004) 275 - - - - 275 -
William Nabarro - 45,362 - - - - 45,362 30,000
Paul Zuckerman - 36,231 - - - - 36,231 35,000
Former directors
Robert Knox III (US) 
(to 16 July 2003) - 8,804 - - - - 8,804 30,000
Donald Marshall (US) 
(to 16 July 2003) 5 - 56,037 - - - - 56,037 229,185
John Nixon 
(to 1 January 2003) 2,5 - - - - - - - 270,229
Declan Kelly 
(to 22 January 2003) - - - - - - 27,500
Total 1,025,440 324,145 57,834 103,972 3,825,000 3,825,000 9,161,391 7,630,470 Directors’ remuneration continued
Notes
The remuneration shown above represents amounts payable in respect of services provided by the directors to the Company and its subsidiaries
during the year in which they held office as directors of the Company.  
1  In addition to the basic award an equivalent matching award will be granted under the BSMP . Matching awards may, in normal circumstances, 
be exercised only if the directors still hold office in three years’ time and retain their basic awards. Exercise of matching awards is also subject to 
the performance related criterion attached to the award being satisfied.
2 Payments to third parties:  Charles Gregson’s remuneration represents fees paid to a subsidiary of United in respect of his services. John Nixon 
also elected to have his remuneration paid to a third party.
3 Comparative figures represent remuneration payable either during the whole year or from the date of appointment as a director of the Company 
to 31 March 2003.
4 Benefits may include car allowance, premiums for private medical insurance, permanent health insurance and disability insurance, mobile 
telephone and country club membership.
5 The remuneration of Donald Marshall and Stephen McDermott has been converted to sterling using the average exchange rate for the year of 
£1 - US$ 1.6953 (2003 - £1 – US$1.5446).
6 Comparative figures have been restated to exclude pension contributions to defined contribution schemes which are now shown under salaries 
and benefits on page 29.
Bonus Share Matching Plan (BSMP)
The BSMP was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held in 2003. The table below sets out the shares awarded as part of the
executive directors’ variable remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2003.
Total
Options under options under
the BSMP held at Basic Matching the BSMP held at
Executive 1 April Performance year Grant award award 31 March Exercise
directors 2003 From To date options
(1)
options
(2)
2004 period
Michael Spencer - 01.04.02 31.03.03 16.07.03 766,300 766,300 1,532,600 28.05.06-
27.05.07
David Gelber - 01.04.02 31.03.03 16.07.03 220,600 220,600 441,200 28.05.06-
27.05.07
Jim Pettigrew - 01.04.02 31.03.03 16.07.03 174,160 174,160 348,320 28.05.06-
27.05.07
Notes
1  One half of each directors’ bonus has been used to purchase ordinary shares (a basic award) which are held by the ICAP Employee Share Trust 
and will be used to satisfy the exercise of the options at the end of three years.
2  Matching award options will normally be exercisable at the end of three years as long as the basic award options are still held and only if the 
executive director remains in employment. No additional performance conditions are required to be met on the grant made on 16 July 2003.
3  Exercise price for a basic award is £1 and the exercise price for a matching award is £1.
4  Market price of shares on 16 July 2003 was £2.487.
5  Stephen McDermott was given a promise to receive 174,160 basic award shares and 174,160 matching award shares.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 33 Remuneration Committee Report  continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 34
Share options 
Company long term incentive schemes The interests of the directors in options over the Company’s shares resulting from the ICAP 1998
Unapproved Share Option Plan (UESOP), the ICAP 2001 Unapproved Company Share Option Plan (UCSOP), the ICAP 1998 Sharesave Scheme
(SAYE), the ICAP Senior Executive Participation Plan (SEEPP) are shown below at 31 March 2003 and 31 March 2004.
Market
Options Options price at
held at Granted Exercised held at date of
Date of 31 March during during 31 March Exercise period Exercise exercise Notional
grant 2003 period period 2004 from to price (p) (p) gain (£)
Michael Spencer
SAYE 17.01.00 47,940 - - 47,940 01.03.05 31.08.05 35.2 - -
David Gelber
SAYE 27.06.03 - 5,495 - 5,495 01.08.06 28.02.07 168.2 - -
Stephen McDermott
UESOP
(1)
23.12.98 270,560 - - 270,560 23.12.01 22.12.08 46.2 - -
30.09.99 875,000 - - 875,000 30.09.02 29.09.09 42.4 - -
SEEPP
(1)
01.06.99 107,830 - - 107,830 01.06.02 31.05.09 24.2 - -
UCSOP
(2)
31.05.01 750,000 - - 750,000 31.05.04 30.05.11 100.3 - -
Jim Pettigrew
SAYE 17.01.00 27,520 - 27,520 - 01.03.03 31.08.03 35.2 236.0 55,260
27.06.03 - 5,495 - 5,495 01.08.06 28.02.07 168.2 - -
UCSOP
(2)
31.05.01 250,000 - - 250,000 31.05.04 30.05.11 100.3 - -
Notes
1 At the time of these grants in 1998 and 1999 it was not deemed appropriate to attach performance criteria.
2 Options will become exercisable in three equal instalments on each of the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of grant subject, on each
anniversary, to a minimum requirement that the earnings per share exceeds the growth in the Retail Price Index by an average of 3% per annum
over the preceding three years.
3 Charles Gregson, Nicholas Cosh, Duncan Goldie-Morrison, James McNulty, William Nabarro and Paul Zuckerman, as non-executive directors,
have no interest in ICAP shares under any of these schemes.
4 All option figures shown at 31 March 2004 remained unchanged at 19 May 2004.
5 At the close of business on Monday, 31 March 2004 the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares was 285p per share and during the year
fluctuated in the range 189p - 331p per share. 
United long term incentive schemes The interests of the directors in options over the Company’s ordinary shares resulting from United schemes
are shown below at 31 March 2003 and 31 March 2004.
Options Options
held at Granted Exercised held at
Date of 31 March during during 31 March Exercise period Exercise
grant 2003 period period 2004 from to price (p)
Charles Gregson
Executive schemes 17.11.98 36,800 - 14,400 22,400 17.11.98 13.10.04 nil
SEEPP 17.11.98 16,780 - 4,600 12,180 16.09.00 29.06.07 nil
Match 16,780 - 4,600 12,180 16.09.00 29.06.07 nil
Stephen McDermott
SEEPP 17.11.98 24,965 - 17,505 7,460 20.09.00 02.04.05 nil
Match 12,475 - 8,745 3,730 20.09.00 02.04.05 nil
Note
ICAP options cannot be exercised independently from United options and have, therefore, been shown at a nil exercise price. ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 35
Directors’ service contracts
The Company’s policy is for executive directors to have service contracts with notice periods of no more than one year as recommended by the
Combined Code and to provide a reasonable balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals and the need to limit the liabilities 
of the Company in the event of the termination of a contract.
No director received compensation for loss of office during the year.
The following table shows details of directors’ service contracts:
Date Compensation
appointedContract on early
Directors director date Term Expiry termination
Executive directors
Michael Spencer 09.09.99 30.09.98 1 year Rolling Note 1
David Gelber 09.09.99 30.09.98 1 year Rolling Note 1
Stephen McDermott (US) 28.10.98 10.04.03 1 year Rolling Note 2
Jim Pettigrew 25.01.99 17.11.98 1 year Rolling Note 3
Non-executive directors
Charles Gregson Chairman 06.08.98
Non-executive Chairman 01.08.01 11.07.02 1 year Rolling Note 4
Nicholas Cosh 05.12.00 05.12.03 No notice Review on Note 5
05.12.06
Duncan Goldie-Morrison (US) 20.11.03 30.10.03 No notice Review on Note 5
20.11.06
James McNulty (US) 30.03.04 11.02.04 No notice Review on Note 5
30.03.07
William Nabarro 28.10.98 10.04.03 No notice Review on Note 5
28.10.04 
Paul Zuckerman 28.10.98 10.04.03 No notice Review on Note 5
28.10.04
Past directors
Robert Knox III (US) 08.12.99 10.04.03 Note 6 - Note 6
Donald Marshall (US) 26.07.99 10.04.03 No notice - Note 5
Notes
1 The contracts of Michael Spencer, dated 30 September 1998 as amended on 22 July 1999, and David Gelber, dated 30 September 1998 as
amended on 22 July 1999, 28 March 2001 and 20 May 2002, may be terminated by the Company with no notice in which case the Company
is obliged to make a payment of salary and contractual benefits (excluding any bonus) for 12 months. 
2 The contract of Stephen McDermott may be terminated by the Company with no notice in which case the Company is obliged to make a
payment of his base salary of $450,000 and his guaranteed bonus of $350,000.
3 The contract of Jim Pettigrew, dated 17 November 1998 as amended on 27 October 1999, 7 January 2000, 29 August 2000 and 
20 November 2003, may be terminated by the Company on no notice in which case the Company is obliged to make a payment of salary and
contractual benefits for 12 months.
4 Charles Gregson’s services are provided to the Company by a subsidiary of United and this contract is terminable on 12 months’ notice.
5 As non-executive directors, Nicholas Cosh, Duncan Goldie-Morrison, James McNulty, William Nabarro, Paul Zuckerman and Donald Marshall 
do not have contracts with the Company and no notice is required to be given by the Company on termination.
6 Robert Knox III was the Zions appointed nominee director subject to an agreement dated 8 December 1999. Remuneration Committee Report  continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 36
Group pension arrangements
In the UK, the Group operates a Group Personal Pension Scheme (the Scheme), which is open to new non-broking employees and administered by
the Standard Life Assurance Company. The Group will match contributions paid by members of the Scheme, up to a limit of 5% of basic salary. For
new broking employees, or those not eligible for a Group contribution, a stakeholder scheme is available, administered by the Standard Life
Assurance Company. In addition, the Group administers a number of historic pension arrangements for existing employees.
Various 401k plans are run in the US. These are retirement savings schemes with a choice of investment funds and US federal tax law sets savings
limits for employees.
The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in Germany and the US.  Further information can be found in note 27 to the Financial
Statements.
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares
The interests of the directors in office as at 31 March 2004 in the Company’s ordinary shares of 10p each (all of which are beneficial) are shown
below at 31 March 2003 and at 31 March 2004.
As at As at
31 March 31 March
Directors 2004 2003
Charles Gregson – Chairman 186,670 163,070
Michael Spencer 132,782,775 130,561,025
David Gelber 27,520 227,520
Nicholas Cosh 30,000 30,000
Duncan Goldie-Morrison (appointed 20 November 2003) - -
James McNulty (appointed 30 March 2004) - -
Stephen McDermott 76,250 50,000
William Nabarro 48,580 48,580
Jim Pettigrew 77,520 50,000
Paul Zuckerman 42,950 42,950
Notes
1 At 31 March 2004 the ICAP Employee Share Trust, which is a discretionary trust for the benefit of employees (including directors) of the Group,
held 2,727,270 ordinary shares (2003 - nil). At 31 March 2004 the Garban Employee Share Ownership Trust, which is a discretionary trust for
the benefit of employees (including directors) of the Group, held 2,317,750 ordinary shares (2003 - 4,667,950). At 31 March 2004 the
Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust (QUEST) held options over 7,489,020 ordinary shares of the Company (2003 – 4,134,575) of which
Garban-Intercapital Quest Trustee Limited holds 3,098,995 shares which will be used to satisfy outstanding options under the SAYE scheme.
Under paragraph 2 of Schedule 13 of the Companies Act, the executive directors are deemed to be interested in these shares.   
2 Mr and Mrs Michael Spencer own approximately 46.7% of IPGL which in turn owns approximately 99.24% of INHBV. Accordingly Mr and Mrs
Spencer are deemed by Schedule 13 of the Companies Act 1985 to be interested in all the shares in the Company held by IPGL (6,312,070)
and INHBV (125,545,705). A Trust fund, of which their children are beneficiaries, holds a further 50,000 shares and Michael Spencer holds
875,000 shares in his own name.
3 David Gelber is a director of IPGL and owns 4.2% of IPGL.
By order of the board
William Nabarro
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Independent Auditors’ Report
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 37
Independent auditors’ report to the
members of ICAP plc
We have audited the Financial Statements
which comprise the profit and loss account,
the consolidated balance sheet, the
consolidated statement of total recognised
gains and losses, the consolidated cash
flow statement, the Company balance
sheet and the related notes which have
been prepared under the historical cost
convention and the accounting policies set
out in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited the disclosures
required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the
Companies Act 1985 contained in the
Remuneration Committee Report (“the
auditable part”).
Respective responsibilities of
directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing
the annual report and the Financial
Statements in accordance with applicable
United Kingdom law and accounting
standards are set out in the statement of
directors’ responsibilities. The directors are
also responsible for preparing the
Remuneration Committee Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial
Statements and the auditable part of the
Remuneration Committee Report in
accordance with relevant legal and
regulatory requirements and United
Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the
Auditing Practices Board. This report,
including the opinion, has been prepared
for and only for the Company’s members as
a body in accordance with Section 235 of
the Companies Act 1985 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion,
accept or assume responsibility for any
other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose
hands it may come save where expressly
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether
the Financial Statements give a true and
fair view and whether the Financial
Statements and the auditable part of the
Remuneration Committee Report have been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985. 
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the
Directors’ Report is not consistent with the
Financial Statements, if the Company or
Group has not kept proper accounting
records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for
our audit, or if information specified by law
regarding directors’ remuneration and
transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained 
in the annual report and consider the
implications for our report if we become
aware of any apparent misstatements or
material inconsistencies with the Financial
Statements. The other information
comprises only the Financial Highlights,
Group Profile, Developments, Chairman’s
Statement, Group Chief Executive Officer’s
Review, Operating Review, Group Finance
Director’s Review, Directors and Secretary,
Directors’ Report, Corporate Governance
Report and the unaudited part of the
Remuneration Committee Report.
We review whether the corporate
governance statement reflects the
Company’s and Group’s compliance with
the seven provisions of the Combined Code
issued in June 1998 specified for our
review by the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority, and we report if it does
not. We are not required to consider
whether the board’s statements on internal
control cover all risks and controls, or to
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s Corporate Governance procedures
or its risk and control procedures. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with
auditing standards issued by the Auditing
Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in 
the Financial Statements and the auditable
part of the Remuneration Committee
Report. 
It also includes an assessment of the
significant estimates and judgements made 
by the directors in the preparation of the
Financial Statements, and of whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the
Company’s and Group’s circumstances,
consistently applied and adequately
disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so 
as to obtain all the information and
explanations which we considered
necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the Financial Statements
and the auditable part of the Remuneration
Committee Report are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or
other irregularity or error. In forming our
opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information
in the Financial Statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Financial Statements give a true and
fair view of the state of the affairs of the
Company and the Group at 31 March
2004 and of the profit and cash flows of
the Group for the year then ended;
• the Financial Statements have been
properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985; and
• those parts of the Remuneration
Committee Report required by Part 3 of
Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985
have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered
Auditors
London
24 May 2004 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 38
Year ended 31 March 2004
Before goodwill
amortisation and Goodwill Exceptional
exceptional items amortisation items (note 3) Total
Note £m£m£m £m
Turnover including share of joint ventures
Continuing operations 761.1 – – 761.1
Acquisitions 58.2 – – 58.2
2(a) 819.3 – – 819.3
Less share of joint ventures’ turnover (17.9) – – (17.9)
Group turnover 801.4 – – 801.4
Net operating expenses 4 (641.1) (38.4) (5.3) (684.8)
Continuing operations 143.4 (21.2) 0.3 122.5
Acquisitions 16.9 (17.2) (5.6) (5.9)
Group operating profit 160.3 (38.4) (5.3) 116.6
Share of operating profit of joint ventures and associates 8.3 (0.4) – 7.9
Total operating profit 168.6 (38.8) (5.3) 124.5
Net profit on disposal of tangible fixed assets – – 4.4 4.4
Net loss on termination and disposal of operations – – – –
Profit before interest 2(b) 168.6 (38.8) (0.9) 128.9
Net interest receivable 8 1.6 – – 1.6
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 170.2 (38.8) (0.9) 130.5
Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 9 (57.6) 12.0 2.8 (42.8)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 112.6 (26.8) 1.9 87.7
Minority interests – equity (3.2) – – (3.2)
Profit for the financial year 109.4 (26.8) 1.9 84.5
Dividends 10 (44.9) – – (44.9)
Retained profit for the financial year 64.5 (26.8) 1.9 39.6
Earnings per 10p ordinary share
– basic 11 15.1p
– diluted 11 13.8p
– adjusted 11 18.4p
There is no difference between the profit on ordinary activities before taxation and the retained profit for the years stated above 
and their historical cost equivalents. ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 39
Year ended 31 March 2003
Before goodwill
amortisation and Goodwill Exceptional
exceptional items amortisation items (note 3) Total
£m £m £m £m
685.5 – – 685.5
––––
685.5 – – 685.5
(21.2) – – (21.2)
664.3 – – 664.3
(550.8) (16.7) (4.0) (571.5)
113.5 (16.7) (4.0) 92.8
––––
113.5 (16.7) (4.0) 92.8
7.1 (0.3) – 6.8
120.6 (17.0) (4.0) 99.6
– – 15.4 15.4
– – (0.6) (0.6)
120.6 (17.0) 10.8 114.4
3.1 – – 3.1
123.7 (17.0) 10.8 117.5
(42.5) 3.9 0.5 (38.1)
81.2 (13.1) 11.3 79.4
(2.6) – – (2.6)
78.6 (13.1) 11.3 76.8
(30.3) – – (30.3)
48.3 (13.1) 11.3 46.5
15.4p
14.7p
15.5p ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 40
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
As at As at
31 March 31 March
2004 2003 *
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 12 269.0 118.8
Tangible assets 13 64.7 51.1
Investments
– Investments in joint ventures 14
Share of gross assets 9.3 10.7
Share of gross liabilities (3.4) (5.5)
Goodwill arising on acquisition 0.8 0.9
6.7 6.1
– Investments in associates 14 6.6 5.6
– Other investments 14 3.2 3.1
16.5 14.8
350.2 184.7
Current assets
Debtors 16 521.0 648.5
Investments 17 15.9 11.5
Cash at bank and in hand 214.2 174.1
751.1 834.1
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 18 (589.7) (723.3)
Net current assets 161.4 110.8
Total assets less current liabilities 511.6 295.5
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 19 (21.5) (27.1)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 21 (11.2) (7.4)
Net assets 2(c) 478.9 261.0
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 57.8 51.4
Contingent share capital 25 108.1 22.9
Share premium account 25 143.7 28.6
Other reserves 25 28.0 33.0
Profit and loss account 25 130.6 116.7
Shareholders’ funds – equity 468.2 252.6
Minority interests – equity 10.7 8.4
478.9 261.0
*Restated following the adoption of UITF 38 (note 1(a))
Approved by the board on 24 May 2004 and signed on its behalf by:
Michael Spencer Jim Pettigrew
Group Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 41
Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
£m £m
Profit for the financial year 84.5 76.8
Adjustments to reserves
– Exchange adjustments on net investments in overseas undertakings (27.5) (7.7)
– Other recognised exchange losses – (0.2)
Total recognised gains and losses for the year 57.0 68.9
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003 *
£m £m
Profit for the financial year 84.5 76.8
Dividends (44.9) (30.3)
Retained profit for the financial year 39.6 46.5
Other recognised gains and losses (27.5) (7.9)
Issue of shares 120.0 4.8
Movements in contingent share capital 85.2 22.9
Increase in investment in own shares (1.7) –
Net increase in shareholders’ funds 215.6 66.3
Opening shareholders’ funds 252.6 188.5
Prior year adjustment (note 1(a)) – (2.2)
Closing shareholders’ funds 468.2 252.6
* Restated following the adoption of UITF 38 (note 1(a))
Reconciliation of Movements in Consolidated Shareholders’ Funds ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 42
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
Note £m £m
Cash inflow from operating activities
Before operating exceptional items 31(a) 182.9 142.1
Operating exceptional items paid (5.6) (8.3)
177.3 133.8
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 3.6 3.9
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received from third parties 3.5 5.0
Interest paid to third parties (0.6) (0.4)
Interest element of finance lease rental payments (0.2) –
Dividends paid to minority interests (1.4) (1.6)
1.3 3.0
Taxation
UK Corporation Tax paid (19.8) (15.5)
Overseas tax paid (29.9) (20.2)
(49.7) (35.7)
Capital expenditure and financial investment 
Payments to acquire tangible fixed assets (25.0) (36.6)
Receipts from sale of tangible fixed assets 0.8 0.9
Insurance proceeds in respect of tangible fixed assets 4.4 15.4
Payments to acquire fixed asset investments (0.5) (3.0)
Payments to acquire own shares (3.4) –
Receipts from sale of fixed asset investments 0.1 1.5
(23.6) (21.8)
Acquisitions and disposals
Acquisition of interests in businesses (32.3) (54.9)
Acquisitions of associates and joint ventures – (0.1)
Cash held by subsidiaries acquired 19.3 18.6
(13.0) (36.4)
Equity dividends paid (35.7) (24.9)
Management of liquid resources
Purchase of current asset investments (0.2) –
Financing
Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 2.4 3.5
Repayment of other short-term loans from third parties – (1.4)
Capital element of finance lease rental payments (1.3) –
1.1 2.1
Increase in cash in the year 31(c) 61.1 24.0 Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003 *
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 14 250.3 103.2
Current assets
Debtors 16 137.3 53.5
Cash at bank and in hand 0.9 0.3
138.2 53.8 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 18 (57.2) (23.6)
Net current assets 81.0 30.2
Net assets 331.3 133.4
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 57.8 51.4
Contingent share capital 25 108.1 22.9
Share premium account 25 143.7 28.6
Other reserves 25 0.1 0.1
Profit and loss account 25 21.6 30.4
Shareholders' funds - equity 331.3 133.4
*Restated following the adoption of UITF 38 (note 1 (a))
Approved by the board on 24 May 2004 and signed on its behalf by:
Michael Spencer Jim Pettigrew
Group Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 43
Company Balance Sheet Notes to the Financial Statements
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 44
1  Principal accounting policies
(a) Basis of preparation
The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
Change in accounting policy
The Group has adopted the provisions of UITF 38 “Accounting for ESOP Trusts”. As a result, shares in ICAP plc owned by the Group’s employee share
ownership trusts, which were previously shown as an asset in the balance sheet, are now treated as a deduction from reserves within shareholders’
funds. The results for the year ended 31 March 2003 have been restated accordingly. The effect on the balance sheet of both the Group and the
Company has been to reduce equity shareholders’ funds by £2.2m as at 31 March 2003, and by £3.9m as at 31 March 2004. There is no impact on
the profit and loss account for the year ended 31 March 2003 or for the year ended 31 March 2004.
(b) Basis of consolidation
The Group’s consolidated Financial Statements comprise the Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings. Details of the
Company’s principal subsidiaries are given on pages 74 and 75.
Unless stated otherwise, business combinations are accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting whereby the Group’s results include the
results of acquired or disposed businesses from the effective date of acquisition or disposal.
In the Group’s consolidated Financial Statements, joint ventures and associates are accounted for under the equity method whereby the Group’s profit
and loss account includes its share of their profits and losses and the Group’s balance sheet includes its share of their net assets.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to present its own profit and loss account.
(c) Turnover 
Turnover comprises commission and brokerage income derived from securities broking, derivatives and money broking, energy broking, electronic broking
and information services.
Securities broking comprises voice broking and is mainly transacted on a matched principal basis. To represent the substance of matched principal
services provided by the Group, where it acts as principal for the simultaneous purchase and sale of securities to third parties, commission income
represents the differential between the consideration received on the sale of the security and its purchase price.
Derivatives and money broking and energy broking comprise voice broking and are mainly transacted on an agency basis. For agency trades turnover is
stated net of rebates and discounts, value added tax and other sales taxes.
Electronic broking includes the broking of securities and derivatives and money broking products on electronic platforms. Turnover recognition for these
products is in accordance with the treatment for the equivalent voice broked products.
Turnover from information services represents fees received from the sale of financial information to third parties. This is stated net of value added tax and
other sales taxes.
(d) Government grants
Revenue grants receivable are credited to the profit and loss account in the same period as the related expenditure is charged.
(e) Goodwill
Goodwill arises upon the acquisition of subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures and represents the cost of the acquisition in excess of
the fair value of the Group’s share of the net assets acquired. Fair values are determined based upon an assessment of the value of the individual assets
and liabilities acquired, including reference to market prices where relevant.
For acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998, goodwill was written off directly to reserves. The transitional arrangements of FRS 10 “Goodwill and intangible
assets” allow this goodwill to remain eliminated. Goodwill previously charged directly against reserves prior to FRS 10 is reflected in the profit and loss
account when calculating the profit or loss on the subsequent disposal or termination of acquired businesses. ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 45
For acquisitions on or after 1 January 1998, goodwill is capitalised and amortised to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over its useful
economic life. The useful economic life of the goodwill is determined at the time of the acquisition and is subsequently reviewed at the end of each
reporting period by considering the nature of the business acquired, the economic environment in which it operates and the period of time over which
the Group expects to derive value from the purchase of the business. Amortisation periods for all significant acquisitions are given in note 12.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings is shown within intangible fixed assets. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of joint ventures
and associates is included within their carrying value.
(f) Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less provision for any impairment in their values and are depreciated on a straight line basis over their
expected useful economic lives as follows:
Short leasehold property Period of lease
Furniture, fixtures and equipment 3 - 5 years
Motor vehicles 3 - 4 years
Software development 3 - 5 years
The Group reviews its depreciation rates regularly to take account of any changes in circumstances. These rates are determined upon consideration of
factors such as the expected rate of technological development and anticipated usage levels. Depreciation is charged against assets from the date at
which the Group begins to derive economic benefit from the asset.
When a leasehold property becomes surplus to the Group’s foreseeable business requirements, provision is made on a discounted basis for the expected
future net cost of the property.
(g) Leased assets
Assets financed by leasing arrangements which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group (finance leases) are capitalised
in the consolidated balance sheet. Lease repayments comprise both a capital element and a finance element. The capital element of the leasing
commitment is shown as an obligation to the lessor in the balance sheet and the finance element is charged to the profit and loss account on a
constant periodic rate of change basis.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
(h) Fixed asset investments
(i) Subsidiary undertakings
An undertaking is regarded as a subsidiary undertaking if the Group has control over its operating and financial policies.
In the Company’s Financial Statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at historical cost less provision for any impairment in their
values.
(ii) Associates
The consolidated Financial Statements include investments in associated undertakings under the equity method of accounting. An associated
undertaking is an entity in which the Group has a participating interest and, in the opinion of the directors, can exercise significant influence, but not
control, over its operating and financial policies. The profit and loss account includes the Group’s share of the operating  profit or loss, exceptional items,
interest income or expense and attributable taxation of those entities. The balance sheet shows the Group’s share of the net assets or liabilities of those
entities, together with loans advanced and attributable goodwill. A participating interest exists where an investment is held on a long-term basis for the
purpose of securing a contribution to the Group’s activities. Significant influence will generally exist where the Group holds more than 20% and less than
50% of the shareholders’ voting rights. Notes to the Financial Statements  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 46
1  Principal accounting policies continued
(iii) Joint ventures 
The consolidated Financial Statements include investments in joint ventures under the gross equity method of accounting. A joint venture is an entity in
which the Group has a long-term interest and exercises joint control. Under the gross equity method, a form of the equity method of accounting, the
Group’s share of the aggregate gross assets and liabilities underlying the investment in the joint venture is included in the balance sheet and the Group’s
share of the turnover of the joint venture is disclosed in the profit and loss account.
(iv) Other investments
Other fixed asset investments, comprise equity shareholdings and other interests. They are stated at historical cost less provision for any impairment in
their values. Dividend income is recognised upon receipt and interest when receivable.
(i) Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill
Fixed assets and goodwill are subject to an impairment review in accordance with FRS 11 “Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill” if there are events 
or changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying value of the fixed asset or goodwill may not be fully recoverable. The impairment review
comprises a comparison of the net book value of the fixed asset or goodwill with its recoverable amount (the higher of net realisable value and value in
use). Net realisable value represents the amount at which the asset could be sold. Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash
flows obtainable as a result of the asset’s continued use, including those resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market based discount rate on a 
pre-tax basis. The carrying value of fixed assets and goodwill are written down by the amount of any impairment and this loss is recognised in the profit
and loss account in the year in which it occurs.  If the occurrence of an external event gives rise to a reversal of an impairment loss, the reversal is
recognised in the profit and loss account as well as by increasing the carrying amount of the fixed asset or goodwill (only up to the amount that it 
would have been had the original impairment not occurred).
For the purpose of conducting impairment reviews, income generating units are identified as groups of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that
generate income that is largely independent of other income streams. The assets and liabilities include those directly involved in generating the income
and an appropriate proportion of those used to generate more than one income stream.
(j) Matched principal business
Certain Group companies are involved as principal in the purchase and simultaneous commitment to sell securities between third parties. Such trades
are complete only when both sides of the deal are settled, and so the Group is exposed to risk in the event that one side of the transaction remains
unmatched. Substantially all the transactions settle within a short period of time and the settlement risk is considered to be minimal. In order to reflect
the substance of these transactions, the amounts due to and payable by counterparties in respect of matched principal business expected to settle 
in the normal course of trading are offset and the net amount is included in trade debtors. For information purposes, the gross amounts are disclosed 
in note 16.
Outstanding transactions which have gone beyond settlement date (initially unsettled transactions) and where neither side of the transaction has settled
are shown gross and are included in debtors and creditors in notes 16 and 18. Transactions where one side has settled but the other remains
outstanding (unmatched transactions) are also shown as the gross amount on the balance sheet in either trade debtors or trade creditors with the
corresponding amount included as a cash movement.
(k) Stock lending transactions
Certain Group companies are involved in collateralised stock lending transactions as an intermediary between counterparties. Although the legal form of
such transactions is that the securities broker acts as principal on both sides of the transaction, the substance of the transaction is that the Group
companies involved act as intermediaries and assume minimal risk. Accordingly, the deposits paid and received for securities borrowed and loaned have
been offset and only the net amount is included in debtors. For information purposes, the gross amounts are disclosed in note 16.
(l) Current asset investments
Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The net realisable value for the listed investment is based upon the
readily ascertainable market price. ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 47
(m) Pension costs
Defined contribution pension costs charged to the profit and loss account represent employer’s contributions payable in respect of the year. Defined
benefit pension costs are charged to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis over the service lives of the eligible employees in accordance with
the advice of qualified actuaries. Variations from regular cost are spread over the expected remaining service lives of current employees. To the extent
that such costs do not equate with cash contributions, a provision or prepayment is recognised in the balance sheet.
Certain assumptions and estimates are made in order to value the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes and these are disclosed in note 27.
(n) Employee share ownership trusts
Investments in own shares held in connection with the Group’s employee share schemes are deducted from shareholders’ funds in accordance with UITF 38
until such time as they vest unconditionally to the participating employees. For share option schemes without Inland Revenue approval, any excess of the cost
of the shares to the trust over the exercise price of the options granted over them is amortised to the profit and loss account over the period of service in
respect of which the participating employees are awarded the options. For share options schemes with Inland Revenue approval, the excess of the cost of the
shares to the trust over the exercise price of the options granted over them is written off to reserves as permitted under UITF 17 “Employee share schemes”.
The cost of shares purchased to satisfy the basic award options to the executive directors in respect of the BSMP is charged to the profit and loss
account in the year to which the performance relates. The cost of matching options awarded to executive directors is amortised to the profit and loss
account over three years from the date of grant.
(o) Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised as an asset or a liability if transactions have occurred at the balance sheet date which give rise to a right to pay less taxation
in the future or an obligation to pay more taxation in the future. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not that there
will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted or where they can be offset against
deferred tax liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities which are recognised are not discounted.
No provision is made in respect of any further taxation liability that would arise on the distribution of retained earnings of overseas subsidiary
undertakings, joint ventures and associates.
(p) Foreign currencies
At entity level, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling on the date the transaction is
recorded. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
On consolidation, the results of overseas businesses are translated into sterling at the average exchange rate for the year and their assets and liabilities
are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising on translating the net assets and liabilities
of overseas businesses and, to the extent permitted by SSAP 20 “Foreign currency translation”, exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings
taken out to hedge investments in overseas businesses are taken directly to reserves.
In the cash flow statement, cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the average exchange rate for the year.
(q) Financial instruments
Foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge foreign exchange exposures both on assets and liabilities recognised in the Financial Statements and
forecast receipts and payments denominated in foreign currencies. Gains and losses on foreign currency contracts are offset against the exchange
differences arising on the hedged assets and liabilities. Where a contract is a hedge against future transactions, gains and losses on the contract are
deferred until the transaction is recognised in the Financial Statements.
Underlying principal amounts and unrecognised gains and losses of financial instruments used for hedging purposes outstanding at 31 March 2004 are
disclosed in note 22 to the Financial Statements.
(r) Debt provisioning
Provisions are made for specific debts when it is considered that the credit-worthiness of the debtor has deteriorated such that the recovery of all or part
of a debt is in serious doubt.
A general provision is made in respect of potential losses which are judged to be present in debtor balances at the balance sheet date, but which will not
be identified as such until some time in the future. The level of provision is based upon the previous experience of such losses in the Group and is
reviewed on a periodic basis. The accuracy of the provision is periodically assessed against any actual losses that have arisen. All provisions are recorded
within operating expenses in the profit and loss account. Notes to the Financial Statements  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 48
2  Segmental information
In order to reflect its increasing significance to the Group, the analysis by activity has been expanded to show energy broking as a separate business
segment. Energy broking was formerly included within derivatives and money broking and the comparatives have been restated accordingly.
The business of Intercontinental Energy Brokers was merged with the business of ICAP Energy in London after acquisition. As a result it is not practicable
to identify the post-acquisition results or net assets of the acquired business, so the results of the merged business have been included within continuing
operations. 
(a) Turnover
Analysis by activity Year ended 31 March 2004 Year ended 31 March 2003
Continuing Joint Continuing Joint 
operations Acquisitions ventures Total operations ventures Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Securities broking 365.0 - 4.3 369.3 347.4 6.3 353.7
Derivatives and money broking 309.2 - 13.6 322.8 264.9 14.9 279.8
Energy broking 41.4 - - 41.4 28.5 - 28.5
Electronic broking 14.5 47.5 - 62.0 10.8 - 10.8
Information services 13.1 10.7 - 23.8 12.7 - 12.7
743.2 58.2 17.9 819.3 664.3 21.2 685.5 
Analysis by geographic location
Americas 325.0 46.7 12.1 383.8 300.7 14.4 315.1
Europe 333.6 11.5 5.2 350.3 300.1 6.1 306.2
Asia Pacific 84.6 - 0.6 85.2 63.5 0.7 64.2
743.2 58.2 17.9 819.3 664.3 21.2 685.5
The geographic analysis presented above shows the turnover by origin. There is no material difference between the turnover by origin and turnover by
destination.
(b) Profit before interest
Analysis by activity Year ended 31 March 2004
Continuing Joint
operations ventures and Total before
before goodwill Acquisitions associates goodwill Goodwill Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Securities broking 66.5 - 0.7 67.2 (11.1) 56.1
Derivatives and money broking 68.5 - 7.0 75.5 (7.4) 68.1
Energy broking 5.2 - - 5.2 (2.9) 2.3
Electronic broking (5.1) 9.8 0.6 5.3 (11.6) (6.3)
Information services 8.3 7.1 - 15.4 (5.8) 9.6
143.4 16.9 8.3 168.6 (38.8) 129.8
Exceptional items (note 3) (0.9)
Total 128.9 ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 49
Analysis by activity Year ended 31 March 2003
Continuing Joint
operations ventures and Total before
before goodwill associates goodwill Goodwill Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Securities broking 56.9 0.8 57.7 (10.5) 47.2 
Derivatives and money broking 52.3 6.7 59.0 (5.2) 53.8 
Energy broking 4.3 - 4.3 (1.2) 3.1 
Electronic broking (8.1) (0.4) (8.5) (0.1) (8.6)
Information services 8.1 - 8.1 - 8.1 
113.5 7.1 120.6 (17.0) 103.6 
Exceptional items (note 3) 10.8 
Total 114.4 
Analysis by geographic location Year ended 31 March 2004
Continuing Joint
operations ventures and Total before
before goodwill Acquisitions associates goodwill Goodwill Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Americas 54.7 16.3 3.7 74.7 (28.7) 46.0
Europe 81.3 0.6 2.8 84.7 (7.3) 77.4
Asia Pacific 7.4 - 1.8 9.2 (2.8) 6.4
143.4 16.9 8.3 168.6 (38.8) 129.8
Exceptional items (note 3) (0.9)
Total 128.9
Year ended 31 March 2003
Continuing Joint
operations ventures and Total before
before goodwill associates goodwill Goodwill Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Americas 41.5 2.8 44.3 (9.5) 34.8
Europe 66.7 2.6 69.3 (5.9) 63.4
Asia Pacific 5.3 1.7 7.0 (1.6) 5.4
113.5 7.1 120.6 (17.0) 103.6
Exceptional items (note 3) 10.8
Total 114.4 Notes to the Financial Statements  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 50
2  Segmental information continued
(c) Net assets
Analysis by activity Year ended 31 March 2004 Year ended 31 March 2003
Joint Joint
Continuing ventures and Continuing ventures and
operations Acquisitions associates Total operations associates Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Securities broking 137.4 - 2.1 139.5 112.6 2.3 114.9
Derivatives and money broking 118.8 - 10.4 129.2 107.0 9.0 116.0
Energy broking 12.2 -- 12.2 11.7 - 11.7
Electronic broking (8.1) 160.0 0.8 152.7 (12.5) 0.5 (12.0)
Information services 17.3 -- 17.3 13.1 - 13.1
Holding companies 28.0 -- 28.0 17.3 - 17.3
305.6 160.0 13.3 478.9 249.2 11.8 261.0
Analysis by geographic location
Americas 127.2 157.0 4.3 288.5 107.4 4.0 111.4
Europe 152.3 3.0 7.3 162.6 117.7 6.8 124.5
Asia Pacific 26.1 - 1.7 27.8 24.1 1.0 25.1
305.6 160.0 13.3 478.9 249.2 11.8 261.0
3  Exceptional items
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
£m £m
Operating exceptional items (a)
Exceptional items relating to acquisitions (5.6) (1.7)
Operating expenses relating to the World Trade Center disaster - (2.3)
Other operating exceptional items 0.3 -
(5.3) (4.0)
Non-operating exceptional items (b)
Profit on disposal of tangible fixed assets 4.4 15.4 
Net loss on termination and disposal of operations - (0.6)
4.4 14.8 
Exceptional items included in profit before interest (0.9) 10.8 
Taxation (c) 2.8 0.5 
Total exceptional profits 1.9 11.3 
(a) Operating exceptional items
Operating exceptional items recognised during the year ended 31 March 2004 were:
– a loss of £5.6m in respect of reorganisation and rationalisation costs following the acquisition of BrokerTec (2003 - loss of £1.7m in respect of the
acquired Asian businesses);
– a net credit of £0.3m for other operating exceptional items relating to a BEIP grant receivable in the US for the prior year of £2.7m, offset by
expenses of £2.4m principally relating to an adjustment to a UK surplus property provision. 51
(b) Non-operating exceptional items
Non-operating exceptional items include a profit on the disposal of fixed assets of £4.4m representing the final receipt of material damage insurance
proceeds in connection with the World Trade Center disaster (2003 - £15.4m).
(c) Taxation
A taxation credit of £2.8m (2003 - £0.5m) arose on the exceptional items for the year (note 9).
(d) Segmental analysis of exceptional items included in profit before interest
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
Analysis by activity £m £m
Securities broking 3.4 6.9 
Derivatives and money broking 1.4 3.9 
Energy broking (0.1) -
Electronic broking (5.6) -
(0.9) 10.8 
Analysis by geographic location
Americas 2.9 13.1 
Europe (3.8) -
Asia Pacific - (2.3)
(0.9) 10.8 
4  Net operating expenses
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
£m £m
Operating expenses before goodwill amortisation and operating exceptional items 653.2 550.8 
Other operating income (12.1) -
641.1 550.8 
Goodwill 38.4 16.7 
Operating exceptional items (note 3) 5.3 4.0 
Net operating expenses 684.8 571.5 
Other operating income for the year ended 31 March 2004 includes £7.7m relating to a BEIP grant receivable in the US for the current year.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 Notes to the Financial Statements  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 52
5  Profit on ordinary activities before taxation
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation is stated after charging: £m £m
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets
– Subsidiaries 38.4 16.7 
– Joint ventures and associates 0.4 0.3 
Amortisation of other investments 0.1 0.1 
Amortisation of the cost of own shares 1.0 0.6 
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets
– Owned assets 26.6 15.8 
– Assets held under finance leases 0.3 -
Operating lease rentals
– Property 10.1 7.4 
– Plant and equipment 0.2 0.4 
Auditors’ remuneration
– Statutory audit services
– UK 0.6 0.5
– Other 0.8 0.7
– Further assurance services 0.4 0.9
– Tax services 1.6 2.0
– Other non-audit services 0.3 0.2
3.7 4.3
Auditors’ remuneration in respect of the Company was borne by subsidiary undertakings.
6  Employee information
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
(a) Analysis of employee costs £m £m
Salaries (including bonuses) 438.1 377.1 
Social security costs 27.2 22.9 
Pension costs
– Defined contribution schemes 4.7 4.9 
– Defined benefit schemes 0.4 -
470.4 404.9  ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 53
(b) Number of employees
Analysis by activity Average Year end
Year ended Year ended As at As at
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2004 2003 2004 2003
Securities broking 1,242 1,221 1,245 1,255 
Derivatives and money broking 1,258 1,115 1,277 1,230 
Energy broking 198 115 211 182 
Electronic broking 138 47 154 44 
Information services 24 21 24 21 
2,860 2,519 2,911 2,732 
Analysis by geographic location
Americas 1,038 909 1,072 970 
Europe 1,229 1,158 1,246 1,159 
Asia Pacific 593 452 593 603 
2,860 2,519 2,911 2,732 
7  Directors’ remuneration
Full details of the remuneration of each of the Company’s directors and their interests in the Company’s shares is set out in the Remuneration
Committee Report on pages 28 to 36.
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
£m £m
Aggregate emoluments 9.2 7.6
Aggregate gains made on the exercise of share options 0.1 3.4 
Employers’ contributions to pension schemes 0.1 0.1 
9.4 11.1  Notes to the Financial Statements  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 54
8  Net interest receivable
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
£m £m
Interest receivable and similar income
– Bank deposits 3.0 3.4 
– Share of interest receivable of joint ventures and associates 0.2 0.2 
– Other interest receivable 0.6 1.4 
3.8 5.0 
Interest payable and similar charges
– Bank loans and overdrafts (0.6) (0.4)
– Finance leases (0.2) -
– Unwinding of discount on deferred consideration (note 15) (1.0) (1.2)
– Other interest payable (0.4) (0.3)
(2.2) (1.9)
Net interest receivable 1.6 3.1
9  Taxation on profit on ordinary activities
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
£m £m
Current taxation
UK Corporation Tax at 30.0% (2003 - 30.0%)
– Current year 30.4 20.9 
– Double tax relief (4.9) (0.7)
– Adjustment to prior years 0.6 -
Overseas taxation
– Current year 25.6 15.7
– Adjustment to prior years 9.9 (1.5)
61.6 34.4
Share of taxation of joint ventures and associates 3.0 3.0
Total current taxation 64.6 37.4
Deferred taxation (note 20)
– Current year (15.2) 0.1
– Adjustment to prior years (6.6) 0.6
42.8 38.1
The Group’s UK tax charge is stated after taking into account the tax effect of exceptional items which reduced the Group’s tax charge by £2.8m 
(2003 - £0.5m). The Group’s share of taxation of joint ventures is £1.7m (2003 - £1.9m) and of associates is £1.3m (2003 - £1.1m).
The adjustment to overseas taxation for prior years includes £7.5m resulting from a change in the tax year end of the US operations, aligning it to its
financial year end. This has created a movement from current tax to deferred tax. ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 55
The Group’s UK tax charge for the year ended 31 March 2004 exceeds the UK statutory rate and can be reconciled as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
£m £m
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 130.5 117.5
Profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of Corporation Tax in the UK of 30.0% (2003 - 30.0%) 39.2 35.3
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 15.8 7.0
Additional tax deductible items not in the profit and loss account (5.1) (3.3)
Surplus of book depreciation over tax depreciation 0.4 (3.9)
Other timing differences 1.7 (0.4)
Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 1.2 3.5
Adjustment to tax in respect of prior year 10.5 (1.5)
Adjustments in respect of joint ventures and associates 0.8 1.0
Other 0.1 (0.3)
Current taxation charge 64.6 37.4
10  Dividends
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
Dividends in respect of ordinary shares: £m £m
Interim dividend of 1.7p per 10p ordinary share (2003 - 1.4p per share) 9.6 7.0 
Final dividend (proposed) of 5.7p per 10p ordinary share (2003 - 4.6p per share) 32.5 23.3 
Adjustment to dividend declared in prior year 2.8 -
44.9 30.3 
The adjustment of £2.8m relates to the additional final dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2003 in respect of the initial shares issued following
the completion of the BrokerTec acquisition in May 2003.
The right to receive dividends has been waived in respect of shares held in employee trusts.
11  Earnings per 10p ordinary share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year of £84.5m (2003 - £76.8m) by the weighted average number of
ordinary 10p shares in issue during the year of 561.4m shares (2003 - 498.5m).
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue excludes the weighted average number of shares held by trusts relating to employee share
schemes to which the participating employees are not unconditionally entitled, being 8.3m shares (2003 - 5.0m).
Diluted earnings per share takes into account the dilutive effect of share options outstanding under the Company’s employee share schemes (note 24)
and the dilutive effect of contingent share capital (note 25).
Year ended 31 March 2004 Year ended 31 March 2003
Earnings Earnings
Earnings Shares per share Earnings Shares per share
£m millions pence £m millions pence
Basic 84.5 561.4 15.1 76.8 498.5 15.4
Dilutive effect of share options - 16.0 (0.4) - 14.5 (0.4)
Dilutive effect of contingent share capital - 34.5 (0.9) - 10.0 (0.3)
Diluted 84.5 611.9 13.8 76.8 523.0 14.7 Notes to the Financial Statements  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 56
11  Earnings per 10p ordinary share continued
Adjusted earnings per share is based on earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items (and their tax effects) and is presented in order to
assist in the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group’s businesses. Since post acquisition profits are included in earnings, the adjusted
weighted average number of shares takes into account the effect of contingent share capital.
Year ended 31 March 2004 Year ended 31 March 2003
Earnings Earnings
Earnings Shares per share Earnings Shares per share
£m millions pence £m millions pence
Basic 84.5 561.4 15.1 76.8 498.5 15.4 
Goodwill amortisation 38.8 - 6.9 17.0 - 3.4 
Exceptional items (note 3) 0.9 - 0.2 (10.8) - (2.2)
Taxation on exceptional items and goodwill amortisation (14.8) - (2.6) (4.4) - (0.9)
Dilutive effect of contingent share capital - 34.5 (1.2) - 10.0 (0.2)
Adjusted 109.4 595.9 18.4 78.6 508.5 15.5
12  Intangible fixed assets
Goodwill
£m
Cost
As at 1 April 2003 154.5
Additions (note 15(a) and 15(b)) 194.7
Adjustment relating to deferred consideration (note 15(c)) (1.8)
Exchange adjustments (4.5)
As at 31 March 2004 342.9
Amortisation
As at 1 April 2003 35.7
Charge for the year 38.4
Exchange adjustments (0.2)
As at 31 March 2004 73.9 
Net book value
As at 31 March 2004 269.0
As at 31 March 2003 118.8
An analysis of intangible fixed assets as at 31 March 2004 is provided in the table below.
As at 31 March 2004
Cumulative Net book
Year of Period of Cost amortisation value
acquisition amortisation £m £m £m
Exco’s acquisition of Intercapital 1998 10 years 49.5 (26.9) 22.6
APB 2002 7 years 14.6 (3.5) 11.1
First Brokers 2002 7 years 54.9 (15.9) 39.0
Acquired Asian businesses 2002 7 years 17.9 (3.6) 14.3
BrokerTec 2003 10 years 189.3 (17.2) 172.1
Other Various 3-10 years 16.7 (6.8) 9.9
342.9 (73.9) 269.0 ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 57
13  Tangible fixed assets
Short Furniture,
leasehold fixtures and Motor
property equipment vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
As at 1 April 2003 4.5 100.6 1.2 106.3 
On acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 1.3 31.9 - 33.2
Additions 1.9 29.3 0.2 31.4
Disposals (1.3) (5.0) (0.3) (6.6)
Exchange adjustments (0.5) (8.5) (0.1) (9.1)
As at 31 March 2004 5.9 148.3 1.0 155.2
Depreciation
As at 1 April 2003 1.7 52.9 0.6 55.2 
On acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 0.8 17.3 - 18.1
Charge for the year 0.7 26.0 0.2 26.9
Disposals (0.9) (4.1) (0.3) (5.3)
Exchange adjustments (0.3) (4.1) - (4.4)
As at 31 March 2004 2.0 88.0 0.5 90.5
Net book value
As at 31 March 2004 3.9 60.3 0.5 64.7
As at 31 March 2003 2.8 47.7 0.6 51.1 
The net book value of furniture, fittings and equipment includes £1.7m (2003 - nil) in respect of assets held under finance leases.
Included within the cost of tangible fixed assets as at 31 March 2004 is £17.9m in respect of assets for which depreciation has not yet commenced.
These assets consist of capitalised costs in respect of the forthcoming relocation to new premises in London and development costs of new technology.
14  Fixed asset investments
Joint Other
ventures Associates investments Total
(a) Group £m £m £m £m
Cost
As at 1 April 2003 6.5 5.9 15.5 27.9 
Additions 0.5 - 0.5 1.0
Disposals (0.1) - - (0.1)
Share of profit for the financial year 3.8 1.7 - 5.5
Dividends received (3.2) (0.4) - (3.6)
Exchange adjustments (0.3) - (0.3) (0.6)
As at 31 March 2004 7.2 7.2 15.7 30.1 
Amortisation and impairment
As at 1 April 2003 0.4 0.3 12.4 13.1 
Amortisation for the year 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.5 
As at 31 March 2004 0.5 0.6 12.5 13.6 
Net book value
As at 31 March 2004 6.7 6.6 3.2 16.5 
As at 31 March 2003 6.1 5.6 3.1 14.8  Notes to the Financial Statements  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 58
14  Fixed asset investments continued
The Group’s principal subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates are listed on pages 74 and 75. Information on significant acquisitions during
the year is set out in note 15.
Other investments
Other investments primarily comprise the Group’s investment in ICAP Malaysia, seats on the New York Stock Exchange, and debentures.
(b) Company
Subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Cost and net book value
As at 1 April 2003 103.2
Additions 147.1
As at 31 March 2004 250.3
The Company’s principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on pages 74 and 75.
During the year, the Company acquired ICAP America Investments Limited, a financing company, from a fellow subsidiary undertaking for £141.4m. 
It also increased its investment in Garban Group Holdings Limited by £5.7m.
15  Acquisitions
(a) BrokerTec
On 7 May 2003 the Group completed the acquisition of BrokerTec’s fixed income securities businesses by the issue of an initial 59,947,545 ordinary
shares of 10p each in ICAP valued at £117.3m. Further shares are to be issued after the first full 12 months following acquisition, the final number of
which will be dependent upon the revenues earned by the acquired business and ETC, ICAP’s existing electronic trading platform, in certain products in
the first full 12 calendar months following completion. At 31 March 2004 it is estimated that the further shares to be issued will be the maximum
number of 33,720,495. These were valued at £96.1m on 31 March 2004 and in accordance with FRS 7 “Fair values in acquisition accounting” have
been included as contingent share capital (note 25).
The total goodwill of £189.3m arising on the acquisition is stated after fair value adjustments of £2.3m and is being amortised over ten years.
In the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account, Group operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of £16.9m relates to BrokerTec for
the period since acquisition on 7 May 2003.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustments values
£m £m £m
Tangible fixed assets 19.5 (4.4) 15.1
Debtors 9.1 2.3 11.4
Current asset investments 6.1 - 6.1
Cash 19.3 - 19.3
Creditors (21.7) (0.2) (21.9)
Net assets acquired 32.3 (2.3) 30.0
Consideration
Ordinary shares of 10p each issued - 59,947,545 (note 23) 117.3
Contingent share capital - 33,720,495 ordinary shares of 10p each (note 25) 96.1
Related costs of acquisition 5.9
Total cost of acquisition 219.3 
Goodwill arising on acquisition 189.3
The fair value adjustments principally arise following a review of the useful economic life of certain technology-based assets and the recognition of a
deferred tax asset. ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 59
The last audited accounts for BrokerTec prior to acquisition were for the year ended 31 December 2002. In order to provide a meaningful comparison
with the business acquired, a number of adjustments are required principally to exclude the futures business that was not acquired by the Group and
to eliminate transaction costs related to the acquisition. On this basis, profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2002 was £13.6m. The
profit is presented before tax since no taxation charge was included in the accounts of BrokerTec and no meaningful allocation can be made.
The results of BrokerTec for the period immediately prior to acquisition from 1 January 2003 to 6 May 2003 are shown below. They have also been
adjusted as above and the profit is presented before tax. There were no other recognised gains and losses for the period other than as shown below.
BrokerTec
£m
Turnover 21.2
Operating expenses (17.7)
Profit before taxation 3.5
(b) Other acquisitions
In June 2003 the Group acquired the business of Intercontinental Energy Brokers Limited for £4.9m. The Group did not acquire any assets of the
business and the resulting goodwill of £4.9m is being amortised over seven years.
In February 2004 the Group acquired the business of Ried, Thunberg & Co. Inc. a bond market strategy and analysis firm for total consideration of £0.3m
all of which is goodwill. During the year the Group also acquired the remaining 12.5% of Garban (Praha) AS that it did not previously own for £0.3m, of
which goodwill represented £0.2m.
(c) Contingent consideration in respect of acquisitions for the year ended 31 March 2003
In the year to 31 March 2003, the Group completed a number of acquisitions, to be satisfied in part by deferred consideration. In accordance with FRS 7
“Fair values in acquisition accounting” the Group has re-estimated the deferred contingent consideration, with corresponding adjustments being made to
goodwill.
The deferred contingent consideration for both First Brokers and ICAP Energy (formerly APB) includes amounts payable in either cash or shares at the
Group’s option. In accordance with FRS 7, such amounts have been included as contingent share capital. On 15 April 2003, the board resolved not to
exercise its option to satisfy the first deferred contingent consideration instalment in respect of the First Brokers’ acquisition in shares and consequently 
it was paid in cash in May 2003.
In June 2003 the Group paid the second instalment of the initial cash payment in respect of the acquisition of ICAP Energy. In November 2003 the
Group paid the second and final cash instalment due for the acquired Asian businesses.
First ICAP Acquired Asian
Brokers Energy businesses Total
£m £m £m £m
Deferred consideration outstanding as at 1 April 2003 35.1 9.0 7.7 51.8
Cash consideration (16.0) (1.0) (7.7) (24.7)
Unwinding of discount  0.5 0.1 0.4 1.0
Adjustments to goodwill during the year (note 12) (0.9) (0.5) (0.4) (1.8)
Exchange movements (3.0) (1.3) - (4.3)
Deferred consideration outstanding as at 31 March 2004 15.7 6.3 - 22.0
Deferred cash consideration
–fixed 3.1 - - 3.1
– contingent 4.5 2.4 - 6.9
Contingent share capital 8.1 3.9 - 12.0
15.7 6.3 - 22.0 Notes to the Financial Statements  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 60
16  Debtors
Group Company
As at As at As at As at
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Due within one year
Trade debtors 96.1 80.8 - - 
Initially unsettled transactions 348.6 520.1 - - 
Net deposits paid for securities borrowed* 2.3 3.4 - - 
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings - - 133.8 50.1 
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 0.3 0.6 - - 
Corporation Tax - - 3.5 3.4 
Deferred taxation (note 20) 16.5 2.7 - - 
Other debtors 18.6 19.2 - - 
Prepayments and accrued income 26.0 19.2 - - 
508.4 646.0 137.3 53.5 
Due after more than one year
Deferred taxation (note 20) 9.4 0.5 - - 
Other debtors 3.2 2.0 - - 
12.6 2.5 - - 
521.0 648.5 137.3 53.5 
*In order to reflect the substance of stock lending transactions, the outstanding balance paid for secured borrowings is stated net of deposits received for
securities loaned of £779.2m (2003 - £620.1m).
Certain companies in the Group are involved as principal in the purchase and simultaneous commitment to sell securities between third parties. As at 
31 March 2004 the gross amount of the purchase and sale commitments in respect of such outstanding transactions was £94.8bn (2003 - £101.4bn).
Substantially all of these transactions have now settled.
17  Current asset investments
Group Company
As at As at As at As at
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Listed investment 2.7 3.1 - - 
Unlisted investments 13.2 8.4 - - 
15.9 11.5 - - 
Market value of listed investment 3.5 3.1 - - 
Listed investment
The listed investment is an investment in a hedge fund, Pronous Offshore Fund Limited, which is listed on the Irish Stock Exchange.
Unlisted investments
Unlisted current asset investments consist principally of unlisted certificates of deposit, treasury bills and corporate bonds. ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 61
18  Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Group Company
As at As at As at As at
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts 0.3 1.0 - - 
Obligations under finance leases 1.3 - - - 
Trade creditors 6.3 6.2 - - 
Initially unsettled transactions 348.6 520.1 - - 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings - - 24.7 0.3 
Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates 0.4 0.1 - - 
Corporation Tax 27.2 18.5 - - 
Other taxation and social security 13.7 13.3 - - 
Other creditors 35.5 36.6 - - 
Proposed dividend 32.5 23.3 32.5 23.3 
Accruals and deferred income 123.9 104.2 - - 
589.7 723.3 57.2 23.6 
19  Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Group Company
As at As at As at As at
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Obligations under finance leases 1.3 - - - 
Corporation Tax 7.8 6.8 - - 
Accruals and deferred income 5.9 7.4 - - 
Other creditors 6.5 12.9 - - 
21.5 27.1 - - 
The Group’s net obligations under finance leases are repayable as follows:
As at As at
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
£m £m
Payable:
Within one year 1.3 - 
Between one and two years 1.1 - 
Between two and five years 0.2 - 
2.6 -  Notes to the Financial Statements  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 62
20  Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation assets: Recognised Unrecognised
As at As at As at As at
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 0.8 (1.7) - 1.4 
Other timing differences 25.1 4.9 0.5 3.4 
25.9 3.2 0.5 4.8 
Movements on the deferred taxation account: £m
As at 1 April 2003 3.2 
Exchange adjustments (1.2)
Acquisitions 2.1 
Transfer from the profit and loss account (note 9) 21.8 
As at 31 March 2004 25.9 
21  Provisions for liabilities and charges
Other
Property items Total
£m £m £m
As at 1 April 2003 4.5 2.9 7.4 
Utilised in year (0.9) (0.5) (1.4)
Transfers from the profit and loss account 3.2 1.8 5.0
Unwinding of discount 0.2 - 0.2
As at 31 March 2004 7.0 4.2 11.2
Property provisions relate to property in London and New Jersey and are not expected to be fully utilised until 2009.  Other items comprise worldwide
obligations which are expected to be discharged over the next two years and principally relate to the rationalisation of certain employee pension
arrangements in the Group and provisions for litigation. ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 63
22  Derivatives and other financial instruments
The Group’s approach to managing financial risk is described in the Corporate Governance statement on pages 23 to 27.
(a) Fair value
The book values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities, which exclude all short term debtors and creditors as permitted by FRS 13 “Derivatives and
other financial instruments” are:
As at 31 March 2004 As at 31 March 2003
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Fixed asset investments 3.2 3.2 3.1 3.1 
Current asset investments 15.9 16.7 11.5 11.5 
Cash at bank and in hand 214.2 214.2 174.1 174.1 
Foreign exchange forward rate contracts -5.2 -0.3 
Interest rate swaps -0.2 --
Cross currency swap to hedge net investment in overseas undertakings -1.1 --
233.3 240.6 188.7 189.0 
Financial liabilities
Bank loans and overdrafts (0.3) (0.3) (1.0) (1.0)
Finance lease obligations (2.6) (2.6) -- 
Other financial liabilities (18.8) (18.8) (18.0) (18.0)
(21.7) (21.7) (19.0) (19.0)
(b) Interest rate profile of financial assets
(i) As at 31 March 2004
At fixed At floating Non-
interest interest interest
rates rates bearing Total
£m £m £m £m
Sterling 10.0 107.0 0.5 117.5
US Dollars 31.3 41.2 2.2 74.7
Euro - 2.7 0.2 2.9
Japanese Yen - 22.8 0.2 23.0
Other currencies 0.1 14.9 0.2 15.2
41.4 188.6 3.3 233.3 Notes to the Financial Statements  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 64
22  Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
(ii) As at 31 March 2003
At fixed At floating Non-
interest interest interest
rates rates bearing Total
£m £m £m £m
Sterling - 47.6 0.7 48.3 
US Dollars 5.7 91.1 2.1 98.9 
Euro - 4.1 0.3 4.4 
Japanese Yen - 19.1 - 19.1 
Other currencies 2.0 16.0 - 18.0 
7.7 177.9 3.1 188.7 
The interest rate profile of financial assets is after taking account of interest rate swaps. As at 31 March 2004 and 31 March 2003, fixed interest rate
assets represented investments in certificates of deposit, treasury bills and corporate bonds.
Fixed rate financial assets had a weighted average interest rate of 3.5% (2003 - 3.8%) for a weighted average period of one year (2003 - one year).
Floating rate cash and investments bear interest based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents with a maturity of less than one year.
(c) Interest rate profile of financial liabilities
(i) As at 31 March 2004
At fixed At floating Non-
interest interest interest
rates rates bearing Total
£m £m £m £m
Sterling - 4.8 1.0 5.8
US Dollars 2.1 5.0 0.8 7.9
Euro -- 1.1 1.1
Japanese Yen 0.5 - 6.4 6.9
2.6 9.8 9.3 21.7
(ii) As at 31 March 2003
At floating Non-
interest interest
rates bearing Total
£m £m £m
Sterling 4.2 1.0 5.2
US Dollars 12.3 0.1 12.4
Euro -1.4 1.4
16.5 2.5 19.0
As at 31 March 2004 fixed rate liabilities represented finance lease obligations, at an applicable interest rate of 8.0%.
Floating rate borrowings bear interest based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents. ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 65
(d) Maturity profile of financial liabilities
As at As at
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
£m £m
Payable:
Within one year or on demand 1.6 1.0
Between one and two years 10.0 9.8
Between two and five years 9.7 7.4
After five years 0.4 0.8
21.7 19.0
(e) Gains and losses on financial instruments used for hedging
It is the Group’s policy to hedge a proportion of its transactional US Dollar and euro exposures with forward foreign exchange contracts. The Group also
uses interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk. The table below shows the unrecognised gains and losses in respect of hedges at the beginning
and end of the year.
Gains Losses Net
£m £m £m
Unrecognised gains and losses at 1 April 2003 0.7 (0.4) 0.3 
Less gains and losses in previous year recognised in year to 31 March 2004 (0.7) 0.4 (0.3)
Brought forward gains and losses not recognised in year to 31 March 2004 - - -
Unrecognised gains arising in year to 31 March 2004 5.4 - 5.4
Unrecognised gains at 31 March 2004 5.4 - 5.4
Of which:
Gains expected to be recognised in one year 5.2 - 5.2
Gains expected to be recognised after one year 0.2 - 0.2
5.4 - 5.4
The unrecognised gain of £5.4m as at 31 March 2004 arises from forward foreign exchange contracts totalling £86.3m.
(f) Currency exposures
The table below is intended to give an indication of the sensitivity of the Group’s results to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. It shows the net
monetary assets and liabilities held by Group companies that were not denominated in their functional currencies (other than certain foreign currency
borrowings treated as hedges of net investments in overseas operations) that were unhedged and therefore may give rise to exchange gains and losses
that would flow through to the Group’s profit and loss account. 
(i) As at 31 March 2004
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities)
US Japanese Other
Sterling Dollars Euro Yen currencies Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Functional currency:
Sterling - 5.0 3.7 (0.3) (1.5) 6.9
Euro - (2.8) - - 0.3 (2.5)
Other currencies 2.7 2.1 (0.3) - - 4.5
2.7 4.3 3.4 (0.3) (1.2) 8.9 Notes to the Financial Statements  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 66
22  Derivatives and other financial instruments continued
(ii) As at 31 March 2003
Net foreign currency monetary assets/(liabilities)
US Japanese Other
Sterling Dollars Euro Yen currencies Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Functional currency:
Sterling - 14.0 2.7 0.3 (4.3) 12.7
Euro (3.4) ---- (3.4)
Other currencies 0.3 3.3 (0.2) - - 3.4
(3.1) 17.3 2.5 0.3 (4.3) 12.7
(g) Borrowing facilities
As at As at
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
The undrawn committed facilities were: £m £m
Expiring:
Between one and two years 50.0 - 
Between two and five years - 50.0 
50.0 50.0 
23  Share capital
(a) Authorised share capital 
The Company’s authorised share capital was: As at 31 March 2004 As at 31 March 2003
Number of Nominal Number of Nominal
shares value shares value
millions £m millions £m
Equity share capital
Ordinary shares of 10p each (2003 - 50p each) 900 90.0 130 65.0
Non-equity share capital
Redeemable preference shares of £1 each
– A Series 5.6% - - 33.0
– A Series 7.7% - - 99.0
– B Series 7.7% - - 88.0
– C Series 7.7% -- 55.0
-- 25 25.0
900 90.0 155 90.0
On 16 July 2003, the Company passed a Special Resolution to convert each authorised £1 redeemable preference share into two ordinary shares of
50p each.
On 4 February 2004, the Company passed an Ordinary Resolution to convert each ordinary share of 50p into five ordinary shares of 10p each. ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 67
(b) Issued share capital
Ordinary shares of 10p each
Number of Nominal
shares value
Allotted, called up and fully paid: millions £m
As at 1 April 2003 514.6 51.4 
Issued during the year 63.7 6.4 
As at 31 March 2004 578.3 57.8
During the year 59,947,545 ordinary shares of 10p each with a market value of £117.3m were issued as the initial payment to acquire BrokerTec from
its former shareholders. A further 3,738,424 ordinary shares of 10p each were issued following the exercise of options held under employee share
schemes for a consideration of £2.7m.  
The number of ordinary shares of 10p each in issue at 31 March 2004 was 578,296,259 (2003 - 514,610,290).
24  Share options
Employee share schemes
Options outstanding over the Company’s ordinary shares under the Company’s employee share schemes were:
UESOP 2000 SAYE 2003 SAYE SEEPP UCSOP BSMP Total
number of number of number of number of number of number of number of
shares shares shares shares shares shares shares
millions millions millions millions millions millions millions
As at 1 April 2003 7.4 4.1 - 4.2 4.8 - 20.5
Granted - - 3.9 0.4 4.3 2.3 10.9 
Lapsed - - (0.2) (0.1) (1.0) - (1.3)
Exercised (3.2) (0.3) - (2.7) (0.3) - (6.5)
As at 31 March 2004 4.2 3.8 3.7 1.8 7.8 2.3 23.6
A summary of the rules of the Company’s employee share option schemes is set out in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 28 to 36.
Options outstanding as at 31 March 2004:
(i) Unapproved Share Option Plan (UESOP)
UESOP options were outstanding over 4,170,560 (2003 - 7,373,895) ordinary shares at exercise prices ranging between 41p and 188.5p per share.
Subject to the Company’s performance during the vesting period, these options are exercisable between December 2001 and January 2013.
(ii) Sharesave Scheme (SAYE)
SAYE options were outstanding over 3,776,645 (2003 - 4,134,575) ordinary shares for the 2000 five year scheme at an exercise price of 35.2p per
share. These options will normally be exercisable between March 2005 and August 2005. In addition, SAYE options were outstanding over 3,712,375
(2003 - nil) ordinary shares for the 2003 three year scheme at an exercise price of 168.2p per share. These options will normally be exercisable
between August 2006 and February 2007.
(iii) Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan (SEEPP)
SEEPP options were outstanding over 1,842,230 (2003 - 4,218,525) ordinary shares at exercise prices of either a nominal sum of 100p or 24.2p
(2003 - 100p or 28.2p) per share. Subject to the participants remaining in the employment of the Company during the vesting period, these options will
normally be exercisable between June 2003 and December 2013. Notes to the Financial Statements  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 68
24  Share options continued
Employee share schemes continued
(iv) Unapproved Company Share Option Plan (UCSOP)
UCSOP options were outstanding over 7,825,000 (2003 - 4,825,000) ordinary shares at exercise prices ranging between 84.2p and 270.0p per share.
Subject to the Company’s performance during the vesting period, these options will normally be exercisable between March 2004 and November 2013.
(v) Bonus Share Matching Plan (BSMP)
BSMP options were outstanding over 2,322,120 (2003 - nil) ordinary shares. These shares will be exercisable between 28 May 2006 and 27 May 2007.
A promise to deliver a further 348,320 ordinary shares has also been made by the Company.
The Company has established employee share ownership trusts in respect of the SAYE, SEEPP and BSMP schemes which are funded by the Group and
have the power to acquire shares in the open market to meet the Company’s future obligations under these schemes. As at 31 March 2004 these trusts
owned 8,144,015 ordinary 10p shares in the Company (2003 - 7,817,590).
Executive share options have not been offered at a discount (save as permitted by paragraph 13.30 and 13.31 of the Listing Rules).
At the close of business on 31 March 2004, the market price of the Company’s ordinary 10p shares was 285p per share and during the year fluctuated
in the range 189p and 331p per share.
25  Capital and reserves
(a) Group
Share Contingent Share Profit
capital share premium Other and loss
(note 23) capital account reserves account Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 1 April 2003 as previously reported 51.4 22.9 28.6 33.0 118.9 254.8
Prior year adjustment (note 1(a)) ---- (2.2) (2.2)
As at 1 April 2003 restated 51.4 22.9 28.6 33.0 116.7 252.6
Exchange adjustments on net investments in
overseas undertakings - - - (5.0) (22.5) (27.5)
Share capital issued during the year 6.4 - 115.1 - (1.5) 120.0
Increase in contingent share capital - 85.2 - - - 85.2
Increase in investment in own shares ---- (1.7) (1.7)
Retained profit for the financial year ---- 39.6 39.6
As at 31 March 2004 57.8 108.1 143.7 28.0 130.6 468.2
The increase in contingent share capital includes contingent consideration in respect of the acquisition of BrokerTec of £96.1m. In May 2003 the
directors of ICAP exercised the Group’s option to pay the first instalment of the contingent consideration due for First Brokers in cash, rather than shares.
Accordingly there has been a reduction in the contingent share capital. Further adjustments have been made to contingent share capital as a result of
the re-estimation of the contingent consideration due for First Brokers and ICAP Energy (note 15).
The charge to the profit and loss account of £1.5m relates to amounts charged directly to reserves when employees exercised their share options under
the UESOP and SAYE schemes.
As at 31 March 2004, the cumulative amount of goodwill written off directly to reserves, net of goodwill relating to acquired businesses which
subsequently have been sold, amounted to £270.6m (2003 - £270.6m).
The net book value of shares held by employee trusts of £3.9m (2003 - £2.2m) has been deducted from the profit and loss reserve. As at 
31 March 2004, these shares had a market value of £23.2m (2003 - £14.9m). ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 69
(b) Company
Share Contingent Share Profit
capital share premium Other and loss
(note 23) capital account reserves account Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 1 April 2003 as previously reported 51.4 22.9 28.6 0.1 32.6 135.6 
Prior year adjustment (note 1(a)) ---- (2.2) (2.2)
As at 1 April 2003 restated 51.4 22.9 28.6 0.1 30.4 133.4 
Share capital issued during the year 6.4 - 115.1 - (0.1) 121.4 
Increase in contingent share capital - 85.2 - - - 85.2 
Increase in investment in own shares ---- (1.7) (1.7)
Retained loss for the financial year ---- (7.0) (7.0)
As at 31 March 2004 57.8 108.1 143.7 0.1 21.6 331.3 
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has elected not to include its own profit and loss account in these Financial
Statements. The Company’s profit for the financial year before dividends was £37.9m (2003 - £48.1m).
Investment in own shares represents shares held in trust in connection with the Group’s employee share schemes (note 24).
26  Commitments
(a) Operating lease commitments
The Group had annual rental commitments under non-cancellable operating leases:
As at 31 March 2004 As at 31 March 2003
Land and Other Land and Other
buildings assets Total buildings assets Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Leases expiring:
– Within one year 1.9 0.2 2.1 0.6 0.3 0.9 
– Between two and five years 2.1 0.3 2.4 4.7 0.2 4.9 
– After five years 8.3 - 8.3 3.2 - 3.2 
12.3 0.5 12.8 8.5 0.5 9.0 
(b) Capital commitments
As at 31 March 2004, capital expenditure contracted for but not provided for amounted to £10.6m (2003 - £2.1m).
27  Defined benefit pension schemes
The Group has followed the transitional arrangements allowed by FRS 17 “Retirement Benefits” which only requires disclosure of the asset or liability that
would have been recognised in the balance sheet if the standard had been fully implemented.
The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the US and Germany. 
In the case of the schemes operating in Germany, any future obligations that the Group may incur in respect of benefits accrued to members in respect
of past service are insured with local insurance companies. The scheme in Germany is not significant in the context of the Group.
The US scheme was closed to new entrants on 1 July 1996 and no benefits have accrued to the members of the scheme in respect of their service after
that date. For the purposes of determining the Group’s pension cost, the scheme is valued on an annual basis by qualified independent actuaries. The
most recent valuation was as at 1 January 2003 with an update as at 31 March 2004 which used the projected unit method. Notes to the Financial Statements  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 70
27  Defined benefit pension schemes continued
The actuarial assessment was based on the following principal assumptions: 
2004 2003 2002
% %%
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries nil nil nil
Rate of increase in pensions in payment nil nil nil
Discount rate 6.0 6.0 7.3 
Inflation assumption 2.8 3.0 3.5 
The assets and liabilities of the scheme and the expected rate of return were:
Long-term Long-term Long-term
rate of return rate of return rate of return
expected Value as at expected Value as at expected Value as at
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2004 2004 2003 2003 2002 2002
%£m %£m % £m
Equities 8.5 0.9 8.5 1.0 9.0 1.5 
Bonds 6.0 3.7 6.3 4.3 7.3 4.4 
Cash and other assets 4.5 0.2 5.5 (0.1) 6.0 0.1 
Total market value of assets 4.8 5.2 6.0 
Present value of scheme liabilities (7.8) (7.7) (6.9)
Deficit in the scheme (3.0) (2.5) (0.9)
Related deferred tax asset 1.0 0.8 0.3 
Net pension liability (2.0) (1.7) (0.6)
The effects of the FRS 17 pension liability on the net assets and reserves of the Group are set out below:
Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March 31 March
2004 2003* 2002
Net assets £m £m £m
Net assets excluding net pension prepayment under SSAP 24 478.9 261.0                          196.4
Pension liability under FRS 17 (2.0) (1.7)                           (0.6)
Net assets including net pension liability under FRS 17 476.9 259.3                          195.8
Reserves £m £m £m
Profit and loss reserve excluding net pension prepayment under SSAP 24 130.6 116.7                            92.0
Pension reserve under FRS 17 (2.0) (1.7)                           (0.6)
Profit and loss reserve including net pension reserve under FRS 17 128.6 115.0                          91.4
* Restated following the adoption of UITF 38 (note 1(a))
If FRS 17 had been fully implemented on the basis of the assumptions noted above, there would have been no charge to operating profit (2003 - nil).
The amounts that would have been charged to finance costs and an analysis of the amounts that would have been included in the statement of total
recognised gains and losses are shown in the tables below. ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 71
Analysis of amounts included as other finance costs
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
£m £m
Expected return on scheme assets 0.3 0.4
Interest on scheme liabilities (0.4) (0.4)
Net return (0.1) -
Analysis of amounts included in the statement of total recognised gains and losses
As % of As % of
Year ended As % of present value Year ended As % of present value
31 March scheme of scheme 31 March scheme of scheme
2004 assets liabilities 2003 assets liabilities
£m % % £m % %
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets - 1(1) (0.8) (16) (10)
Experience gains and losses arising on the scheme’s liabilities 0.1 3 (2) (0.1) (2) (1)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme (1.3) (28) 17 (1.4) (27) (17)
Actuarial loss recognised in the statement of total 
recognised gains and losses (1.2) (24) 15 (2.3) (45) (28)
Analysis of movements in pension scheme deficit during the year
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
£m £m
Deficit in the scheme at the beginning of the year (2.5) (0.9)
Exchange movements on opening deficit 0.3 -
Contributions 0.5 0.7
Other finance costs (0.1) -
Actuarial loss (1.2) (2.3)
Deficit in the scheme at the end of the year (3.0) (2.5)
28  Contingent liabilities
Group
(a) In July 2003, it was announced that two of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings and the Company were among those being sued in connection with
an alleged infringement of patent number 6,560,580 in the United States of America. The Group has rejected the claim and in January 2004 the United
States court for the district of Delaware denied the claimant’s request for a preliminary injunction. The action continues and is expected to be heard in 2005.
On 27 May 2004, a co-defendant announced that as part of the court proceedings the claimant has now stated its damage claims against the
defendants, including the Group, to be an amount of up to $64m as of 31 March 2004.
At this stage it is not possible to predict the outcome with certainty or to determine the extent of liability, if any, of the Group, but based on current
available information and after consultation with the Group’s lawyers the directors continue to expect a successful outcome for the Group. No provision
has been made in the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2004.
(b) From time to time the Group is engaged in litigation on employee related and other matters. It is not possible to quantify the extent of such liabilities
but they are not expected to have a material, adverse effect on the Group’s results or net assets.  
(c) In the normal course of business, certain Group undertakings enter into guarantees to cover trading arrangements. Notes to the Financial Statements  
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 72
29  Related party transactions
(a) IPGL
During the year, the Group recharged IPGL £41,214 (2003 - IPGL recharged the Group £62,243) for the net amount of transactions between the two
parties. This amount includes £77,948 (2003 - £42,179) paid by IPGL in respect of certain employees of the Group who provided services to IPGL and
its subsidiary undertakings. As at 31 March 2004, IPGL owes the Group £41,214 (2003 - £35,844).
(b) Exotix Limited
At 31 March 2004, P J Bartlett, a director of a subsidiary undertaking Exotix Limited, owed a fellow subsidiary undertaking Garban-Intercapital
Management Services Limited £99,735 (2003 - £109,187) including accrued interest, in respect of a loan made to him to purchase shares in Exotix
Limited. This loan accrues interest at one percent above the base rate of Barclays Bank plc and is repayable in full by 4 April 2005.
(c) S.I.F. Garban-Intercapital Mexico S.A. de CV
On 15 April 2002, the Group entered into an agreement to licence its electronic broking software to S.I.F . Garban-Intercapital Mexico S.A. de CV. Under
the agreement £378,371 including withholding taxes was paid to the Group in advance for a 5 year licence. This amount is being amortised over the life
of the agreement.  As at 31 March 2004, the amount remaining to be amortised was £233,329 (2003 - £309,003).
(d) Hartfield, Titus & Donnelly LLC
The Group supplies and maintains electronic broking software on behalf of Hartfield, Titus & Donnelly LLC.  During the year ended 31 March 2004, the Group
charged £353,920 (2003 - £388,450) and the balance due from Hartfield, Titus & Donnelly LLC as at the year end was £27,206 (2003 - £30,366).
(e) TFS-ICAP Limited and TFS-ICAP LLC
The Group invoices and collects revenue on behalf of TFS-ICAP Limited and TFS-ICAP LLC. During the year, the Group invoiced and collected £440,270
(2003 - £453,193) for which it did not receive a fee.
(f) TriOptima UK Limited
The Group provides TriOptima UK Limited, a subsidiary of TriOptima AB, with office space and management services which includes accounting, legal
and personnel services.  During the year, the Group charged TriOptima UK Limited £197,092 (2003 - £217,653) for these services and at the year end
nil (2003 - £23,911) was outstanding.  
(g) QVAN Capital Management LLC
John Nixon is the managing partner of QVAN Capital Management LLC. In the prior year ended 31 March 2003 the Group incurred charges of £247,729
relating to services provided by QVAN Capital Management LLC, none of which were outstanding at 31 March 2003.
30  Exchange rates
The principal exchange rates which affect the Group, expressed in currency per £1, are shown below:
Closing rate Closing rate Average rate Average rate
as at as at year ended year ended 
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2004 2003 2004 2003
US Dollar 1.84 1.58 1.70 1.54
Euro 1.50 1.45 1.44 1.56
Yen 191.20 187.43 191.50 188.17
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange translational risk on consolidation of its overseas operations not denominated in sterling. During the year 
ended 31 March 2004, the US Dollar depreciated by 16% with respect to sterling, while the euro depreciated by 3%. In accordance with the 
Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 20, the resulting exchange difference is included within the £27.5m exchange loss taken directly to 
reserves, as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses. ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 73
31  Cash flow
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
(a) Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities £m £m
Total operating profit 124.5 99.6 
Operating exceptional items 5.3 4.0 
Share of operating profits and losses of joint ventures and associates (7.9) (6.8)
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 26.9 15.8 
Amortisation of goodwill 38.4 16.7 
Amortisation of other investments 0.1 0.1 
Amortisation of the cost of own shares 1.0 0.6 
Loss on sale of fixed assets 0.4 0.1 
Increase in debtors (14.2) (3.5)
Increase in creditors 8.4 15.5 
Cash inflow from operating activities before operating exceptional items 182.9 142.1 
As at As at
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
(b) Analysis of net funds £m £m
Cash
– Cash at bank and in hand 214.2 174.1 
– Bank overdrafts (0.3) (1.0)
213.9 173.1 
Liquid resources
– Current asset investments 15.9 11.5 
Finance leases (2.6) -
Net funds 227.2 184.6 
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2004 2003
(c) Reconciliation of net cash inflow to movement in net funds £m £m
Increase in cash in the year 61.1 24.0 
Cash outflow from financing 1.3 1.4 
Cash outflow from management of liquid resources 0.2 - 
Increase in net funds resulting from cash flows 62.6 25.4 
Exchange adjustments (21.7) (6.5)
Current asset investments acquired with subsidiary 6.1 -
Finance leases acquired with subsidiary (3.8) -
Other non-cash movements (0.6) -
Increase in net funds 42.6 18.9 
Opening net funds 184.6 165.7 
Closing net funds 227.2 184.6 
32  Post balance sheet event
On 7 April 2004 it was decided that ICAP would exercise its option to satisfy £4.8m ($8.8m) of the second deferred consideration payment in respect of
the First Brokers acquisition in cash rather than shares. These shares were included within the balance sheet as contingently issuable shares (note 15). Principal Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associates
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 74
At 31 March 2004, the following companies were the Group’s principal trading subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings:
(a)  Principal subsidiary undertakings
Country of incorporation % held
Australia ICAP Australia Pty Limited 100
ICAP Brokers Pty Limited 100
ICAP FIB Pty Limited 100
ICAP Futures (Australia) Pty Limited 100
Bahrain ICAP (Middle East) W.L.L. (note 2) 49
China Garban Information Systems (AP) Limited 100
ICAP (Hong Kong) Limited 100
Czech Republic Garban (Praha) AS (note 1) 100
Denmark Garban-Intercapital Scandinavia A/S 100
Garban Scandinavia I (FWDS) A/S 100
England BrokerTec Europe Limited 100
Exotix Investments Limited 60
Exotix Limited 60
Garban Information Systems Limited 100
Garban-Intercapital Management Services Limited 100
Guy Butler Limited 51
Harlow (London) Limited 100
ICAP Energy Limited 100
ICAP Europe Limited 100
ICAP Securities Limited 100
ICAP WCLK Limited 100
T&M Securities Limited 100
Germany ICAP Moneymarkets Deutschland GmbH 100
ICAP Securities Deutschland GmbH  100
ICAP Limited & Co. OHG 100
India ICAP India Pvt Limited 51
Indonesia PT ICAP Indonesia 85
Japan ICAP Totan Securities Co. Limited 60
The Netherlands Garban Holdings (Nederland) B.V. (note 1) 100
New Zealand ICAP New Zealand Ltd 80
Poland ICAP (Poland) Sp. Zo.o. 100
Singapore ICAP AP (Singapore) Pte Limited 100
ICAP Energy Pte Limited 100
ICAP Nittan Pte Limited 100
South Africa FCB-Harlow Butler Pty Limited 62.4
United States BrokerTec USA LLC 100
First Brokers Securities Inc 100
Garban Capital Markets LLC 100
Garban Corporates LLC 100
Garban Futures LLC 100
Garban Information Systems (Americas) LLC 100
Garban LLC 100
Harlows LLC 100
ICAP Energy LLC 100
ICAP North America Inc 100
ICAP Services North America LLC 100
Intercapital Securities LLC 100
Wembley Asset Management LLC 100
Wrightson ICAP LLC  100 The percentage held represents the percentage of issued share capital held (all classes) and also represents the voting rights of the Company.
All the above subsidiary undertakings are owned indirectly. All companies operate in their country of incorporation, except Garban LLC and Garban
Futures LLC which operate in the US and the UK and ICAP Securities Limited which operates in the UK and France.
The principal activity of Garban Information Systems Limited, Garban Information Systems (Americas) LLC, Garban Information Systems (AP) Limited
and Wrightson ICAP LLC is the provision of financial information to third parties.
All other subsidiaries are involved in securities broking, derivatives and money broking or electronic broking.
A full list of group subsidiaries will be appended to the next annual return. 
Notes
1 The year end of Garban (Praha) AS is 31 December and the year end of Garban Holdings (Nederland) B.V. is 31 July. All other principal
subsidiaries have a 31 March year end.
2 ICAP (Middle East) W.L.L. is treated as a subsidiary undertaking since the Group exercises control over the company, as the majority shareholder
takes no part in the management of the company.
(b) Joint ventures
Country of incorporation % held Principal activity
England TFS-ICAP Limited 22.5 Derivatives and money broking
Mexico S.I.F . Garban-Intercapital Mexico S.A. de CV 50 Derivatives and money broking
United States Hartfield, Titus & Donnelly LLC 33 Securities broking
United States TFS-ICAP LLC 22.5 Derivatives and money broking
(c) Associated undertakings
Country of incorporation % held Principal activity
Japan Totan Capital Markets Co. Limited 22.5 Derivatives broking
Spain Corretaje e Informacion Monetaria y de Divisas SA 25.2 Money and securities broking
Sweden TriOptima AB 30 Electronic trading
All joint ventures and associated undertakings are held indirectly. They all have a 31 December year end with the exception of Totan Capital Markets
Co. Limited which has a 31 March year end.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 75 Information for Shareholders
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 76
Information on ICAP plc can be found on the Company’s website, www.icap.com.
Financial calendar
2004
25 May Results for year ended 31 March 2004 announced
14 July Annual General Meeting, London
28 July Ex-dividend date for final dividend
30 July Record date for final dividend
27 August Final dividend payment
23 November Results for half year to 30 September 2004 announced
2005
January Ex-dividend date for interim dividend
January Record date for interim dividend
February Interim dividend payment
24 May Results for year ended 31 March 2005 announced
13 July Annual General Meeting, London
July Ex-dividend date for final dividend
July Record date for final dividend
August Final dividend payment
November Results for half year to 30 September 2005 announced
Capital gains tax base cost of ICAP shares at Demerger from United
Shares in the Company acquired on the Demerger on 17 November 1998 will be treated as having a base cost for capital gains tax purposes
ascertained by reference to the mid-market values of the Company and United shares on that date.
The relevant prices on The London Stock Exchange on 17 November 1998 were ICAP – 217p; United – 638p.
To take into account the consolidation of the Company’s shares on a one for ten basis (i.e. one ICAP share for every ten United shares held), the
first part of the calculation is to be made, as follows:
21.7
x 100 = 3.29%
21.7 + 638
Next, the figure of 3.29% should be applied to the base cost of United shares. The resultant amount should then be multiplied by ten to reflect the
consolidation of the Company’s shares. Therefore, the base cost for one Company share received on Demerger (following consolidation) will be
equivalent to 32.9% of the original base cost of one United share. Following the share split effective 9 February 2004, 32.9% will be equivalent to
6.58%.
The new base cost for United shares held will be 96.71% of their original base cost.
Capital gains tax base cost of ICAP shares received by Intercapital shareholders at the time of the Merger
For the purposes of UK capital gains tax, former Intercapital shareholders who acquired shares in the Company by means of the Merger, 
9 September 1999, will be treated as having acquired those shares for the same consideration and at the same time as their Intercapital shares.
When an original Intercapital shareholder has to account for UK capital gains tax upon a subsequent disposal of the Company’s shares acquired by
means of the Merger, then the base cost of each ICAP share will be 8.12 times the consideration attributable to one original Intercapital share.
Following the share split effective 9 February 2004, 8.12 times will be equivalent to 1.62 times the consideration attributable to one original
Intercapital share. ICAP plc Annual Report 2004
Frequent shareholder enquiries
Notifying the Company of a change of address Shareholders should notify the Company’s registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, in writing. If shares are
held in joint names, the notification must be signed by the first named shareholder.
Notifying the Company of a change of name To ensure the details of a shareholding are correct, notification of a change of name should be
made in writing to Lloyds TSB Registrars. A copy of any marriage certificate or change of name deed should be provided as evidence of the name
change.
Dividend payments directly into bank/building society accounts Dividends for shareholders are paid through BACS and can be paid directly into
a UK bank or building society account with the tax voucher sent direct to the shareholder’s registered address. A dividend mandate form is available
from Lloyds TSB Registrars or from its website, www.shareview.co.uk, under the Frequently Asked Questions section.
Transferring ICAP shares Transferring shares to someone else requires the completion of a stock transfer form. These forms are available by calling
the ICAP shareholder helpline, 0870 600 3970.
Lost ICAP share certificate(s) Shareholders who lose their share certificate(s) or have their certificate(s) stolen should inform Lloyds TSB Registrars
immediately by calling the ICAP shareholder helpline, 0870 600 3970. Following the share split only ICAP ordinary 10p share certificates are valid.
ShareGift
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to charity
through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation. The relevant share transfer form can be obtained from Lloyds
TSB Registrars.  Further information about ShareGift is available at www.sharegift.org or by telephone: 020 7337 0501.
Share dealing
A telephone and internet dealing service has been arranged through Lloyds TSB Registrars which provides a simple way of selling ICAP shares.
Commission is 0.5% with a minimum charge of £20 for telephone dealing and £17.50 for internet dealing. For telephone sales call 
0870 850 0852 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet sales log on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. You will need your
shareholder reference number shown on your share certificate.
Registrar
Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. Telephone: 0870 600 3970 or +44 121 415 7047.
Information about Lloyds TSB Registrars is available at www.lloydstsb-registrars.co.uk and up to date information about current holdings on the
Register is also available at www.shareview.co.uk. Shareholders will need their reference number (account number) and postcode to view information
on their own holding.
Disability Helpline
For shareholders with hearing difficulties a special text phone number is available: 0870 600 3950.
77 Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the sixth Annual General Meeting of ICAP plc (the Company) will be held at the offices of Ashurst, Broadwalk House, 
5 Appold Street, London EC2A 2HA at 10.30am on Wednesday, 14 July 2004.
Ordinary business
1 To receive the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2004, together with the reports of the directors and auditors thereon.
2 To declare a final dividend of 5.7 pence per ordinary share, payable to the shareholders on the Register at 30 July 2004.
3 To re-elect Nicholas Cosh as a director of the Company.
4 To re-appoint Duncan Goldie-Morrison as a director of the Company.
5 To re-appoint James McNulty as a director of the Company.
6 To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors of the Company, and to authorise the directors to set their remuneration.
Special business
To consider, and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which numbers 7, 8, 11 and 12 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and
numbers 9 and 10 will be proposed as Special Resolutions:
Ordinary Resolution
7 To approve the Remuneration Committee Report
8 That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 and in
accordance with Article 9.2 of the Company’s articles of association, to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities (within
the meaning of section 80(2) of the said Act) up to an aggregate nominal amount of £19,276,541, this authority to expire on the fifth
anniversary of the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make any offer or agreement which would or might
require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of any offer or agreement
as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired. This authority shall be in substitution for and shall replace any existing authority pursuant to
the said section 80, to the extent not utilised at the date this resolution is passed.
Special Resolutions
9 That in accordance with article 9.3 of the Company’s articles of association, the directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to section
95(1) of the Act to:
(a) subject to the passing of resolution 8 above, to allot equity securities (as defined in section 94(2) of the Companies Act 1985) for cash
pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 8 above as if section 89(1) of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment;
(b) sell relevant shares (as defined in section 94(5) of the said Act) in the Company if, immediately before the sale such shares are held by the
Company as treasury shares (as defined in section 162A(3) of the said Act) (treasury shares) for cash (as defined in section 162D(2) of the
said Act), as if section 89(1) of the said Act did not apply to any such sale;
provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares:
(i) in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities are proportionate (as nearly as practicable) to
the respective number of ordinary shares held by such holders but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may
deem necessary or desirable in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising in, or pursuant to, the laws of any
territory, or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory; and
(ii) otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) above, up to an aggregate nominal amount of £2,891,481;
and this power shall expire on the first anniversary of the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer
or enter into any agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold, after such expiry and the
directors may allot equity securities or sell treasury shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 78 10 That the Company be and is hereby generally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make
market purchases (within the meaning of Section 163(3) of such Act) of any of its own shares on such terms and in such manner as the
directors may from time to time determine subject to the following:
(a) the maximum number of shares in the Company hereby authorised to be acquired is 57,829,625;
(b) the minimum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for each share is an amount equal to the nominal value of each share;
(c) the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for any share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle
market quotations for the shares in the Company taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days
immediately preceding the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased;
(d) the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting; and
(e) the Company may enter into a contract for the purchase of shares before the expiry of this authority which would or might be completed
wholly or partly after its expiry.
Ordinary Resolutions
11 That the Company and its directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make Donations to EU political organisations
and to incur EU political expenditure up to an aggregate amount of £100,000 for the Group, this authority to expire at the conclusion of the
Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2005. For the purposes of this resolution, “Donation”, “EU political organisations” and
“EU political expenditure” have the meanings ascribed in section 347A of the Companies Act 1985 and “Group” shall have the meaning
ascribed thereto by the Company's articles of association.
12 That Garban-Intercapital Management Services Limited and its directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make
Donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure up to an aggregate amount of £100,000 for the Group, this
authority to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2005. For the purposes of this resolution,
“Donation”, “EU political organisations” and “EU political expenditure” have the meanings ascribed in section 347A of the Companies Act 1985
and “Group” shall have the meaning ascribed thereto by the Company’s articles of association.
By order of the board
Helen Broomfield Registered Office
Group Company Secretary 2 Broadgate
24 May 2004 London EC2M 7UR
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 79 ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 80
Notice of Annual General Meeting  continued
Notes
1 Information on directors being re-elected and re-appointed
Nicholas Cosh - will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with article 114 of the articles of association and is seeking 
re-election.  He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees. Mr Cosh has made a
valuable contribution to the board since his appointment as a non-executive director in December 2000. His considerable experience gained
while finance director of MAI plc and then JIB Group and most recently as a non-executive director of Bradford & Bingley plc allow him to
contribute significantly to the board. Following evaluation the board has satisfied itself that Mr Cosh continues to demonstrate his commitment
to the Company and will continue to make an effective and valuable contribution. The board recommends that shareholders vote in favour of
resolution 3.
Duncan Goldie-Morrison - having been appointed by the board in November 2003 as an independent non-executive director will retire at the
Annual General Meeting in accordance with article 118 of the articles of association and is seeking re-appointment. The board believes that 
Mr Goldie-Morrison’s extensive experience in the financial markets of the US will be of considerable benefit to the Group. He is a member of 
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
James McNulty - having been appointed by the board in March 2004 as an independent non-executive director will retire at the Annual General
Meeting in accordance with article 118 of the articles of association and is seeking re-appointment. His 29 years’ experience in the global
financial markets, particularly in the US, will add value to the Group. He is a member of the Remuneration, Nomination and Group Risk
Committees.
The board is delighted to have attracted such high calibre candidates to join the Company and accordingly recommends that shareholders
should vote in favour of resolutions 4 and 5.
Further information concerning the directors to be re-elected and re-appointed may be found on page 18 of the Annual Report.
2 Transfer
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares, you should pass this documentation and the form of proxy to the person through whom the
sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
3 Appointment of proxies
A member entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy or proxies who need not be a member of the Company to attend (and on a poll, 
to vote) instead of him or her. Forms of proxy must be returned so as to be received by the Company’s registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The
Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6LU, not later than 10.30am on Monday, 12 July 2004, (being 48 hours before the time of the
meeting). Appointing a proxy will not preclude a member attending and voting in person at the meeting.
Appointment of proxies electronically
Shareholders who would prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the internet can do so through Lloyds TSB Registrars’
website at www.sharevote.co.uk using their personal Authentication Reference Number (this is a series of 24 numbers printed under the
shareholder’s name on the form). Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Lloyds TSB Registrars’ online portfolio service
Shareview can appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio at www.shareview.co.uk and clicking on ‘Company Meetings’. 
Full details and instructions on these electronic proxy facilities are given on the websites.
Appointment of proxies through CREST
Alternatively, if you are a member of CREST, you may register the appointment of a proxy by using the CREST electronic proxy appointment
service. Further details are contained below.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies for the Annual General Meeting, including any adjournment(s) thereof, through the
CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST personal members or
other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider(s) should refer to their CREST
sponsor or voting service provider(s) who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a ‘CREST Proxy
Instruction’ must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCo’s specifications and must contain the information required for such
instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an
amendment to the instruction given for a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Lloyds
TSB Registrars (ID 7RA01) by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified above. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be
taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host) from which Lloyds TSB
Registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 81
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available
special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of
CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal
member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider(s), to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s)
take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.  
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider(s) are referred, in particular, to those
sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat a CREST Proxy Instruction as invalid in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated Securities
Regulations 2001.
4 Right to attend and vote
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that in order to have the right to attend and
vote at the meeting (and also for the purpose of calculating how many votes a person entitled to attend and vote may cast) a person must be
entered on the register of holders of the shares of the Company by not later than 6pm on 12 July 2004 (being two business days before the
time fixed for the meeting). Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to
attend or vote at the meeting and the number of shares on which they can vote.
5 Documents on display
The Register of directors’ interests in the share capital and debentures of the Company, together with copies of the service agreements under
which directors of the Company are employed, copies of the terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors and the Company’s
articles of association, are available for inspection at all times at the Company’s registered office during normal business hours from the date of
this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting, and will be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at
least 15 minutes prior to, and during the meeting.  ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 82
Contact Information
ICAP plc
2 Broadgate
London EC2M 7UR
United Kingdom
Tel: 44 20 7000 5000
Fax: 44 20 7000 5975
Investor Relations
Tel: 44 20 7050 7108
Fax: 44 20 7050 7115
e-mail: investors@icap.com
Europe
Garban (Praha) AS
5th Floor
Delta House
Safarikova 17
Praha 2 120 00
Czech Republic
Tel: 4202 22 51 8062
Fax: 4202 22 51 3338
Garban-Intercapital Scandinavia A/S
Vestergade 33
1456 Copenhagen K
Denmark
Tel: 45 33 15 53 33
Fax: 45 33 13 25 04
ICAP Securities Limited (Paris office)
12 Avenue de L’Arche
92419 Courbevoie Cedex
France
Tel:  33 1 41 25 25 81
Fax: 33 1 46 91 11 29
ICAP Securities Deutschland GmbH
Stephanstrasse 3
60313 Frankfurt am Main
Germany
Tel:  49 69 13 00 9
Fax: 49 69 29 03 94
ICAP Energy – Amsterdam
Teleport Towers, 7th Floor
Kingsfordweg 151 
1043 GR Amsterdam
The Netherlands
Tel: 31 20 799 8400
Fax: 31 20 491 7356
ICAP Energy AS
Storetveitvegen 96
5072 Bergen
Norway
Tel: 47 55 60 44 00
Fax: 47 55 60 44 18
ICAP (Poland) Sp.Zo.o.
Sienna Center
7th Floor
ul. Sienna 73
00-833 Warsaw
Poland
Tel: 4822 820 3838
Fax: 4822 820 3839
CIMD
Plaza Pablo Ruiz Picasso, s/n
Torre Picasso, planta 23
28020 Madrid
Spain
Tel: 34 91 432 6400
Fax: 34 91 432 6451
Africa
FCB-Harlow Butler Pty Ltd
105 Central Street
Houghton 2104
Johannesburg 
South Africa
Tel: 27 11 834 6941
Fax: 27 11 836 7052
Middle East
ICAP (Middle East)  WLL
Yateem Center
3rd Floor Phase 1
PO Box 5488
Manama
State of Bahrain
Tel: 973 225 100
Fax: 973 225 304
Americas
BrokerTec USA LLC
Harborside Financial Center
1100 Plaza Five, 12th Floor
Jersey City, New Jersey 07311-4996
USA
Tel: 1 212 815 9080
Fax: 1 212 341 9262
First Brokers Securities Inc
Harborside Financial Center
Plaza Five, Suite 1500
Jersey City, New Jersey 07311-4011
USA
Tel: 1 212 513 4444
Fax: 1 212 513 4414
Garban Capital Markets LLC
Harborside Financial Center
1100 Plaza Five, 12th Floor
Jersey City, New Jersey 07311-4996
USA
Tel: 1 212 341 9900
Fax: 1 212 341 9599
Garban Corporates LLC
Harborside Financial Center
1100 Plaza Five, 12th Floor
Jersey City, New Jersey 07311-4996
USA
Tel: 1 212 341 9900
Fax: 1 212 341 9102
Garban LLC
Harborside Financial Center
1100 Plaza Five, 12th Floor
Jersey City, New Jersey 07311-4996
USA
Tel: 1 212 341 9900
Fax: 1 212 341 9599
Harlows LLC
Harborside Financial Center
1100 Plaza Five, 12th Floor
Jersey City, New Jersey 07311-4996
USA
Tel: 1 212 341 9900
Fax: 1 212 341 9116
ICAP Electronic Broking
Harborside Financial Center
1100 Plaza Five, 11th Floor
Jersey City, New Jersey 07311-4996
USA
Tel: 1 212 341 9900
Fax: 1 212 815 7997
ICAP Energy  LLC
Corporate Headquarters
9931 Corporate Campus Drive
Louisville
Kentucky 40223
USA
Tel: 1 502 327 1400
Fax: 1 502 327 1409
ICAP Energy LLC
Houston Office
1990 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 740
Houston, Texas 77056
USA
Tel: 1 713 355 4600
Fax: 1 713 355 1983
ICAP Energy LLC
Chapel Hill Office
6320 Quadrangle Drive, Suite 380
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27517
USA
Tel: 1 919 969 9779
Fax: 1 919 969 9802 ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 83
SIF-Garban-Intercapital Mexico, SA de CV
Paseo de la Reforma No. 255, Piso 7
Col Cuauhtemoc
Del. Cuauhtemoc
06500 D.F ., Mexico
Mexico
Tel: 52 55 57 26 6600
Fax: 52 55 57 26 6824
Asia Pacific
ICAP Australia Pty Limited
Level 26
9 Castlereagh Street
Sydney
NSW 2000
Australia
Tel: 612 9777 0800
Fax: 612 9777 0801
ICAP (Hong Kong) Limited
29th Floor
Edinburgh Tower
The Landmark
15 Queen’s Road
Central Hong Kong
China
Tel: 852 2532 0888
Fax: 852 2537 1001
ICAP India PVT Limited
202 Dalamal Towers
Nariman Point
Mumbai – 400 021
India
Tel: 91 22 2285 6065
Fax: 91 22 2281 4746
PT ICAP Indonesia
Plaza 89 12th Floor Suite 1204
JI. H.R. Rasuna Said, Kav. X-7/6
Jakarta 12940
Indonesia
Tel: 6221 522 0430
Fax: 6221 522 0362
ICAP Totan Securities Co. Limited
Sumitomo Shin-Toranomon Building, 8F
4-3-9 Toranomon 
Minato-ku
Tokyo 105-0001
Japan
Tel: 813 3578 5620
Fax: 813 3578 5653
Totan Capital Markets Co. Limited
6/F Sakura Muromachi Bldg
5-1 Nihonbashi Muromachi 4-Chome
Chuo-ku
Tokyo 103-0022
Japan
Tel: 813 5200 0451
Fax: 813 5200 2436
Amanah Butler Malaysia Sdn Bhd
16th Floor
Bangunan Amanah Capital
82 Jalan Raja Chulan
50200 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Tel: 60 3 2161 7940
Fax: 60 3 2162 3362
ICAP New Zealand Limited
Level 6
107 Customhouse Quay
Wellington
New Zealand
Tel: 64 44 990 009
Fax: 64 44 990 074
ICAP Philippines Inc
28th Floor Yuchengco Tower
RCBC Plaza 6819 Ayala Avenue
1200 Makati City 
Philippines
Tel: 632 888 2333
Fax: 632 888 2555
ICAP AP (Singapore) Pte Limited
6 Battery Road
#41-01 Standard Chartered Building
Singapore 049909
Tel: 65 6395 5088
Fax: 65 6329 9130
ICAP Energy Pte Limited
6 Battery Road #40-02B
Singapore 049909
Tel: 65 6820 3000
Fax: 65 6820 9040
ICAP Nittan Pte Limited
6 Battery Road
#41-01 Standard Chartered Building
Singapore 049909
Tel: 65 6395 5088
Fax: 65 6329 9130
ICAP–AP (Thailand) Co. Limited
ICAP Securities Co. Ltd.
55 Wave Place Building
13th Floor, Wireless Road, Lumpini
Pathumwan, Bangkok 10330
Thailand
Tel: 662 256 0888
Fax: 662 256 0999 ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 84
Definitions
In this Annual Report the following words shall have the meanings set out below:
“Acquired Asian businesses” The acquisition from Nittan Capital of its voicebroking interests in Asia (Nittan Capital (Hong Kong Ltd, 
Nittan AP (Singapore) Pte Ltd, Noranda Investments Pte Ltd, NextGen Holding Co Ltd and certain 
subsidiaries including ICAP AP (Thailand) Co. Ltd)
“APB” see below ICAP Energy
“BEIP grant” Business Employment Incentive Program, a grant run by the New Jersey Economic Development 
Authority
“Broadgate” 2 Broadgate, London EC2M 7UR, the new registered office of ICAP plc with effect from 21 May 2004
“BrokerTec” BrokerTec Global LLC excluding the businesses of BrokerTec Futures Exchange LLC and BrokerTec 
Clearing Company LLC
“BSMP” The Bonus Share Matching Plan
“Combined Code” the Principles of Good Corporate Governance and Code of Best Practice published by the Committee 
on Corporate Governance in June 1998 
“2003 Combined Code” the Principles of Good Corporate Governance and Code of Best Practice published by the Financial
Reporting Council in July 2003
“Companies Act” Companies Act 1985 as amended
“Company” ICAP plc (formerly named Garban-Intercapital plc and Garban plc)
“Demerger” the demerger of Garban from United on 17 November 1998
“$” or Dollars unless otherwise specified all references to Dollars or $ sign are to the currency of the US
“ETC” means the Electronic Trading Community, the Company’s interactive trading platform
“EPS” Earnings per share
“EU” European Union
“EONIAS” European Overnight Index Average Swaps
“Exco” Exco plc, which changed its name to Intercapital plc on 26 October 1998
“Exco/Intercapital merger” the acquisition of the Intercapital companies by Exco on 26 October 1998
“First Brokers” First Brokers Securities, Inc.
“FRS” Financial Reporting Standard
“FSA” the Financial Services Authority
“FTSE 100” The 100 most highly capitalised blue chip companies, representing approximately 80% of the UK 
market
“FTSE 250” comprised of mid-capitalised companies, not covered by the FTSE 100, representing approximately 
18% of the UK market
“FTSE 350” The FTSE 350 is calculated by FTSE International Limited and is an index which combines both FTSE 
100 and FTSE 250 companies that constitute the largest 350 UK companies by full market 
capitalisation
“Group” the Company and its subsidiary undertakings
“ICAP Energy” ICAP Energy LLC and ICAP Energy A/S (formerly APB Financial LLC and APB Energy Europe A/S)
“ICAP shares” ICAP plc ordinary shares of 10p each
“INHBV” INCAP Netherlands (Holdings) B.V.
“Intercapital” Intercapital plc
“Intercapital companies” those companies acquired from IPGL at the time of their merger with Exco in October 1998
“IPGL” Intercapital Private Group Limited
“Merger” the merger of Garban and Intercapital on 9 September 1999
“MoneyLine Telerate” MoneyLine Telerate Inc
“OTC” Over the counter
“share split” At an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 4 February 2004 shareholders approved a five for one 
share subdivision which divided the Group’s ordinary shares of 50p each into five ordinary shares of 
10p each. The subdivision was effective from 9 February 2004. The Financial Statements (including 
comparatives) reflect the change following the share subdivision.
“TIPS” Treasury Inflation Protected Securities 
“TFS” Tradition Financial Services 
“United” United Business Media plc (formerly United News & Media plc)
“UITF” Urgent Issues Task Force
“Zions” Zions Bancorporation of Salt Lake City, Utah, USA
References to the Group’s businesses in Europe should be construed so as to include the Group’s businesses in South Africa. Designed by Best & Co. London. Printed by Park Communications Limited.
This Annual Report is printed on Zanders Mega Matt. This paper is sourced from sustainable forests, is totally chlorine free (TCF), has recycled fibre (50%), 
is suitable for archival storage and qualifies for the Nordic Swan environmental label. ICAP plc
2 Broadgate
London
EC2M 7UR
United Kingdom
Telephone 44 20 7000 5000
Facsimilie 44 20 7000 5975
e-mail investors@icap.com
www.icap.com
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004
