 TRANSFORMING 
OUR BUSINESS
Annual Report  
for the year ended  
31 March 2016
ICAP plc Annual Report 201 6 ICAP is a markets, technology and risk solutions business. We are here  
to help improve markets for the long term. Our strategic purpose is to 
shape, enable and operate dynamic, efficient and safer financial markets 
for the benefit of our customers and their customers. To achieve that 
goal we have built capabilities and services across the trade life cycle, 
delivered by specialist people and platforms. We create value for 
customers through the quality of our services and the way we engage: 
partnering with the market to develop innovative, critical solutions 
that become industry standards. We continue to deliver this promise  
and strengthen our reputation as trusted partners.
ICAP plc is incorporated as a public limited company 
and is registered in England and Wales with the 
registered number 3611426. ICAP plc’s registered 
office is 2 Broadgate, London EC2M 7UR. The 
directors present the Annual Report for the year 
ended 31 March 2016. References to ‘ICAP’, the 
‘Group’, the ‘Company’, ‘we’, or ‘our’ are to ICAP plc 
or to ICAP plc and its subsidiary companies where 
appropriate. Pages 1 to 70, inclusive, of this Annual 
Report comprise the strategic report, governance and 
directors’ report and the remuneration report that 
has been drawn up and presented in accordance with 
English company law and the liabilities of the 
directors in connection with that report shall be 
subject to the limitations and restrictions provided  
by such law.
Inside this report
Strategic report
1  Highlights
2 ICAP at a glance 
4  Group Chief Executive  
Officer’s review 
7 ICAP’s business model 
9 Strategic priorities
10 Key performance indicators 
1 2  R es o u r c es , r e l a t i on s hi p s  
and responsibilities
15 Charity Day 
16 Risk management 
22 Results for 2015/16 
31 Financial review
Governance and directors’ report
36 Chairman’s statement 
38 Directors’ biographies 
40 Corporate governance statement 
54  Global Executive Management Group 
56 Other statutory information 
59 Remuneration report 
71 Independent auditors’ report 
Financial statements
77 Index to financial statements
78 Consolidated income statement 
80  Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 
81  Consolidated and Company  
balance sheet 
8 2  Co n so l i da t e d s t a t e m e n t  
of changes in equity 
8 3  C ompan y s t a t e m e n t  
of changes in equity 
84  Consolidated and Company  
statement of cash flow 
85 Basis of preparation 
88  Index to the notes to the  
financial statements 
89 Notes to the financial statements 
Definitions
138 Definitions
INTRODUCTION
WHO WE ARE
 – Group CEO’s review, page 4 – Results for 2015/16, page 22
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 2016
 £m
2015
£m
Revenue 1,201 1,276
Trading operating profit 221 252
Trading profit before tax 203 229
Profit before tax 89 95
pence pence
Trading EPS (basic) 24.6 28.7
EPS (basic) 10.5 13.0
Dividend per share 22.0 22.0
Trading operating profit margin 18% 20%
Operational highlights
–  Transaction with Tullett Prebon on track
–   Group revenue down 6% as markets remain challenging; down 3% excluding closed desks  
and on a constant currency basis
–  £96 million invested in new product initiatives
–   Trading profit before tax is £203 million (2014/15: £229 million), impacted by £7 million foreign  
exchange loss
–  Trading EPS (basic) 24.6p (2014/15: 28.7p)
–  Final dividend payment of 15.4p per share, maintaining full-year dividend at 22.0p per share
– Free cash flow conversion rate of 96% in the year (2014/15: 121%)
–  Acquisition of ENSO Financial Analytics, provider of a data analytics platform for the buy side
 – Full KPIs, pages 10 and 11 
In November 2015, we entered into a Transaction which will, when completed, involve the disposal 
of our global hybrid voice broking and information business, including our associated technology  
and broking platforms (including i-Swap and Fusion), certain of our joint ventures and our associates 
(IGBB), to Tullett Prebon. ICAP shareholders and ICAP Newco plc (Newco) will together own 
approximately 56% of the issued shared capital of the enlarged Tullett Prebon with 19.9% retained 
by Newco, which will be renamed NEX Group plc.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group’s performance is therefore reported in the Group consolidated 
income statement separately for continuing and discontinued operations (net of tax). Discontinued performance 
for the year includes IGBB’s performance, adjusted for certain provisions in the sale and purchase agreement. 
The continuing income statement is not reflective of the financials of Newco going forward. The Group expects to 
receive dividend income for its investment in the enlarged Tullett Prebon, which is expected to be named TP ICAP .
Year ended 31 March 2016 Year ended 31 March 2015
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Group
£m
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Group
£m
Revenue 460 741 1,201 468 808 1,276
Trading operating profit 139 82 221 154 98 252
Trading profit before tax 110 93 203 122 107 229
Profit before tax 27 62 89 47 48 95
The Group’s financial position is also presented separately for continuing operations and for IGBB in the 
consolidated balance sheet. The continuing balance sheet is not reflective of the balance sheet of Newco  
going forward. On completion, the Group will receive £330 million of cash from TP ICAP and will recognise  
an investment in TP ICAP. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
1
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT
ICAP A T A GLANCE
Markets that are more liquid and have a high degree  
of consistent buying and selling interest are most 
efficiently traded on electronic platforms. These allow 
users to execute large volumes of deals quickly, easily 
and with greater certainty. We operate a number of 
electronic platforms in a range of asset classes and 
instruments. The largest of these are EBS Market and 
EBS Direct for spot FX currencies, forwards and swaps, 
NDFs and precious metals, and the BrokerTec platform 
for US and European government debt and US and EU 
repo. In addition, we also operate a number of other 
platforms including EBS Treasury, a leading money 
markets platform for corporates, and i-Swap, our 
global electronic trading platform for IRS.
Products
BrokerTec Market
BrokerTec Direct
EBS Market
EBS Direct
EBS Treasury
EBS Hedge
EBS Select
EBS Institutional
Customer segments
Global banks
Regional banks
Hedge funds
Professional trading firms
Central banks
Treasurers
Asset managers
 
NDF growth: 
 54% 
 
CNH growth: 
 5 5%
 – Results for 2015/16, page 23 to 24
2014/15 2015/16 2012/13 2013/14
Percentage of revenue from 
new product initiatives
16%
22%
8%
10%
 Electronic Markets 262
Post Trade Risk and Information 245  
Global Broking 694  
Group  1,201 
262
694
245
Group revenue by division
 £m
 Electronic Markets 78
 £m
Post Trade Risk and Information 97  
Global Broking 46  
Group  221 
78
46
97
Group trading operating proﬁt by division
ICAP plays a pivotal role in bringing buyers and sellers together  
in the global wholesale financial markets. We help our customers 
manage and mitigate their risks and provide them with a choice 
of trading venues and execution methods ranging from fully 
electronic to broker assisted trades. This allows them to select 
the most appropriate execution method depending on the 
liquidity of the product and their specific needs. They also have 
access to an unrivalled source of financial markets data. Our risk 
mitigation services help customers reduce both their operational 
risk and market exposure. 
We continue to innovate and develop new products and services 
as the markets and our customers’ needs evolve.
Electronic Markets
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
2 Locations
60+
Countries
32
Employees
Our Post Trade Risk and Information services help 
wholesale financial participants to reduce operational 
and system-wide risks. This increases the efficiency  
of trading, clearing and settlement and lowers costs. 
Our information business empowers customers to 
make trading decisions with market information  
across key asset classes. The Post Trade Risk and 
Information division comprises:
• the portfolio risk services businesses, Reset and 
TriOptima, which identify, neutralise, remove  
and reconcile risk within trading portfolios;
• the portfolio analytics business ENSO;
• Euclid Opportunities, the early stage technology 
investment business;
• the transaction processing, reporting and risk 
monitoring business, Traiana; and
• the information and data sales business, IIS.
Services
Trade confirmation
Trade aggregation
Portfolio compression and valuation
 Portfolio reconciliation and margining
Risk mitigation
Order and trade data
Portfolio analytics
Regulatory reporting
 Pre credit checking for  
the SEF community
Businesses
TriOptima
Traiana
Reset
IIS
Euclid Opportunities
ENSO
Number of institutions 
using triResolve 
 22 %
T otal triReduce 
compression since launch
 $ 76 8 t r n
Market participants can use ICAP’s voice and hybrid 
broking services to assess trading availability and 
successfully execute trades. Our brokers draw on 
market expertise and our suite of pre trade price 
discovery screens to identify potential trading interest, 
and in so doing create transparency, liquidity and 
facilitate the price discovery process. This is particularly 
important in markets where there is a wide range of 
potential transaction types and the number of parties 
willing to enter into certain transactions at any moment 
may be limited. We offer broking services for a wide 
range of asset classes including rates, FX, commodities, 
emerging markets, credit and equities.
Asset classes
Rates
Commodities
Emerging markets
Equities
FX and money markets
Credit
Products
Fusion
SEF/i-Swap
Scrapbook
TrueQuote
Growth in  
matching revenue
 14 %
Broker  
compensation
 5 1%
 – Results for 2015/16, page 25 to 28 – Results for 2015/16, page 29 to 30
triReduce notional compression ($trillion)
2014/15
150
2015/16
168
2012/13
70
2013/14
112
Post T rade Risk  
and Information
Global Broking
Broker compensation ratio (% of revenue)
2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13
20
40
80
100
60
57% 57%
53%
51%
4,271
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
3
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report Michael Spencer , Group Chief Executive Officer ,  
discusses the past 12 months.
Michael Spencer
Group Chief Executive Officer
The proposed sale of our global 
voice broking business is a 
significant moment in the history 
of ICAP . Looking forward, as a 
financial technology company, our 
ambition is to be the global leader 
in electronic OTC transactions  
and post trade services across  
all segments of the market.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S REVIEW
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
4 Q
 
How is the  
Transaction structured?
A
 
In November 2015, ICAP announced that we had entered  
into a Transaction which will, when completed, involve  
the disposal of our global hybrid voice broking and information 
business, including our associated technology and broking 
platforms (including i-Swap and Fusion), certain of our joint 
ventures and our associates (IGBB), to Tullett Prebon.
I will be the CEO of Newco and will be supported in this role by 
the strong management teams in place in both divisions as well  
as the current directors of ICAP plc. The CEO of Tullett Prebon, 
John Phizackerley, will be CEO of the enlarged Tullett Prebon. 
Newco will have a seat on its board, representing 10% of the 
vote. Our Global Chief Operating Officer, Ken Pigaga, will become 
their Chief Operating Officer and will be appointed to its board.  
All of these matters are subject to competition authority and 
regulatory approvals. 
Q
What are the benefits of the  
Transaction for ICAP shareholders?
A
The ambition for Newco is to be the world’s leading 
electronic platform for OTC transactions and post trade 
services to all parties: corporates, investment banks, universal 
banks, asset managers, hedge funds, high-frequency traders, 
sovereign wealth funds and central banks. ICAP’s revenue from 
electronic trading and post trade services is already well diversified, 
with an increasing proportion coming from recurring business: 
62% of post trade revenue came from subscriptions this year.
We will continue this strategy as we expand the potential market  
for these services through product development and greater 
penetration of geographic markets and customer segments.
On completion, it is expected that Newco will cease to be subject 
to consolidated regulatory capital requirements. The ICAP Group 
currently operates under a waiver from those requirements but, 
absent the Transaction, it is expected that the FCA would require 
significant capital to be retained or raised over a period of years 
to eliminate the consolidated capital deficit that otherwise exists. 
Based on an assessment of the information (including on legal 
advice) provided to the FCA by ICAP in relation to the projected 
balance of financial and non-financial business in Newco, the  
FCA has indicated that, following the Transaction, Newco will  
not be subject to prudential consolidation requirements. 
During our negotiations both ICAP and Tullett Prebon found  
that we have much in common culturally, which will help with  
the integration of the two businesses. TP ICAP will have the scale 
required to deliver good margins while continuing to invest in its 
people and technology. It will benefit from products developed  
by ICAP including i-Swap, Fusion and Scrapbook. TP ICAP 
announced that it expected the savings from combining the  
two businesses to exceed £60 million annually. 
Q
 
 Which trends have had most impact on  
ICAP’s market landscape in the past year?
A
The global regulatory effort to improve the transparency, 
risk management and resilience of participants in the  
world’s financial markets continues to impact the structure of  
our marketplace. The strategies and business models of ICAP’s 
traditional bank customer base have changed in response to the 
requirements of Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act in the US, EMIR in 
Europe and will continue to evolve with MiFID II and other new 
regulations as they come into force. Banks and other market 
participants are turning to technology to help them manage 
these challenges and the additional costs associated with them. 
Electronic trading is increasingly prevalent in both interbank  
and bank to customer markets and our customers are looking  
to use technology throughout the trade life cycle. Against this 
background of structural changes within wholesale financial 
markets and increased regulatory oversight and disclosure,  
our customers are seeking innovative products, greater  
liquidity and the best-in-class platforms and services. This 
presents an enormous opportunity for our business. At the  
same time, the issues created by over-capacity in the voice 
broking market have been apparent for a while and were  
a key driver behind the Transaction with Tullett Prebon.
Q
 
Why is ICAP selling its  
global voice broking business?
A
 
ICAP has a market-leading voice broking business. The roots  
of the Company are in voice broking which has been a driver  
of our success for more than 30 years. The volume of voice broking 
business across the market has, however, been shrinking for a 
number of years and the costs involved have escalated: it has 
been obvious for some time that the voice broking industry 
needs consolidation. That process began with the merger of  
BGC and GFI last year. The sale of our voice broking business  
to Tullett Prebon is a logical and a natural next step. The voice 
businesses have complementary strengths and the Transaction 
will create the largest global hybrid voice broking business by 
revenue. We believe this is the right move for our customers  
and for the future of the voice broking industry as a whole.
The Transaction will create a focused financial technology 
business. Electronic trading and post trade services provided  
the vast majority of the Group’s operating profit this year, which 
is indicative of how the business and the wider marketplace  
have evolved. Our future is as a financial technology company, 
focused on electronic markets and post trade services. Our 
leading portfolio of products and businesses sits at the heart of 
financial market infrastructure and will be ideally placed to meet 
customers’ changing requirements. We will be better positioned 
to go into new market segments with innovation and product 
development and will benefit from the increased demand made 
by regulators for post trade risk mitigation and electronic trading. 
For some time ICAP has been progressively diversifying from 
voice broking.
Since 2002, when we first invested in TriOptima, we have made 
strategic investments to develop the next generation of financial 
technology for the trading community. BrokerTec was one of the 
earliest of these investments back in 2003 and is now the world’s 
leading electronic trading platform for fixed income markets. EBS 
is a leading electronic FX trading business with significant market 
share in many currencies. We established Euclid Opportunities 
specifically to nurture the growth of early-stage financial 
technology companies and the Euclid programme is going to  
be an increasingly important part of our future. My vision is  
to create the world’s leading multi-product global electronic 
transaction network for OTC products and post trade services. 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
5
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report Strong track record of innovation
Acquisitions Product launches
Growth 
drivers
*
30% stake in
TriOptima
Acquisition 
of BrokerTec 
TriOptima
launches bilateral 
compression
TriOptima
launches CCP 
compression
Launch of  
triResolve
Acquisition 
of Traiana 
Acquisition of 
MyTreasury
Acquisition  
of EBS Reset  
– 25% stake
Remainder  
of Reset in  
3 tranches 
Remaining stake 
in TriOptima 
and stake in 
AcadiaSoft
Investment  
in Duco
Investments  
in ENSO
Further investment 
in AcadiaSoft, Duco 
and investment in 
Abide Financial
Investment in 
OpenGamma
Banks invest 
in Traiana with 
implied valuation 
of £185m
Launch of  
Traiana  
CreditLink
Launch of of 
EBS Direct
Launch of 
BrokerTec 
Direct
Acquisition 
of ENSO and 
investments 
in Cloud9 
Technologies  
and Digital  
Asset Holdings
EBS Direct for 
FX forwards/
corporates
TriOptima 
expands 
compression  
to CME and  
FX forwards
Launch  
of EBS 
eFix
Launch of  
EBS Select
2015
2008
2014
2007
2013
2006
2012
2005
2011
2004
2010
2003
2009
2002
2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER’S REVIEW 
continued
Q
How has ICAP  
performed this year?
A
For the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group reported 
revenue of £1,201 million, 6% below the prior year. On  
a constant currency basis, revenue from Post Trade Risk and 
Information was up 5% which was offset by decreases of  
4% in Electronic Markets and 5% in Global Broking (excluding  
closed desks).
During the course of the year, the Group’s trading performance 
was impacted by the ongoing combination of structural and 
cyclical factors including historically low and negative interest 
rates, low levels of volatility and bank deleveraging resulting  
in reduced risk appetite from bank customers. This was partly  
offset by the increase in trading activity in emerging market 
currency pairs on EBS Market, and greater demand for risk 
mitigation products such as triReduce and triResolve.
Consistent with the Group’s growth strategy, ICAP continues  
to make significant investment in all divisions. During the year  
the Group invested £96 million in new business lines including 
forwards on EBS Direct, BrokerTec Direct and triResolve Margin. 
The Group reported a trading operating profit of £221 million, 
1 2% down on the prior year. The Group’s trading operating  
profit margin reduced to 18% (2014/15: 20%). The decrease  
in the trading operating profit includes the negative impact  
of the year-on-year adverse movement from FX losses of 
£11 million. Excluding the FX loss, the trading operating profit 
reduced by 8% on the prior year. Additionally, the synergies 
achieved in the year from the 2014/15 cost savings programme 
were reinvested during the year in the development of new 
products and technological solutions across the businesses. 
The proportion of the Group’s trading operating profit generated 
from the Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information 
divisions increased to 79%, reflecting a 4 percentage point 
increase on the prior year. 
Group trading profit before tax of £203 million and trading  
EPS (basic) of 24.6p were 11% and 14% down on the prior  
year respectively. Profit before tax was £89 million (2014/15:  
£95 million).
BrokerTec/EBS growth  
in algorithmic trading/ 
non-bank customers
Growth of FX 
prime brokerage 
underpins growth 
of Traiana
Basel III/SLR drives 
increased demand 
for compression
EMIR requirements for 
portfolio reconciliation 
underpin triResolve
Market share gains/ 
migration from voice  
drives growth of EM 
currencies on EBS
* Ranges are an approximation for the estimated start of each respective trend.
“ T r a di n g c o n di t io n s 
continue to be 
challenging as a result 
of the macroeconomic 
environment but ICAP 
has continued to invest in 
products and services.”
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
6 Creating long-term value
ICAP provides trade execution platforms and technology- 
based workflow/risk mitigation solutions to the global  
financial markets. Our services connect market participants  
and facilitate the flow of money and assets safely through  
the systems needed to make economies work efficiently.  
We are focused on providing our customers with innovative 
products that enhance their efficiency, reduce their risk and 
improve their cost effectiveness.
Our customers trust us to provide consistent and efficient 
access to the right product at the right price. The barriers to 
entry in this arena appear low, but our hard-won and rigorously 
maintained reputation gives us a competitive advantage.
Shareholder returns
• REPUTATION
• CUSTOMERS
• SUPPLIERS
• JOINT VENTURES
• TECHNOLOGY
• SENIOR 
MANAGEMENT
• TRAINING AND 
DEVELOPMENT
Cash generated revenue from 
commissions and subscriptions.
We use this cash flow to reinvest  
in the development of new products 
and technologies, differentiated 
through leveraging our existing 
infrastructure and  
our extensive experience.
These products and services  
generate the sustainable  
returns that allow us to invest  
in people and technology.
ICAP’S BUSINESS  
MODEL
ICAP has developed an efficient 
business model, concentrating 
on scalability in certain asset 
classes and geographies, 
based on organic growth. 
Our reputation is founded on our people, their knowledge,  
their expertise and the culture in which they operate –  
all of which are driven from the very top. Our people are  
a vital asset in our business. The balance of skills needed is 
changing, with an increased emphasis on those with technical 
expertise, and we are ahead of this curve. Another of our  
major assets is the symbiotic relationship between our 
extensive understanding of the financial markets and  
their functioning and the deep technical expertise we  
have developed. Our ability to transfer this knowledge 
throughout the Group gives us a distinctive advantage.
We understand that trusted relationships are built through  
the best customer service combined with leading products.  
At the heart of what we do are our relationships with our 
customers and with the governmental organisations regulating 
the markets. These are mutually beneficial, with customers  
and officials looking to us for insight and advice and helping  
us to understand better the problems and issues in the  
market so we can tailor appropriate responses. We have also 
developed important relationships with the suppliers of our 
hardware and connectivity and close associations with those 
organisations with which we share our data, and with our  
joint venture partners. Our joint ventures provide us with  
access to specific regional expertise and also help us to  
meet local regulatory requirements.
ICAP has developed an efficient model, concentrating on 
scalability in certain asset classes and geographies. Our value 
creation process starts by being highly cash generative due  
to the rapid turnaround of fees in our high-volume trading 
activities. We use this cash flow to reinvest in the development  
of new products and technologies, differentiated through 
leveraging our existing infrastructure and our extensive 
experience. These products and services have higher margins, 
which generate the sustainable returns that allow us to invest  
in the people and technology which make it possible and  
to deliver returns to our shareholders.
Our value creation process
GENERATE INVEST RETURN
Resources and relationships
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
7
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER’S REVIEW 
continued
Q
What other highlights  
has this year provided?
A
 
This year’s Charity Day was another tremendous success.  
We were proud to welcome Their Royal Highnesses the 
Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and other celebrity patrons  
of our chosen charities to our London office. The event raised 
£7 .5 million supporting 200 charities globally, which is equivalent 
to approximately 4% of ICAP’s full-year pre-tax trading profit.  
I would like to thank all those involved for their fantastic support. 
Since we began our Charity Day in 1993, ICAP has donated 
nearly £127 million to charities worldwide. 
The ICAP Charity Day has become a fixture in the financial 
services industry calendar and I hope that it will become even 
bigger and better within TP ICAP. We will develop a brand-new 
charitable initiative for Newco.
Q
What is ICAP’s dividend this year  
and the outlook for the coming year?
A
The directors recommend a final dividend of 15.4p per  
share which will result in a full-year dividend of 22.0p per  
share (2014/15: 22.0p). If approved, the final dividend will be  
paid on 22 July 2016 to shareholders on the register at the  
close of business on 1 July 2016. The shares will be quoted 
ex-dividend from 30 June 2016. 
Despite ongoing subdued market conditions this has been a  
year of good progress and positive strategic change for ICAP. 
Trading activity since the start of the new financial year, however, 
continues to be challenging. The ICAP board is confident that  
the transformation of the Group and the continued investment  
in new products and technology will result in long-term growth 
and improvement in profitability driving sustained shareholder 
value creation.
ICAP has grown and flourished over its 30 year history into  
the successful leader that it is today and our 30th anniversary  
is a poignant moment for me personally. But we all must be 
prepared to change and I am excited about the future 
opportunities for both Newco and TP ICAP.
As ever, I am grateful to and would like to thank our employees  
for their commitment and hard work in this year of change.  
I know their efforts will propel the business to even greater 
success in the coming years.
Michael Spencer 
Group Chief Executive Officer 
“ This year’s Charity  
Day was another 
tremendous success 
and the event raised 
£7 .5 million supporting 
200 charities globally.”
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
8 Progress of strategic priorities
Expanding our 
addressable market
• Spot FX average daily volume on EBS Direct reached an average of $20 billion during the  
final quarter of the 2016 financial year, up 37% year-on-year and from an increasingly  
diverse range of currencies.
• The launch of forwards on EBS Direct in December 2015 achieved a major strategic milestone  
by providing access to the huge FX forwards market. Offering both spot and forwards is a common 
requirement in the corporate treasury market, where EBS Direct should benefit from the deep 
relationships established through the EBS Treasury money market funds platform.
• The completed acquisition of ENSO will further strengthen relationships with the prime broker 
market and their hedge fund customers, where ENSO provides inventory management and  
data analytics tools.
• Global Broking continued to invest in its Fusion distribution platform and mid-market matching. 
Seizing opportunities 
created by regulatory 
change
• TriOptima announced the launch of triResolve Margin, a web-based, automated end-to-end margin 
processing solution which will help customers comply with the new regulatory requirements for 
margining uncleared OTC derivatives that come into effect from September 2016.
• TriOptima’s new centralised risk analytics service, triCalculate, uses state-of-the-art computing  
to provide counterparty credit risk analytics, meeting the increasing demand for independent  
OTC valuations.
• Post Trade Risk and Information has made a series of enhancements that significantly expand  
its existing suite of regulatory services to offer customers an end-to-end menu of products  
which meet MiFIR/MiFID II cross-asset reporting and processing obligations. 
• Post Trade Risk and Information recently announced the creation of its own Approved Publication 
Arrangement service to satisfy pre and post trade transparency requirements for venues.
• EBS BrokerTec’s eFix Matching solution meets the FX market’s requirement of a central utility  
for benchmark execution. Customers can access a central pool of liquidity to execute against  
daily benchmark rates (or fixes) by netting off buys versus sells prior to the fix calculation window. 
Volume has increased by 260% year-on-year.
Leveraging into  
growth markets
• The average daily volume on EBS NDF reached $5.6 billion during the final quarter, up 54% 
year-on-year. Volumes are becoming more diversified across an increased number of Asian 
currencies. The migration of one-month Asian NDFs from voice broking to electronic platforms 
continues. The launch of Latin American NDFs on EBS creates another large opportunity.
• Average daily CNH volume reached $7.0 billion during the final quarter of the year, up 55% 
year-on-year. The positive trends in market share growth and voice to electronic migration  
have continued.
• In March 2016, Chinese government-backed broking business CFETS selected EBS to build  
its next generation electronic trading platform for FX and fixed income.
• In March 2016 we successfully completed a proof of technology test case for a distributed  
ledger using blockchain technology.
Reinforcing  
our culture
• We conducted a survey of the quality and effectiveness of our internal communications. A key  
finding was the high level of trust and confidence employees have in the Company and its leadership. 
This played an important part in enabling us to grasp the opportunity created by the Transaction. 
• Our Group leadership programme has been extended to include all those with responsibility  
for managing people and for senior technical specialists, ensuring that our strong culture is 
understood and reinforced.
• A programme is underway to ensure that everyone joining the Company understands and  
is aligned to our culture through customised pre-employment screening. All our training and 
development will emphasise our approach to conduct and how we interact with our colleagues  
and customers, including online training focused on real conduct risk situations.
STRA TEGIC PRIORITIES
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
9
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report Trading operating profit margin
18%
20%
21%
2015 2016 2014
Source of revenue 
 
Bank execution
Subscription
 Non-bank execution
2015 2016 2014
66%
14%
20%
65%
16%
19%
62%
18%
20%
Trading operating profit by division
 
Electronic Markets
Post Trade Risk 
and Information
 Global Broking
2015 2016 2014
37%
33%
30%
37%
38%
25%
35%
44%
21%
STRATEGIC REPORT
KEY PERFORMANCE 
INDICATORS
Definition
Trading operating profit split between ICAP’s divisions  
of Electronic Markets, PTRI and Global Broking.
Performance
ICAP’s long-term strategy is to grow the Electronic Markets and  
PTRI divisions. 2015/16 saw the Electronic Markets and PTRI 
contribution to the Group’s trading operating profit increase  
to 79%, their highest contribution in the Company’s history.
Definition
Percentage of ICAP’s revenue derived from bank and non-bank 
transaction revenue and total subscription fees.
Performance
ICAP aims to reduce the volatility of earnings through growth  
in businesses whose revenue is less susceptible to fluctuations  
in market volumes. Bank execution remains ICAP’s largest revenue 
contributor but 2015/16 saw it reduce to 62%. Subscription revenue 
continues to increase its share of ICAP’s revenue reflecting the 
continued growth in our PTRI division which generates a majority of 
its revenue through recurring subscription-fee income sources.
Definition
Trading operating profit divided by revenue from trading operations.
Performance
The Group’s overall trading operating profit margin fell by  
2 percentage points to 18% reflecting increased investment  
in the year. The full-year operating profit margins of the Electronic 
Markets and PTRI divisions were 30% and 40% respectively.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
10 Technology cash spend as a percentage of revenue
13%
11%
12%
2015 2016 2014
Trading EPS (basic)
24.6p
28.7p
33.2p
2015 2016 2014
96%
121%
71%
Conversion of trading profit to cash
2015 2016 2014
Definition
Trading EPS (basic) is the profit after tax attributable to the 
equity holders of the Group divided by the weighted average 
number of shares in issue during the year, excluding shares  
held to satisfy employee share plans and shares purchased  
by the Group and held as Treasury Shares.
Performance
Trading EPS (basic) fell this year to 24.6p, largely reflecting a 
decrease in the trading profit before tax and an increase in ETR.
Definition
Conversion of trading profit to cash is calculated as cash 
generated from trading operations, excluding acquisition  
and disposal costs, exceptional items and short-term timing 
differences in working capital arising from unsettled matched 
principal trades less cash flows from operations relating to 
non-controlling interests, interest, tax and capital expenditure, 
plus dividends received from associates and investments, 
measured as a percentage of trading profit. The prior year 
comparatives have been represented to exlude short-term  
timing differences in working capital arising from unsettled 
matched principal trades. 
Performance
The Group’s business model efficiently converts trading profit  
into cash and we expect a 100% conversion over the medium  
to long term. The 96% conversion in the year is in line with the 
expectation over the medium term. 
Definition
Cash expenditure on the maintenance and development  
of information technology as a percentage of total revenue.  
Prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect change  
in methodology to account for cash only spend in the year.
Performance
Technology spend as a percentage of revenue was 13%  
in 2015/16, in line with the Company’s long-term trend.  
The increase in the year primarily relates to increased  
investment in the Electronic Markets and PTRI divisions.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
11
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report DEVELOPING  
OUR RESOURCES
Diverse people
ICAP employs more than 4,200 people in 32 countries.  
We recognise that our success depends on the quality of our 
people. We make a significant investment in training to develop 
the capabilities of our people and ensure that each employee  
is aware of their responsibilities. 
We bring talent into our businesses including through our graduate 
recruitment programme, internships and apprenticeships. Our 
approach to recruitment at all levels is focused on identifying 
people who can help drive outstanding business performance. 
These individuals combine integrity with the ability to deal with 
constant change.
We aim to appeal to a broad range of people from diverse 
backgrounds, as having a mix of skills and experiences within 
teams improves adaptability and agility. The lack of women  
in senior roles within the financial services industry is well 
documented. The appointment of Jenny Knott as Chief  
Executive Officer, Post Trade Risk and Information to the  
GEMG has increased the diversity of our senior leadership  
team. The gender balance of our board, however, has been 
affected by the resignation of our only female non-executive 
director; we plan to address this as we review the composition  
of the board following the completion of the Transaction.
Our investment in our people and 
culture supports the success of  
our business. We build long-term 
relationships and are committed  
to the highest standards in 
everything we do.
STRATEGIC REPORT
RESOURCES, 
RELATIONSHIPS  
AND RESPONSIBILITIES
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
12 A strong culture 
Our ability to adapt to change in our markets and our business is  
a direct result of our culture. Principles of professional conduct are 
the foundation of our culture and underpin what makes us unique 
as a business. These principles are reinforced through regular 
training, monitoring and reporting to the board. The board and 
senior management set the ‘tone from the top’, which is supported 
by strong messages about expected standards of behaviour.
As part of the project that began last year, we are redefining  
our corporate values and the behaviours that support them.  
We have consulted our management teams, employees and 
customers as part of this process. Once formalised, these values 
and behaviours will be embedded and reinforced within our 
organisation through leadership, governance, communication, 
talent management and compensation. 
We value the views of our employees and this year launched a  
new internal communications programme to increase engagement 
with them. The response rate from our employees to a survey  
on topics including strategy, leadership and communications was 
well above industry benchmarks and has led to changes in how 
we communicate with employees to provide the right messages.
World-class technology
Our customers have access to world-class technologies that 
match their requirements. Our position as a leading provider  
of market infrastructure to the global financial sector has been 
achieved through significant investment in technology over many 
years. During 2015/16, we spent £159 million on technology. 
What is our culture?
Our culture is underpinned by our commitment to the highest standards  
of professional conduct. 
Principles of  
professional conduct
ICAP culture,  
values and ethics
Business 
environment
We maintain our systems to make sure they are stable, up to  
date and anticipate the greater reliance on electronic trading  
that is emerging in response to regulatory change around the 
world. An increasing proportion of our capital expenditure  
is used for innovation. We operate technology research and 
development hubs in New Jersey, Stockholm and Tel Aviv  
and also work with external suppliers.
The threat of cyber attack is ever evolving in sophistication  
and scope. We continue to enhance the security of our global 
systems to mitigate this risk. 
Long-term relationships
We build trust with our customers, partners, investors and 
regulators. We engage with our stakeholders in an open and 
co-operative way. This transparency encourages the growth  
of mutually rewarding long-term relationships.
With customers
A key strategic priority is to expand and diversify our customer 
base outside our traditional areas. We know that customer 
experience is ultimately the most important driver of our brand 
reputation and strength. Our customers rely on us to provide 
them with insight into the marketplace and to use our expertise 
to their advantage. They require us to be absolutely trustworthy 
and professional in everything we do. 
With governments and regulators
We work with governments and regulatory authorities to maintain 
a current and detailed understanding of the legislation and 
regulation that affect us and our customers. These relationships 
give us insight into the policy process and enable us to respond 
efficiently to change.
Gender ratio Male Female
All employees 3,068 72% 1,075 25%
 Board of directors 6 100% 0 0% 
  S en i o r m a na g em en t 60 82% 13 18% 
128 employees are categorised as undisclosed.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
13
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report With joint venture partners and associates
We have formal relationships with a number of organisations 
around the world that offer specialist products and services to 
customers. These relationships give us access to specific regional 
expertise and also help us to meet local regulatory requirements.  
In addition, we have several associated companies providing  
a wide range of services. 
Doing business responsibly 
We aim to do business in a socially responsible way and contribute 
to the communities we are part of.
Maintaining standards
We are committed to the highest standards in our business. 
As a key part of the global financial infrastructure, we adhere  
to both the spirit and the letter of the law within our control, 
compliance and assurance environment. Our compliance  
and control risk infrastructure includes trade surveillance, 
communications monitoring, comprehensive training and  
a whistleblowing hotline.
We have a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct policy which is 
approved by the board. Clear ethical guidelines are issued to all 
Group companies. Compliance with these guidelines is monitored 
by the Audit Committee and through internal audit procedures. 
There is a zero-tolerance attitude towards money laundering, 
bribery and corruption. A programme of internal training is in 
place to ensure all employees are aware of these policies.
We promote equal access to jobs and promotion opportunities  
as we believe that differences in background and outlook are key 
to creating a healthy and dynamic organisation. We expect our 
employees and all those who work with us to show tolerance, 
respect and dignity for all. No employee, applicant, contractor  
or temporary worker is treated less favourably, victimised or 
harassed on any grounds. Consideration is always given to  
human rights principles as part of our working practices.
STRATEGIC REPORT
RESOURCES, RELATIONSHIPS  
AND RESPONSIBILITIES
continued
The Group’s health and safety policy is approved by the board 
and owned by the Global Chief Operating Officer. Regional health 
and safety committees ensure there is an effective structure for 
delivering compliance with the policy. It is the responsibility of 
managers to provide a healthy and safe working environment for 
employees. As most of our employees work in office environments, 
there are no significant areas of risk on which to report.
Reducing environmental impact
Our environmental policy is approved by the board and owned by 
the Group Finance Director. Most of our greenhouse gases arise 
from the running of our offices and employee travel commitments. 
We mitigate our total carbon emissions through investment in 
carbon reducing projects.
Emissions associated with electricity consumption decreased 
from 18,144 tonnes of CO
2
e during 2014/15 to 14,685 tonnes 
of CO
2
e in 2015/16, a favourable drop of 19.1%. Emissions from 
air travel decreased by 2.5% from 5,055 tonnes of CO
2
e during 
2014/15 to 4,930 tonnes of CO
2
e in 2015/16.
Year-on-year comparison
Tonnes of CO
2
e
change 
 (%) 2015/16 2014/15
Emissions from:
Scope 1
*
276 441 -37.4
Scope 2
**
14,685 18,144 -19.1
Scope 3
***
12,977 12,970 0.1
Total 27,938 31,555 -11.5
Intensity metric: 
tonnes CO
2
e / FTE 6.3 6.57 -4.1
*  Scope 1 includes direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources owned or controlled 
by the Company, such as natural gas combustion and company-owned vehicles.
**  Scope 2 accounts for greenhouse gas emissions from purchased electricity, heat 
and steam generated off-site.
***  Scope 3 includes all other indirect emissions such as waste disposal, business travel  
and employee commuting.
Total emissions per full-time (FTE) employee reduced from 6.57 
tonnes of CO
2
e in 2014/15 to 6.3 tonnes of CO
2
e in 2015/16.
These estimates were provided by Natural Capital Partners, an 
environmental consultancy. Natural Capital Partners’ assessment 
was carried out in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Responsibility  
for emissions sources was determined using the operational 
control approach.
Working for society
Our business performs a useful role in society: 
• by contributing to the stability and prosperity of economies  
by helping governments and companies to raise capital and 
manage risk;
• by supporting the efficient functioning of global markets by 
providing transparency for customers and helping to maintain 
the liquidity of markets; and
• as a leader in electronic trading in OTC markets, we are helping 
to make markets safer by enabling greater use of technology.
Although we have a small direct footprint in terms of social  
and community issues, we recognise that our behaviour and 
activities can have a positive effect. Our annual Charity Day  
raises money for charities worldwide. We also support  
employees wishing to volunteer.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
14 CHARITY  
DAY
ICAP Charity Day
Since 1993, ICAP Charity Day has 
brought together our employees, 
customers and suppliers globally  
to raise money for good causes.
Giving 100%
On Charity Day, we donate 100% of  
our revenue and brokers’ commissions 
globally to charity. Each division and  
more than 65 ICAP offices around the 
world participate. The impact the day  
has is phenomenal.
Charity Day is a day unlike any other. 
Employees swap suits for fancy dress. 
Visiting celebrities keep spirits high and 
lend a hand to help close transactions. 
Charity Day gets tremendous support 
from the market too, with customers 
working closely with ICAP on the day.
This global initiative has a local focus.  
We invite employees to nominate their 
favourite charities and each regional 
centre decides which charities benefit.
ICAP prefers to work with small 
organisations where our contribution  
will make a big difference. This year we 
supported 200 charities around the 
world. Our policy is to help different 
charities each year.
Our 2015 Charity Day raised £7 .5 million/
US$1 1.3 million. Altogether, since it began 
24 years ago, ICAP Charity Day has 
contributed nearly £127 million across 
more than 2,000 charities worldwide.
www.icapcharityday.com
Watch the highlights  
of Charity Day 2015 at 
www.icapcharityday.com/ 
2015-video
www.facebook.com/
ICAPCharityDay
www.twitter.com/
ICAPCharityDay 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
15
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report ICAP’s risk profile
ICAP recognises nine core risk categories: strategic, operational, 
liquidity, reputation, credit, legal and regulatory, cross-risk,  
market and financial. ICAP’s profile of these risks is continually 
evolving, driven by:
• changes in the markets within which we operate;
• ICAP’s strategies and business objectives; and
• ICAP’s business/operating models.
ICAP seeks to generate attractive returns through informed  
risk taking and robust risk management. As such the effective 
management and control of both the upside of risk taking  
and its potential downside is a fundamental core competency  
of the Group.
Protecting revenue and reputation
The Group does not intend or expect to take material losses 
during the ordinary course of its activities. This is because  
of its fee and commission earning business model which is 
predominantly based on customer activity and usage of its 
services. ICAP does not wish to expose itself to material credit  
or market risks and does not intentionally hold or deal in assets 
that stay on its balance sheet for any longer than the normal 
settlement cycle on the occasions when it is involved in matched 
principal or exchange-traded broking. The Group proactively 
seeks to invest in, and develop, innovative products and services.
Risk appetite
The board sets and monitors risk appetite through the nine core 
risk categories. Each year ICAP’s risk appetite statements and 
respective limits are set alongside its strategic plans, recognising 
the key drivers of the risks ICAP expects to face as a Group in  
the coming 12 months.
The board has overall responsibility for the governance of ICAP’s 
risk management and ensures there are adequate and effective 
internal systems of control with clear responsibilities for the 
setting of risk appetites, the identification and assessment of  
risks, their monitoring, reporting and mitigation. 
During the past financial year  
our risk and compliance focus  
has included the strengthening  
of our capability to manage 
emerging technology risks, including 
cyber risk, managing the risks  
of strategic change and the  
further embedding of employee 
conduct and responsibilities  
within the organisation.
Looking forward to 2016/1 7 the risk focus will be on:
• monitoring market conditions, especially the impact of oil 
prices and considerations of a potential UK exit from the EU;
• identifying growth and business opportunities through the 
implementation of regulatory changes such as MiFID II; 
• managing the change risks associated with the Transaction;
• further enhancing of our risk capital modelling; and
• enhancing risk management’s business intelligence capability.
STRATEGIC REPORT
RISK  
MANAGEMENT
Wendy Phillis
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer
Strategic change 
ICAP engages in diverse operations in a complex, often 
regulated environment and recognises that material 
changes to and/or expansion of any our businesses present 
opportunities and risks. The Group allows business divisions 
and Group functions autonomy to pursue initiatives and  
to be entrepreneurial. We recognise, however, the need  
for assessment and, where necessary, additional review, 
approval, and transparency to Group management to ensure 
strategic, operational and risk alignment within the Group.
The largest strategic change for the Group this year  
is the Transaction with Tullett Prebon. Our ability to 
manage this strategy and execute the operational  
changes is a key competency of the Group and a focus  
of risk management. The Group’s significant business 
initiative approach requires that the Group’s principal  
risks and impacts on our risk appetite are explicitly 
considered as a part of strategic transactions. The 
assessment of these risks and the mitigation of them 
through the change process has been a key focus of  
the Group during 2015/16 and will continue throughout 
the coming year.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
16 ICAP’s risk management framework
Risk management framework
ICAP’s risk management framework identifies, assesses, 
monitors, reports and mitigates the risks that could impact  
the ability to execute our strategy and meet our stakeholders’ 
expectations. To ensure a consistent risk management approach 
globally, the framework is used across all risk disciplines with  
the following pillars:
• Governance: in addition to appropriate governance at all  
levels of the Group, as detailed in the corporate governance 
statement, this pillar incorporates risk appetite responsibilities, 
the completeness of our risk taxonomy, roles and responsibilities 
within three lines of defence and the continued fostering of the 
corporate risk management culture. The governance model 
provides the structure for the assessment of the sustainability 
of the ICAP business model, capital adequacy and the capability 
of the Group to withstand and react to extreme events. These 
assessments are described in more detail in the principal risks 
table on pages 18 and 19 and set the basis of the viability 
statement on page 58.
• Policy and methodologies: clear, principle-based policies  
for our risk types reflecting the board’s risk appetite, 
supported by clear standards for the identification,  
evaluation and treatment of risk.
• Operating requirements: these include the procedural 
guidance for the effective execution of our risk policies, 
organisational responsibilities, design and use of our risk 
management systems and reporting and escalation of risk.
Three lines of defence
The Group’s governance structure is designed such that the 
business is the first line of defence, the risk management  
and compliance departments the second line of defence  
with internal audit as the third line of defence.
• First line of defence: the business is responsible for the 
identification, control and management of its own risks. 
• Second line of defence: risk management and compliance  
ensure that well designed risk and compliance frameworks  
are in place to facilitate risk management responsibilities  
and provide independent oversight and challenge of the 
execution and risk profile of the business.
• Third line of defence: internal audit provides independent 
testing and verification of business line compliance as well as 
assurance that the risk management process is functioning  
as designed.
A key aspect of the three lines of defence model is that  
senior management, in particular those with responsibility  
for front office, support functions and Group functions, have  
full accountability for the management of the risks in their 
specific businesses. This is done within the limits and the  
control environment established by the Group. 
All staff and managers are required to take a prudent approach  
to risk taking and to review regularly the effectiveness of their 
control environment and compliance with the Group’s risk 
appetite. The Group’s risk management processes are dynamic, 
reflecting changes in the Group’s strategies and the external risk 
drivers in the global market in which it operates.
Cyber security 
A global upsurge of cyber attacks in recent years has received 
much attention in the press as well as in boardrooms. Private 
individuals, government entities and commercial enterprises 
have been among the victims. Attacks are perpetrated by  
a variety of malicious parties, from ’hacktivists’ to organised 
criminals to state-sponsored entities. 
ICAP is very aware of the threat this poses to its business 
and the evolving landscape, with the board and executive 
management devoting time and attention to cyber risk 
management. ICAP maintains active links with peer 
associations and appropriate government agencies to keep 
abreast of developments and has timely access to cyber 
threat intelligence. Supporting this network, a new framework 
has been developed and adopted across ICAP to actively 
monitor and manage these risks with formal monitoring  
a part of the standard risk management activity.
Respect for  
control
Our current and  
future targets
How we operate
Our 
strategies  
and goals
Our  
values
Risk 
appetites
Risk management framework
Governance
Risks we face (external)
Risks we face (internal) Risks we take
Operating requirements: roles and responsibilities, supervision,  
procedures, systems and controls
Policies and 
methodologies
Second line of defence
First line of defence
Policy standards, guidance and training 
Third line of defence
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
17
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT
RISK MANAGEMENT
continued
The following table summarises the risks of principal importance to ICAP over the financial period, our appetite, their drivers and key 
mitigating actions. These principal risks are monitored and assessed throughout the organisation and at the Risk Committee, via the  
Group’s risk appetite approach. 
Additionally, stress testing of the sustainability of ICAP’s business plan is undertaken through the assessment of extreme impact 
events/tail-risk events to provide an understanding of those risks that have the potential to make the business model unviable.
Principal risk type Importance to ICAP Key drivers Mitigation
Strategic risk 
The risk arising  
from inappropriate 
strategic decisions 
that fail to reflect  
the full business 
operating 
environment, and/or 
full impacts on 
execution, or fail to 
adequately or timely 
identify changes to 
the business model.
To ensure ICAP remains competitive in its chosen 
strategic markets, identifying and optimising 
commercial opportunities requires ICAP to assess 
the risks, rewards and costs associated with each. 
Strategic risks generally manifest over  
a medium time frame allowing corrective 
proactive management.
Appetite: ICAP will innovate and grow through 
considered initiatives and acquisitions that are 
scalable, experience positive switching/network 
effects or show a competitive advantage.
Regulatory 
landscape 
impacting our 
business or our 
customers’ 
businesses.
Commercial/ 
market 
conditions.
Internal business/ 
operating model.
Business case and risk assessment  
of significant business initiatives.
Defined product, country  
and customer strategies.
Surveillance of market, regulatory 
landscape and customer demand.
Risk scenario contingency planning.
Operational risk 
The risk of loss 
resulting from 
inadequate or  
failed internal 
processes, people 
and systems, or  
from external events.
While ICAP’s reputation is built on strong 
execution of service, ICAP actively identifies, 
monitors and controls the risk that its people, 
processes or systems fail leading to a reduction 
in the quality of service to our customers and  
an increase in our operating costs. 
Operational risks could manifest themselves 
across any time frame.
Appetite: ICAP will take measures to identify and 
proportionally manage operational risk to a desired 
level through mitigating systems, processes and 
controls, but recognises operational risk is inherent 
in its business activities.
Internal business/
operating model.
External threats.
Market 
conditions.
The Group maintains an operational 
risk framework, with independent  
risk function oversight.
Timely escalation and mitigation  
of risk events.
Provision of training and guidance.
Information security breach 
monitoring.
Cyber security programme,  
including penetration testing.
Critical technology monitoring.
Risk scenario contingency planning.
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the 
risk that the Group  
or any of its entities 
do not have sufficient 
liquid resources or  
are unable to deploy  
such resources to 
meet their actual or 
potential obligations 
in a timely manner  
as they fall due. 
ICAP has short-term liquidity requirements 
arising from settlement and clearing 
arrangements, in the form of collateral and 
margin requirements for clearing houses or 
financial institutions providing clearing access.  
It is possible large liquidity demands may  
arise on the same or next day, due to reasons 
beyond ICAP’s direct control. The Group ensures 
adequate liquidity resources are maintained  
to meet these requirements in support of its 
trading activities.
Longer-term requirements arise in relation  
to the timing of the Group’s operating cash 
inflows against outflows, principally for capital 
expenditure and dividends. The Group maintains  
a diversified funding base with sufficient 
committed headroom to forecast requirements.
Appetite: ICAP will have sufficient financial 
resources to ensure there is no significant risk that 
it is unable to access and utilise these resources  
to meet financial obligations as they fall due.
Operational risk.
Credit risk 
(events).
Operating/
business model.
Periodic reviews including  
going concern assessments.
Use of financial institutions for 
clearing access.
$250 million of committed liquidity 
held centrally for same and next  
day utilisation.
Contingency funding arrangements 
and procedures in place.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
18 Principal risk type Importance to ICAP Key drivers Mitigation
Reputation risk
The risk that the 
Group fails to meet 
expectations of 
stakeholders, is 
unable to build or 
sustain relationships 
with customers, 
incurs regulatory 
censure or 
experiences more 
costly access to 
funding sources.
ICAP remains focused on maintaining and 
constantly strengthening relationships with 
shareholders, customers, regulators, lenders, 
clearing and settlement providers, market 
infrastructure providers and employees.
Reputation risk can manifest over the near  
term with long-term impacts.
Appetite: ICAP will adhere to its core values and 
fulfil its corporate responsibilities by ensuring it 
acts responsibly, ethically and with integrity.
Operational risk.
Regulatory risk 
– conduct risk.
Strategic risk.
Active assessment via investor 
relationship surveys, media surveys 
and employee statistics.
Culture and conduct initiatives.
Credit risk
The risk of a financial 
loss due to the failure 
of a customer to 
meet its obligation  
to settle outstanding 
amounts. 
While ICAP enters into transactions only when 
executing on behalf of customers, providing 
customer access to clearing, or provides 
additional fee-based services to customers,  
there does exist short-term credit exposure  
prior to clearing and settlement, and outstanding 
receivables risk that ICAP manages.
Appetite: ICAP will only engage in activities 
which it believes will not result in loss due to 
significant credit risk.
Market 
conditions.
Counterparty 
credit 
worthiness.
Counterparty due diligence.
Credit assessments and limits.
Risk scenario and stress  
contingency planning.
Legal and regulatory risk
Legal risk can arise 
from defective 
transactions, failing  
to take appropriate 
measures to protect 
assets, changes  
in law and/or breach 
of law or acceptable 
practice, and claims, 
resulting in a liability 
or loss to a 
company(ies)  
within the Group.
Regulatory risk is the 
risk of material loss, 
regulatory sanction, 
or reputational 
damage arising  
from the failure  
to comply with 
relevant regulatory 
requirements.
ICAP operates in multiple jurisdictions and 
remains focused on ensuring it recognises and 
respects the rules and laws to which it is held. 
ICAP also recognises that the conduct of the 
Group and its employees is of paramount 
importance to its strategic aims and reputation.
Legal and regulatory risk can manifest over the 
near term and long term.
Appetite: ICAP will have in place processes, 
controls and frameworks to comply with legal 
and regulatory requirements and will use 
appropriate external legal advisors for 
contentious matters and litigation. For the 
avoidance of doubt, ICAP has no appetite  
for material legal or regulatory breaches.
Multiple  
and dynamic 
regulatory 
regimes.
Regulatory risks 
– conduct risk.
ICAP has internal legal and 
compliance departments which  
act as independent advisory and 
investigation functions to enable and 
defend the Group’s strategic aims. 
Both legal policies and compliance  
risk management frameworks 
strengthen this defence.
Advice is taken regularly from 
appropriately qualified external 
advisors and professionals.
Training is provided to staff  
on an ongoing basis.
Culture and conduct initiatives. 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
19
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT
RISK MANAGEMENT
continued
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the principal risks, the Group also recognises, and actively manages the following Group risks:
Other Group risks Importance to ICAP Key risk drivers Mitigation
Cross risk
The risk that the 
Group and its 
divisions fail to 
maintain its 
commercial targets 
due to either internal 
or external factors.
In support of achieving its commercial targets, 
ICAP works diligently with all stakeholders to 
identify threats and opportunities.
Appetite: ICAP will monitor its internal and external 
environment in order to maintain stable and 
robust financial performance over the long term.
ICAP’s credit 
worthiness.
Market 
competition.
Predictability of earnings –  
discipline is applied to existing 
financial performance and new 
business proposals.
Maintenance of ICAP’s external  
credit rating.
Market risk
The risk of losses in 
on and off-balance 
sheet positions arising 
from adverse 
movements in  
market prices.
ICAP does not actively take market risk.  
Where it does arise this is due to failures in  
our expected business processes, systems  
or human error. As such it is identified and 
treated as operational risk.
Appetite: ICAP will not engage in proprietary 
trading or actively seek market exposure and  
will actively reduce any incidental market 
exposure resulting from its activities as soon  
as reasonably practicable.
Volume and 
complexity of 
trade booking.
Market 
movements/ 
liquidity.
Monitoring and timely mitigation  
of unmatched positions.
Exposure modelling.
Financial risk
The risk that the 
Group is exposed  
to significant losses 
due to adverse 
movements in 
interest and  
exchange rates.
Interest rate risk from the Group’s exposure to 
rate fluctuations on cash balances and borrowings.
Currency translation risk arising from the conversion 
of foreign currency results to pound sterling for 
the preparation of ICAP plc’s consolidated 
financial statements.
Currency risk for the Group’s entities arising from 
transactions, assets or liabilities denominated  
in a foreign currency for an individual entity.
Appetite: ICAP will manage its financial risks in 
accordance with approved policies for the Group.
Market rates.
Trading volume.
Geographic 
profile.
Regulatory and 
working capital 
requirements.
Details of the Group’s management  
of interest rate and currency risks  
are contained in notes 9 and 27  
to the financial statements.
Established Group policies for the 
management of interest rate and 
currency exposures.
Long-term debt raised with fixed 
rates with the option to swap to 
variable rates.
Quarterly review of currency 
exposures and hedging levels.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
20 While facing the same inherent risks to which the Group as a whole is exposed, the business models, markets and risk profiles of  
the divisions are unique. ICAP’s risk management and governance frameworks are designed to support the top-down assessment  
of risk for the Group, as well as supporting relevant business decision making and risk management of the revenue generating entities. 
Each division is responsible for the management of its risks. The risk and compliance functions provide independent oversight and 
subject matter challenge to the first line of defence in support of its risk management responsibilities.
The key risks faced by each division in the 2015/16 financial year are set out below:
Business risk drivers Key changes Risks
Electronic Markets
Relationships – customers, 
employees.
 Infrastructure (including for 
clearing and settlement, IT).
External cyber security threats.
 R e g ul a t o r y lic en c e s .
 Short-term credit exposure  
to customers prior to clearing.
 Liquidity to settle trades  
and meet margin calls.
New products/hybrid/exchanges.
Stressed market conditions.
Regulatory landscape.
Protect and grow market share.
Strategic/reputation risk – failure to deliver existing  
or new products, competition.
Operational risk – failure in its technology provision  
to customers.
Operational risk – failure of cyber security measures  
to withstand external attacks. 
Credit/liquidity risk – material intra-day liquidity  
demands for settlement/margin.
Legal and regulatory risk – maintaining and receiving 
licence to operate in chosen jurisdictions.
Post Trade Risk and Information
 Relationships – customers, 
employees.
Infrastructure (including IT).
External cyber security threats.
Regulatory licences.
Volume growth.
New product development.
Regulatory landscape – MiFID II.
Operational risk – failure to manage market and 
customer data, and/or batch processes completely, 
accurately and/or timely.
Operational risk – failure of cyber security measures  
to withstand external attacks. 
Reputation risk. 
Legal and regulatory risk – upstream requirements 
e.g. MiFID II.
Global Broking
 Relationships – customers, 
employees.
 Infrastructure (including for 
clearing and settlement, IT).
External cyber security threats.
 R e g ul a t o r y lic en c e s .
 Short-term credit exposure to 
customers in the settlement  
cycle (typically <T+3 days).
 Liquidity to settle trades  
and meet margin calls.
 Market data infrastructure.
Stressed market conditions.
Focus on niche products/markets.
Cost management.
Internal consolidation.
Strategic risk – market consolidation, reducing margin.
Operational risk – failure of cyber security measures  
to withstand external attacks.
Credit/liquidity risk – material intra-day liquidity  
demands for settlement/margin. 
Credit risk – stressed market conditions.
Legal and regulatory risk – upstream requirements  
e.g. MiFID II, conduct risk.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
21
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report SUMMARY 
For the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group reported revenue 
of £1,201 million, 6% below the prior year. On a constant 
currency basis, revenue from Post Trade Risk and Information 
was up 5% which was offset by decreases of 4% in Electronic 
Markets and 5% in Global Broking (excluding closed desks).
During the course of the year, the Group’s trading performance 
was impacted by the ongoing combination of structural and 
cyclical factors including historically low and negative interest 
rates, low levels of volatility and bank deleveraging resulting  
in reduced risk appetite from bank customers. This was partly 
offset by the increase in trading activity in emerging market 
currency pairs on EBS Market, and greater demand for risk 
mitigation products such as triReduce and triResolve.
Consistent with the Group’s growth strategy, ICAP continues  
to make significant investment in all divisions. During the year  
the Group invested £96 million in new business lines including 
forwards on EBS Direct, BrokerTec Direct and triResolve Margin. 
The Group reported a trading operating profit of £221 million, 
12% down on the prior year. The Group’s trading operating  
profit margin reduced to 18% (2014/15: 20%). The decrease in 
the trading operating profit includes the negative impact of the 
year-on-year adverse movement from FX losses of £11 million. 
Excluding the FX losses, the trading operating profit reduced  
by 8% on the prior year. Additionally, the synergies achieved  
in the year from the 2014/15 cost savings programme were 
reinvested during the year in the development of new products 
and technological solutions across the businesses. 
The proportion of the Group’s trading operating profit generated 
from the Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information 
divisions increased to 79%, reflecting a 4 percentage point 
increase on the prior year. 
Group trading profit before tax of £203 million and trading  
EPS (basic) of 24.6p were 11% and 14% down on the prior  
year respectively. Profit before tax was £89 million (2014/15: 
£95 million). 
ICAP has invested in  
electronic platforms and  
post trade, developing its  
products and services to  
remain at the forefront  
of our customers’ needs.
STRATEGIC REPORT
RESUL TS  
FOR 2015 / 1 6
Headline financial performance
Year ended 
31 March 
2016
£m
Year ended 
31 March 
2015
£m
Change 
%
Revenue 1,201 1,276 (6)
Trading operating profit 221 252 (12)
Trading profit  
before tax 203 229 (11)
Profit before tax 89 95 (6)
pence pence
Trading EPS (basic) 24.6 28.7 (14)
EPS (basic) 10.5 13.0 (19)
Dividend per share 22.0 22.0 –
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
22 Revenue 
2016
£m
2015
£m
Change 
%
BrokerTec 130 128 2
EBS 126 124 2
Other electronic 
platforms 6 7 (14)
Total – reported 262 259 1
 –  constant 
currency 272 (4)
Trading operating profit 78 93 (16)
Trading operating  
profit margin 30% 36% (6)ppt
The table above is presented on a total Group basis and, therefore, includes continuing 
and discontinued operations. See note 2 to the financial statements for a breakdown 
between continuing and discontinued operations.
Gil Mandelzis
Electronic Markets CEO
ELECTRONIC MARKETS
EBS BrokerTec is a leading electronic trading business in FX  
and fixed income. These platforms offer efficient and effective 
trading venues to customers in more than 50 countries across  
a range of instruments including spot FX, US Treasuries, European 
government bonds and EU and US repo. These electronic platforms 
are built on ICAP’s bespoke networks connecting participants in 
financial markets.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, Electronic Markets’  
revenue decreased by 4% on a constant currency basis  
and increased by 1% on a reported basis to £262 million 
(2014/15: £259 million). The trading operating profit fell to 
£78 million (2014/15: £93 million) and the trading operating 
profit margin decreased to 30% from 36% as £54 million 
(2014/15: £25 million) investment in the development  
of new products and functionality on the electronic trading 
platforms was charged to the income statement.
BrokerTec
BrokerTec is a global electronic platform for the trading of US 
Treasuries, European government bonds and EU and US repo. It 
facilitates trading for banks and non-bank professional trading firms. 
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue decreased by 4%  
on a constant currency basis and increased by 2% on a reported 
basis to £130 million (2014/15: £128 million). This performance 
reflects a 3% increase in US Treasury average daily volume to 
$168 billion, a 3% decrease in US repo to $212 billion and a 3% 
decrease in European repo to €175 billion.
Despite a buoyant comparable period, trading activity in on-the-run 
US Treasuries increased as a number of macroeconomic events in 
global financial markets drove activity in the US Treasury market. 
These included the Chinese government’s intervention in its local 
stock market, a large drop in the oil price and the speculation of  
a Federal Reserve rate rise. Nevertheless, the revenue benefit 
was partly offset by the BrokerTec tariff structure which provides 
for volume-based tiered pricing.
Trading activity in the secondary market for European government 
bonds has improved from the lows experienced at the end of the 
previous calendar year. Increasingly, activity is focused around 
new bond issuance as banks continue to hold less inventory  
and as the ECB quantitative easing programme has reduced  
bond availability.
Structural change in the form of new regulations continues to 
impact the US repo market and therefore further adjustments  
to bank balance sheet funding will be necessary. In the last 
quarter of 2015/16, trading activity in the European repo  
market benefited from increased volatility, demand for good 
quality collateral and a lack of supply from the buy side.
EBS BrokerTec continues to innovate and recently beta launched a 
new service, BrokerTec Direct, which provides relationship-based, 
disclosed liquidity to the fixed income market. BrokerTec Direct 
delivers increased trading opportunities by enabling liquidity 
providers to stream tailored prices directly to liquidity consumers 
in a disclosed environment. The service initially offers US Treasury 
actives and will extend to other fixed income products as well  
as other countries in the near future. BrokerTec Direct initially 
on-boarded four leading liquidity providers and more than  
40 liquidity consumers to the platform. Additional market  
makers are in the process of being integrated. 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
23
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17
GROWTH MILESTONES
instruments compared with the previous year. As a result  
dollar/CNH is now the third most actively traded currency  
pair on the platform after euro/dollar and dollar/yen.
In February, EBS Market announced that it is redesigning its 
premium FX market data service, EBS Live, and will move to 
streaming real-time market data. The EBS Live Ultra feed will 
provide significantly improved price discovery and transparency. 
The new service is in response to demand and consultation  
with customers who continue to work with EBS because of  
its deep liquidity.
EBS eFix, the matching service that enables customers to  
execute fix interest electronically on the EBS Market platform, 
has continued to demonstrate significant growth. Average  
daily volume (ADV) has increased by more than 260% over  
the previous year to more than $1 billion matched per day. 
EBS Direct, which launched in November 2013, is a platform  
that allows liquidity providers to stream tailored prices directly  
to liquidity consumers. Interest in the platform continues to  
grow and the platform has more than 33 liquidity providers  
and 460 liquidity consumers using the service, compared  
with 17 and 268 respectively last year. ADV on the platform 
increased to $20 billion in the last quarter of 2015/16  
compared with $15 billion in the same period last year. In 
December, FX forwards and swaps were launched in beta,  
a significant part of the FX market in which EBS has never 
previously participated, which delivers the ability to attract 
corporates and asset managers onto the platform. 
EBS 
EBS, an electronic FX platform, is a reliable and trusted source  
of executable and genuine liquidity across major and emerging 
market currencies. It has responded to changing market dynamics 
by transitioning from a business with a single offering to one that 
can support multiple execution methods and numerous ways of 
trading through a common distribution network.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue decreased by 5%  
on a constant currency basis and increased by 2% on a reported 
basis to £126 million (2014/15: £124 million). Despite episodic 
volatility in G3 currency pairs and high volatility in emerging 
markets, average daily volume decreased by 9% to $90 billion  
as higher trading activity following central bank actions in the 
previous year was not repeated.
EBS Market, the exchange-like central limit order book, remains the 
benchmark for the professional FX trading community, connecting 
buyers and sellers of currencies in more than 50 countries.  
EBS Market’s strategic efforts to gain early traction and  
create liquidity in both CNH and NDFs has proved successful  
with average daily volume growing by more than 55% in both 
STRATEGIC REPORT
RESULTS FOR 2015/16
continued
EBS Broker T ec – production innovation and expansion
New products and functionality – roadmap
Regional 
banks
Hedge  
funds
Customers
New  
front-end
Full Amount: 
EBS Direct
Corporates
Asset 
managers
Streaming 
market data: 
EBS Market
RFO:  
ADV EBS 
Direct/EBS  
Treasury
Forwards 
traders
Government 
institutions
One month 
against fix: 
EBS Market
Functionality
Products
EBS  
Direct:  
Spot
Iceberg 
Orders:
EBS Market
EBS 
Treasury: 
FX
eFix:  
EBS  
Market
Streaming 
prices:  
EBS Direct
EBS  
Direct:
Forwards
EBS Direct 
options
BrokerTec
Direct
EBS 
Treasury 
Commercial 
Paper
EBS 
Institutional
SGX Block 
Futures on 
EBS Market
EBS Direct Spot
27% growth
 ($13.8bn to $17.5bn ADV)
eFix
260% growth
($290m to $1.0bn ADV)
CNH
55% growth
($3.8bn to $5.9bn ADV)
NDFs
54% growth
($2.9bn to $4.4bn ADV)
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
24 POST TRADE RISK  
AND INFORMA TION
The Post Trade Risk and Information (PTRI) division operates 
leading market infrastructures for post trade processing and risk 
management across a number of asset classes and enables users 
of financial products to reduce operational and system-wide risks. 
The services offered by the PTRI division enable customers to 
increase the efficiency of trading, clearing and settlement and 
facilitate the effective management of capital and associated cost.
The portfolio risk services business comprises Reset and TriOptima 
which identify, neutralise, reconcile and remove risk within 
portfolios of derivatives transactions; Traiana, which provides  
pre trade risk and post trade processing solutions; and the 
information and data sales business.
During the year, the PTRI division invested £17 million in 
development in order to offer new products and enhance the 
functionality of existing services, of which £9 million was charged  
to the income statement.
In March the PTRI division announced that it had successfully 
completed a proof of technology test case for a distributed 
ledger using blockchain and smart contract technologies. The 
proof of technology demonstrated the potential to re-engineer 
processes and significantly transform post trade operations, while 
complying with new market practices within the post-crisis 
regulatory environment. Going forward, the PTRI division will 
assess how to realise technology savings using the blockchain 
technology while ensuring compliance with regulations intended  
to make markets safer and more efficient.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue increased by  
5% on a constant currency basis and increased by 7% on  
a reported basis to £245 million (2014/15: £228 million).  
The trading operating profit remained flat at £97 million 
(2014/15: £97 million) and the trading operating profit  
margin reduced by 3 percentage points to 40% primarily  
driven by continued investment in new solutions.
Revenue
2016
£m
2015
£m
 Change
%
TriOptima 72 67 7
Traiana 53 53 –
Reset 37 39 (5)
Information Services 83 69 20
Total – reported 245 228 7
 –  constant 
currency 233 5
Trading operating profit 97 97 –
Trading operating  
profit margin 40% 43% (3)ppt
The table above is presented on a total Group basis and, therefore, includes continuing 
and discontinued operations. See note 2 to the financial statements for a breakdown 
between continuing and discontinued operations.
Jenny Knott
Post Trade Risk and Information CEO
ICAP Information Services 
ICAP Information Services (IIS) leverages the Group’s 
unique position in the wholesale financial markets to 
provide access to an unrivalled array of OTC market 
information including high-quality pricing, live and 
historical trade data and a variety of compliance,  
risk and research solutions.
The IIS product offering and development strategy  
have expanded to meet the evolution in market demand. 
IIS has continued to broaden its distribution options.
IIS launched the BrokerTec European government bonds 
(EGB) premium pricing data product which provides  
EGB order book and trade prices on over 1,000 bonds in  
10 countries, aiding price discovery and helping customers 
conduct effective historical analysis of the EGB market.  
The indices and benchmarks offering has been developed  
to include two new indices. The ICAP Euro Interest Rate 
Swap Index is intended to track the return of a strategy that 
invests in euro interest rate swaps. The index incorporates 
proprietary ICAP transaction prices that are published on 
ISDA reference pages. The Sterling Repo Index Rate aims  
to provide a measurement of effective cost of funding 
through repo trades in the UK government bond market.  
It is a solution developed by IIS in response to market demand. 
“ PTRI is an aligned group 
of businesses providing  
a complementary  
suite of solutions to 
customers across the 
transaction life cycle.”
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
25
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report TriOptima
TriOptima, through triReduce and triResolve, is a leader in  
risk mitigation solutions for OTC derivatives, primarily through  
the elimination and reconciliation of outstanding transactions.  
It continues to benefit from the strategic alignment of its 
offerings with the G20 policy objectives of transparency  
and risk reduction in the financial system.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue increased by  
14% on a constant currency basis and by 7% on a reported  
basis to £72 million (2014/15: £67 million) driven by increased 
participation in triReduce portfolio compression cycles and the 
uptake of the portfolio reconciliation service, triResolve.
During the year triReduce terminated $168 trillion of gross 
notional outstanding (201 4/1 5: $1 50 trillion). The more stringent 
leverage ratio included within the Basel III rules continues to  
drive demand from banks for the triReduce compression service. 
Since launch, more than 210 financial institutions worldwide  
have participated in eliminating $768 trillion in total notional 
outstanding from the OTC derivatives market. This significant 
achievement includes compression across a broad spectrum  
of products: cleared and uncleared interest rate products in  
27 currencies, credit default swaps, commodity swaps, inflation 
swaps, cross-currency swaps and FX forwards. Currently 
TriOptima delivers triReduce compression for cleared trades  
in collaboration with leading clearing houses including LCH,  
SGX, Nasdaq and CME. TriOptima also offers triReduce to  
CLS members for FX forwards. 
In March, triReduce announced that 18 SwapClear members had 
compressed 40% of outstanding notional and 49% of outstanding 
trades in Polish zloty (PLN) interest rate swaps and forward rate 
agreements in the largest PLN triReduce compression cycle that 
SwapClear has run to date. The local and international participants 
eliminated 2.6 trillion PLN/$654 billion in the multilateral triReduce 
cycle. In January, triReduce announced the first inflation swap 
compression cycle terminating $98 billion notional in inflation index 
swaps for the EU. 
Strong demand for triResolve, the reconciliation service, continues 
to be driven by both standard portfolio reconciliation, as required 
by regulation, and the new repository reconciliation service to 
validate reported data. For repository reconciliation triResolve 
supports interfaces to trade repositories globally. The number of 
institutions using the triResolve service has increased from 1,380 
during 2015/16 to more than 1,680 who participate in 384,000 
party-to-party reconciliations each month (2014/15: 330,000).
In July 2015, TriOptima announced the launch of triResolve 
Margin, a margin processing solution delivered in collaboration 
with AcadiaSoft which will enable customers to easily access an 
automated, streamlined tool to reduce fragmented and manual 
processing. triResolve Margin assists customers in meeting the 
STRATEGIC REPORT
RESULTS FOR 2015/16
continued
Post T rade Risk and Information – Ecosystem
Traiana: simplifies and automates 
cross-asset transaction workflow  
and distribution for messaging, 
matching, credit, risk and reporting.
TriOptima: minimises credit and 
operational risk, reduces costs and 
improves counterparty exposure 
management through a suite of 
portfolio compression, reconciliation, 
margining and valuation tools.
Reset: reduces basis risk within 
portfolios from fixings or exposure 
imbalances in numerous markets 
including interest rate, FX and  
inflation products.
Information Services: provider  
of transaction, market, customer 
focused data and analytics.
Euclid Opportunities: identifies and 
provides investment to emerging 
financial technology firms that drive 
efficiency, transparency and scale 
across the post trade life cycle.
TRAIANA
TriOptima
ENSO RESET
ICAP 
INFORMATION 
SERVICES
PORTFOLIO  
DATA  
ANALYTICS
PORTFOLIO 
COMPRESSION  
& VALUATION
PORTFOLIO 
RECONCILIATION  
& MARGINING
RISK 
MITIGATION
TRADE 
AGGREGATION  
AND 
CONFIRMATION
ORDER AND  
TRADE DATA
NETWORKS
Transaction Data
Portfolio Portfolio
ABIDE 
FINANCIAL
(2)
Regulatory  
reporting  
specialist
DUCO
(2)
Reconciliation 
on demand
ACADIASOFT
(2)
Collateral  
processing
CCPs CSDs
(1)
Buyside
Sellside
Custodians
OPENGAMMA
(2)
Risk
analytics
DIGITAL ASSET 
HOLDINGS
(2)
Developer of 
distributed ledger 
technology
CLOUD 9 
TECHNOLOGIES
(2)
Cloud-based  
voice trading 
platform
(1)
 Central Securities Depositories       
(2)
 Minority strategic investments under Euclid
Portfolio
Focus: An aligned group of businesses providing a complementary suite of solutions to customers across the transaction life cycle
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
26 challenges posed by the new regulatory requirements for 
margining uncleared OTC derivatives by automating the margin 
process in a comprehensive, scalable and cost-effective solution. 
ICAP increased its investment in AcadiaSoft, a Euclid investment, 
in July 2015.
Traiana 
Traiana operates the leading market infrastructure for pre and 
post trade risk management and post trade processing across 
multiple asset classes. Its solutions and the Harmony network 
have become the market standard for post trade processing  
of FX, exchange-traded derivatives, fixed income, CDS, and 
synthetic and cash equity transactions. Traiana’s Harmony 
network connects more than 750 global banks, broker/dealers,  
buyside firms and trading platforms.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue decreased by 4%  
on a constant currency basis and remained flat on a reported 
basis at £53 million (2014/15: £53 million) as the reduction  
in FX-related volume-based services was only partly offset  
by the increase in other subscription-based services. 
Traiana continues to innovate, grow and diversify its business into 
other asset classes, delivering network-based solutions for all 
financial market participants, while also continuing to innovate in  
FX. In August, Traiana reached a key milestone in the development 
of its CreditLink service which was used to check credit limits for  
an FX NDF trade on a SEF. In September, in partnership with 
Bloomberg, Traiana announced plans to develop straight-through 
processing infrastructure to further streamline the workflow of 
FX options. The solution integrates Traiana’s Harmony messaging 
network with Bloomberg’s trade processing tools.
In March, ICAP announced that the PTRI division had made a series 
of enhancements that will significantly expand its existing suite  
of regulatory services to offer customers an end-to-end menu  
of products which meet MiFIR/MiFID II cross-asset reporting  
and processing obligations. The enhanced solutions leverage 
connectivity and build on functionality delivered by Traiana, for 
similar requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, EMIR and other 
global regulatory regimes. The new service suite includes the 
provision of trade certainty for venue executed trades, trade  
and transaction report submission to Approved Publication 
Arrangements and Approved Reporting Mechanisms respectively, 
and global CCP connectivity for OTC executed trades.
Reset 
Reset is a provider of services that reduce the basis risk within 
portfolios from fixings in the interest rate, FX and inflation 
derivatives and bond markets. Basis risk results from the 
structure of the instruments traded and unintended  
mismatches of exposure over time. 
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue decreased by 12% 
on a constant currency basis and by 5% on a reported basis to 
£37 million (2014/15: £39 million) as the core business continues 
to be affected by low short dated interest rate volatility and 
further dampened volatility as a result of the ECB’s quantitative 
easing programme. The reduction in revenue was partly offset by 
increased demand for the Reset service in September, as market 
commentators speculated about the timing of an increase in US 
interest rates. This was repeated in the run-up to the actual rate 
rise by the Federal Reserve in December.
ICAP Information Services
ICAP Information Services (IIS) delivers independent data 
solutions to financial market participants. ICAP Indices, the  
index arm of IIS, develops and publishes a range of transaction-
broked indices. IIS generates subscription-based fees from a 
diversified global suite of products and services, while ICAP 
Indices’ fee structure is based on assets under management  
of the products which are linked to the proprietary indices as  
well as licensing other index administrators for the use of ICAP 
data in their indices.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue increased by 14%  
on a constant currency basis and 20% on a reported basis to 
£83 million (2014/15: £69 million) partly driven by a change to 
bill some customers directly, increasing both revenue and the 
related operating expenses. The IIS product and service range 
includes real-time and historical data from the Group’s electronic 
trading venues, EBS and BrokerTec, and the Global Broking 
division as well as from partners.
IIS has continued to both broaden its distribution throughout 
global financial markets and develop its product suite based  
on customer demand and market trends. During the period,  
IIS extended the delivery of real-time EBS data directly to 
customers and through new licensed distributors.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
27
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT
RESULTS FOR 2015/16
continued
Euclid Opportunities
PURPOSE
To build a portfolio  
of early-stage  
fintech firms
which provide the 
potential over time  
to become
next generation 
market structure 
technology companies
– Synergies, leverage and adjacencies emerging across PTRI
– Businesses complementary to PTRI ecosystem
STATUS
–  Market’s need for new platforms, operating models and methods 
– Regulation, efficiency, standardisation and transparency
–  Accelerating technology trends 
– Cloud, data analytics, open models, parallel computing and machine learning
DRIVERS
INVESTMENTS
Euclid Opportunities
ICAP is building a portfolio of early-stage technology investments 
within Euclid Opportunities. It identifies and provides investment 
to emerging financial technology (fintech) firms providing new 
platforms, business models and technologies that have the 
potential to drive efficiency, transparency and scale across the 
transaction life cycle for the financial services industry and are 
complementary to Newco’s products.
During the period, Euclid Opportunities invested in Abide Financial, 
a market-leading regulatory reporting specialist, Digital Asset 
Holdings, a provider of distributed ledger technology and Cloud9,  
a cloud-based trading communication provider. In addition,  
Euclid made a further investment in Duco, a global provider  
of data control services and AcadiaSoft, an industry collaboration  
to automate collateral management. 
In April 2016, ICAP announced it had acquired ENSO Financial 
Analytics – a portfolio analytics provider to asset managers and 
hedge funds. Euclid made its first investment in ENSO in June 
2013, which was followed by a subsequent investment in October 
2014 to enable further growth of the business. ENSO will become 
a subsidiary of ICAP’s PTRI division.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
28 efficiently manage corporate bond positions and, in March 2016, 
launched CrossTrade on TrueQuote, a new portal for buyside 
customers after a successful pilot.
Rates
The rates business comprises interest rate derivatives, government 
bonds and repos. Rate products contribute the largest share of 
Global Broking’s revenue (35%) of which interest rate derivatives 
represent the most significant component. For the year ended 
31 March 2016, revenue decreased by 4% on a reported basis. 
ICAP’s interest rate derivatives franchise remained strong  
with i-Swap forming an integral part of the hybrid offering in  
G3 interest rate swaps. Low interest rates and a reduced risk 
appetite from bank customers continued to dampen market 
activity. Trading activity in dollar interest rate swaps decreased 
year-on-year despite the long-awaited increase in the US Federal 
funds rate in December which was well anticipated and generated 
only modest activity. Revenue from euro interest rate swaps also 
decreased as the prior year benefited from the volatility around 
the introduction of quantitative easing. 
Trading activity in US government bonds increased on the prior 
year as global market uncertainty drove a flight to quality especially 
in the fourth quarter. Activity in European government bonds 
continued to be hampered by a reduction in risk appetite and bank 
customers’ balance sheet constraints. Global market uncertainty 
boosted repo activity in the Americas, a market which is heavily 
focused on the short term. The Relative Value business launched 
in August 2014 continued to grow and expand its footprint.
Commodities
The commodities business comprises energy (including refined 
products, electricity, natural gas, crude oil, coal and alternative 
fuels), environmental markets, forward freight derivatives, metals, 
agricultural and soft commodities.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue increased by 3%  
on a reported basis. Refined products make up the majority of 
the oils business and experienced moderate growth, while the 
smaller crude oil business was impacted by reduced hedging 
activity in addition to a tough comparable period in 2014/15. 
Trading activity in iron ore nearly doubled as extreme volatility 
broadened the customer base for hedging instruments in Asia. 
Growth in trading activity in freight and US electricity was partly 
offset by decreased activity in natural gas, ethanol and coal 
volumes. UK and European natural gas was impacted by 
commission rate pressure from low cost competitors, while 
downward price pressure from over-supply continued to hamper 
the US natural gas market.
After many market participants delayed hedging activity in the 
autumn seeking higher winter prices, the second half of the year 
saw improved US electricity volumes as necessary hedging could 
no longer be deferred. UK and European electricity volumes 
remained steady as compared to the prior year.
Emerging markets
ICAP is active in emerging markets across Asia Pacific, Latin 
America, central and eastern Europe and Africa. Emerging market 
revenue includes domestic activity in local markets and cross-
border activity in globally traded emerging market money and 
interest rate products. 
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue decreased  
by 10% on a reported basis.
In addition to low global market volatility, economic and political 
concerns dampened trading activity in Latin America and central 
Europe. After a strong start to the year, growth in offshore 
renminbi-related products slowed in the second half although 
there was an increase in trading activity in other Asian products 
GLOBAL BROKING
Global Broking provides services to wholesale markets across  
a wide range of geographies and asset classes. ICAP’s brokers 
leverage their deep customer relationships, help identify potential 
trading interest, access liquidity and facilitate price discovery in  
a vast array of financial instruments. 
The commentary below excludes closed desks.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue decreased by 5%  
on a constant currency basis and by 3% on a reported basis to 
£687 million. The ongoing combination of structural and cyclical 
factors, including historically low and negative interest rates, low 
levels of volatility, and bank deleveraging resulting in reduced risk 
appetite from bank customers, continue to act as headwinds for 
the business. Global economic uncertainties and oil price reductions 
have generated spikes in activity but overall market activity 
remains subdued.
Investments in e-commerce and Global Broking’s hybrid footprint 
have driven a 14% increase in matching revenue. During the year, 
Global Broking launched Scrapbook, allowing customers to 
David Casterton
Global Broking CEO
Revenue by asset class
2016
£m
2015
£m
 Change
%
Rates 244 254 (4)
Commodities 119 116 3
Emerging markets 112 125 (10)
Equities 109 103 6
FX and money markets 68 73 (7)
Credit 35 39 (10)
Closed desks 7 79 n/a
Total – reported 694 789 (12)
 –  c o n s t a n t 
currency 805 (14)
Trading operating profit 46 62 (26)
Trading operating  
profit margin 7% 8% (1)ppt
The table above is presented on total Group basis and, therefore, includes continuing 
and discontinued operations. See note 2 to the financial statements for a breakdown 
between continuing and discontinued operations.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
29
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report Global Broking strategy
Following the 2014/15 cost review, Global Broking 
developed a strategic plan for the business, designed to 
support our vision to be the leading and most respected 
global broker in professional markets. The strategy will 
deliver the expertise of our specialist brokers with 
bespoke technology, providing an integrated service 
that the markets of today require. It focuses on our 
people, customers and innovation, in particular regarding 
e-commerce solutions. We have demonstrated our 
strategy in action with the launch of a cleared Exchange 
For Physical solution, giving us dominant market share  
in that product. With Scrapbook we have enabled our 
customers to more efficiently manage their balance 
sheet positions. CrossTrade expands our customer base to 
the buy side, providing them with a portfolio optimisation 
solution which has seen positive take up and which is 
expected to grow significantly in the next 12 months.
During 2015/16 we undertook a comprehensive review  
of our business IT function which encompassed people, 
change, data and systems in order to drive efficiencies 
through streamlining the development process, improving 
our change management decisions and rationalising our 
systems. We also reviewed our IT governance processes  
and improved stakeholder engagement in IT.
During the second half of the year, many of our employees 
have been engaged in both the separation of the Global 
Broking business from ICAP and its planned integration  
with Tullett Prebon. This complex exercise involving many 
interdisciplinary teams across the business and infrastructure 
functions has progressed well, in anticipation of the 
Transaction closing later this year.
due to uncertainty over the Chinese economy. Matching sessions 
continue to boost revenue in NDFs and generate a high portion  
of revenue in emerging market credit products.
Equities
The equities business principally comprises equity derivatives.  
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue increased by 6%  
on a reported basis.
Equity market volatility drove revenue growth but extreme 
volatility actually led to periods of reduced activity at times. 
Summer volatility in the equity markets boosted performance 
especially in the Americas, while significant growth in the Hong 
Kong equity derivatives marketplace was driven by the volatility 
in China. The launch of technology solutions in equity derivatives 
continued to improve the market position of the business.
FX and money markets
The FX and money markets business comprises spot, forwards 
and cash products. For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue 
decreased by 7% on a reported basis.
Illiquid FX markets driven by the continuation of the low interest 
rate environment and a low risk appetite negatively impacted 
trading activity. Asia Pacific benefited from a restructuring of  
its FX presence in Singapore and Australia. Cash trading in the 
Americas remains strong driven by its positioning as the short-
term funding tool of choice in the market.
Credit
The credit business comprises corporate bonds. 
For the year ended 31 March 2016, revenue decreased by  
10% on a reported basis. Inventory shift from banks to buyside, 
driven by balance sheet constraints, remains a headwind for the 
business. Activity in high-yield instruments was stronger than 
investment grade bonds as investors sought greater returns. 
In response to a lack of liquidity in the corporate bond market, 
Global Broking launched Scrapbook and expects to launch  
I-Sam (ICAP’s sponsored access for corporate bonds initiative)  
in the first quarter of 2016/17. Scrapbook allows traders to 
efficiently manage corporate bond positions which are available 
via Global Broking’s e-commerce portal.
STRATEGIC REPORT
RESULTS FOR 2015/16
continued
INFORMATION
Intelligence on markets 
where information is 
difficult to find
TRANSPARENCY
Transparency of 
information to  
all market  
participants
EXECUTION
Execution at  
the best price
LIQUIDITY
Discrete liquidity  
sourcing
DISCRETION
Acting as a smart  
filter for customers
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
30 Trading profit before tax
The results for the 2015/16 section of the strategic report  
(pages 22 to 30) focus on the Group’s divisional revenue and 
trading operating profit. Management plans and reviews the 
financial performance of the business using trading results  
that exclude acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items 
(see the basis of preparation note to the financial statements).  
We choose to focus on trading results as we believe that it provides  
a clearer view of the business performance and in particular is 
expected to convert fully into cash over the medium term.
In November 2015, we announced that we had entered into a 
Transaction which will, when completed, involve the disposal of 
our global hybrid voice broking and information business, including 
our associated technology and broking platforms (including i-Swap 
and Fusion), certain of our joint ventures and our associates 
(IGBB), to Tullett Prebon. For the year ended 31 March 2016,  
the Group’s performance is therefore reported in the Group 
consolidated income statement separately for continuing and 
discontinued operations (net of tax). Discontinued operations 
consist of financials attributable to IGBB, adjusted for certain 
provisions in the SPA. The table below provides a breakdown  
of the Group’s performance for the year.
The Group’s £221 million trading operating profit (2014/15: 
£252 million) converted to a trading profit before tax of 
£203 million (2014/15: £229 million) after deducting net  
finance costs of £25 million (2014/15: £31 million) and  
recording a share of profit of joint ventures and associates  
after tax of £7 million (2014/15: £8 million). 
Trading net finance costs were £25 million for the year, £6 million 
lower than the prior year primarily reflecting the higher cost of the 
€300 million eurobond (settled in July 201 4) and the double running 
of bonds in the prior year. See note 9 to the financial statements.
Stuart Bridges
Group Finance Director
A highly cash generative 
business creating  
long-term value.
FINANCIAL  
REVIEW
Year ended 31 March 2016 Year ended 31 March 2015
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Group
£m 
Continuing
£m
Discontinued
£m
Group
£m
Trading operating profit 139 82 221 154 98 252
Net finance costs (29) 4 (25) (32) 1 (31)
Share of profit of joint ventures after tax 1 3 4 (1) 5 4
Share of profit of associates after tax (1) 4 3 1 3 4
Trading profit before tax 110 93 203 122 107 229
Tax (23) (20) (43) (26) (18) (44)
Trading profit for the year 87 73 160 96 89 185
Acquisition and disposal costs, net of tax (58) – (58) (41) (3) (44)
Exceptional items, net of tax (7) (27) (34) (15) (42) (57)
Profit for the year 22 46 68 40 44 84
Trading EPS (basic) 24.6p 28.7p
Full-year dividend per share 22.0p 22.0p
The discontinued profit after tax is presented on one line in the consolidated income statement. A separate discontinued income statement is presented in note 4 to the financial statements.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
31
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
continued
Trading profit before tax of £203 million includes £1 10 million from 
continuing operations (2014/15: £122 million) and £93 million 
from discontinued operations (2014/15: £107 million). The 
continuing income statement is not reflective of the financials of 
Newco going forward. The Group expects to receive dividend 
income for its investment in TP ICAP. 
The £26 million decrease in trading profit before tax includes an 
£11 million year-on-year adverse movement from FX losses. 
Excluding the FX loss, trading profit before tax was down 7% on 
the prior year. Trading profit before tax was adversely affected by 
increased investment in the development of new products and 
solutions across the business, which offset the synergies realised 
in the year from the prior year cost savings programme.
Tax on trading profit
0 5 10 15 20 25
2014
2016
21%
22%
2015
19%
ETR (%)
The Group’s tax charge of £43 million on trading profit before tax 
represents an ETR of 21% (2014/15: 19%). The ETR primarily 
reflects the various statutory tax rates applied to taxable profits  
in territories in which the Group operates.
The trading ETR is 2 percentage points higher than the prior year 
primarily driven by certain one-off adjustments in the prior year.
The Group manages its tax affairs in accordance with its  
tax strategy. The tax strategy was presented to the Audit 
Committee during the year (see the Audit Committee report 
in the governance section on pages 48 to 50).
Acquisition and disposal costs 
Acquisition and disposal costs in the year were £74 million 
(2014/15: £59 million) before a tax credit of £16 million 
(2014/15: £15 million). 
The continuing acquisition and disposal costs of £74 million 
include £25 million of impairment charges relating to our 
investments in certain non-core associates (2014/15: £nil), 
£38 million of amortisation charges on acquired intangibles 
(2014/15: £55 million), and a £9 million write down on 
reclassification of the shipping business to held for sale. During 
the year the Group undertook a review of the recoverability  
of its investments in non-core associates, in particular those  
that are associated with the voice broking business but will  
be retained by Newco. The review resulted in £25 million of 
impairment charges relating to the Group’s investment in Howe 
Robinson Partners Pte Ltd, BSN Holdings Limited and Capital 
Shipbrokers Limited. 
Other intangibles attributable to TriOptima were fully amortised 
in the prior year which explains the £17 million decrease in 
amortisation charges in the year. For a more detailed breakdown 
of the Group’s acquisition and disposal costs see notes 2 and 14 
to the financial statements. 
Exceptional items 
The Group discloses separately items that are non-recurring and 
material in terms of both size and nature. This allows appropriate 
visibility of these items and reflects how information is reviewed by 
management. It allows focus on the Group’s trading performance, 
as well as due attention specifically on the exceptional items. 
For the year to March 2016 exceptional items were £40 million 
(2014/15: £75 million) before a tax credit of £6 million (2014/15: 
£18 million). This includes £9 million relating to continuing 
operations (2014/15: £16 million) and £31 million relating to 
discontinued operations (2014/15: £59 million).
The discontinued exceptional costs represent Transaction-related 
costs including costs of sale and separation costs that were incurred 
and provided at 31 March 2016. The provision at 31 March 2016 
does not include those Transaction-related costs which do not 
meet the provision recognition criteria. The £9 million continuing 
exceptional costs relate to exiting non-core businesses within 
Electronic Markets and are therefore presented in the continuing 
income statement.
The prior year costs principally related to the prior year restructuring 
programme of £60 million and the remaining £15 million related 
to regulatory matters including an £11 million provision relating  
to a €14.9 million (£10.9 million) fine imposed by the European 
Commission for alleged competition violations in relation to  
yen Libor.
For further information, see note 3 to the financial statements.
Trading EPS and dividend
Trading EPS (basic) is calculated based on the trading profit  
for the year. 
Management believes that trading EPS (basic) is the most 
appropriate EPS measurement ratio for the Group as this most 
closely reflects the ongoing generation of cash attributable to 
shareholders and in turn the Group’s ability to fund sustainable 
dividends. In line with this the Remuneration Committee  
considers trading EPS (basic) in its review of management 
performance and uses that metric in the remuneration of  
the executive directors; see the remuneration report on  
pages 59 to 70. 
The Group reported a trading EPS of 24.60p per share, a 
decrease of 14% on the prior year driven by a combination  
of a decrease in the trading profit before tax and the increase  
in the ETR. See note 5 to the financial statements. 
The directors recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 15.40p per share.  
If approved, the ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 22 July 2016 to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1 July 
2016. The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 30 June 2016.
The full-year dividend will be 22.00p (2014/15: 22.00p) 
including the payment of the 6.60p interim dividend on 
5 February 2016. The full-year dividend per share is covered  
1.1 times (2014/15: 1.3 times) by trading EPS of 24.60p.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
32 Application of free cash flow 
Cash flow from trading activities of £216 million (2014/15: 
£276 million) was used to pay £141 million in dividends 
to shareholders as the Group continues to maintain strong 
dividend payments. 
Capital expenditure of £71 million includes £66 million invested  
in technology assets. Additionally, £93 million of cash spend on 
technology during the year was directly charged to the income 
statement. ICAP’s market-leading position has been achieved and 
maintained through substantial investment over many years in 
technology and market user infrastructure. ICAP is committed  
to maintaining a high level of investment in technology assets, 
especially in growth areas in the Electronic Markets and PTRI 
divisions, over the coming years as we continue our drive to 
improve and widen our product offerings to our customers.
Free cash flow 
The Group’s free cash flow conversion for the year was 96% 
(2014/15: 121%) of the Group’s trading profit. Cash generated 
from operating activities before exceptional items of £273 million 
was £69 million lower than the prior year. The decrease was 
driven by a combination of a lower trading EBITDA and adverse 
year-on-year working capital movements. See note 11 to the 
financial statements. 
Free cash flow
Year ended 
31 March 
2016 
£m
Year ended 
31 March 
2015 
£m
 (re-presented)*
Cash generated from operating activities** 273 342
Interest and tax (57) (66)
Cash ﬂow from trading activities 216 276
Capital expenditure (71) (57)
Dividends from associates,  
joint ventures and investments 9 6
Trading free cash flow 154 225
Free cash flow conversion (%) 96% 121%
* Before exceptional items.
**  Re-presented to exclude effects of short-term timing differences arising from unsettled 
matched principal trades as at 31 March 2016.
Balance sheet highlights
The Group’s net assets as at 31 March 2016 were £1,018 million (2014/15: £1,018 million). 
The retained deficit in the year of £73 million (net of £141 million dividends) was offset by £61 million of gains arising from favourable 
FX movements and £12 million of other favourable movements in reserves.
As at 31 March  
2016
As at 31 March 
2015
Continuing
£m
Held for sale
£m
Group
£m
Group
£m
Net assets
Intangible assets arising on consolidation 826 83 909 930
Cash and cash equivalents 157 359 516 481
Borrowings (583) (81) (664) (549)
Restricted funds 26 33 59 43
Other net assets 60 138 198 113
Total net assets 486 532 1,018 1,018
The assets and liabilities attributable to IGBB are presented as held for sale assets and liabilities on the face of the consolidated balance 
sheet which net to £532 million.
The Group’s financial position is presented separately for the IGBB business from the retained Group in the consolidated balance sheet 
(see page 81). Assets and liabilities attributable to IGBB, subject to certain provisions in the SPA, are disclosed on the balance sheet  
in two separate line items: held for sale assets and held for sale liabilities. The continuing balance sheet is not reflective of the balance 
sheet of the retained Goup going forward. On completion, the Group will receive £330 million of cash from the enlarged Tullett Prebon 
and will recognise an available-for-sale investment equal to the fair value of its stake in the enlarged Tullett Prebon.
The significant balance sheet line items, including intangible assets arising on consolidation, trade receivables and payables, cash and cash 
equivalents and borrowings are discussed on pages 34 and 35, together with regulatory capital.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
33
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report  Intangible assets arising on consolidation
Intangible assets arising on consolidation
£m
 Electronic Markets
 Post Trade Risk and Information
507
319
Total 826
The continuing Group’s goodwill and other intangible assets arising 
from consolidation as at 31 March 2016 were £826 million 
(2014/15: £930 million). During the year, £92 million of goodwill 
primarily attributable to IGBB was transferred to held for sale. 
Other intangible assets were amortised by £38 million (2014/15: 
£55 million) during the year. 
The board reviewed the Group’s goodwill and other intangible 
assets arising on consolidation for impairment as at 31 March 
2016 and concluded that there was no impairment at that date.
The review was based on certain estimates and assumptions, 
including future cash flow projections and discount rates. The 
Audit Committee challenged management’s judgements and 
estimates and has approved the appropriateness of management 
assumptions. See the report of the Audit Committee in the 
governance section on pages 48 to 50 .
Trade receivables and payables
The increase in trade receivables and payables is principally due  
to a change in clearing arrangements for certain US Treasuries 
within BrokerTec. This resulted in an increase in matched principal 
receivables and payables.
As at 
31 March 
2016
£m
 As at 
31 March 
2015 
£m
Receivables
Continuing 59,322 –
Held for sale assets 20,788 23,351
80,110 23,351
Payables
Continuing (59,322) –
Held for sale liabilities (20,738) (23,307)
(80,060) (23,307)
Net 50 44
STRATEGIC REPORT
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
continued
Liquidity and funding
The Group’s overall funding position at 31 March 2016  
remains strong. 
The gross debt position, including that of IGBB, increased by 
£1 15 million to £664 million as at 31 March 2016. This position 
includes overdrafts of £83 million (2014/15: £33 million),  
net of fees. The increase relates to the £1 10 million drawdown  
of the revolving credit facility (less fees of £2 million), the  
Japanese yen loan of £62 million, a £25 million adverse impact  
of FX and the £50 million increase in overdrafts driven by short-
term timing differences arising as a result of unsettled matched 
principal trades as at 31 March 2016, which subsequently reversed 
within a few days. The adverse movement was partially offset by a 
£1 30 million repayment of the guaranteed subordinated loan notes 
in June 2015. As at 31 March 2016, the Group had committed 
undrawn headroom under its core credit facilities of £315 million 
(2014/15: £425 million). The Group agreed an extension of the 
maturity date on its revolving credit facility to March 2018. 
In November 201 5, following the announcement of the Transaction 
with Tullett Prebon, Moody’s changed its outlook for the Group 
from negative to stable while its rating remained as Baa3. Fitch 
maintained its rating of BBB (stable) throughout the year.
Cash*
£m
 Cash held in regulated 
 trading entities
 Cash held in unregulated entities
494
61
 Cash held in central treasury function20
Total 575
Cash held by segment*
£m
 Electronic Markets
 Post Trade Risk and Information
138
30
 Global Broking 387
Total 555
*   Cash includes cash and cash equivalents of £516 million and £59 million of restricted funds.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
34 Regulatory capital
ICAP operates its business under an investment firm waiver, 
which currently runs until December 2017. The waiver modifies 
the basis on which regulatory capital is assessed and, at 
31 March 2016, ICAP had £0.8 billion (2014/15: £0.7 billion)  
of headroom on this basis. The effect of the waiver is to exclude 
goodwill and other intangibles from the assessment and, in doing 
so, allows the Group to undertake acquisitions using debt rather 
than equity finance. In the event that the waiver was not renewed, 
applying a consolidated approach would increase the regulatory 
capital requirement by approximately £0.5 billion which, in line 
with recent precedent, would most likely be met through  
retained profit over time.
Following the disposal of IGBB, it is expected that the  
retained Group will not be subject to consolidated regulatory 
capital requirements. 
ICAP operates 43 regulated subsidiaries globally. Each is  
locally capitalised and regulated. Together these entities  
hold £494 million of cash (including restricted funds) of  
which £348 million (2014/15: £357 million) is held by the  
Global Broking business. Electronic Markets and PTRI hold 
£126 million (2014/15: £55 million) and £20 million  
(2014/15: £18 million) respectively.
Strategic report approval
The strategic report was approved by the board and signed  
on its behalf by:
Stuart Bridges
Group Finance Director
16 May 2016
(150)
(100)
(50)
0
50
100
150
(29)
(68)
154
(40)
(17)
(141)
31 March 2015 Trading free
cash ﬂow
Timing
dierences
Dividends paid
to shareholders
Acquisitions Exceptional
items
Net debt (£m)
(7)
FX and other
(148)
31 March 2016
Net debt
Net debt, including that of IGBB, increased by £80 million in the year to £148 million as at 31 March 2016. The increase in net debt 
was principally driven by £40 million short-term timing differences arising from unsettled matched principal trades which reversed 
subsequently within a few days. The remainder was a result of a combination of factors including £17 million of further investments  
in new businesses in the PTRI division and a £29 million payment in relation to one-off Transaction-related costs and payout in relation 
to last year’s global broking restructuring programme. 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
35
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report Dear shareholders,
In November 2015, we announced that we had entered  
into the Transaction which will, when completed, involve the 
disposal of our global hybrid voice broking and information 
business to Tullett Prebon. We see our future as a financial 
technology company and a post trade services group. 
We, the board, questioned every step of the negotiations to  
make sure we had secured the best terms for our shareholders: 
we are satisfied that the Transaction will create value for you  
and your support at the shareholder meetings in March was  
most encouraging.
Many people in ICAP have been involved at various stages of the 
Transaction and I would like to thank them for their hard work. 
This includes members of the GEMG who, while still managing 
their businesses, committed a significant amount of time to the 
Transaction. On the board’s behalf, I would like to thank Michael  
in particular, for without his support and outstanding commitment 
the Transaction would not be happening.
Reinforcing culture
Advancing and maintaining the right corporate culture is  
a key part of the board’s agenda. We define our culture as  
our personality as it encapsulates what we value and believe  
in as an organisation and how we behave, both collectively  
and individually. There has been much discussion on the need  
for cultural change within the financial services industry.  
We have a strong culture already: what we must do now is  
reinforce it through clear articulation and greater alignment 
across all our businesses.
Our culture is underpinned by our commitment to the highest 
standards of professional conduct. This is essential to maintaining 
the trust of our customers and to achieving sustainable financial 
performance. During 2015/16 we have strengthened this 
foundation using a number of new measures. They include a new 
Group training programme which uses recently publicised cases 
within the financial services industry to highlight examples of 
unacceptable behaviour and the effect they have on individuals 
and the institutions they work for. These training tools have 
helped to define behavioural boundaries. 
The board monitors conduct risk and we are developing an 
aggregated dashboard to track our performance in this area.  
All this activity is supported by a strong ethos that good 
professional conduct must be the norm and is in all of our  
best interests. We do not tolerate misconduct which, should  
it occur, is dealt with swiftly and rigorously.
We strive to be a good 
investment, a great employer 
and a valued contributor to our 
communities, year after year. 
GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S  
STATEMENT
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
36 A review of our FX business during the year highlighted how 
effective we have been at instilling this culture within our 
organisation. The review formed part of an FCA planned cross-
market remediation exercise following enforcement action against 
a number of banks because of their business practices. I chaired 
the committee responsible for our internal review and am happy 
to report that our findings, overseen by external assessors, gave 
me confidence that we are setting high standards and have created 
an environment in which issues are quickly escalated and addressed.
Advancing investor relations 
It is important that our policies on pay are consistent with our 
values. We highlighted in our 2014 Annual Report that we would 
be introducing a new remuneration policy for executive directors 
with effect from 1 April 2015 to ensure that the structure going 
forward was aligned with the Company’s strategic objectives,  
in the long-term interests of shareholders and in line with best 
practice, including that of financial regulators. 
During the year we consulted with a number of shareholders 
representing more than 50% of our share capital together  
with relevant proxy advisory bodies, including Institutional 
Shareholder Services (ISS) which represents a number of 
institutional shareholders, on our remuneration proposals. 
Shareholders we consulted with were broadly supportive  
of our initial proposal and, in response to some comments,  
we made a number of small changes to the proposed plans. 
Due to a lack of engagement on ISS’s part, it was very difficult  
to consult with them until the design phase had all but been 
completed and the new arrangements were due to be 
implemented. The result was a lack of time to provide ISS with 
sufficient context to the changes and a recommendation from 
ISS to vote against both our remuneration policy and the 2015 
remuneration report. While we recognise that all proxy advisory 
bodies have limited resources with which to engage with FTSE 350 
companies, we do not feel it is appropriate for stewards of 
shareholdings, particularly of those held in tracker or index funds 
which, by their nature, have less opportunity to sell shares in those 
companies whose governance policies they do not approve of, to 
exercise their stewardship on important matters without a proper 
understanding of the background to proposals. 
As pressure has grown on institutional shareholders to exercise 
their voting rights, the providers of proxy voting services have 
become more influential. We understand why many institutional 
shareholders favour proxy voting and we try to have the same 
open and constructive dialogue with proxy voting firms on our 
corporate governance that we have with our own shareholders.
When a proxy firm recommends voting against a remuneration 
policy, going forward we would welcome the opportunity to 
address their concerns with our shareholders before the vote to 
ensure we can fully explain the rationale for the decisions made.  
I have written to ISS, one of the most active proxy voting firms, 
and to the FRC setting out my views, to ensure that proxy voting 
bodies fully understand the impact of their recommendations  
on companies and to ask for the fairer treatment of companies.
Strengthening our leadership
The board is committed to promoting good governance and ensuring 
that the Group’s leadership team possesses the appropriate skills 
and experience to deliver long-term shareholder value. 
We have made a number of significant appointments during the 
year. We welcomed Stuart Bridges to the board in September,  
as our new Group Finance Director, and Jenny Knott in August,  
as Chief Executive Officer of the PTRI division, and both became 
members of the GEMG. In November, Tim Cartledge, Chief 
Strategy Officer of EBS BrokerTec, Steve Gibson, Chief Executive 
Officer of Euclid Opportunities and Per SjÖ berg, Chief Executive 
Officer of TriOptima, were also appointed to the GEMG. These 
appointments strengthen the leadership of the Group; they all 
have strong track records in financial services and have had a 
positive impact on the Group.
Diane Schueneman resigned as a non-executive director with 
effect from 31 December 2015 because of her appointment  
and commitments as a non-executive director of Barclays PLC.  
I would like to thank Diane for her considerable contribution  
to the board and to the Group as a whole. As yet we have not 
appointed a new non-executive director as we will be reviewing 
the composition of the board in light of the changes to our 
business model following completion of the Transaction.
I am proud to be part of a board that has such high levels of 
engagement and enthusiasm. In my experience, having board 
members who are involved, accessible and approachable is 
essential to good governance. I enjoy coming into the office  
and being able to see for myself how our people go about  
their business.
The structure of the Group may be changing but our ambitions 
remain the same. We strive to be a good investment, a great 
employer and a valued contributor to our communities, year  
after year. Thank you for continuing to support these goals. 
Charles Gregson
Chairman
16 May 2016
In this governance and directors’ report
Leadership  
Read more, pages 40 and 41
Effectiveness  
Read more, pages 45 to 47
Accountability  
Read more, pages 48 to 53
Relations with shareholders  
Read more, pages 43 and 44
Remuneration  
Read more, pages 59 to 70
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
37
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report  Chairman
 Non-executive directors
 Executive directors
Balance of the board as at 31 March 2016
2
1
3
Chairman and non-executive directors’ tenure 
as at 31 March 2016
 1–3 years
 6+ years 
 3–6 years
1
1
2
GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
DIRECTORS’ 
BIOGRAPHIES
Board experience and diversity
All ICAP directors have a good understanding of the markets, 
regions, regulatory and risk management frameworks within which 
the Group operates as well as the technology it uses. The non-
executive directors all have international experience of ICAP’s 
business divisions. The biographies of the directors highlight  
the skills and experience each director brings to the board.
Other director during the year
Diane Schueneman Non-executive director (Age 64)
Appointed to the board:  
July 2010 
Resigned on 31 December 201 5
Independent:  
Yes  
Charles Gregson Non-executive Chairman (Age 68)
Appointed to the board: 
August 1998
Independent:  
No
Committees: G
 
N
 
Chairman
Skills and experience
Charles led the development of Garban plc from a small London-based FX 
and deposit broker to an international business with leading positions in  
FX, currency deposits, OTC derivatives, government and corporate bonds. 
Garban merged with Intercapital in 1998, becoming ICAP plc in 2001.
Charles brings considerable senior board level expertise and a thorough 
understanding of the importance of maintaining strong relationships  
with the institutional investor community, media and regulatory bodies. 
He has served on a number of boards in the financial services and media 
sectors including as non-executive chairman of St James’s Place plc and 
CPP Group plc and as deputy chairman of Provident Financial plc. Charles 
was also a non-executive director of United Business Media plc and  
PR Newswire Europe Limited. 
Charles holds a degree in Law from the University of Cambridge and 
qualified as a solicitor.
Other appointments
Charles is a non-executive director of Caledonia Investments plc and 
Non-Standard Finance plc. He is a director of ICAP Newco plc.
Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer (Age 60)
Appointed to the board: 
September 1999
Independent:  
No
Committees: G
 
N
 
Member
Skills and experience
Having worked in financial services for more than 30 years, Michael is  
well respected within the industry. He founded Intercapital in 1986 and 
became its Chairman and Chief Executive in October 1998. He chairs the 
GEMG, the executive committee responsible for the Group’s strategy and 
its implementation.
Michael brings immense knowledge and experience to the board. He has a 
deep understanding of the markets in which ICAP operates and substantial 
entrepreneurial and senior management expertise. Michael, together with 
IPGL and its subsidiary companies, is a substantial shareholder in the Company.
Michael was instrumental in founding ICAP’s Charity Day in 1993.  
To date, it has contributed nearly £127 million across more than 2,000 
charities worldwide. 
Michael holds a degree in Physics from the University of Oxford.
Other appointments
Michael is chairman of IPGL and is on the boards of many of its investments. 
He is the chairman of The Conservative Party Foundation Limited and  
a director of ICAP Newco plc.
Key to board committee membership
G
 
Governance 
N
 
Nomination
A
 
Audit 
R
 
Risk
Re
 
Remuneration
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
38 Stuart Bridges Group Finance Director (Age 55)
Appointed to the board: 
September 201 5
Independent:  
No
Committees: G
 
Member
Skills and experience
Prior to joining ICAP, Stuart was Chief Financial Officer at Hiscox Limited 
where he had been since 1999. He has held posts in various financial 
services companies in the UK and US, including Henderson Global 
Investors. Stuart brings wide ranging experience of implementing  
change and achieving business success and profitability.
Stuart helps lead the strategic direction of the Group and is responsible 
for the Group’s finance, company secretarial, investor relations and 
regulatory affairs functions. He chairs the GFC and is a member of  
the GEMG and the GOC. 
Stuart holds an MA degree in Engineering from the University  
of Cambridge and is a Chartered Accountant.
Other appointments
Stuart is a non-executive director of Caledonia Investments plc, a member 
of the Audit Committee of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in 
England and Wales and a member of the Finance Committee of The 
Royal Institution. He is a director of ICAP Newco plc.
Ivan Ritossa Non-executive director (Age 54)
Appointed to the board:  
July 2013
Independent:  
Yes
Committees: N
 
A
 
R
 
Re
 
Member
Skills and experience
Ivan has extensive electronic and voice market experience in FX, 
commodities, credit, prime services and equities and brings more  
than 30 years of global investment banking expertise to the board. 
Prior to joining ICAP, he served on the executive committee for  
Barclays Investment Bank, as a non-executive director of ABSA  
Group and an executive director of Barclays’ Saudi Arabia board.
Ivan has been a member of numerous industry committees including  
the New York Federal Reserve Foreign Exchange Committee, the  
Bank of England Foreign Exchange Joint Standing Committee and  
the Singapore Foreign Exchange Markets Committee. 
Ivan holds an honours degree in Finance from the University  
of New South Wales, Australia.
Other appointments
Ivan is a non-executive director of ICAP Global Derivatives Limited  
and ICAP SEF (US) LLC. He is chairman of Exotix Partners.
John Sievwright Senior independent director (Age 61)
Appointed to the board:  
July 2009
Independent:  
Yes 
Committees: A
 
R
 
Chairman G
 
N
 
Re
 
Member 
Skills and experience
John has extensive experience in investment banking including a 20-year 
career with Bank of America Merrill Lynch (formerly Merrill Lynch) where  
he held a number of senior management positions including that of Chief 
Operating Officer, International, based in New York, Tokyo and London.  
He was previously senior independent director of FirstGroup plc and  
was chairman of its audit committee. John brings extensive financial  
and operational experience of the financial services sector to the board.
John holds an MA degree in Accounting and Economics from the 
University of Aberdeen and is a member of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants in Scotland.
Other appointments
John has no other appointments.
Robert Standing Non-executive director (Age 56)
Appointed to the board:  
July 2010
Independent:  
Yes
Committees: Re
 
Chairman N
 
A
 
R
 
Member 
Skills and experience
Robert is a principal of LDF Advisers LLP which was founded within the 
JPMorgan group in 1995 and spun out in 2002. Robert joined Chemical 
Bank in 1982, spending two years developing new products before 
joining the Capital Markets division in 1985. Following acquisitions  
by JPMorgan, he worked in a range of roles before becoming Head  
of Fixed Income and Foreign Exchange for EMEA in 1998.
Robert is one of the founders of the Hedge Fund Standards Board. He 
has extensive product knowledge and senior management experience. 
Robert holds a degree in Engineering from the University of Cambridge.
Other appointments
Robert is a director of London Diversified Fund Management (UK) Limited.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
39
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report Governance framework
The Code
This corporate governance statement illustrates how the 
Company has applied the main principles and complied with the 
provisions of the Code during the year ended 31 March 2016. 
The remuneration report is set out on pages 59 to 70. The Code 
can be found on the FRC’s website at www.frc.org.uk.
Code principle: Leadership
Role of the board and committees
The principal responsibility of the board is to oversee the Group’s 
strategy and ensure that necessary resources are available and 
appropriate risk management controls, processes and culture are 
in place to deliver it. The board seeks to ensure that the right 
balance is achieved between the ultimate focus on long-term 
growth and the delivery by management of its short-term 
objectives. Details of the Group’s business model and strategic 
priorities are given in the strategic report on pages 1 to 35.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer are 
clearly defined and distinctly separate. This division of responsibilities 
has been set out in writing and approved by the board. Further 
details of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer’s 
respective responsibilities can be found on page 41.
To assist the board in carrying out its duties and to ensure that there 
is appropriate oversight of internal controls and risk management, 
the board delegates certain roles and responsibilities to its five 
principal committees as shown in the diagram below, being the 
Governance, Nomination, Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees. 
A delegated committee structure affords committee members the 
time and opportunity to probe the subject matter of a meeting 
more deeply. Each committee has written terms of reference which 
clearly set out its authority and duties. These terms of reference 
can be found on the Company’s website at www.icap.com. 
Membership of the board’s principal committees consists primarily 
of the independent non-executive directors and, in some cases, 
the Chairman. Membership of the three executive committees 
consists of the executive directors and senior management only. 
The Nomination Committee makes recommendations for 
appointments to the Audit and Risk Committees. The board 
makes all other committee appointments.
The membership and work of each of the board’s committees  
are shown on pages 47 to 53. All members of the Group  
are required to adhere to policies and delegated authorities 
mandated by the board. 
Executive committees
The work of the Group’s executive committees complements 
and supports the work of the board and its principal committees. 
The GEMG is responsible for proposing commercial strategy to 
the board, overseeing the strategic and operational performance  
of the Group and setting its commercial direction within the 
scope of delegated authorities. Details of the skills and experience  
of the GEMG members can be found on pages 54 and 55. 
The GOC has executive responsibility for the Group’s operations 
and reports to the board, the Audit Committee and the Risk 
Committee, as required. The GFC has executive responsibility  
for the Group’s financial structure and control environment.  
The GFC reports to the GEMG, Audit Committee and Governance 
Committee, as required. 
Board members
For the majority of the year, the board comprised the Chairman, 
two executive directors (the Group Chief Executive Officer and 
the Group Finance Director) and four independent non-executive 
directors. Stuart Bridges was appointed Group Finance Director 
on 1 September 2015. Diane Schueneman resigned from the 
board on 31 December 2015. 
GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE 
STATEMENT
ICAP plc board
Governance 
Committee
 Nomination 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Risk 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Principal board committees
Global Executive 
Management 
Group
Global 
Operating 
Committee
Group 
Finance 
Committee
Executive committees
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
40 Key responsibilities
Title Name Responsibility
Chairman Charles Gregson The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring its effectiveness on all 
aspects of its role. The Chairman encourages all directors to maximise their contributions to  
the board and ensures that the board determines the nature and extent of risks the Company  
is willing to embrace in the implementation of its strategy. The Chairman engages and consults 
with major shareholders and key regulators when necessary. The Chairman also ensures that the 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee maintains contact, as required, with the Company’s 
principal shareholders and stakeholders regarding remuneration.
Group Chief 
Executive Officer
Michael Spencer The Group Chief Executive Officer leads the GEMG and oversees the operational performance of the 
Group. He recommends the Group’s commercial strategy to the board and ensures its implementation.
Group Finance 
Director
Stuart Bridges The Group Finance Director manages the Group’s financial affairs and is responsible for the 
Group’s finance, company secretarial, investor relations and regulatory affairs functions.
Senior 
independent 
director
John Sievwright In addition to his role as an independent non-executive director, the senior independent director  
is available to shareholders should they have any concerns which cannot be resolved through 
normal channels of communication. No such concerns were raised during the year.
Independent 
non-executive 
directors
Ivan Ritossa
Robert Standing
The independent non-executive directors provide constructive challenge to the executive 
directors and support the Chairman and the executive directors in instilling appropriate culture, 
values and behaviours in the boardroom and beyond. During the year, the non-executive 
directors included Diane Schueneman.
Group Company 
Secretary
Deborah Abrehart The Group Company Secretary works closely with the Chairman of the board and the chairmen  
of the committees to set the agendas for meetings and to ensure the timely presentation of 
high-quality information to the board. All directors have the power to propose items for discussion  
at board meetings and regularly did so during the year.
Attendance at board meetings
Six scheduled board meetings were held during the year in  
three locations: London, Jersey City and Singapore. The board 
also convened a further five times during the year by conference  
call and held five ad hoc meetings, principally in connection  
with the Transaction. 
The table below sets out the directors who served on the  
board in 2015/16 and their meeting attendance. 
Due to unavoidable circumstances, Diane Schueneman was 
unable to attend the board meeting on 30 September 2015.  
She did, however, provide input to the Chairman in advance  
of the meeting so that her views were known to the other  
board members. 
Board meeting attendance in 201 5/16
Maximum  
possible 
meeting 
attendance
Number of  
meetings 
attended
% of 
meetings
attended*
Executive directors
Stuart Bridges** 4 4 100%
Michael Spencer 6 6 100%
Non-executive directors
Charles Gregson 6 6 100%
Ivan Ritossa 6 6 100%
Diane Schueneman*** 4 3 75%
John Sievwright 6 6 100%
Robert Standing 6 6 100%
*  % based on the number of board meetings each director was entitled to attend.
**  Stuart Bridges was appointed to the board on 1 September 2015.
***  Diane Schueneman resigned from the board on 31 December 2015.
Standing items on the board’s agenda
Discussions
• Group Chief Executive Officer’s report
• Strategic developments and investment opportunities
• Trading results and financial performance
• Business presentations
• Legal, company secretarial and regulatory updates
• Investor reports and feedback from engagement  
with shareholders
• Group communications and marketing update
Approval/review
• Approval of minutes of previous board and board 
committee meetings
• Review of progress of agreed actions
• Review of GEMG and GOC minutes
All directors who will be proposed for re-election or appointment 
at the 2016 annual general meeting attended each board meeting 
in the year. 
Board meetings are held at various Group locations to assist with 
the board’s greater understanding of the business and to provide 
an opportunity for the directors to meet with local management 
and employees to gain a wider view of the businesses and local 
cultural issues. 
Further insight into the board’s key activities and discussions 
during the year is provided on page 42. 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
41
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 
continued
Key board activities and discussions in 2015/16 
Topic
Linked to 
remuneration Board discussions and activities Outcomes
Growth and 
protection
• Debated and agreed a strategy  
to bring together two world-class,  
customer-focused broking businesses,  
with improved profitability and scale
• Continued to focus on expanding ICAP’s 
addressable market by developing new  
products and services which will cater  
for a wider customer base
• Approved the Transaction to combine ICAP’s 
global hybrid voice broking business with 
Tullett Prebon, allowing for an improved use 
of technology and innovation in products  
and services for the benefit of ICAP’s 
customers, employees and shareholders
• Approved a further investment in 
AcadiaSoft, Inc and the acquisition  
of ENSO Financial Analytics
People and 
culture
• Debated the board’s cultural responsibilities 
including the FCA’s perspective of culture  
and its focus on conduct
• Discussed the board’s composition and  
reviewed board, executive and senior 
management succession planning
• Discussed the results of a global employee 
communications survey and feedback received  
from employee focus groups
• Continued engagement with global cultural 
initiatives in order to provide a better and 
sustainable business environment
• Following Diane Schueneman’s departure 
from the board, changes were implemented 
to strengthen the composition of the 
board’s principal committees
• Appointed four new members to the  
GEMG to ensure a strong leadership team 
and an appropriate level of representation 
across all ICAP businesses
Controls and 
governance
• Reviewed and approved the Group’s ICAAP  
for 2015
• Regularly reviewed the Group’s risk appetite 
statements and debated the risk profile  
of the Group
• Discussed the requirements of the Code and  
the Competition and Markets Authority’s 
Statutory Audit Services Order 2014, 
particularly in respect of tendering the  
Group’s external audit contract
• Reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal audit function, risk management  
and internal control frameworks
• Used the 2015 ICAAP to assess and inform 
the Group’s risk appetite framework and 
identified improvements for the 2016 
ICAAP process
• Maintained close oversight of the Group’s 
key and emerging risks, with an increased 
focus on the information risk profile of  
the Group and potential cyber and 
technological threats
• Launched a competitive external audit 
tender process resulting in a new external 
auditor being proposed for appointment  
for the year ending 31 March 2018,  
subject to shareholder approval
• Appointed a new Head of Internal Audit  
to lead the Group’s internal audit function
Profitability • Monitored and assessed the Group’s  
financial performance in line with budget  
and market expectations
• Reviewed and approved the 2015  
preliminary results and Annual Report
• Regularly reviewed ICAP’s share price  
and performance metrics
• Challenged and approved the Group’s 
2016/17 budget, capital structure and 
funding plan
• Reviewed the Group’s dividend policy
Stakeholder 
relationships
• Regularly reviewed and discussed shareholder 
and investor feedback including in relation to  
the Transaction and the directors’ executive 
remuneration arrangements
• Considered the appropriate actions in response 
to key regulatory changes faced by the Group 
and industry as a whole
• Focused areas of the Chairman’s 2016 
statement to address issues raised  
by shareholders
• Enhanced the Group’s internal systems  
and controls following ICAP’s participation  
in an FCA planned cross-market  
remediation exercise
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
42 SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
The Company’s annual general meeting is a key date in the  
diary for the board. Shareholders who attend the meeting 
typically receive a brief update from the Group Chief Executive 
Officer on the activities and performance of the Group since  
the prior financial year end. All directors attended the 2015 
annual general meeting and were available to answer questions 
from shareholders on matters put to the meeting. For those 
shareholders who are unable to attend annual general meetings, 
particularly the overseas shareholder base, ICAP has put in place 
systems to allow for electronic proxy voting through the ICAP 
share portal website (www.icap-shares.com). The geographic 
breakdown of ICAP’s institutional shareholders by region is shown 
in the diagram below. Full details of the ways in which the 
Company engages with its shareholders are set out on page 44. 
The board maintains an effective and transparent dialogue with 
shareholders and, as such, gives high priority to shareholder and 
investor communications. The board receives regular investor 
reports which detail the feedback from investor meetings. It also 
receives the results of investor perception studies which are 
undertaken by external consultants. This feedback helps inform 
board discussion particularly as it relates to the views of investors 
and analysts on strategy. Movements on the share register are 
monitored and reviewed at board meetings to maintain the 
board’s understanding of the Company’s share register.
Investor relations programme in 201 5 /1 6
May 
2015 results presentation 
(London)
Investor roadshow (London)
June 
Investor conferences  
(New York, Nice, London)
July
Q1 interim management 
statement (IMS)  
conference call
2015 annual general 
meeting (London)
Investor group meeting 
(London)
September 
Investor conferences 
(London, New York)
November
Half-year results 
presentation (London)
Investor group meeting 
(London)
Investor roadshows 
(Boston, London, New York)
December 
Investor conference 
(London)
Investor roadshow 
(Frankfurt)
February
Q3 IMS conference call  
Investor group meeting 
(London)
Investor roadshow  
(San Francisco)
March 
Investor roadshow 
(Edinburgh)
Investor conference 
(London)
Executive attendance at key investor meetings in 201 5 /16
Meetings 
attended
Group Chief Executive Officer 43%
Group Finance Director 52%
Chief Executive Officer, EBS BrokerTec 26%
Chief Executive Officer, PTRI 4%
Code principle: Relations with shareholders
Institutional shareholders by region  
11
61
7
21
201 5
 UK 61 %
 US 21 %
 Rest of Europe 1 1 %
 Rest of the world 7%
2016
67%
18%
11%
4%
201 5
18
67
4
11
2016
Key themes arising from shareholder feedback received during 
the year are summarised on page 44. Subject to regulatory 
constraints, the executive directors and members of senior 
management hold regular meetings with investors and analysts  
to update them on the Group’s strategy and performance.  
These meetings take a variety of forms, including roadshows  
and investor conferences where individual discussions and group 
meetings are held with current and potential investors. The table 
below shows the proportion of these meetings which were 
attended by the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance 
Director and the Chief Executive Officer of EBS BrokerTec. The 
Chief Executive Officer of PTRI presented the PTRI strategy to 
investors since joining ICAP in August 2015. A series of meetings 
followed the announcement of the Transaction and centred on  
the rationale for the Transaction and drivers for future growth  
for Newco. 
In the past year the Chairman of the board, the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, the Group Company Secretary and the 
Group Head of HR also met with key institutional shareholders to 
discuss feedback received on the directors’ remuneration policy 
which was approved at the annual general meeting held in 2015. 
The non-executive directors are available to meet with shareholders 
but no such requests for engagement were received during the year.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
43
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report 2016 annual general meeting 
The Company’s eighteenth annual general meeting will be held  
on Wednesday 13 July 2016 at 2 Broadgate, London EC2M 7UR. 
In accordance with the Code and the Company’s articles of 
association, Stuart Bridges will stand for appointment and all 
other directors will stand for re-election in July 2016. Full details 
of the resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting 
are set out in the notice of annual general meeting. The notice  
is made available to shareholders on the Company’s website  
or sent to them, if they have elected to receive hard copies,  
at least 20 working days before the meeting. 
Details of proxy votes for and against each resolution, together 
with votes withheld, will be made available after the vote has 
been dealt with on a show of hands and the results of the 
meeting will published on the Company’s website. 
2015 annual general meeting 
All resolutions proposed at the 2015 annual general meeting  
were duly passed. The resolutions to approve the 2014/15 
remuneration report and directors’ remuneration policy, however, 
received a significant proportion of votes against (34.15% and 
30.68% respectively). The board was disappointed at this 
outcome and sought further feedback as a result of which a 
change has been made to the recruitment policy for directors. 
Further details are set out on page 62.
Overall, the board was pleased to note that the total number of 
proxy votes received for all resolutions at the 2015 annual general 
meeting represented more than 83% of the total voting rights of 
the Company (2014 annual general meeting: more than 80%). 
Shareholder approval of the Transaction
On 24 March 2016, ICAP plc held two shareholder meetings  
to approve the Transaction – a court meeting and a general 
meeting. All resolutions were conducted on a poll and passed  
with at least 93% of shareholder votes in favour of all resolutions. 
The total number of votes received for both meetings represented 
more than 84% of the total voting rights of the Company.
How we engage with our shareholders
Annual general meeting
• All shareholders are invited to attend or appoint  
a proxy to attend on their behalf
• The annual general meeting provides an excellent 
opportunity for our shareholders, in particular our  
private shareholders, to hear about the general 
development of the business and to ask questions  
of the Chairman of the board and other directors
Financial reporting and regulatory news
• Annual Report, including the full-year  
financial statements
• Half-year financial statements
• Regular trading updates
Investor and analyst briefings, meetings  
and presentations 
• Executive directors and senior management meet  
with major shareholders throughout the year
• Presentations are given on financial results and key 
business developments which are subsequently  
made available on the ICAP website 
Website – www.icap.com
• Access to reports, presentations and regulatory news
• Monthly volume data on electronically traded products
• Share price and dividend information 
• Financial calendar
• Board and GEMG members’ biographies
• Registrar contact details including a dedicated helpline 
number for ICAP shareholders and a link to the ICAP  
share portal 
Shareholder feedback themes for 201 5/16
• Strategy: recognised the rationale for the Transaction 
and requested an explanation of the growth drivers  
for the next two to four years
• Investments: supportive of strategic investments  
made during the year, with particular recognition  
given to Euclid Opportunities’ fintech investments
• Regulation: recognised the potential opportunities  
of MiFID II for the Company
• Global environment: sought to understand the effect 
of the US interest rate rise on the Company’s businesses
GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
44 EFFECTIVENESS
The Chairman manages the board and oversees the operation of 
its committees. The composition of the board and its committees 
is reviewed to ensure there is the right mix of skills, experience 
and knowledge of the Company to enable them to perform 
effectively. Throughout the year, at least half of the board, 
excluding the Chairman, comprised non-executive directors.  
The balance of the board as at 31 March 2016 is illustrated  
on page 38. 
Time commitment
In order to effectively discharge their responsibilities, non-
executive directors must commit sufficient time to their role.  
The Chairman has confirmed that, in his view, each non-executive 
director continued to demonstrate commitment to their role 
during the year, particularly in light of the Transaction. Outside  
of ICAP , neither the Chairman nor the non-executive directors 
took on further significant commitments during the year. The 
Chairman, who is based at ICAP’s London office, continued  
to commit as much time as was necessary to fulfil his duties  
with his responsibilities to ICAP taking priority over his other 
business commitments. 
In addition to the time spent preparing for, and attending, board 
and committee meetings, the Chairman and the non-executive 
directors are expected to allocate sufficient time to further their 
understanding of the Group. This typically takes the form of 
meetings with executive management and key stakeholders as 
well as training sessions to ensure ongoing business awareness. 
Throughout the year, each board committee meeting was 
attended by all of its members as detailed in the table below:
Governance Nomination Audit Risk Remuneration
Executive directors
Stuart Bridges* 2/2 – – – –
Michael Spencer 2/2 1/1 – – –
Non-executive 
directors
Charles Gregson 2/2 1/1 – – –
Ivan Ritossa** – 1/1 2/2 7/7 3/3
Diane Schueneman*** – – 4/4 5/5 2/2
John Sievwright**** 2/2 1/1 6/6 7/7 1/1
Robert Standing – 1/1 6/6 7/7 3/3
*  Stuart Bridges was appointed a member of the Governance Committee 
 on 30 September 2015.
** Ivan Ritossa was appointed a member of the Nomination and Audit Committees  
 on 31 December 2015.
***  Diane Schueneman was a member of the Nomination, Audit, Risk and Remuneration 
Committees until 31 December 2015, when she resigned from the board.
****  John Sievwright was appointed a member of the Remuneration Committee 
 on 31 December 201 5.
Board and committee evaluations
The performance of the board and its committees is assessed 
annually to ensure their effectiveness is maintained and that  
they remain fit for purpose. Evaluating performance helps to 
identify areas that might need to be strengthened or developed. 
Code principle: Effectiveness
The 2014/15 evaluations of the board and its committees were 
externally facilitated by Lintstock. Due to a significant proportion 
of the board’s activities having been focused on the Transaction 
since 31 March 2015, Lintstock was asked to focus its 2015/16 
evaluations on the Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees. 
The 2015/16 board evaluation was undertaken by way of an 
internal assessment. 
Lintstock does not provide any other advisory services to ICAP.
An internal review of the composition and performance of the 
Governance and Nomination Committees concluded that the 
activities of both committees had been impacted by the 
Transaction. The board agreed that both committees should  
be externally evaluated in 2016/17 and their terms of reference 
would be reviewed following completion of the Transaction.
Board evaluation
The board’s evaluation focused on information and board 
dynamics. The evaluation confirmed that agenda items were 
appropriate and supported by good quality and relevant 
information. The board’s skills and experience contributed  
to a well functioning board which had both the opportunity  
and independence to challenge executive management. 
Audit Committee evaluation
The 2015/16 Audit Committee evaluation confirmed that the 
committee had successfully implemented the key focus areas 
highlighted by the previous external review including additional 
training on technical accounting matters and Annual Report 
disclosures and a continued focus on financial reporting processes. 
For 2016/17, the evaluation recommended that the committee 
focus on the accounting issues arising from the separation of 
Newco and IGBB and continue the training and development  
of committee members.
Risk Committee evaluation
The Risk Committee’s performance in 2015/16 was rated 
positively, particularly the committee’s understanding of the  
key risks facing ICAP and the committee’s performance in 
reviewing the quality and effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management framework. The committee had successfully 
implemented a number of the focus areas identified by the 
previous external review, namely an enhanced focus on risk 
appetite methodology and metrics and increased dialogue 
with senior members of the risk management team.
The evaluation identified a continued assessment of the  
risks arising from the separation of Newco and IGBB and  
an improved understanding of the risks on which regulators  
are focusing as key focus areas for 2016/17.
Remuneration Committee evaluation
The overall performance of the Remuneration Committee was 
positively rated although the vote against the remuneration report 
was disappointing in view of the work and consultation undertaken. 
The committee felt that the alignment of executive management’s 
interests with the strategy of the Group had been effectively 
implemented but noted that further changes would be required  
in view of the Transaction and in order to drive appropriate 
outcomes for shareholders. This will be a focus for 2016/17 .
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
45
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 
continued
Chairman’s evaluation
The Chairman’s 2015/16 evaluation was led by John Sievwright 
as senior independent director. The evaluation concluded that the 
Chairman fully discharged his duties in terms of leadership during 
the year. The Chairman was noted to have an excellent grasp  
of his role, encouraging open board debate and actively seeking 
the counsel of the non-executive directors. In particular, the 
Chairman’s excellent lines of communication with the Group’s 
senior executive team and a highly constructive working relationship 
with the Group Chief Executive Officer provided a strong foundation 
for effective board discussions. 
The Chairman is accessible outside of scheduled meetings and 
uses the senior independent director as a sounding board on 
major issues. Matters raised by the non-executive directors  
were incorporated into full and balanced board meeting agendas 
and the Chairman arranged for advisors and specialists to present 
to the board as appropriate throughout the year. 
The Chairman has agreed that, following completion of the 
Transaction, the composition of the board will need reviewing and he 
has undertaken to make this a focus for the Nomination Committee. 
How we inducted Stuart Bridges
Stuart joined the board in September 2015. In his previous 
role, he was Chief Financial Officer of Hiscox Limited, 
joining the company in 1999. Stuart has been a non-
executive director of Caledonia Investments plc since 
January 2013. 
With Stuart’s listed company experience and background  
in regulated financial services, his induction focused on the 
Group’s operations, culture and strategy in order to assist 
his understanding of ICAP. Stuart met with a number of 
executive and senior managers and visited ICAP businesses 
in Jersey City, New York and Singapore. In particular, he was 
briefed on: 
• the Group’s strategic and business objectives,  
with particular focus on the Transaction;
• ongoing culture and leadership initiatives within  
the Group;
• the global markets and regulatory landscape which  
ICAP faces; and
• ICAP’s products and technology including an in-depth  
view of its trading and post trade systems. This included 
time spent on a number of trading desks to gain a 
further understanding of the business.
Stuart completed a number of ICAP-specific online training 
modules and, in order to increase his understanding of 
ICAP’s shareholder profile, he met with a number of current 
and potential investors in Boston, Frankfurt, London and 
New York. He was also briefed on shareholder feedback 
from the 2015 annual general meeting. 
Independence of the non-executive directors
Non-executive directors are expected to be independent in 
character and judgement and free from any business or other 
relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise  
of that judgement.
The board considers and reviews the independence of each 
non-executive director on an annual basis. In carrying out its 
review, consideration is given to factors such as length of tenure 
and each director’s ability to provide objective challenge to 
management. The board determined that each non-executive 
director was independent against the criteria stated in the Code. 
Board induction and training
The Chairman of the board ensures that new directors receive a 
tailored and comprehensive induction programme to introduce them 
to the Group’s businesses and a wide range of senior management. 
Following an assessment of the specific skills which a director brings 
to the board, the programme typically comprises a combination of 
briefings on specialist topics and meetings with, among others, the 
directors, Group Company Secretary, Global Chief Operating Officer, 
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit, 
Group General Counsel, Group Head of HR and CFO Group Finance. 
The purpose of the programme is to ensure each new director 
understands the unique opportunities and challenges which  
ICAP faces, enabling every director to contribute fully to the 
board’s strategic discussions and oversight of the business.
During the year all directors received a number of updates on the 
regulatory environment, from both external advisors and ICAP’s 
senior managers, and briefings on governance changes and their 
implications for ICAP. In particular, the board received detailed 
training on directors’ duties in the context of the Transaction.
The directors may obtain independent professional advice in 
respect of their duties to the board and its committees at the 
Company’s expense.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
The board has procedures in place for the disclosure of conflicts  
of interest. The directors are aware of their responsibility to avoid  
a situation whereby they have an actual or potential conflict of 
interest and the requirement to inform the Chairman and the 
Group Company Secretary of any change in their situation. An 
effective procedure is in place for the board to authorise conflict 
situations should they arise, in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006 and the Company’s articles of association. 
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for keeping 
appropriate records, including the scope of any authorisations 
granted by the board. The board undertakes an annual review  
of conflict authorisations. No additional conflicts of interest  
were required to be authorised during the year.
Compliance with the Code
It is the board’s view that, for the year ended 31 March 2016,  
the Company has applied all the main principles and been fully 
compliant with all provisions set out in the Code.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
46 How we appoint new board members
The Nomination Committee ensures that a formal,  
rigorous and transparent procedure exists for the 
appointment of new directors. All board appointments  
are made on merit acknowledging the benefits a diverse 
range of skills, experience, background and gender can 
bring to the board’s leadership and effectiveness.
The first stage of the process involves the committee 
conducting a detailed evaluation of the composition of  
the board. Assisted by external search consultants, where 
appropriate, the members of the committee then meet 
with a short list of candidates. The final recruitment 
decision is determined by the full board of directors. 
The appointment of Stuart Bridges was described in the 
2015 Annual Report and an overview of his induction is 
provided on page 46.
GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE
In order to facilitate efficient and effective management and 
deliver long-term shareholder value, the role of the Governance 
Committee is to review, offer recommendations and make 
decisions in relation to all aspects of the Group’s governance 
environment. The committee reports to the board.
Members 
The Governance Committee’s membership is made up of the  
Chairman of the board, the senior independent director, the 
Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director. 
The committee is chaired by the Chairman of the board. The 
Global Chief Operating Officer and the Group General Counsel 
have standing invitations to attend committee meetings. 
The table on page 45 sets out the committee members’ 
attendance at committee meetings during the year.
Key activities 
During the year, the Governance Committee discussed and 
reviewed the impact of a number of regulatory developments 
on the Group’s governance framework including potential 
changes to the regulation of benchmarks and the Fair and 
Effective Markets Review. 
The committee also oversaw an ongoing programme of work  
to consolidate the Group’s corporate structure in connection  
with the Transaction and continued its assessment of the Group’s 
progress with cultural change. The committee was pleased to 
conclude that, although there is more work to be done, the 
Group’s cultural remediation programme has been successful  
in implementing cultural change throughout the Group. 
During the year, the committee discussed and approved terms  
of reference for the FX Remediation Oversight Committee, a 
sub-committee of the board which was established to oversee 
the implementation of enhancements to the Group’s internal 
systems and controls. A review of the activities undertaken by 
this committee is set out on page 53.
Code principle: Effectiveness 
Code principle: Accountability 
NOMINA TION COMMITTEE
The Nomination Committee is primarily responsible for reviewing 
the structure, size, composition and succession planning of the 
board. The committee reports to the board.
Members 
Members of the Nomination Committee are appointed by the 
board and comprise a majority of independent non-executive 
directors. The committee is chaired by the Chairman of the board. 
The table on page 45 sets out the directors who served on  
the committee during the year and their committee attendance.
Key activities 
Key elements of the Nomination Committee’s work on succession 
planning during the year followed on from the Transaction and 
Diane Schueneman’s decision to step down from the board. As 
part of these discussions, the committee determined that the 
industry skills and experience of Ivan Ritossa would enhance the 
composition of the Nomination and Audit Committees and that 
John Sievwright’s understanding of key shareholder and investor 
concerns as the senior independent director would further 
strengthen the skill set of the Remuneration Committee. 
Following completion of the Transaction, the committee will 
undertake a detailed review of the composition, skills and 
experience of board members in order to deliver an appropriately 
balanced board for Newco. This review will include consideration 
of the current non-executive directors’ tenure and take into 
account the need for progressive refreshing of the board.
How we measure effective governance
In line with its responsibility for maintaining core governance 
standards across the Group, the Governance Committee 
reviewed the Group’s governance framework for regulated 
subsidiaries during the year and evaluated the findings of  
an internal audit review on corporate governance. Action 
items arising from both reviews will be a focus area for  
the committee in 2016/17.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
47
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 
continued
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Chairman’s overview 
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to introduce 
this report which sets out how the committee has discharged  
its responsibilities during the year. 
A key item on the committee’s agenda has been oversight of  
a comprehensive tender process for the Group’s external audit 
contract. The committee decided to initiate this process given the 
timing of the current auditor’s lead partner rotation and in light of 
the Transaction and recent changes in audit tender requirements. 
The tender included members of the board and representatives 
of key business and control functions meeting with a number  
of potential auditor candidates in London and New York. These 
meetings were a useful opportunity for candidates to meet with 
key stakeholders in the Group and ensured that the Company 
received a strong round of initial proposals. Each candidate then 
provided a written submission to the committee and an additional 
committee meeting was scheduled in May 2016 to receive formal 
presentations. Each proposal was evaluated in detail focusing on 
audit quality, team experience and cultural fit. 
The tender concluded with the committee’s recommendation  
to the board that Deloitte LLP be appointed as the Company’s 
auditor for the year ending 31 March 2018, subject to 
shareholder approval at the 2017 annual general meeting. 
The committee is very aware of an increased spend during the 
year on non-audit services provided by our external auditor 
(PwC) as described in more detail on page 50. The significant 
increase was due to a number of assignments which were 
required to support the Transaction, referred to as the corporate 
finance transaction services and other assurance services in   
note 2 to the financial statements. The committee carefully 
considered the impact of using PwC for this work and, while it 
would have been possible to use another firm this would have been 
inefficient and subject to even higher fees as that firm would have 
had to replicate PwC’s underlying audit work. The committee also 
noted that it was not unusual for this type of work to be 
undertaken by an existing auditor on the basis that they are 
familiar with the business and, as a result, able to perform the 
services in a timely and cost-effective manner. 
The committee therefore decided that, with the appropriate 
independence and objective procedures in place, it would be  
in the best interests of shareholders for PwC to undertake this 
work and a one-off exception to the Group’s internal policy on 
non-audit services was approved. The board is required to provide 
a statement that, taken as a whole, it believes the Annual Report 
and financial statements to be fair, balanced and understandable. 
Code principle: Accountability 
The governance framework to provide such assurance to  
the committee and to the board is set out on page 49.  
The statement itself is on page 58.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank each member  
of the committee for their hard work and commitment to the 
activities and responsibilities undertaken by the committee and  
to management for their responsiveness to the committee’s 
questions and challenges.
John Sievwright
Chairman, Audit Committee
16 May 2016
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is responsible for the effective governance of 
the Group’s financial reporting, including the adequacy of financial 
disclosures and both the external and internal audit functions. It is 
authorised by the board to carry out any activity within its terms of 
reference. The Audit Committee reports to the board.
The Audit Committee may seek any information it requires from  
any employee and all employees are directed to co-operate with  
any request made by the committee. The committee may obtain 
outside legal or other independent professional advice and secure 
the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise, 
if the committee considers this necessary, at the Group’s expense.
Members
The Audit Committee members are all independent non-executive 
directors and it is chaired by John Sievwright. The board is 
satisfied that at least one member of the committee has recent 
and relevant financial experience and that all members bring 
extensive expertise to the committee. 
The table on page 45 sets out the directors who served on  
the committee during the year and their attendance.
Meetings are regularly attended by the Chairman of the board,  
the Group Finance Director, the Global Chief Operating Officer, 
the Group General Counsel, the CFO Group Finance, the Group 
Head of Internal Audit and the external audit partner.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee maintains contact  
with attendees throughout the year. There were two meetings 
during 2015/16 when the committee met with the Group  
Head of Internal Audit and the external audit partner without  
any executive director or member of management present.
Key activities 
An annual work plan is prepared to ensure all areas of significance 
are considered by the Audit Committee and that business and 
reporting requirements are met. The committee’s key activities 
during the year included reviewing and discussing:
• the appointment of a Group Head of Internal Audit;
• the appropriateness of the Group’s half-year and annual 
financial statements and financial announcements to the 
London Stock Exchange;
• the viability assessment and viability statement on page 58;
• the going concern statement on page 58 and the 
appropriateness of preparing the Group’s half-year and  
annual financial statements on a going concern basis;
• reports from the external auditor; 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
48 • the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control  
systems for financial reporting;
• an annual schedule of work to be conducted by the  
external and internal audit teams; and
• the effectiveness of the external and internal audits.
The committee members also received training updates  
from the external auditor on accounting developments,  
corporate governance and reporting and the new viability 
statement requirements. 
Financial reporting
The Audit Committee reviews the Group’s accounting policies and 
monitors the integrity of the Group’s financial statements, including 
the half-year and annual reports, and other announcements 
relating to the Group’s financial performance to ensure that they 
present a balanced and clear assessment of the Group’s financial 
position and outlook.
During the year, the committee considered certain accounting 
and financial reporting areas to be of a more subjective nature.
Throughout the year, management presented to the committee 
its position on those areas that were material in nature and 
involved significant management judgement and assumptions. 
Such areas included management’s review of goodwill 
impairment, the recoverability of investments (in particular 
non-core investments that were associated with the Group’s 
voice broking business but are not being sold), contingent 
liabilities and management’s viability assessment. In reviewing 
management’s judgements and estimates in these areas, where 
appropriate, the committee discussed these judgements and 
estimates with the external auditor. 
The committee considered and approved the Group’s significant 
accounting policies, including management’s position on provisions 
and its definition of exceptional items (see the basis of preparation 
note to the financial statements on pages 85 to 87), which remained 
consistent with the prior year. The committee discussed and 
approved the appropriateness of items, considering their nature 
and materiality, that were presented in the exceptional items 
column in the consolidated income statement. The committee, 
where appropriate, discussed management’s judgements and 
estimates with the external auditor and approved the provisions 
as at 31 March 2016.
The announced disposal of the IGBB business satisfied the criteria 
for held for sale and discontinued operations under IFRS5. As a 
result, management presented financials attributable to the IGBB 
business and to the retained Group separately. The committee 
also considered and approved management’s approach to include 
non-GAAP financials in the strategic report to make the financial 
statements clearer and more understandable, in particular 
comparability with the prior year’s reported financials. 
The committee considers the annual goodwill impairment review  
to be a significant judgement area and, as such, reviewed the 
impairment testing which was undertaken by management during 
March 2016. The impairment test identified that there was no 
impairment. In reviewing this area, the committee considered  
the appropriateness of management’s judgements and estimates; 
see note 14 to the financial statements. 
The committee also considered the impairment review of 
investments in non-core associates which was undertaken by 
management as at 31 March 2016. There was £25 million of 
impairment charge recorded for the year. In reviewing this area, 
the committee considered the appropriateness of management’s 
judgements and estimates; see note 22 to the financial statements.
The committee considered management’s viability statement  
and the appropriateness of management’s judgements, estimates 
and assumptions made in assessing the viability of the Group.  
The committee is satisfied that the directors of the Company 
carried out an assessment of the long-term solvency and liquidity 
of the Group in accordance with the provisions of the Code. The 
viability statement is disclosed on page 58 and should be read 
together with the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties and  
risk management framework as set out in the risk management 
section of the strategic report on pages 16 to 21. 
Additionally, auditing standards require the external auditor to 
presume risks of fraud in revenue recognition as a significant 
audit risk area and to perform procedures to address those risks. 
The committee concluded that, based on the findings reported  
by the external and internal auditors, and from its own review of 
the Group’s internal control and risk management frameworks, 
the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 were 
not exposed to a material risk arising from this risk area.
The committee considered and approved the Group’s tax strategy, 
the objectives of which were to deliver shareholder value by 
complying with all tax obligations and working constructively  
with relevant tax authorities.
The work described above, together with a review of the  
content of the strategic report, provided the assurance to the 
committee, and to the board, that the Annual Report for the  
year ended 31 March 2016, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced 
and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s and the Company’s position 
and performance, business model and strategy.
The committee has delegated responsibility for the day-to- 
day financial management and monitoring of financial controls  
to the GFC.
Internal audit 
The internal audit function is overseen by the Group Head  
of Internal Audit who is supported by KPMG (as outsourced 
providers) and reports to the Audit and Risk Committees. Internal 
audit establishes an annual audit plan based on discussions with 
management and an assessment of the risks inherent in the 
Group’s activities. The results of these audits provide assurance 
to management and to the Audit and Risk Committees that the 
system of internal control achieves its objectives and highlights 
gaps and areas for improvement.
The effectiveness of the internal audit function has been 
assessed on an ongoing basis by challenge to the content of  
the internal audit plan and the performance of the function 
against this approved plan. As a result of such assessment, 
changes have been made to the plan, for example to allow  
for an unexpected change in circumstances and to amend  
a protocol around the process to ensure management remained 
focused on implementing recommendations.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
49
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report RISK COMMITTEE 
Code principle: Accountability 
Chairman’s overview 
I am pleased to introduce the Risk Committee report for 2015/16.
My role as Chairman of the Risk Committee is to safeguard the 
independence and oversee the performance of the Group’s risk 
function, including that of the Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. 
Oversight of the Group’s risk function is carried out at committee 
meetings, the activities of which are described more fully on page 
51, and also by the committee’s relationships with the Group 
Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director, the Global 
Chief Operating Officer, the internal audit function and senior 
management of the divisions. Many of these individuals attend 
committee meetings on a regular or ad hoc basis. In addition,  
I and the other committee members spend time outside meetings 
with senior managers to ensure we are fully apprised of the issues 
faced by the businesses.
During the year, the directors carried out regular and robust 
assessments of the principal risks facing the Group, including  
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, 
solvency or liquidity. ICAP’s six principal risks are strategic, 
operational, liquidity, reputation, credit, and legal and regulatory. 
The Group also recognises and manages three further significant 
risks: cross-risk, market and financial. These remain unchanged 
from the prior year. Further detail of these risks and how they are 
being managed and mitigated is set out in the risk management 
section of the strategic report on pages 16 to 21.
The Group’s risk appetite framework provides a clear and 
measurable statement of the Group’s risk appetite in line with 
which the committee can exercise its oversight and governance 
responsibilities. The committee receives quarterly Group risk 
appetite statement reports which are discussed and reviewed in 
detail. These discussions can lead to further information requests 
and, if appropriate, follow-up reports. The committee believes 
that this framework is becoming increasingly embedded into the 
businesses and used to inform key business decisions.
External auditor
In line with the requirements of the Competition and Markets 
Authority’s Statutory Audit Services Order 2014 and as described 
in more detail on page 48, the board has decided to recommend 
that Deloitte LLP be appointed as the Company’s external auditor 
for the year ending 31 March 2018, subject to approval by 
shareholders at the 2017 annual general meeting. 
At the 2016 annual general meeting, the Group’s current auditor, 
PwC, will be proposed for re-appointment for the year ending 
31 March 2017.
Non-audit services
In line with best practice, the Audit Committee is responsible  
for determining the non-audit services that the external auditor 
may or may not provide to the Group and monitoring the balance 
of spend on audit and non-audit fees to ensure the continued 
independence of the Group’s external auditor. All non-audit 
services provided to the Group are in accordance with applicable 
legislation. Any proposed non-audit assignments with fees in 
excess of £100,000 are subject to the Audit Committee’s prior 
approval. Fees below this limit are approved by the Chairman of 
the Audit Committee and reported to the committee. 
The total spend on non-audit services during the year was  
£3.6 million being 90% of the audit fee (2014/15: 21%).  
This was primarily due to corporate finance and other assurance 
services required in connection with the Transaction. As described 
in more details on page 48, the committee debated the benefits 
of engaging an alternative firm to provide these services but 
determined that to do so would be inefficient and result in  
further additional fees. 
With these procedures in place, and following consideration  
of the work to be undertaken, the committee recommended  
to the board a one-off exception to the Group’s internal policy  
on non-audit services to be provided by the external auditor. 
Note 2 to the financial statements provides further details of  
the fees paid for audit and non-audit services during the year.
Effectiveness
During the year, the committee assessed the effectiveness of  
the external audit process on an ongoing basis. The committee 
agreed that the external audit team continued to be effective 
throughout the Group. Any issues which were brought to the 
committee’s attention were satisfactorily dealt with at the time.
Statutory Audit Services compliance
The Company confirms its compliance with the requirements  
of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market 
Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes 
and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 for the year 
ended 31 March 2016. 
GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
50 Technology risks, including cyber, continue to be a focus for  
the committee which receives regular updates of the work being 
undertaken to identify potential issues and remediation actions.  
As part of the committee’s training programme, an extended 
session on cyber risk, the changing environment and its impact 
on ICAP was provided by an expert third party during the year.
In February 2016, the committee discussed the effectiveness  
of the risk function following its reorganisation in April 2015, 
under Wendy Phillis, Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. The 
findings confirmed the improvements which the committee  
had witnessed, particularly increased engagement between 
senior management and the risk function and the provision of 
higher-quality data and information in respect of risk appetite 
reporting. There was recognition by the risk function, endorsed  
by the committee, that continuing improvement of the function 
would be critical to ensure effective oversight of risk management 
and controls.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank each member of the 
committee for their continued commitment to, and enthusiastic 
participation in, the work of the committee and to management for 
their responsiveness to the committee’s questions and challenges.
John Sievwright
Chairman, Risk Committee
16 May 2016
Risk Committee
The Risk Committee reports to the board and is responsible  
for setting the overall risk strategy, risk appetite and risk tolerance  
for the Group in order to ensure that the risk management 
function within the Group promotes the success of the Company. 
The committee is authorised by the board to carry out any 
activity within its terms of reference. Its principal areas of 
responsibility include:
• ensuring that the Group’s principal risks (including emerging 
threats) are properly identified, assessed and mitigated on an 
ongoing basis; 
• regularly reviewing the quality and effectiveness of the 
Group’s risk management and internal control frameworks; and
• reviewing the internal audit programme as part of  
integrated assurance.
Members
The Risk Committee members are all independent non-executive 
directors and the committee is chaired by John Sievwright. The 
table on page 45 sets out the directors who served on the Risk 
Committee during the year and their committee attendance.
The Chairman of the board, the Group Finance Director, the 
Global Chief Operating Officer, the Group General Counsel, the 
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, the Group Head of HR, the 
Group Head of Internal Audit and the external audit partner 
regularly attend meetings of the committee.
The Chairman of the Risk Committee maintains contact with 
attendees throughout the year and has met with the Group  
Head of Internal Audit, Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and 
Global Chief Operating Officer without other members of the 
executive being present.
Key activities 
An annual work plan is prepared to ensure all areas of significance 
are considered by the committee and that business and reporting 
requirements are met. The committee’s key activities during the 
year included reviewing and discussing:
• regular and robust assessments of the principal risks facing  
the Group; 
• the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control frameworks on an  
annual basis;
• updates on operational risk and compliance issues;
• approval of the Group’s 2015 ICAAP and an improved  
stress testing strategy for 2016;
• approval of a new policy for significant business initiatives 
within the Group;
• review of the Group’s risk appetite framework to align more 
closely with the Group’s business strategy and divisions;
• business risk reviews (Shipping, Traiana, Fusion and BrokerTec);
• review of internal audit, legal, regulatory and government 
affairs reports;
• updates on the Group’s information risk profile including  
cyber and technological threats facing the Group and the 
results of global penetration testing; and
• monitoring levels of mandatory risk and compliance training  
in risk and compliance matters, identifying and escalating 
non-adherence.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
51
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report First line of defence  
Customer facing business units, support and Group functions
Business units/function process and risk owners
Owns, identifies, manages, and mitigates, within a defined risk appetite, the risks and losses within the business units
Organisational strategic risk objectives
Second line of defence 
Independent control functions
Compliance
• Provides interpretation of regulations and upstream  
risk and disseminates to business units
• Develops and monitors policies and procedures
• Monitors and provides challenge on compliance 
with regulations
• Undertakes risk assessment-based compliance testing
• Advises on regulatory issues and provides training
Risk management
• Designs and deploys the overall risk management 
framework across the organisation
• Monitors business unit adherence to framework 
and strategy
• Monitors and provides challenge on risk across 
business units/functions and escalates risk and  
control issues to senior management
• Performs aggregated risk reporting
• Advises on risk issues and provides training
Third line of defence 
Internal audit – independent assurance
• Provides independent testing and verification of efficacy of corporate standards and business line compliance
• Validates the overall risk framework
• Provides assurance that the risk management process is functioning as designed and identifies improvement opportunities
• Provides independent assurance over the key risks faced by the Group
Risk control and management framework 
Effectiveness review
Our internal controls and risk oversight have been reviewed as a result of FRC guidance and changes made to ensure compliance. 
The board reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control frameworks on an annual 
basis. This review is supported by the Group’s independent control functions and any remediating actions which are identified are 
reported to the board. No significant failings or weaknesses in the Group’s systems of risk management or internal control were 
identified during the year.
Three lines of defence model
To support the Risk Committee in the day-to-day risk management 
of the Group certain responsibilities have been delegated to the 
GOC. The Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the GOC 
have terms of reference that require all aspects of the Group’s 
risk management activities to be regularly reviewed. The Chief 
Risk and Compliance Officer is a member of the GOC. In addition 
to the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the GOC, internal 
and external risk events are also monitored and reviewed at a 
divisional level with divisional committees facilitating discussion 
and challenge between front office management and the Group 
risk function.
The Risk Committee monitors the Group’s risk management and 
internal control systems. The significant risks of the Group are 
continually assessed and managed by operating a three lines of 
defence model for the risk and control of the businesses. The 
three lines of defence model is an industry standard concept.  
A key aspect of the three lines of defence model is that senior 
management, in particular those with responsibility for front 
office, support functions and Group functions, have full 
accountability for the management of the risks in their  
specific businesses. This is done within the limits and the  
control environment established by the Group. 
All employees and managers are required to take a prudent 
approach to risk taking and to review regularly the effectiveness 
of their control environment and compliance with the Group’s  
risk appetite. The Group’s risk management processes are 
dynamic, reflecting changes in the Group’s strategies and the 
external risk drivers in the global market in which it operates. 
The Group’s internal control and risk management systems  
in relation to financial reporting are described on page 49.
GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
52 Risk management and compliance
Representing the second line of defence, the Group’s risk 
management function operates independently to the first  
line under the mandate set by the board. The Chief Risk  
and Compliance Officer reports to the Risk Committee and, 
functionally, to the Global Chief Operating Officer. The risk 
function is organised to recognise the individual risk profiles, 
oversight and challenge needs of the divisions, as well as the  
need for consistent identification, assessment and monitoring  
of risk across the Group in support of the board’s requirements.
The Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is a member of the GOC. 
Day-to-day management of risk and its mitigation is the 
responsibility of business heads. Risk management provides  
an independent assessment of the Group’s risks and supports  
the business heads in identifying, monitoring, mitigating and 
reporting risks through the use of a range of tools. In this way,  
risk management reviews and challenges the Group’s activities 
both functionally and globally.
These tools include:
• independent monitoring and analysis of the Group’s current 
and projected liquidity exposures;
• credit risk limits based on an internal scoring system with  
near real-time monitoring of credit exposure globally;
• management information, including key and emerging risks, 
and risk appetite indicators at Group and divisional levels;
• global risk management framework policies and procedures 
including the Group’s risk appetite framework;
• operational risk framework, policies and standards;
• periodic risk and control self-assessments of key processes 
and controls across the Group’s business and support 
functions; and
• stress testing of risk-based capital assessments of current  
risk exposures and plausible but unlikely scenario analysis.
Qualitative and quantitative measures are monitored by risk 
management to ensure that the businesses’ risks remain within 
acceptable risk appetite and tolerances. Using these measures, 
the Group produces risk intelligence reports which are disseminated 
through the governance structures at all levels as appropriate.  
The Group’s risk department undertakes a global assessment  
of the Group’s risk and control framework on an annual basis  
and provides this assurance to the Risk Committee.
Representing the second line of defence, the Group’s compliance 
function reports to the Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and 
operates independently to the first line of defence under the 
mandate set by the board. Dedicated compliance departments 
support the businesses operating in EMEA, the Americas and  
Asia Pacific regions, each under the leadership of regional heads  
of compliance who are members of regional and business level  
risk committees.
The Group’s compliance department implements and manages 
ICAP’s compliance risk management framework. This framework  
is designed to provide assurance that ICAP’s business is conducted 
in accordance with applicable rules, regulations and regulatory 
standards. As such, the compliance risk management framework 
incorporates the requirements of applicable law and published 
international best practice standards, including business advisory 
support, compliance risk assessment and mitigation, compliance 
monitoring and surveillance, anti-money laundering compliance 
and the reporting and escalation of potential and crystallised risks.
The Group’s compliance department undertakes an annual risk 
assessment in each region as the basis for the annual compliance 
plan for those legal entities, desks, offices and business and 
operating units which will be the subject of compliance review 
and examination. ICAP’s compliance risk management framework  
is risk based, which means that ICAP assesses and ranks its 
compliance risks and prioritises its compliance resources on  
a Group, regional and business unit basis.
Internal control 
The board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the risk 
management and internal control systems, which management is 
responsible for maintaining, and it does this through the Audit and 
Risk Committees. A description of the key risks faced by each 
division are detailed on page 21. The day-to-day business of the 
Group is managed through a system of financial, operational and 
compliance controls and monitored by a series of risk management 
systems. Internal controls are designed to manage rather than 
eliminate risks and can provide only reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The effectiveness 
of the internal control system is reviewed regularly by the internal 
audit function.
The Group has investments in a number of joint ventures and 
associates. Internal control procedures for joint ventures and 
associates rests with the senior management of those operations 
and the Company seeks to monitor such investments and exert 
influence through board representation. The board’s review  
of the effectiveness of the system of internal control in those 
entities is consequently less comprehensive than in its directly-
owned subsidiaries.
FX Remediation Oversight Committee 
The FX Remediation Oversight Committee was established  
in April 2015 as a result of an FCA planned cross-market 
remediation exercise in relation to systems and controls in  
FX business areas following enforcement actions undertaken 
against certain banks. ICAP was required by the FCA to conduct  
a review and consider processes and oversight in a number  
of areas including spot FX and FX derivatives and structured 
products. Due to the wide ranging and broad scope of the 
required remediation programme, and the requirement for  
the Group Chief Executive Officer to provide an attestation  
of the work undertaken, the board agreed that oversight of  
the programme within ICAP should be undertaken by a separate 
committee, chaired by the Chairman and reporting to the board.
Committee members
The committee consisted of the Chairman of the board,  
a non-executive director, the Group General Counsel and  
the Global Chief Operating Officer. 
Activities during the year
Due to the scope of the review, the remediation programme  
was a significant undertaking and a number of recommendations 
were made. The committee met ten times during the year to 
review progress and implementation of the key recommendations. 
The output of the programme supported the internal certifications 
and attestation provided to the FCA. As a result, the committee, 
having fulfilled its terms of reference, has been disbanded.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
53
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
GLOBAL 
EXECUTIVE 
MANAGEMENT 
GROUP
Tim Cartledge
Chief Strategy Officer , EBS BrokerTec
Tim was appointed Chief Strategy Officer of EBS BrokerTec and a 
member of the GEMG in November 2015, bringing significant expertise 
in electronic trading within both the FX and fixed income markets. He 
was formerly Head of Global Fixed Income Currencies and Commodities 
Electronic Trading at Barclays Bank and Managing Director at Barclays 
Capital, where he was responsible for building Barclays’ highly successful 
electronic FX business. Prior to this Tim held roles at Dresdner Bank,  
Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs.
David Casterton
Chief Executive Officer , Global Broking
Since September 2012, David has been responsible for the Global 
Broking division with regional management teams reporting to him. 
David was previously responsible for all voice broking and related 
support functions in London and EMEA. Between 1995 and 2008,  
David worked in a number of senior broking roles and had responsibility 
for interest rate derivatives, money markets, repos, government bonds 
and financial futures. Prior to joining ICAP in 1995 he had been with  
MW Marshalls and Guy Butler International.
Steve Gibson
Chief Executive Officer , Euclid Opportunities
Euclid Opportunities is ICAP’s fintech investment division. Steve sits  
on the board of a number of Euclid portfolio companies including Duco 
Technology Limited, a rapidly growing reconciliation on-demand platform; 
OpenGamma, an award winning risk analytics provider; ENSO Financial 
Analytics, a portfolio analytics service for asset managers and hedge 
funds; Abide Financial, the regulatory reporting firm; and AcadiaSoft,  
a collateral management hub. Steve previously held senior management 
positions with Calypso Technology, Ipreo and Siebel (now Oracle).  
He was appointed a member of the GEMG in November 2015.
Hugh Gallagher
Chief Executive Officer , Asia Pacific, Global Broking
Since September 2010, Hugh has been responsible for voice broking, 
technology and support functions throughout Asia Pacific. Hugh has  
held several senior positions within ICAP since joining in 1988, including 
Chief Executive Officer ICAP Australia. Prior to joining ICAP , Hugh worked 
for Citibank and Lloyds in FX and money markets. He has more than 
25 years’ experience working in OTC markets in the Asia Pacific region.
Michael Spencer
Group Chief Executive Officer  
Chairman, GEMG
Michael’s biography is set out on page 38.   
Stuart Bridges
Group Finance Director
Stuart’s biography is set out on page 39.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
54 Laurent Paulhac
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer , ICAP SEF
Laurent joined ICAP in April 2014. He is responsible for leading ICAP’s 
global SEF initiative including the SEF’s strategic direction with regard  
to new regulatory reforms and alliances and partnerships with exchanges 
and CCPs. Laurent is also a director of iSwap Limited. Laurent joined ICAP 
from the CME Group where he was a member of the management team 
and Senior Managing Director for Interest Rate and OTC Products and 
Services with responsibility for CME Group’s global listed interest rate 
franchise and all OTC businesses, including OTC clearing. 
Seth Johnson
Head of Strategy, Global Broking
Seth is responsible for developing Global Broking’s strategy, focusing on 
growing revenue, improving the application of technology to its business 
model and expanding customer coverage. Prior to this, Seth led the 
expansion of ICAP’s Electronic Markets product portfolio in his role  
as Chief Executive Officer of both BrokerTec and ISDX. He joined ICAP  
as a graduate trainee and has worked in the Company for more than  
20 years. For ten years, Seth was the Managing Director of the interest 
rates options and inflation swaps desks. He oversaw the introduction of 
new and innovative trading solutions, including the volume match system.
Gil Mandelzis
Chief Executive Officer , EBS BrokerTec
Since December 2014, Gil has been responsible for the combined  
EBS BrokerTec business. Prior to this, he led the Group’s electronic  
FX business, EBS. Gil co-founded Traiana in April 2000 and led Traiana’s 
growth from a small start-up to a recognised global leader in post  
trade services resulting in Traiana’s acquisition by ICAP in 2007.  
Gil was appointed to the New York Federal Reserve’s Foreign  
Exchange Committee in 2012.
Jenny Knott
Chief Executive Officer , PTRI
Jenny was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the PTRI division and  
a member of the GEMG in August 2015. Jenny’s career in financial 
services spans nearly 30 years and includes Standard Bank Group, where 
she held a variety of roles including Chief Executive Officer of Standard 
Bank Plc and CIB International, Global Corporate and Investment Banking 
Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. Prior to this Jenny 
worked at Nomura and UBS. Jenny is responsible for leading the strategic 
direction of the PTRI division and heads the Traiana, TriOptima, Reset, 
Euclid and ICAP Information Services businesses.
Per Sjöberg
Chief Executive Officer , TriOptima
Per has served as Chief Executive Officer of TriOptima since 2011 and 
was appointed a member of the GEMG in November 2015. A co-founder 
of TriOptima, he was previously its Executive Vice President. Per directs 
the overall strategic development of TriOptima, identifying business 
opportunities in the evolving financial markets landscape and maintaining 
a dialogue with TriOptima’s broad client base. Per has 20 years’ experience 
working with technology solutions for OTC derivatives focusing on the 
design, development and sales of trading and risk management systems 
for OTC derivatives including SunGard Front Arena. 
Ken Pigaga 
Global Chief Operating Officer
Ken was appointed Global Chief Operating Officer in November 2013. 
He joined ICAP in 2006 as Chief Operating Officer for ICAP Americas 
and led a programme on the use of technology to implement efficiency 
and control. He also led a multi-disciplined team responsible for the 
development of ICAP’s SEF. Prior to joining ICAP, Ken was a managing 
director at JPMorgan in the Investment Bank focused on e-commerce 
activities. From 1991 to 2001 he was at Goldman Sachs where he held 
several roles in emerging markets trading, portfolio structuring and 
e-commerce. Ken chairs the GOC and is a member of the GFC.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
55
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
OTHER STATUTORY 
INFORMATION
Set out below is additional statutory information that ICAP is 
required to disclose in its directors’ report. Some of the matters 
normally included in the directors’ report have instead been 
included in the strategic report on pages 1 to 35 as the board 
considers these to be of strategic importance. 
Related party transactions
Details of related party transactions are set out in note 28 to 
the financial statements.
Environment
Details of the Group’s environmental policy are given on 
page 14 of the strategic report.
Employees
Details of the Company’s policies in respect of employee 
involvement, diversity and human rights are given on 
pages 12 to 14 of the strategic report.
Post balance sheet event
On 13 April 2016, the Group increased its investments in 
ENSO LP and ENSO Financial Management LLP. Further details  
are given in note 29 to the financial statements.
Dividends
The directors recommend a final dividend of 15.4p per share  
to be paid on 22 July 2016 to shareholders on the register  
on 1 July 2016. The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from  
30 June 2016. 
Dividend history
Year end Amount Payment date
Interim 31 March 2016 6.6p 5 February 2016
Final 31 March 2015 15.4p 24 July 2015
Interim 31 March 2015 6.6p 6 February 2015
Final 31 March 2014 15.4p 25 July 2014
Interim 31 March 2014 6.6p 7 February 2014
Political donations
No political donations were made during the year (2014/15: nil).
Directors’ indemnity arrangements
Throughout the financial year the Company has maintained 
Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance in respect of itself  
and its directors and officers, when acting in their capacity  
as a director of the Company or associated companies.
Appointment and retirement of directors
The appointment and retirement of directors is governed by the 
Company’s articles of association, the Code, the Companies Act 
2006 and related legislation. The board has the power to appoint 
additional directors or to fill a casual vacancy among the directors. 
Any such director holds office only until the next annual general 
meeting, when that director will stand for appointment by 
shareholders. In accordance with the Code, the articles of 
association also provide that all directors are subject to annual 
re-election by shareholders. 
Articles of association
The Company’s articles of association may be amended by special 
resolution at a general meeting of shareholders. No changes to 
the articles of association of the Company will be proposed at the 
2016 annual general meeting. ICAP plc’s articles of association 
are available on the Company’s website at www.icap.com. 
Share capital
Fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each 31 March 2016 31 March 2015
Issued share capital 664,537,006 664,537,006
Treasury Shares 12,986,546 15,314,513
Treasury Shares as a %  
of issued share capital 1.95% 2.30%
Each ordinary share in issue carries equal rights including one vote 
per share on a poll at general meetings of the Company. Treasury 
Shares carry neither voting rights nor an entitlement to a dividend 
while held as Treasury Shares. There are no other restrictions on 
the transfer of ordinary shares. 
Powers of directors to issue or buy back  
the Company’s shares
The powers of the directors are determined by the Companies 
Act 2006 and the Company’s articles of association. The 
directors are authorised to issue and allot shares and to buy  
back shares subject to annual shareholder approval at the annual 
general meeting. Such authorities were granted by shareholders 
at the 2015 annual general meeting. It will be proposed at the 
2016 annual general meeting that the directors be granted new 
authorities to allot and buy back shares.
Repurchase of shares
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during  
the year (2014/15: nil). As at 31 March 2016, and at 11 May 
2016, the Company had an unexpired authority to repurchase 
shares up to a maximum of 64,967,139 ordinary shares of 10p 
each. All changes in share capital are detailed in note 25 to the 
financial statements.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
56 Employee share trusts
The ICAP Trust holds ordinary shares which may be used to 
satisfy options and awards granted under the Company’s share 
plans. The voting rights of ordinary shares held in the ICAP Trust 
are exercisable by the trustees in accordance with their fiduciary 
duties. The right to receive dividends has been waived in respect 
of the shares held in the ICAP Trust.
Awards under employee share schemes
As at 31 March 2016, share awards and options existed over 
14,336,704 of the Company’s ordinary shares in relation to 
employee share awards and option schemes. Of this figure, 
4,593,134 are awards and options over existing shares which  
are held in the ICAP Trust. Awards granted under the Company’s 
share plans are expected to be satisfied by either new issues of 
shares, the use of Treasury Shares or by shares held in the ICAP 
Trust. The rules of the Company’s share plans contain provisions 
which may cause options and awards granted to employees 
under the schemes to vest on a change of control. 
Substantial shareholders
The Company’s substantial shareholders do not have different 
voting rights from those of other shareholders. As at 31 March 
2016, the Company had been notified under the FCA’s Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules of the following holdings of voting rights 
in its shares:
Percentage of voting rights  
attaching to issued share capital
Person interested Indirect Direct Total
Michael Spencer together 
with IPGL, IPGL Limited, INFBV 
and INCAP Overseas BV* 16.24 0.60 16.84
Schroders plc 13.01 – 13.01
Silchester International 
Investors LLP 9.94 – 9.94
FIL Ltd 4.94 – 4.94
Newton Investment 
Management Ltd – 4.90 4.90
AXA S.A. 3.77 0.80 4.57
*  Michael Spencer owns a majority shareholding in IPGL, of which IPGL 
Limited and INFBV are wholly-owned subsidiaries. Michael Spencer  
is deemed to be interested in all the shares in ICAP plc held by INFBV  
and its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, INCAP Overseas BV, totalling 
105,569,560 shares. IPGL Limited holds 250,000 shares in ICAP plc 
acquired via a contract for difference. A further 3,516,558 shares are 
held by Sanne Fiduciary Services Limited as trustee of the ICAP Trust.  
The shares held in the ICAP Trust include basic awards to Michael Spencer 
under the BSMP and matching awards under the BSMP in respect of  
which there are no unsatisfied performance or continuity of employment 
conditions. Michael Spencer has a direct interest in 372,825 shares.
As at 11 May 2016, the Company had been notified that 
Schroders plc held 12.859% of the voting rights in the 
Company’s issued share capital.
FCA Listing Rules – compliance with Listing Rule 9.8.4C
The majority of the disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.4 
are not applicable to ICAP. The table below sets out the location  
of the disclosures required by Listing Rule 9.8.4C:
Applicable sub-paragraph within Listing Rule 9.8.4C Disclosure provided 
(5)  details of any arrangements under which  
a director of the Company has waived  
or agreed to waive any emoluments from 
the Company or any subsidiary undertaking See page 69
(6)   where a director has agreed to waive future 
emoluments, details of such waiver together 
with those relating to emoluments which 
were waived during the period under review See page 69
(12)   details of any arrangements under which  
a shareholder has waived or agreed to waive 
any dividends See page 57
(13)  where a shareholder has agreed to  
waive future dividends, details of such 
waiver together with those relating to  
all dividends which are payable during  
the period under review See page 57
Statement of directors’ responsibilities  
for the Annual Report
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report,  
the strategic report, the remuneration report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the directors have elected 
to prepare the Group’s and Company’s financial statements in 
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. Under company law 
the directors must not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss 
of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply  
them consistently;
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
• state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the EU have  
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Group and the 
Company keep adequate accounting records that are sufficient  
to show and explain the Group’s and the Company’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Group and the Company and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements and the remuneration report 
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
57
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION 
continued
Having taken all the matters considered by the board and brought 
to the attention of the board during the year into account, the 
directors are satisfied that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is 
fair, balanced and understandable and it provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and the Company’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity  
of the information on the Company’s website. Legislation in the 
UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ statement pursuant to the FCA’s Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules
The directors are required by the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules to include a management report containing a fair review  
of the business and a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group and the Company. The directors  
of the Company who were in office during the year, and up to the 
date of signing the Annual Report, were Charles Gregson, Michael 
Spencer, Stuart Bridges, Ivan Ritossa, John Sievwright and Robert 
Standing. Each of these directors, whose function is listed in the 
directors’ biographies, confirms to the best of their knowledge that:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS  
as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as  
a whole; and
• the management report disclosures which are contained in the 
strategic report include a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a  
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely  
to affect its future development, performance and position are 
set out in the strategic report. The financial position of the Group, 
its cash flow, liquidity position, facilities and borrowing position  
are described in the financial review. Notes 10, 12 and 27 to  
the financial statements provide further detail on the Group’s 
borrowings and management of financial risks. The strategic 
report includes an analysis of the principal risks facing the  
Group and the Group’s approach to risk management. 
After reviewing the Group’s annual budget, liquidity requirements, 
plans and financing arrangements, the directors are satisfied that 
the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue 
to operate and confirm that the Group and the Company are going 
concerns. For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing these financial statements.
Viability statement
In addition to the requirement to consider the appropriateness  
of preparing the Group’s financial statements on a going concern 
basis, the directors have an obligation under the Code to make a 
statement in the Annual Report with regard to the viability of the 
Group, including explaining how they have assessed the prospects 
of the Group, the period of time for which they have made the 
assessment and why they consider that period to be appropriate.
The Group’s viability assessment has been made over a period  
of three financial years up to 31 March 2019. This period is 
currently covered by the Group’s future projections of profitability 
as outlined in the Group’s strategic plan and the period over 
which detailed management information exists. The directors  
are satisfied that a three-year period is sufficient to enable a 
reasonable assessment of the Group’s viability to be made. In 
making this assessment, the directors have considered a wide 
range of information relating to present and future conditions, 
including future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital 
resources. The directors also considered the possibility of the 
disposal of IGBB not completing within the next three years 
which resulted in two sets of viability assessments being 
performed – one with and one without the disposal of IGBB. 
Management made certain key assumptions as part of these 
assessments including an extension of the FCA’s consolidation 
regulatory requirements waiver (which currently runs until 
December 2017) should the disposal of IGBB not complete 
before 31 December 2016. They also assessed the potential 
financial and operational impacts, in severe but plausible 
scenarios, of the Group’s principal risks and uncertainties  
which are set out on pages 18 to 20. 
During the projected three-year period, the directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue  
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due. 
Disclosure of information to the auditor
So far as each person who was a director at the date of approving 
this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being 
information needed by the Company’s auditor in connection with 
preparing its report, of which the Company’s auditor is unaware. 
Each director has taken all the steps that he is obliged to take  
as a director in order to make him aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is  
aware of that information. This confirmation is given and  
should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions  
of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the board
Stuart Bridges
Group Finance Director
ICAP plc
2 Broadgate
London EC2M 7UR
Company number 3611426
16 May 2016
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
58 Dear shareholders,
I am pleased to present the remuneration report for 2015/16 
explaining how we implemented the directors’ remuneration 
policy approved in July 2015 and describing some minor 
amendments to the policy.
The committee’s primary focus is to ensure that ICAP’s 
remuneration policies and practices are fully aligned with  
the Group’s strategy and culture and meet both regulatory  
and shareholder expectations.
Although shareholders approved the remuneration policy  
for 2015/16 onwards, some had concerns with the flexibility  
around remuneration that we had provided for new recruits and,  
in particular, the retention of flexibility to make an award outside  
the limits of the policy and where the committee considered it  
to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
In light of this the committee has considered it appropriate  
to limit the flexibility provided in the recruitment policy in this 
regard. Going forward the remuneration package for a new 
recruit will be subject to the limits provided in the remuneration 
policy table. A summary of the directors’ remuneration policy  
is provided on page 61.
The directors’ remuneration policy, approved in July 2015, 
represented a major shift in the structure of remuneration for 
executive directors at ICAP , and we continue to be firmly of  
the view that the structure and the balance between fixed and 
variable pay described in the policy is robust and appropriate  
for ICAP as currently constituted. A number of shareholders 
commented on the change to salary level for the Group Chief 
Executive Officer implemented this year. Although the change 
was significant, it was a key component in the rebalanced 
remuneration structure and represented the first change for 
more than a decade. No further change to salaries is proposed  
in this report.
REMUNERA TION REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
This is the first year in which annual bonuses have been 
determined under the new directors’ remuneration policy.  
Further detail on the achievements underpinning the bonus 
award is provided later in this report, but I should like to take  
this opportunity to summarise some of the key considerations.
Financial and strategic goals were set at the start of the year  
and referenced in the remuneration report last year. Good 
progress was made against these goals, with strong defence  
of existing market share in the majority of business areas and 
market share growth in parts of the post trade and electronic 
trading businesses. The Company has also enjoyed strong 
revenue growth in new products. In addition, the executive 
directors executed a key step in the Group’s long-term strategy  
of becoming a pure post trade services and electronic trading 
group through the agreement of the sale of IGBB to Tullett 
Prebon. The Transaction was approved by shareholders at  
the shareholder meetings held on 24 March 2016, but is still 
subject to regulatory clearances. It is hoped that clearances  
will be granted and the Transaction will complete in 2016.
Given the strategic importance of the Transaction, during the 
year the committee withdrew two of the financial objectives and 
one of the strategic objectives as they were no longer capable  
of being progressed in their current form due to the Transaction. 
Performance was outstanding versus the strategic priorities set 
at the start of the year. An integrated approach to succession 
planning, talent management, performance management and 
learning was delivered to more than 200 senior employees  
in the Group. These initiatives were fully integrated with our 
culture model.
To reflect the executive directors’ commitment to the Group, 
both directors have elected to defer 100% of their respective 
bonuses into ICAP shares that will vest after three years. In line 
with the remuneration policy no matching awards will be made.
The BSMP 2013 matching award did not vest as it failed to  
meet the performance condition as a result of continuing 
challenging trading conditions.
Robert Standing
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
“ The primary focus of the 
committee is to ensure 
that ICAP’s remuneration 
policies and practices are 
fully aligned to the Group’s 
strategy and culture and 
meet both regulatory and 
shareholder expectations.”
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
59
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report Although the current directors’ remuneration policy is intended  
to remain in place for a period of three years, assuming the 
Transaction goes ahead, a new directors’ remuneration policy  
for Newco will be presented for shareholder approval following 
completion of the Transaction. The committee will ensure that 
the new policy supports the Group’s strategy. The committee 
also intends to consider the performance targets attached to 
unvested PSP awards to ensure that the performance measures 
reflect the challenges and opportunities presented by the new 
post trade risk and information and electronic trading business.
The shape of the board changed during the year with the 
appointment of Stuart Bridges as Group Finance Director and  
the departure of Diane Schueneman as a non-executive director. 
Diane has been replaced on this committee by John Sievwright, 
an existing non-executive director and chairman of the Risk 
Committee. The remuneration structure for Stuart Bridges was 
presented in the 2015 Annual Report. A summary of the buy- 
out arrangements for deferred remuneration from his previous 
employment was included in last year’s report, with further 
details provided on the actual grant made in this year’s report.
The regulatory environment continues to evolve and our  
policies and processes will adapt accordingly to meet new  
rules and guidance. The Company will continue to monitor 
business practice and regulatory developments and participate  
in consultations on regulatory change.
Risk management is an ever-evolving requirement in all 
businesses and will continue to be a major focus for ICAP; the 
progress made over the past few years and the focus from all 
employees on effective awareness, monitoring and control of  
risk as a core component in all roles provides a strong platform  
on which we continue to build. The Global Broking business has 
fully embedded a standard operational risk model. Monthly 
reporting of key risk indicators and key performance indicators  
is now standard practice across the Group and ISO accreditation 
continues to be expanded.
Assuming the Transaction goes ahead, it is expected that the 
retained Group will not be subjected to consolidated regulatory 
capital requirements. This does not, however, lessen the 
commitment from the committee to apply strong governance  
to the management of remuneration in the new Group.
The annual report on remuneration will be put to an advisory  
vote at the 2016 annual general meeting. We look forward  
to receiving your support.
Robert Standing
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
16 May 2016
GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
60 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERA TION POLICY REPORT 
Overview of the directors’ remuneration policy
An overview of the key remuneration elements in place for executive directors is set out below. 
The directors’ remuneration policy, approved at the 2015 annual general meeting, of which the following is a summary, continues to be 
the policy by which the Company is bound. A copy of the approved directors’ remuneration policy can be found in the 2015 annual report. 
Element Purpose and link to ICAP’s strategy Summary of approach Application of policy for 2016
Base salary Reflects individual role  
and experience.
Set at a level to attract the  
right talent into the Group to 
deliver the business strategy.
Reviewed annually in the context of  
the total remuneration opportunity.
Increases are normally in line with the 
wider employee population, although 
higher increase may be awarded in 
exceptional circumstances.
Increases effective from 1 April.
Salaries for 2016 are:
• Group Chief Executive Officer: £750,000
•  Group Finance Director:  
£500,000
Pension Element of remuneration  
to assist employees with 
retirement planning.
Normally enrolled in pension plan in the 
country of residence. 
Directors may opt out of the pension plan 
and instead receive a cash allowance.
Pension contributions for 2016/17 are:
• Group Chief Executive Officer:  
5% of salary
• Group Finance Director: 5% of salary
Benefits Element of remuneration to 
provide a competitive and 
cost-effective benefits package.
Benefits include, but are not limited to:
medical; life insurance; and car and  
travel benefits.
The Group Chief Executive Officer  
also has the use of a driver.
Executive directors may be accompanied 
by their spouse/partner on business trips, 
where business reasons justify this.
Benefits provided in line with policy.
Annual bonus 
and DSBP
Incentivises executive directors 
to achieve the Company’s key 
financial and strategic objectives, 
while also aligning interests with 
those of shareholders. Deferral  
of a significant proportion of  
the bonus into shares helps  
to align the long-term interests  
of executives with those of  
our shareholders.
At least 70% of the bonus is  
assessed against financial measures,  
with the balance made up of  
strategic/individual objectives. 
At least 50% of any bonus award  
is deferred into shares for at least  
three years. 
A further retention period of six  
months may apply.
The maximum award potential  
is 300% of salary.
Malus and clawback provisions apply  
in exceptional circumstances.
The maximum annual bonus opportunities  
for 2016/17 are:
• Group Chief Executive Officer: 300%
• Group Finance Director: 200%
For 2016, 70% will be based on financial 
objectives centred on growth and protection 
and profitability; and 30% will be based on 
strategic objectives centred on controls and 
governance and people and culture.
Further details on the performance 
objectives are set out on page 68.
Performance 
Share Plan 
(PSP)
To reward sustained Company 
performance and the creation  
of shareholder value over time.
Awards of shares are subject to a 
performance period of at least three 
years. Awards are then subject to an 
additional holding period of at least  
two years. 
The maximum award potential  
is 300% of salary.
Malus and clawback provisions  
apply in exceptional circumstances.
The award for 2016/17 is:
• Group Chief Executive Officer: 300%
• Group Finance Director: 200%
For 2016/17, 50% will be based on EPS 
performance and 50% will be subject  
to a relative TSR performance condition 
against a sector specific group of 13 
international comparator companies.
Further details on the performance 
conditions are set out on page 69.
Shareholding 
requirement
To create alignment with 
shareholders by encouraging 
longer-term focus.
Executive directors are required to build up 
shareholdings in the Company as follows:
• Group Chief Executive Officer:  
500% of base salary
• Group Finance Director:  
300% of base salary
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
61
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
REMUNERATION POLICY
continued
Malus and clawback
As set out above, all variable pay may be subject to malus and clawback in any of the following circumstances, for a period of up to  
five years in line with corporate governance time frames:
• a material misstatement of the Company’s or any other Group member’s audited financial results;
• a material failure of risk management by the Company, any other Group member or a relevant business unit;
• misconduct or material error on the part of the participant; or
• a material downturn in the financial performance of the Company, any other Group member or a relevant business unit (malus only).
Malus and clawback parameters will remain under review in line with regulatory guidance.
Updated recruitment policy 
As noted in the Remuneration Committee Chairman’s statement, following feedback from investors regarding the flexibility provided  
in the recruitment policy, the committee considered it appropriate to limit this flexibility. 
For completeness, the following sets out the updated recruitment policy:
In determining remuneration for new appointments to the board, the committee will apply the following principles:
• the committee will consider all relevant factors including, but not limited to, the calibre of the individual, the external market  
and existing arrangements for the Company’s current executive directors, with a view to ensuring that any arrangements  
offered are in the best interests of the Company and shareholders and without paying any more than is necessary; and
• the committee will seek to align new executive directors’ remuneration packages with the remuneration policy  
as set out above.
Components and approach
Pay on recruitment will be consistent with the usual policy for executive directors, as set out in the policy table. 
Where the new appointment is replacing a previous executive director, salaries, pension and total remuneration opportunity may  
be higher or lower than the previous incumbent dependent on skills and experience.
Where an executive director is appointed from within the Group, the normal policy of the Company is that any existing arrangements 
would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions. Similarly, if an executive director is appointed following an acquisition 
of or merger with another company, legacy terms and conditions would be honoured.
Maximum level of variable pay
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to a new executive director in respect of their appointment shall be limited 
to that set out in the policy table for each component of remuneration. This excludes any one-off awards made to compensate the 
director for awards forfeited from their previous employer.
Buy-outs
In order to facilitate recruitment, the committee may make a one-off award to ‘buy-out’ incentive awards and any other compensation 
arrangements that a new director has had to forfeit on leaving their previous employer. In doing so, the committee will take into 
account all relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to the forfeited awards, the likelihood of these conditions 
being met, the proportion of the vesting/performance period remaining and the form of the award (for example cash or shares). 
Where possible, the forfeited awards will be bought-out on a like-for-like basis.
The committee is at all times conscious of the need to pay no more than is necessary, particularly when determining any possible 
buy-out arrangements.
Contractual terms
The Company’s policy on notice periods is up to 12 months’ notice by the Company or executive director to provide a reasonable 
balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals and the need to limit the liabilities of the Company in the event  
of the termination of a contract.
Recruitment of Chairman and non-executive directors
In the event of the appointment of a new Chairman and/or non-executive director, their remuneration framework will be in line  
with policy as approved by shareholders. 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
62 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERA TION
The information in this section up to and including the statement of directors’ shareholding and share interests’ section is subject  
to audit. The complete annual report on remuneration is subject to an advisory vote by shareholders.
Single total figure of remuneration
The following table sets out the total remuneration for executive directors and non-executive directors for the years ended  
31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015: 
Salary and fees 
(a)
Benefits 
(b)
Annual bonus 
(c)
Pension/cash 
allowance 
(d)
Payment in lieu  
of dividend 
(e) Subtotals
Buy-out awards 
(f) Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Executive directors
Michael Spencer 750 360 86 106 1,700 1,818 37 18 1,018 1,018 3,591 3,320 – – 3,591 3,320
Stuart Bridges
1
292 – 2 – 450 – 13 – – – 757 – 900 – 1,657 –
John Nixon
2
– 310 – 7 – 1,212 – – – 259 – 1,788 – – – 1,788
Iain Torrens
3
– 169 – 1 – 625 – 7 – 61 – 863 – – – 863
Non-executive directors
Charles Gregson 300 300 28 24 – – – – – – 328 324 – – 328 324
Ivan Ritossa 95 106 – – – – – – – – 95 106 – – 95 106
Diane Schueneman
4
60 99 – – – – – – – – 60 99 – – 60 99
John Sievwright 110 110 2 5 – – – – – – 112 115 – – 112 115
Robert Standing 90 90 – – – – – – – – 90 90 – – 90 90
1. Stuart Bridges was appointed to the board on 1 September 2015.
2. John Nixon resigned from the board on 31 March 2015.
3. Iain Torrens resigned from the board on 12 December 2014.
4. Diane Schueneman resigned from the board on 31 December 2015.
Notes to the table – methodology
(a) Salary and fees – the base salary or fees paid in respect of the relevant financial year.
( b)  B e n e f i t s – the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the relevant financial year. Benefits vary for each executive director 
but include medical, life insurance, car and travel benefits. Michael Spencer also has use of a driver. The Chairman is provided with  
an office and is reimbursed for a proportion of the cost of a car and driver to assist with the performance of his duties. 
(c) Annual bonus – this represents the bonus awarded in respect of the 2015/16 performance year, including the deferred portion. 
(d) Pension/cash allowance – during the year, Michael Spencer participated in the UK defined contribution plan.
(e)  Payment in lieu of dividend – the amounts shown reflect payments in lieu of dividends received on legacy awards including the 
basic and matching awards for 2009 and basic awards and promises granted under the BSMP for 2010, 2011 and 2012.
(f)  Buy-out awards – this represents buy-out awards to Stuart Bridges on his appointment as Group Finance Director at the beginning 
of September 2015 as partial recompense for deferred awards forfeited on leaving his previous employer. On 11 November 2015 
197,500 shares in the Company were granted to him with a share price of £4.541. In line with the regulations the full value of grant 
is disclosed in this table, the shares are subject to continued employment and will vest as follows: 98,750 shares on 1 September 2016; 
and 98,750 shares on 1 September 201 7 . Stuart Bridges was also granted a performance based PSP award to the value of £900,000 
as recompense for performance based awards forfeited on leaving his previous employer. Further details of the performance 
conditions attached to this award can be found on pages 65 and 66.
Additional disclosures in respect of the single total figure of remuneration table
2015/16 annual bonus
The bonus plan was structured to incentivise executive directors to meet the corporate objectives of investing to achieve growth  
and profitability, continuing to develop and promote the corporate culture through strong and risk-aware leadership and aligning  
their interests with those of shareholders.
The plan was designed so that progress and achievements in the past twelve months can be recognised and rewarded, with a significant 
proportion deferred for a period of three years to ensure ongoing alignment and positive behaviours. 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
63
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
continued
During 2015/16, the executive directors made good progress against the financial and strategic goals set by the committee at the 
start of the year, as set out in the table below. They also executed a key step in the Group’s strategy of becoming a pure post trade 
services and electronic trading group through the agreement of the sale of IGBB to Tullett Prebon. The Transaction was approved by 
shareholders at the shareholder meetings on 24 March 2016 but is still subject to regulatory clearance. Assuming that the Transaction 
proceeds as agreed, it should complete during 2016. Shareholders of ICAP will benefit significantly from the Transaction, with identified 
synergy benefits from the combined group of at least £60 million annually, as advised in the ICAP Circular of 1 March 2016, driven by 
the elimination of duplicated management and support costs with significant additional benefits accruing over time.
Outcomes relative to performance goals
Key strategic areas
Performance  
measure Threshold Target Maximum
% of  
element 
vesting Additional commentary
Financial objectives (70%)
Growth and 
protection 
(financial)
Innovation 
and 
sustainable 
growth  
in key 
businesses 
and new 
products
Defence of 
existing 
market share 
across global 
broking
85%
• Retention of market share in global broking and market  
share growth across key areas of the electronic markets  
and post trade businesses.
• Growth in e-commerce matching revenue within Global Broking.
• Revenue from new product initiatives accounted for 23%  
of Electronic Markets and PTRI revenue (2014/15: 18%).
• Acquisition of ENSO in April 2016 will strengthen relationships  
with the prime broker market and its hedge fund customers.
• The Transaction is transformational for the growth of  
Electronic Markets and PTRI.
• An objective to expand the addressable market beyond large 
investment banks was withdrawn. This was a Group-wide  
initiative, intended to maximise cross-business marketing and  
so could not be progressed once the Transaction was underway.
Market share 
growth in 
electronic and 
post trade
Revenue from 
new products 
Profitability 
(financial)
Profitability 
through 
achievement 
of targets  
and 
appropriate 
cash 
management
Profit  
before tax 
(£m)
58%
• Trading profit before tax of £203 million was 11% down on  
the prior year.  Excluding year-on-year adverse movement  
from FX losses of £11 million, trading profit before tax was  
down 7%, primarily driven by incremental investment,  
particularly in Electronic Markets.
• Trading operating profit also fell behind the target level   
due to the decision to withdraw identified cost reduction  
measures that would have improved the profit figure but  
could not be progressed in light of the Transaction.
• PTRI operating profit was in line with the prior year, but  
Electronic Markets and Global Broking were behind target  
due to incremental investment in the year and continuing  
revenue headwinds in the market.
• Cash conversion was a key component of the profitability  
objective and closed ahead of expectation for the year at  
96% and in line with expectation over the medium term.
Cash 
conversion  
(%)
Non-financial objectives (30%)
Controls and 
governance 
(non-
financial)
Efficient and 
effective 
controls
Embedding 
risk 
management 
across the 
organisation
90%
• Risk management tools, methodologies and techniques are  
now embedded into the business-as-usual environment, with  
risk appetite an integral part of business strategy and plans.
• The measuring and reporting of Group risk appetite improved 
significantly, with a particular focus on and articulation of key and 
emerging risks at the divisional level, supporting board oversight.
• There was also significant improvement in self-sufficiency  
(i.e. limited dependency on third parties).
• The operations control environment was upgraded in all businesses 
supported by appropriate KPIs. The operational risk model is  
now embedded in the majority of businesses, with key risk 
indicators and KPIs reviewed on a monthly basis.
• An entity simplification project eliminated a number of  
unregulated entities.
Upgrade 
operations 
control 
environment
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
64 Key strategic areas
Performance  
measure Threshold Target Maximum
% of  
element 
vesting Additional commentary
People  
and  
culture 
(non-
financial)
The right 
people 
working 
together  
in the  
right way
People
90%
• The use of psychometrics in selection, interview skills training  
for hiring managers, a standard global approach to performance 
management, a global induction programme and talent mapping 
have all contributed to a much more professional approach to 
appointments and alignment of the leadership with the culture  
and values that drive the right behaviours. The board played an 
active role in developing the plan to articulate and reinforce our 
strong culture in everything we do. Diversity training has been 
enhanced and continues to run globally.
• The Newco brand positioning and its visual identity is being 
developed. Internal and external communication of the  
Transaction was very successful.
• An objective to develop a strategic approach to customer 
management was originally planned as a cross-Group exercise  
but was withdrawn once the Transaction was underway and  
a new project launched for Newco only.
Culture
While the committee is mindful of the external expectations on annual bonus target disclosure, it has considered it appropriate  
not to disclose the actual financial performance targets used for the determination of the annual bonus this year as they reward 
achievement of the Group’s business plan, the disclosure of which the board considers to be commercially sensitive. The committee 
will keep the level of disclosure provided on the annual bonus under review in the coming year.
The Remuneration Committee determined that, as set out in the above table, a formulaic outcome under the financial element of  
the annual bonus resulted in 71% of this element being paid out, with 90% of the non-financial element being paid out. This results  
in a total of 77% of the maximum.
Executive directors are required to defer at least 50% of bonus payments into ICAP shares vesting after three years. Both the Group 
Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director have elected to defer 100% of their 2016 bonus into ICAP shares vesting 
after three years. In line with the remuneration policy approved at the 2015 annual general meeting, no matching awards will be made.
201 3 BSMP matching award
The BSMP matching award granted in 2013 under the legacy arrangements was subject to a performance condition based on 
adjusted basic EPS growth over the three financial years to 31 March 2016. The matching award is released only if adjusted basic  
EPS has grown by at least 9% above RPI over the three financial years to 31 March 2016. 
The Company’s adjusted trading EPS declined over the three-year period, therefore the award did not vest.
Details of share awards granted in the year
2015 PSP award
On 11 November 2015, PSP awards were granted to the two executive directors as shown in the table below:
Type of award
Number of 
shares Face value (£)
Threshold 
vesting (% of 
face value)
Maximum 
vesting (% of 
face value) End of performance period
Michael Spencer PSP – Conditional share award based  
on performance
173,262 905,814 25% 100% 31 March 2018
Stuart Bridges PSP – Conditional share award based  
on performance
197,500 896,848 25% 100% 31 March 2018
PSP – Buy-out award (conditional shares) 
based on continued employment*
98,750 448,424 100% 100% 1 September
2016*
PSP – Buy-out award (conditional shares) 
based on continued employment*
98,750 448,424 100% 100% 1 September
 2017*
*  Buy-out awards to Stuart Bridges were made to compensate for forefeited deferred awards with his previous employer. 
The face value of awards for Michael Spencer is based on the average closing price for the five business days following 15 July 2015, 
being the date of the 2015 annual general meeting (£5.228). In line with his joining agreement, the face value of awards for Stuart 
Bridges is based on the closing price on 28 August 2015, being the last business day before he was appointed to the board (£4.541). 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
65
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
continued
For PSP awards subject to performance conditions made in the year the committee selected a combination of trading EPS and relative 
TSR as the performance conditions on the basis that it safeguards the progress that has been made in the Group’s performance  
and underpins continuing forward growth in the Group’s earnings and therefore promotes the long-term success of the Company.
The performance condition for the 2015 PSP award is based on graduated vesting where 25% of the matching award will vest  
at EPS growth of CPI + 20% over the three-year period and TSR performance at the median level versus the agreed peer group  
(as set out in last years’ remuneration report), increasing to 100% vesting at EPS growth of CPI + 45% over the three-year period  
and TSR performance at the upper quartile level versus the agreed peer group. The EPS and TSR performance conditions are  
measured independently and are not contingent on one another. 
SAYE options
Michael Spencer participated in the HMRC approved ICAP plc 2008 Sharesave Scheme (SAYE), under which participants may be  
granted options at a 20% discount to market value at grant. Options granted under the SAYE are not subject to a performance condition.
On 18 June 2015, 2,986 options over ordinary shares in the Company were granted to Michael Spencer at an option price of £4.52. 
The exercise period for the options will commence on 1 August 2018 and will last for a period of six months to 31 January 2019.
Payments to past directors
Payments in line with those previously disclosed to shareholders were made in the year. In line with ICAP’s policy, John Nixon received  
a payment of £102,000 in lieu of dividends on his outstanding legacy awards.
Payments for loss of office
No payments for loss of office have been made in the year.
Statement of directors’ shareholding and share interests
Minimum shareholding guidelines for executive directors and members of the GEMG have been in place since 2012. 
These shareholdings will be built up over time and, for these purposes, will include vested share awards under long term incentive  
plans but will not include any unvested rights to shares awarded under long term incentive plans or any unexercised options.  
Any vested shares subject to a holding period under the new PSP will count towards the shareholding guidelines. 
Other shares that count towards the guideline include those that are beneficially owned and shares held by the ICAP Trust in respect  
of BSMP basic awards and any vested but not exercised BSMP matching and PSP awards. 
The minimum shareholding guideline for the Group Chief Executive Officer is 500% of base salary and for other executive directors  
is 300% of base salary. The Group Chief Executive Officer had exceeded his target as at 31 March 2016, based on the share price  
at the close of business on that date. The Group Finance Director was appointed in September 2015 and has five years from 
appointment to reach his target.
The table below details the share interests of the directors in office at 31 March 2016:
Director Note
Share interests
as at 31 March 
2016
Share interests
as at 31 March 
2015
Outstanding 
PSP awards 
without 
performance 
condition
Outstanding 
PSP awards 
with 
performance 
condition
Outstanding
BSMP awards
Outstanding 
SAYE options
Charles Gregson 4 241,625 236,263 – – – –
Michael Spencer 1,2 3,889,383 3,799,984 – 173,262 4,014,913 4,476
Stuart Bridges 3 25,000 – 197,500 197,500 – –
Ivan Ritossa – – – – – –
John Sievwright 20,873 20,000 – – – –
Robert Standing 10,000 10,000 – – – –
Note
1. Details of Michael Spencer’s shareholding, including his connected parties, are set out in a note to the substantial shareholders’ section on page 57.
2. The outstanding BSMP awards include the 2008 BSMP matching award which has vested and remains unexercised.
3. Stuart Bridges was appointed to the board on 1 September 2015.
4. Charles Gregson holds one ordinary share of 10p and 499,999 redeemable preference shares of 10p in ICAP Newco plc.
Between 31 March 2016 and 11 May 2016 there were no transactions by the directors in the Company’s shares.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
66 External appointments
The Company recognises the opportunities and benefits to both the Company and executive directors serving as non-executive 
directors of other companies. Executive directors are permitted to take on non-executive directorships with other companies with  
the approval of the Nomination Committee. Any fees arising from such appointments are retained by the individual.
Stuart Bridges received a fee of £26,542, which he retained, for his non-executive directorship of Caledonia Investments plc. 
Total shareholder return
The TSR on a holding of the Company’s ordinary shares compared with the FTSE 100, FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share indices for  
the seven financial years to 31 March 2016 is shown in the graph below. As a constituent of the FTSE 100 index from June 2006  
to September 2012 and the FTSE 250 from that date, the Company considers both the FTSE 100 and the FTSE 250 the appropriate 
indices for comparison.
Performance graph – value of £100 invested
Seven financial years ended 31 March 2016
Performance graph – value of £100 invested
Seven ﬁnancial years ended 31 March 2016
2012 2013 2010 2011 2016 2015 2014 2009
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
0
ICAP FTSE 100 FTSE 250 FTSE All-Share
Remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Officer
Previous policy Current policy
2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16
Single total figure of remuneration (£’000) 6,069 10,727 5,524 4,326 2,215 3,320 3,591
Percentage of maximum bonus paid* n/a n/a 56% 41% 12% 25% 76%
Percentage of maximum BSMP opportunity vesting 100% 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
* No maximum bonus stated prior to 201 1/12.
Change in the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Officer compared to other employees
The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration awarded to the Group Chief Executive Officer and all other employees 
of the Group between 2014/15 and 2015/16:
Salary Benefits Bonus
Group Chief Executive Officer 108% -19% -6%
All other employees -12% -3% -13%
As set out in the 2015 remuneration report, the salary change for the Group Chief Executive Officer formed part of the redesign of 
executive compensation and the implementation of a new directors’ remuneration policy approved in 2015. The salary change was  
the first in more than a decade reflecting the re-balancing of compensation towards fixed pay and the reduction in the maximum 
award. No further change to the salary level is proposed for at least the duration of this policy.
Relative importance of spend on pay
2015/16
£m
2014/15
£m
Change
%
Total remuneration 653 743 -12
Dividends 141 141 0
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
67
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
continued
Statement of implementation of the directors’ remuneration policy in the coming year
The directors’ remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2015 remains in place for the 2016/17 financial year. In the event  
that the disposal of IGBB completes before 31 March 2017, the committee will be reviewing the directors’ remuneration policy and 
arrangements to ensure that they remain appropriate for the strategy of Newco. A directors’ remuneration policy for Newco will be 
put to a shareholder vote at its first annual general meeting.
We consider that the proposed remuneration arrangements for 2016/17:
• provide synergy with our business strategy going forward;
• provide more alignment with shareholders;
• are more aligned with regulatory and corporate governance developments and should discourage excessive risk-taking or short-term 
decisions at the expense of the long-term interests of the Company; and
• provide increased transparency and disclosure of individual performance outcomes.
Our directors’ remuneration policy for 2016/17, in line with the policy approved by shareholders in 2015, will be as outlined below. 
Salary 
Following the change in 2015 for the balance of fixed and variable pay to align more closely with the Company risk profile, no further 
adjustment is proposed for 2016. 
Salary levels from 1 April 2016 are shown below:
Salary % increase
Group Chief Executive Officer £750,000 0%
Group Finance Director £500,000 0%
Pension and benefits
Both executive directors receive a cash equivalent to the standard 5% of salary contribution to the UK defined contribution plan. The cash 
equivalent is reduced to take account of employers’ national insurance contributions. Michael Spencer participated in the UK defined 
contribution pension plan until February 2016 and received the cash equivalent thereafter. There will be no material change to benefits. 
Annual bonus awards in respect of the 2016/1 7 financial year
The bonus structure for 2016/17 is consistent with that detailed in the directors’ remuneration policy section of this report. 
Annual bonuses will continue to be assessed based on financial performance, represented by growth and protection objectives and 
profitability objectives accounting for 70% of the overall award, and strategic priorities with the proportion of the annual bonus based 
on strategic priorities forming 30% of the overall award. This reflects the importance we place on these objectives.
Further details are set out below:
Maximum opportunity for 2016 Group Chief Executive Officer: 300% of base salary
Group Finance Director: 200% of base salary
Up to half of any bonus award will be paid in cash, with the balance deferred  
into ICAP shares for a three-year period.
Performance measures The committee has selected measures to directly support ICAP’s strategy.
The 2016 annual bonus will be subject to the following performance measures:
Financial (70%):
Growth and protection
– innovation and sustainable growth in key businesses and new products
Profitability
–  achievement of profit and revenue targets and appropriate cost management
Strategic priorities (30%):
Controls and governance
– efficient and effective controls
People and culture
– the right people working together in the right way
The targets set for the performance measures are commercially sensitive and (as permitted 
by the regulations) are not being disclosed in advance. Further details will be provided in next 
year’s annual report (within commercial constraints) with context on performance against 
those targets and the resulting bonus.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
68 Long term incentive awards
In the 2016/17 financial year, awards will be made under the PSP to the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director. 
Further details are set out below:
Maximum 
opportunity
Group Chief Executive Officer: 300% of salary
Group Finance Director: 200% of salary
Performance  
period
Performance will be measured over a three-year performance period. Once they have vested, awards will be subject  
to an additional holding period of a minimum of two years.
Performance 
measures and 
targets
The performance period will run from 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2019.
TSR (50% of the award)
Half the 2016 PSP award will be subject to a total shareholder return performance condition. ICAP’s TSR will be measured 
relative to a sector-specific group of 13 international comparator companies:
– BGC  – Markit – BOVESPA – Hong Kong Stock Exchange 
– Nasdaq – CBOE – Singapore Exchange – InterContinental Exchange 
– CME – Deutsche Börse – Tullett Prebon – London Stock Exchange 
– MarketAxess
Vesting of awards under the TSR element will be in line with the following schedule:
TSR performance Percentage of TSR element vesting
Below median 0%
Median 25%
Upper quartile 100%
Straight-line vesting between median and upper quartile
EPS (50% of the award)
The remaining 50% of the 2016 award will be subject to a cumulative EPS performance condition. Awards under this 
element will vest in line with the following schedule:
Cumulative EPS Percentage of EPS element vesting
<CPI + 20% 0%
CPI + 20% 25%
CPI + 45% 100%
Chairman and non-executive directors’ fees
The table below shows the non-executive director fee structure as at 1 April 2016:
Position Fee % increase
Chairman £300,000 0%
Non-executive director £80,000 0%
Additional fees
Senior independent director £10,000 0%
Chairman of the Audit Committee £10,000 0%
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee £10,000 0%
Chairman of the Risk Committee £10,000 0%
Chairman of the Nomination Committee* £5,000 0%
Membership of the ICAP SEF board and/or any other subsidiary board** £15,000/$25,000 0%
*  Charles Gregson waived his entitlement to the additional fee for his role as chairman of the Nomination Committee. There are no fees paid for membership of board committees.
**  Additional fees are paid to non-executive directors who sit on the board of ICAP SEF entities due to the additional time commitment for discharging this role. 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
69
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report Remuneration Committee remit and responsibilities
The Remuneration Committee is authorised by the board to review and approve proposals to ensure that ICAP’s global reward  
and employee benefits approach supports the business strategy of the Group. 
The committee’s responsibility is the oversight of the remuneration strategy for the Group, to ensure that ICAP’s approach to 
remuneration is aligned with the interests of employees and shareholders and to comply with current best practice and regulatory 
requirements. Full terms of reference can be found on the Company’s website at www.icap.com.
The committee’s principal areas of responsibility are:
• reviewing and approving the overall remuneration policy of ICAP at least every three years;
• setting remuneration and pension/benefit policies for executive directors, senior staff and other key employees across the business;
• approving any contracts of employment for employees below the board with terms that exceed certain agreed levels of duration, 
notice period or remuneration; 
• ensuring that remuneration proposals are compliant with both the letter and spirit of all local legislation or regulatory guidelines; and
• considering implications for risk management.
Remuneration Committee members
The committee members are appointed by the board and comprise independent non-executive directors. The chairman of the 
committee is appointed by the board.
The table on page 45 sets out the directors who served on the Remuneration Committee during the year and their committee 
meeting attendance.
Activities during the year
The principal activities and matters addressed by the committee during the year included:
• review of the implications of the Transaction on incentive plans and share awards; 
• review and approval of the executive directors’ bonuses for the year ended 31 March 2016, including assessment of the level  
of achievement of the executive directors’ objectives for the year;
• review of performance against the EPS performance target for the 2013 BSMP award;
• review and approval of the remuneration of those individuals fulfilling control functions, including the Group Head of Compliance 
and the Group Head of Risk, and members of the GEMG; and 
• review of the highest earners’ compensation arrangements across the Group.
Support to the committee
The committee is supported by the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director, the Group Head of HR and the  
Group Company Secretary. 
The committee received external advice from Deloitte LLP in relation to the design and implementation of executive remuneration 
arrangements. Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under the code  
of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Company. The committee  
is satisfied that the advice received from Deloitte LLP was independent and objective. The total fee in respect of the advice provided 
was £69,160. Deloitte LLP also provided tax, consulting and corporate finance services to ICAP during the year. 
Statement of voting at the 2015 annual general meeting
At the 2015 annual general meeting votes cast in respect of the remuneration report and directors’ remuneration policy were:
Remuneration report Directors’ remuneration policy 
Total number  
of votes Votes cast
Total number  
of votes Votes cast
For 371,174,074 65.85% 375,615,718 69.32%
Against 192,466,902 34.15% 166,224,619 30.68%
Number of votes cast 563,640,976 541,840,337
Votes withheld 3,405,389 25,206,028
The committee was disappointed with the voting outcome for the remuneration report and directors’ remuneration policy. Although 
the directors’ remuneration policy approved in July 2015 remains in place, we have made a change to the recruitment policy set out  
in the directors’ remuneration policy report for directors in light of shareholder feedback as explained in the chairman’s statement  
on page 59.
GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
70 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF ICAP PLC
REPORT ON THE  
FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
Our opinion
In our opinion:
• ICAP plc’s Group financial statements and Company financial 
statements (the financial statements) give a true and fair view 
of the state of the Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as at 
31 March 2016 and of the Group’s profit and of the Group’s 
and the Company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly prepared  
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
• the Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
• the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and,  
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of  
the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual  
Report, comprise:
• the consolidated and Company balance sheets as  
at 31 March 2016;
• the consolidated income statement and consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
• the consolidated and Company statement of cash flows  
for the year then ended;
• the consolidated and Company statement of changes  
in equity for the year then ended; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which include  
a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere  
in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial 
statements. These are cross-referenced from the financial 
statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, 
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006, and applicable law.
Our audit approach
Overview
The judgements that have the greatest effect on the nature, 
extent and timing of our audit procedures – materiality, scoping 
and the key areas of audit focus – are summarised here and 
explained in detail below.
Audit scope
Areas of
focus
Materiality
• Overall Group materiality: 
£10.1 million which represents 5%  
of continuing and discontinued profit 
before tax, acquisition and disposal 
costs and exceptional items.
• We conducted an audit of the 
complete financial information of  
13 individually financially significant 
business reporting units.
• Additional business reporting units 
were selected to increase the level  
of audit evidence for each account 
balance, on which a combination of 
controls testing and substantive tests 
of detail were undertaken. 
• Business reporting units that are not 
subject to specific audit procedures 
are still subject to audit work on 
entity level controls and Group level 
analytical review procedures over 
their financial information.
The areas of focus for our audit to which 
we allocated the greatest amount of  
our resources and effort were:
• sale of IGBB;
• presentation and disclosure of 
exceptional items;
• goodwill impairment assessment; and
• fraud in revenue recognition.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing 
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.  
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective 
judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting 
estimates that involved making assumptions and considering 
future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits 
we also addressed the risk of management override of internal 
controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias 
by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement 
due to fraud. 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
71
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ICAP PLC 
continued
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort,  
are identified as areas of focus in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas  
in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures 
should be read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Sale of IGBB
On 11 November 2015, ICAP reached an agreement to sell 
IGBB (the disposal group) to Tullett Prebon plc. The agreement 
is still subject to fulfilment of conditions of execution and 
approval by the responsible authorities. Until the conditions  
are met, the business will remain part of ICAP and will continue 
to contribute to the Group results.
As a result of the Transaction, management is required to 
consider if this met the held for sale criteria which include a 
number of judgements in relation to both measurement and 
disclosure requirements. We have focused on the held for sale 
classification and whether the disposal was measured at the 
lower of carrying value and fair value less cost to sell.
We also considered whether IGBB operations and cash flows 
were clearly distinguished, operationally and for financial 
reporting purposes, leading to the results of IGBB being shown 
as discontinued in the income statement for both the current 
and prior period.
We understood management’s rationale for both the held for  
sale determination and the classification of IGBB as a disposal 
group. We focused on the key judgements taken, specifically  
that management is committed to the plan to sell, the sale is 
highly probable and is expected to complete within one year  
from the date of classification. Through our review of the sale  
and purchase agreement, review of publicly available documents 
and discussions with management we were satisfied that 
management’s accounting assessment was appropriate. 
We obtained and evaluated management’s valuation assessment 
of IGBB to confirm that the disposal group was classified as held 
for sale at the lower of the carrying value and fair value less cost 
to sell. Supporting calculations were tested to check that only  
the appropriate assets and liabilities of the entities and business 
as specified in the agreement were considered. The carrying 
value was the lower amount and this was used to report the 
assets and liabilities as held for sale. We found no material 
exceptions in these tests.
We also assessed the accuracy and completeness of assets  
and liabilities moved to held for sale by ensuring that they  
were included in the IGBB disposal group as per the sale and 
purchase agreement. In doing this we also assessed whether  
the operations and cash flows of the disposal group were  
clearly distinguishable. 
We also assessed the prior year comparatives and whether they 
have been accurately restated and presented on a consistent basis 
in accordance with IFRS5. We did not find any material exceptions.
Relevant references in the Annual Report, note 4.
Presentation and disclosure of exceptional items 
Assessment of the Group’s performance generally focuses  
on trading profit, being operating profit before acquisition  
and disposal costs and exceptional items. This is the fourth 
consecutive year that ICAP has incurred and reported 
exceptional costs, although the nature of these costs has 
varied from year to year.
As part of the sale of IGBB, ICAP plc incurred various 
Transaction costs, principally professional services costs  
and costs of contractors and temporary staff that have  
been included in the exceptional items column. We focused  
on the risk that these costs did not meet the criteria to  
be classified as such as set out in the accounting policy on 
page 85, which could have an impact on the disclosed 
underlying business performance.
We understood management’s basis for determining whether  
or not expenses incurred in relation to the Transaction fell  
within the classification of exceptional items as described in  
the accounting policy.
We selected a sample of expenses that had been identified as 
exceptional items and, based on our understanding of the accounting 
policy and understanding of the Transaction, we formed our own 
judgement as to whether they were appropriately presented and 
disclosed in exceptional items. We found no material exceptions.
We examined the Group’s disclosures in respect of exceptional 
items, considering the correlation between the narrative provided 
and the underlying expenses incurred and determined that this 
appropriately reflected the nature of the underlying expenses.
Relevant references in the Annual Report, note 3. 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
72 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Goodwill impairment assessment
We focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill 
balance and because the directors’ assessment of the carrying 
value of the Group’s cash generating units (CGUs) involves 
judgements about the future results of the business and the 
discount rate applied to the future cash flow forecasts.
We also considered the carrying value based on the fair value 
less costs to sell for the IGBB CGU.
During the period, due to the closure of an e-commerce 
development business the directors recorded a goodwill 
impairment charge of £3 million which has been classified  
as an exceptional item.
The annual impairment process did not result in any additional 
impairment being taken during the period. 
We examined the forecasts of future cash flow prepared by 
management, by comparing them to the latest board approved 
budgets and by comparing the current year results with the 
equivalent figures included in the prior year forecast to test 
historical budgeting accuracy. To determine the recoverable  
value of the IGBB CGU, we re-performed the computation  
of the fair value less costs to sell. We found no material 
exceptions in these tests.
We challenged the directors’ key assumptions for discount and 
long-term growth rates using our knowledge of the business, 
future strategy and past performance and by comparing rates  
used to past results and external data where available. We found 
no material exceptions in these tests. We performed independent 
sensitivity analyses, making adjustments to the assumptions. This 
exercise did not identify any impairment as there is a considerable 
margin of safety across all the variables in each of the CGUs. 
We also challenged the write-off of goodwill of £3 million being 
recorded as an exceptional item rather than in acquisition and 
disposal costs. We agreed with the classification as an exceptional 
item and with management’s conclusion that the closing of a 
business is an exceptional event and therefore sufficiently 
different to prior years’ impairment charges.
The appropriateness of disclosures made in relation to goodwill 
was also reviewed. 
Relevant references in the Annual Report, note 14.
Fraud in revenue recognition
We focused on the accuracy and timing of the recognition  
and the presentation in the income statement of:
• commissions from the Group’s Global Broking business;
•  brokerage and access fees from its Electronic Markets 
business; and
•  fees from the provision of Post Trade Risk and Information.
These revenue streams are dependent on the fulfilment  
of contractual obligations which may involve subjective 
estimation with regard to stage completion and are subject  
to manual intervention which could result in revenue being 
recognised inappropriately. 
We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the operating 
effectiveness of internal controls over the accuracy and timing  
of commissions and fees recognised in the financial statements.
We tested the reconciliations between the revenue systems used 
by the Group and its financial ledgers and journal entries posted 
to revenue accounts to help identify unusual or irregular items. 
We then perfomed testing over these amounts to ensure that 
they should be recognised as revenue. No execeptions were 
found in the sample selected. 
We also tested the timing of revenue recognition, assessing 
whether the necessary contractual obligations had been fulfilled 
by taking a sample of revenue transactions and agreeing them 
back to contracts and did not find any exceptions.
Relevant references in the Annual Report, note 1.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
73
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ICAP PLC 
continued
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic 
structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls 
and the industry in which the Group operates. 
The Group reports its operating results and financial position 
along three business lines, being Electronic Markets, Post Trade 
Risk and Information and Global Broking. 
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of these 
business lines, which comprise 169 separate legal entities located 
in 34 countries, and the Group’s centralised functions.
We identified 13 reporting units across the Global Broking and 
Electronic Markets legal entities and centralised functions that, in 
our view, required an audit of their complete financial information 
due to their size. As part of our planning procedures, the Group 
engagement team visited the UK and US component teams (the 
two most significant countries in the Group). Specific audit 
procedures on certain balances and transactions were performed 
at a further seven reporting units either due to their size, or their 
risk characteristics, which included the two largest entities in the 
PTRI segment, located in Sweden and Israel.
The 20 reporting units accounted for 78% of Group Total Income 
and 97% of Group Total Assets. 
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group 
level, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the 
Group and the Company financial statements as a whole. 
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of 
materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. 
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to 
determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and 
extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial 
statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the  
effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial 
statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality 
for the Group financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group 
materiality
£10.1 million (2015: £11.45 million).
How we 
determined it
5% of continuing and discontinued 
profit before tax, acquisition and 
disposal costs and exceptional items.
Rationale for 
benchmark 
applied
We based materiality on continuing  
and discontinued profit before tax, 
acquisition and disposal costs and 
exceptional items. The acquisition  
and disposal costs and exceptional 
items are significant and are expected 
to be discrete and non-recurring in 
nature and thus are not considered  
to be indicative of the underlying 
performance of the business. The 
removal of these items mitigates undue 
volatility in determining our materiality 
and provides an appropriate materiality 
level giving more consideration to the 
scale of the financial position and 
operations of ICAP plc.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to 
them misstatements identified during our audit above £500,000 
(2015: £500,000) as well as misstatements below that amount 
that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ 
statement, set out on page 58 in relation to going concern.  
We have nothing to report having performed our review. 
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we 
have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation 
to the directors’ statement about whether they considered it 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. We have nothing material to add or to  
draw attention to. 
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded 
that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 
the financial statements. The going concern basis presumes that 
the Group and the Company have adequate resources to remain in 
operation, and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least 
one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As 
part of our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use of the 
going concern basis is appropriate. However, because not all future 
events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not  
a guarantee as to the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue  
as a going concern.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
74 Other required reporting
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• information in the Annual Report is:
 − materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 − apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group 
and the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 − otherwise misleading.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
• the statement given by the directors on page 58, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the Code, that they 
consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for members to assess the Group’s and Company’s position and performance, 
business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and the Company 
acquired in the course of performing our audit; and
We have no 
exceptions to report.
• the section of the Annual Report on pages 48 to 50, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing 
the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated  
by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no 
exceptions to report.
The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency  
or liquidity of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
• the directors’ confirmation on page 58 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of the 
Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including 
those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
We have nothing 
material to add or  
to draw attention to.
• the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed  
or mitigated; and
We have nothing 
material to add or  
to draw attention to.
• the directors’ explanation on page 58 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the  
Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so  
and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as  
they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention  
to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing 
material to add or  
to draw attention to.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
75
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ 
statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of  
the principal risks facing the Group and the directors’ statement 
in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group. Our review 
was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted  
of making enquiries and considering the directors’ process 
supporting their statements; checking that the statements  
are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and 
considering whether the statements are consistent with the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. 
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report  
to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations  
we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the Company financial statements and the part of the 
directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns. 
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the directors’ remuneration report  
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with  
the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of  
the corporate governance statement relating to ten further 
provisions of the Code. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review. 
Responsibilities for the financial  
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 57, the directors are responsible  
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and  
ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with  
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and  
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no 
other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands  
it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior  
consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free  
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: 
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the 
directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming 
 our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the 
financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary  
to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.  
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness  
of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Christopher Rowland (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
16 May 2016
GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ICAP PLC 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
76 FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
Page number
Consolidated income statement 78
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 80
Consolidated and Company balance sheet 81
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 82
Company statement of changes in equity 83
 Consolidated and Company statement of cash flow 84
Basis of preparation 85
Index to the notes to the financial statements 88
Notes to the financial statements 89
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
77
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2016
Note
Trading
£m
Acquisition and 
disposal costs
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 1 460 – – 460
Operating expenses 2 (321) (75) (9) (405)
Other income – – – –
Operating profit 1 139 (75) (9) 55
Finance income 9 1 1 – 2
Finance costs 9 (30) – – (30)
Share of profit of joint ventures after tax 21 1 – – 1
Share of profit of associates after tax 22 (1) – – (1)
Profit before tax from continuing operations 110 (74) (9) 27
Tax 7 (23) 16 2 (5)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 87 (58) (7) 22
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 4(a) 73 – (27) 46
Profit for the year 160 (58) (34) 68
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 163 (58) (34) 71
Non-controlling interests (3) – – (3)
160 (58) (34) 68
Earnings per ordinary share (pence)
– basic 5 24.6 10.5
– diluted 5 24.2 10.3
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
78 (restated) Note
Trading
£m
Acquisition and 
disposal costs
£m
Exceptional 
items
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 1 468 – – 468
Operating expenses 2 (313) (58) (16) (387)
Other income (1) – – (1)
Operating profit 1 154 (58) (16) 80
Finance income 9 2 (1) – 1
Finance costs 9 (34) – – (34)
Share of profit of joint ventures after tax 21 1 – – 1
Share of profit of associates after tax 22 (1) – – (1)
Profit before tax from continuing operations 122 (59) (16) 47
Tax 7 (26) 18 1 (7)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 96 (41) (15) 40
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 4(a) 89 (3) (42) 44
Profit for the year 185 (44) (57) 84
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 185 (44) (57) 84
Non-controlling interests – – – –
185 (44) (57) 84
Earnings per ordinary share (pence)
– basic 5 28.7 13.0
– diluted 5 28.1 12.8
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2015
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
79
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Note
Year ended
31 March
2016
£m
 Year ended
 31 March
 2015
 £m
 (restated)
Profit for the year 68 84
Other comprehensive income/(expense) from continuing operations
Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met:
Revaluation gain in the year 26(a) 1 1
Cash flow hedges
– fair value losses/gains 26(a) (20) (37)
– fair value gains transferred to income statement 26(a) 17 29
(3) (8)
Exchange differences 44 66
Deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income 1 –
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax, from continuing operations 43 59
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax, from discontinued operations 19 25
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 130 168
Total comprehensive income/(expense) attributable to:
Owners of the Company 131 164
Non-controlling interests (1) 4
130 168
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
80  
CONSOLIDATED AND COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
Group Company
Note
As at 
31 March 
2016 
£m
As at 
31 March 
2015 
£m
As at 
31 March 
2016 
£m
As at 
31 March 
2015 
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets arising on consolidation 14 826 930 – –
Intangible assets arising from development expenditure 13 88 108 – –
Property and equipment 24 30 40 – –
Investment in subsidiaries 20 – – 2,315 2,036
Investment in joint ventures 21 6 13 – –
Investment in associates 22 52 68 1 1
Deferred tax assets 7 13 6 – –
Trade and other receivables 17 9 5 124 124
Available-for-sale investments 23 9 17 – –
1,033 1,187 2,440 2,161
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 17 59,461 24,411 34 97
Cash and cash equivalents 11 157 481 – –
Restricted funds 11 26 43 – –
Tax receivable – – 1 –
Held for sale assets 4(b) 21,393 21 – –
81,037 24,956 35 97
Total assets 82,070 26,143 2,475 2,258
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 (59,464) (24,378) (510) (279)
Borrowings 10 (64) (163) – –
Tax payable (41) (39) – –
Provisions 15 (8) (20) – –
Held for sale liabilities 4(b) (20,861) (4) – –
(80,438) (24,604) (510) (279)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 (12) (37) – –
Borrowings 10 (519) (386) (135) (134)
Deferred tax liabilities 7 (67) (73) – –
Retirement benefit obligations (3) (6) – –
Provisions 15 (13) (19) – –
(614) (521) (135) (134)
Total liabilities (81,052) (25,125) (645) (413)
Net assets 1,018 1,018 1,830 1,845
Equity
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 25 66 66 66 66
Share premium account 454 454 454 454
Other reserves 26 77 79 1 1
Translation 104 43 – –
Retained earnings 276 330 1,309 1,324
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 977 972 1,830 1,845
Non-controlling interests 41 46 – –
Total equity 1,018 1,018 1,830 1,845
The financial statements and accompanying notes on pages 78 to 137 were approved by the board on 16 May 2016 and signed on its 
behalf by:
Stuart Bridges
Group Finance Director
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
81
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report Year ended 31 March 2016
 Share 
 capital
 (note 25( a))
 £m
Share 
premium
£m
 Other 
 reserves 
 (note 26(a))
 £m
 Translation
 £m
 Retained 
 earnings
 £m
 Attributable 
 to owners of 
 the Company
 £m
 Non-
 controlling 
 interests
 £m
 Total
 £m
Balance at 1 April 2015 66 454 79 43 330 972 46 1,018
Profit for the year – – – – 71 71 (3) 68
Other comprehensive 
income/(expense) 
Cash flow hedges – – (3) – – (3) – (3)
Exchange differences – – – 61 – 61 2 63
Revaluation gains  
realised in the year – – 1 – – 1 – 1
Income tax – – – – 1 1 – 1
Total comprehensive 
income/(expense) 
for the year – – (2) 61 72 131 (1) 130
Treasury Shares awarded – – – – 3 3 – 3
Other movements in 
non-controlling interests – – – – 4 4 (2) 2
Share-based payments  
in the year (note 8) – – – – 8 8 – 8
Dividends paid in the year – – – – (141) (141) (2) (143)
Balance at 31 March 2016 66 454 77 104 276 977 41 1,018
Year ended 31 March 2015
Share
capital 
(note 25(a))
£m
Share
premium
£m
 Other
 reserves
 (note 26(a))
 £m
Translation
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Attributable
to owners of 
the Company
£m
Non-
controlling 
interests
£m
Total
£m
Balance at 1 April 2014 66 454 86 (44) 379 941 42 983
Profit for the year – – – – 84 84 – 84
Other comprehensive 
income/(expense) 
Cash flow hedges – – (8) – – (8) – (8)
Exchange differences – – – 87 – 87 4 91
Revaluation gains  
realised in the year – – 1 – – 1 – 1
Total comprehensive 
income/(expense)  
for the year – – (7) 87 84 164 4 168
Treasury Shares awarded – – – – 1 1 – 1
Share-based payments 
in the year (note 8) – – – – 7 7 – 7
Dividends paid in the year – – – – (141) (141) – (141)
Balance at 31 March 2015 66 454 79 43 330 972 46 1,018
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
82 Year ended 31 March 2016
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Balance as at 1 April 2015 66 454 1 1,324 1,845
Profit for the year – – – 123 123
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 123 123
Dividends paid in the year – – – (141) (141)
Treasury Shares awarded – – – 3 3
Balance as at 31 March 2016 66 454 1 1,309 1,830
Year ended 31 March 2015
Share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Retained
earnings
£m
Total
£m
Balance as at 1 April 2014 66 454 1 1,213 1,734
Profit for the year – – – 251 251
Total comprehensive profit for the year – – – 251 251
Dividends paid in the year – – – (141) (141)
Treasury Shares awarded – – – 1 1
Balance as at 31 March 2015 66 454 1 1,324 1,845
 
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
83
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report Group Company
Note
Year ended
31 March
2016
£m
Year ended
31 March
2015
£m
Year ended
31 March
2016
£m
Year ended
31 March
2015
£m
Cash flows from operating activities 11(a) 147 199 13 –
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from subsidiaries – – 128 141
Dividends received from associates 6 4 – –
Dividends received from joint ventures 2 1 – –
Other equity dividends received 1 – – –
Payments to acquire property and equipment (17) (9) – –
Intangible development expenditure (54) (48) – –
Proceeds from disposal of available-for-sale investments 1 – – –
Acquisition of available-for-sale investments (5) – – –
Acquisition of interests in subsidiaries – (1) – –
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries – 1 – –
Acquisition of associates and joint ventures (17) – – –
Net cash flows from investing activities (83) (52) 128 141
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest (2) – – –
Proceeds from exercise of share options 3 – – –
Dividends paid to owners of the Company (141) (141) (141) (141)
Repayment of borrowings (126) (259) – –
Funds received from borrowing, net of fees 171 – – –
Receipts from subsidiaries – – – –
Payments to subsidiaries – – – –
Net cash flows from financing activities (95) (400) (141) (141)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (31) (253) – –
Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 448 697 – –
FX adjustments 16 4 – –
Net cash and cash equivalents at end of the year* 11(c) 433 448 – –
* Net of £83m overdraft as at 31 March 2016 (2014/15 – £33m).
Cash flows of discontinued operations
Cash inflows from operating activities of £23m, cash outflows from investing activities of £15m and cash outflows from financing 
activities of £2m were incurred in the year relating to the discontinued business.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
CONSOLIDATED AND COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
84  
BASIS OF PREPARATION
Preparation of financial statements
The consolidated financial statements of the Group and the separate financial statements of ICAP plc have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs, as issued by the IASB and the interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) and their predecessor 
bodies, and as endorsed by the EU and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. In publishing the parent 
company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, ICAP plc has taken advantage of the exemption in 
section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement, individual statement of comprehensive 
income and related notes that form a part of these financial statements. The financial statements are prepared in pounds sterling, 
which is the functional currency of the Company and presented in millions. ICAP plc is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The significant accounting policies adopted by the Group and the Company are included within the notes to which they relate and  
are shaded in blue.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to apply judgements and the use of estimates and assumptions about 
future conditions. Management considers impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets arising on consolidation (note 14), 
investment in joint ventures and associates (notes 21 and 22), contingent liabilities (note 16), and the presentation of exceptional 
items (note 3) to be the areas where increased judgement is required. Further information about key assumptions concerning the 
future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty, are set out in the relevant notes to the financial statements. Estimates and 
assumptions are continuously evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future 
events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, actual  
results reported in future periods may be based on amounts which differ from those estimates. Revisions to accounting estimates  
are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
In November 2015, the Group announced that it had entered into a Transaction which will, when completed, involve the disposal of 
its global hybrid voice broking and information business, including the associated technology and broking platforms (including i-Swap 
and Fusion), and certain joint ventures and associates (together IGBB), to Tullett Prebon. The disposal is subject to approvals from 
regulatory authorities across jurisdictions. The Group is committed to a plan to sell having signed the SPA with Tullett Prebon and 
it is anticipated that the required regulatory approvals will be obtained and the Transaction will complete in 2016.
The IGBB business disposal meets the criteria of IFRS5 for held for sale classification. The criteria for held for sale are met as the business 
is available for sale in its present condition, and the sale is highly probable. 
The results of the IGBB business, subject to certain provisions in the SPA, are presented as discontinued operations in the consolidated 
income statement as the sale is a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business. The assets and liabilities 
attributable to IGBB, also subject to certain provisions in the SPA, are presented as held for sale assets and liabilities on the face of  
the balance sheet.
Presentation of the income statement
The Group maintains a columnar format for the presentation of its consolidated income statement. The columnar format enables the 
Group to continue its practice of improving the understanding of its results by presenting its trading profit. This is the profit measure 
used to calculate trading EPS (note 5) and is considered to be the most appropriate as it better reflects the Group’s trading earnings. 
Trading profit is reconciled to profit before tax on the face of the consolidated income statement, which also includes acquisition and 
disposal costs and exceptional items.
The column ‘acquisition and disposal costs’ includes: any gains, losses or other associated costs on the full or partial disposal of 
investments, associates, joint ventures or subsidiaries and costs associated with a business combination that do not constitute fees 
relating to the arrangement of financing; amortisation or impairment of intangible assets arising on consolidation; any re-measurement 
after initial recognition of deferred contingent consideration which has been classified as a liability, and any gains or losses on the 
revaluation of previous interests. The column may also include items such as gains or losses on the settlement of pre-existing 
relationships with acquired businesses and the re-measurement of liabilities that are above the value of indemnification.
Items which are of a non-recurring nature and material, when considering both size and nature, are disclosed separately to give a 
clearer presentation of the Group’s results. These are shown as exceptional items on the face of the consolidated income statement.
When the Group has disposed of or intends to dispose of a business component that represents a major line of business or geographic 
area of operations, it classifies such operations as discontinued. The post tax profit or loss of the discontinued operations is shown  
as a single line on the face of the consolidated income statement, separate from the other results of the Group. The consolidated 
income statement for the comparative periods is restated to show the discontinued operations separate from those generated by  
the continuing operations.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
85
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report Basis of consolidation
The Group’s consolidated financial statements include the results and net assets of the Company, its subsidiaries and the Group’s  
share of joint ventures and associates.
Subsidiaries
An entity is regarded as a subsidiary if the Group has control over its strategic, operating and financial policies and intends to hold  
the investment on a long-term basis for the purpose of securing a contribution to the Group’s activities.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of acquisition is 
measured at fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. 
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in the business combination are measured initially at  
their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. The excess of the cost of acquisition  
over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the costs of the acquisition  
are less than the fair value of the net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated income statement.
Fees associated with an acquisition are expensed as incurred. When the Group increases its investment in an entity resulting in  
an associate becoming a subsidiary, the intangibles related to the acquisition are valued and the element of those not previously 
recognised as a share of net assets are recorded as revaluation gains realised in the year in other comprehensive income. A change  
of ownership that does not result in a loss of control is classified as an equity transaction, with the difference between the amount  
by which the non-controlling interest is recorded and the fair value of the consideration received recognised directly in equity.
Where the Group has issued a put option over shares held by a non-controlling interest, the Group derecognises the non-controlling 
interests and instead recognises a contingent deferred consideration liability for the estimated amount likely to be paid to the  
non-controlling interest on exercise of those options. The residual amount, representing the difference between any consideration 
paid/payable and the non-controlling interest’s share of net assets, is recognised in equity. Movements in the estimated liability  
after initial recognition are recognised within the consolidated income statement. Where the Group has a call option over shares  
held by a non-controlling interest, the Group continues to recognise the non-controlling interest until it is certain that the option  
will be called. At that point the accounting treatment is the same as for a put option.
The results of companies acquired during the year are included in the Group’s results from the effective date of acquisition.  
The results of companies disposed of during the year are included up to the effective date of disposal.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group. For purchases from 
non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of  
net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
On consolidation, the accounting policies of Group companies (the Company and its subsidiaries) are consistent with those applied  
by the Group. Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated  
as part of the consolidation process. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment  
of the asset transferred.
Joint ventures
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group has an interest and, in the opinion of the directors, exercises joint control over its 
operating and financial policies. An interest exists where an investment is held on a long-term basis for the purpose of securing  
a contribution to the Group’s activities. Following the adoption of IFRS11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ and IAS28 ‘Investments in Associates 
and Joint Ventures’ on 1 April 2014, investments in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method. Under this method, such 
investments are initially stated at cost, including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post acquisition change  
in the Group’s share of net assets.
Associates
The Group classifies investments in entities over which it has significant influence, but not control, and that are neither subsidiaries nor 
joint ventures, as associates. Investments in associates are recognised using the equity method. Under this method, such investments 
are initially stated at cost, including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post acquisition change in the Group’s 
share of net assets.
BASIS OF PREPARATION 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
86 Foreign currencies
In individual entities, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the prior month closing exchange rate between the 
functional currency and the foreign currency. At each end of the reporting period, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated 
in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. Exchange differences are recognised in 
the consolidated income statement, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where these form 
part of the net investment of an overseas business or are designated as hedges of a net investment or cash flow and, therefore, the 
changes in value resulting from exchange differences are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. Non-monetary items 
carried at historical cost are translated in the balance sheet at the exchange rate on the original transaction date. Non-monetary  
items measured at fair value are translated using the exchange rate ruling when the fair value was determined.
On consolidation, the results of businesses with non-pound sterling functional currencies are translated into the presentational currency  
of the Group at the average exchange rates for the year where these approximate to the rate at the date of the transactions. Assets 
and liabilities of overseas businesses are translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the exchange rate prevailing at the 
end of the reporting period. Exchange differences arising are recognised within other comprehensive income. Cumulative translation 
differences arising after the transition to IFRSs are taken to the consolidated income statement on disposal of the net investment.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a non-pound sterling entity are treated as assets and liabilities of  
that entity and translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the period closing rate. Where applicable, the Group has 
elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising before the date of transition to IFRSs as denominated in the presentational 
currency of the Group.
In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the presentational 
currency of the Group at the average exchange rates for the year or at the rate prevailing at the time of the transaction where  
more appropriate.
Future accounting developments
At 31 March 2016, the following standards have been issued by the IASB which are not effective for these consolidated financial statements:
• in July 2014, IASB issued IFRS9 ‘Financial Instruments’, which will replace IAS39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. 
The standard will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. ICAP intends to adopt IFRS9 for its financial 
statements for the year ending 31 March 2019; and
• in May 201 4, IASB issued IFRS1 5 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’, which will replace IAS18 ‘Revenue’ and IAS1 1 ‘Construction 
Contracts’ and other related interpretations on revenue recognition. The standard will become effective for annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2017. ICAP intends to adopt IFRS15 for its financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2018.
The impact on ICAP financial statements from the adoption of these IFRS standards is currently being assessed and will be disclosed 
closer to the time of the adoption.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
87
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report Note number Page number
Segmental information 1 89
Operating expenses 2 92
Exceptional items 3 93
Discontinued operations and held for sale 
assets and liabilities 4 94
Earnings per share 5 95
Dividends payable 6 96
Tax 7 96
Employee information and expense 8 99
Net finance expense 9 101
Borrowings 10 103
Cash 11 105
Capital and liquidity planning  
and management 12 106
Intangible assets arising from  
development expenditure 13 108
Intangible assets arising on consolidation 14 109
Provisions 15 112
Contingent liabilities, contractual 
commitments and guarantees 16 112
Trade and other receivables 17 114
Trade and other payables 18 117
Financial assets and liabilities 19 119
Principal subsidiaries 20 121
Investment in joint ventures 21 122
Investment in associates 22 123
Available-for-sale investments 23 124
Property and equipment 24 126
Share capital 25 127
Reserves 26 128
Currency risk management 27 129
Related party transactions 28 132
Post balance sheet events 29 132
Group subsidiaries and related undertakings 30 133
 
INDEX TO THE NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
88  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Segmental information
The Group has determined its operating segments based on the management information including trading revenue and trading 
operating profit reviewed on a regular basis by the Company’s board. The Group considers the executive members of the Company’s 
board to be the Chief Operating Decision Maker. ICAP’s three operating segments are Electronic Markets, Post Trade Risk and 
Information and Global Broking.
Revenue comprises brokerage or access fees from its Electronic Markets business, fees from the provision of Post Trade Risk  
and Information services and commission from the Group’s Global Broking division.
Electronic Markets
The Group acts as an intermediary for FX, interest rate derivatives, fixed income products and CDS through the Group’s electronic 
platforms. Revenue is generated from brokerage fees which are dependent on the average trading volumes. The Group also 
charges fees to use the electronic trading platform for access to liquidity in the FX or precious metal markets.
Post Trade Risk and Information (PTRI)
The Group receives fees from the sale of financial information and provision of PTRI services to third parties. These are stated  
net of VAT, rebates and other sales taxes and recognised in revenue on an accruals basis to match the provision of the service.
Global Broking
Matched principal and stock lending business
Certain Group companies are involved in a non-advisory capacity as principals in the matched purchase and sale of securities  
and other financial instruments between our customers. Revenue is generated from the difference between the purchase  
and sale proceeds and is recognised in full at the time of the commitment by our customers to sell and purchase the security  
or financial instrument. The revenue generated by the stock lending business is not material to the Group.
Agency business (name give-up)
The Group acts in a non-advisory capacity to match buyers and sellers of financial instruments and raises invoices for the  
service provided. The Group does not act as principal in name give-up transactions and only receives and transmits orders 
between counterparties. Revenue is stated net of rebates and discounts, VAT and other sales taxes and is recognised in full  
on the date of the trade. 
Execution on exchange business
The Group also acts as a broker of exchange-listed products, where the Group executes customer orders as principal and then 
novates the trade to the underlying customer’s respective clearing broker for settlement. Revenue is generated by raising  
an invoice and is recognised on the trade date.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
89
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report 1. Segmental information continued
(a) Segmental results relating to the Group’s total operations
Year ended 31 March 2016
Electronic 
Markets
£m
Post Trade
Risk and 
Information
£m
Global
Broking
£m
Group
£m
Continuing operations:
Revenue 258 194 8 460
Trading operating profit/(loss) 86 70 (17) 139
Profit from joint ventures – – 1 1
(Loss)/Profit from associates – (3) 2 (1)
Continuing trading EBIT* 86 67 (14) 139
Reconciliation to the consolidated income statement:
Continuing operations:
Trading net finance cost** (note 9) (29)
Trading profit before tax 110
Acquisition and disposal costs (74)
Exceptional items (note 3) (9)
Profit before tax from continuing operations 27
Tax on continuing operations (5)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 22
Profit for the year from discontinued operations, net of tax (note 4) 46
Profit for the year 68
Other segmental information for total Group (including discontinued)
Trading operating profit margin 30% 40% 7% 18%
Trading EBIT* 78 95 55 228
Trading depreciation 5 3 3 11
Trading amortisation 20 6 11 37
Trading EBITDA*** 103 104 69 276
Capital expenditure on intangible developments**** 27 11 15 53
* Trading EBIT is the trading profit before deducting net finance cost and tax.
**  Given the Group’s debt financing arrangements are managed centrally through a treasury function, the ICAP plc board does not incorporate net finance cost in the assessment of the 
segments’ performance, therefore this is presented on a total Group basis.
***  Trading EBITDA is the trading profit before deducting net finance cost, tax and amortisation, depreciation and impairment charges.
****  Total capital expenditure on intangible developments for the Group includes £1m (2014/1 5 – £1m) investment made to develop corporate intangible assets, which are not segment specific.
The Group did not earn more than 10% of its total revenue from any individual customer.
The Group earned revenue of £352m (2014/15 – £434m) and £468m (2014/15 – £460m) from entities in the UK and US respectively. 
The remainder of £381m (2014/15 – £382m) came from various entities outside the UK and US. ICAP’s UK regulated companies, 
those that are within the scope of CRD IV disclosures, will disclose certain financial and other information in their 2015/16 financial 
statements as required under the scope of CRD IV disclosure requirements.
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
90 1. Segmental information continued
(a) Segmental results relating to the Group’s total operations continued
Year ended 31 March 2015
Electronic 
Markets
£m
Post Trade
Risk and 
Information
£m
Global
Broking
£m
Group
£m
Continuing operations:
Revenue 254 187 27 468
Trading operating profit/(loss) 102 70 (18) 154
Profit from joint ventures – – 1 1
(Loss)/Profit from associates – (2) 1 (1)
Continuing trading EBIT* 102 68 (16) 154
Reconciliation to the consolidated income statement:
Continuing operations:
Trading net finance cost** (note 9) (32)
Trading profit before tax 122
Acquisition and disposal costs (59)
Exceptional items (note 3) (16)
Profit before tax from continuing operations 47
Tax on continuing operations (7)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 40
Profit for the year from discontinued operations, net of tax (note 4) 44
Profit for the year 84
Other segmental information total Group (including discontinued)
Trading operating profit margin 36% 43% 8% 20%
Trading EBIT* 93 95 72 260
Trading depreciation 8 3 4 15
Trading amortisation 20 6 8 34
Trading EBITDA*** 121 104 84 309
Capital expenditure on intangible developments**** 23 12 12 48
(b) Group’s continuing and discontinued operations
Year ended 31 March 2016 Year ended 31 March 2015 (restated)
Continuing
£m
Discontinued 
(note 4)
£m
Group
£m
Continuing
£m
Discontinued 
(note 4)
£m
Group
£m
Revenue
– Electronic Markets 258 4 262 254 5 259
– Post Trade Risk and Information 194 51 245 187 41 228
–  Global Broking 8 686 694 27 762 789
460 741 1,201 468 808 1,276
Trading operating profit
– Electronic Markets 86 (8) 78 102 (9) 93
– Post Trade Risk and Information 70 27 97 70 27 97
– Global Broking (17) 63 46 (18) 80 62
139 82 221 154 98 252
Global Broking’s trading operating loss from continuing operations of £17m (2014/15 – £18m) includes £14m (2014/15 – £14m)  
of central support costs that were charged to the voice broking business for the reporting of the segmental results but under the SPA  
will not transfer to the enlarged Tullett Prebon. The remaining £3m (2014/15 – £4m) relates to ICAP’s voice broking business that is 
outside the IGBB perimeter. Electronic Markets discontinued operations relates to i-Swap. PTRI discontinued operations includes part  
of ICAP Information Services (IIS) which provides voice broking generated data to the market participants.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
91
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report 2. Operating expenses
The table below is presented on a total Group basis, including discontinued operations:
Profit before tax is stated after charging:
Year ended
31 March
2016
£m
Year ended
31 March
2015
£m
Trading operating expenses 
Employee costs* 630 691
Information technology costs** 139 129
Professional and legal fees (including auditors’ remuneration) 43 34
Depreciation and impairment of property and equipment (excluding IT) 2 6
Governance costs* 21 22
Clearing and settlement fees 17 19
Operating lease rentals – minimum lease payments 21 23
Exchange adjustments 7 (4)
Other 102 106
Trading operating expenses 982 1,026
Acquisition and disposal costs
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on consolidation 38 55
Impairment of investment in associates*** 25 –
Other acquisition and disposal costs 12 4
Acquisition and disposal costs 75 59
Exceptional items (note 3) 40 75
Operating expenses 1,097 1,160
Attributable to:
Continuing operations 405 387
Discontinued operations (note 4) 692 773
Auditors’ remuneration 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of  
the parent company’s and consolidated financial statements 0.8 0.8
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for other services:
– the auditing of any subsidiary of the Company 3.2 3.0
– audit-related assurance services – 0.2
– taxation compliance services 0.1 –
– taxation advisory services 0.1 0.2
– other assurance services**** 1.0 0.4
– corporate finance transaction services**** 2.4 –
7.6 4.6
* Net  employee costs as per note 8(a) are £653m (2014/15 – £743m). Remaining employee costs of £23m are included in governance costs of £17m (2014/15 – £17m), exceptional items
 of £5m (2014/15 – £35m) and acquisition and disposal costs of £1m (2014/15 – £nil). Governance costs include fees associated with risk, compliance, internal audit and legal. 
**   Information technology costs include £46m of depreciation and amortisation charges. The remaining £93m of costs incurred include purchase of assets that are individually below the Group’s 
capitalisation threshold, maintenance expenditures, certain enhancements not eligible for capitalisation and research phase related expenditures. Information technology costs do not include 
employee costs relating to the development of software assets that were not capitalised. These are presented within employee costs.
*** Following the identification of impairment indicators under IAS39, impairment reviews were performed on our investments in non-core associates, resulting in impairment charges of £25m  
 (see note 22).
**** Other assurance services and corporate finance transaction services relate to services provided in connection to the disposal of IGBB.
Contractual arrangements
The Group places reliance on a number of key suppliers to carry out its business and has procedures to ensure that purchasing decisions 
balance cost against other factors, including service quality, global reach and resilience.
The settlement of matched principal and exchange-traded businesses requires access to clearing houses either directly or through 
third party providers of clearing and settlement services. In North America the Group is a member of the FICC and NSCC through 
which it clears US Treasury products, and agency, mortgage and equity trades for its customer base. Clearing arrangements for 
certain US matched principal and exchange-traded transactions are outsourced to third parties. In Europe and Asia Pacific the  
majority of the Group’s clearing activities are outsourced to third parties where ICAP seeks to partner with one of the leading  
clearing providers in each market.
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
92 3. Exceptional items
Exceptional items are non-recurring significant items that are considered material in both size and nature. These are disclosed 
separately to enable a full understanding of the Group’s financial performance.
Year ended
31 March
2016
£m
Year ended
31 March
2015
£m
Exceptional items before tax 
Transaction-related costs – discontinued operations 31 –
Other costs – continuing operations 9 –
Restructuring programme – employee termination costs – 35
Restructuring programme – property exits – 18
Restructuring programme – other – 7
Regulatory matters including associated legal and professional fees – 15
Total exceptional items before tax 40 75
Tax credit (6) (18)
Total exceptional items after tax 34 57
Attributable to:
Continuing operations 7 15
Discontinued operations (note 4) 27 42
The discontinued exceptional items of £31m represent Transaction-related costs arising from the impending disposal of IGBB, 
including costs to sale and separation costs that were incurred and provided as at 31 March 2016. Other exceptional costs of £9m 
relate to exiting non-core businesses within Electronic Markets, and are therefore presented in the continuing income statement.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
93
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report 4. Discontinued operations and held for sale assets and liabilities
On 11 November 2015, the Group signed an SPA with Tullett Prebon for the disposal of its IGBB business at which point it met  
IFRS5 criteria to be classified as held for sale.
The disposal is subject to approvals from regulatory authorities across jurisdictions as well as finalisation of certain commercial  
terms and is expected to be completed in 2016. 
The results of the IGBB business, subject to certain provisions in the SPA, are presented as discontinued operations as the sale  
is a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business. The assets and liabilities attributable to IGBB, also  
subject to certain provisions in the SPA, are presented as held for sale assets and liabilities on the face of the balance sheet.  
These assets and liabilities were transferred to held for sale at carrying value.
(a) Results of discontinued operations
Year ended 31 March 2016
Trading
£m
Acquisition and 
disposal costs
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 741 – – 741
Operating expenses (661) – (31) (692)
Other income 2 – – 2
Operating profit from discontinued operations 82 – (31) 51
Net finance income 4 – – 4
Share of profit of associates and joint ventures after tax 7 – – 7
Profit before tax from discontinued operations 93 – (31) 62
Tax (note 7) (20) – 4 (16)
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 73 – (27) 46
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 77 – (27) 50
Non-controlling interests (4) – – (4)
73 – (27) 46
Year ended 31 March 2015 (restated)
Trading
£m
Acquisition and 
disposal costs
£m
Exceptional 
items
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 808 – – 808
Operating expenses (713) (1) (59) (773)
Other income 3 – – 3
Operating profit from discontinued operations 98 (1) (59) 38
Net finance income 1 1 – 2
Share of profit of associates and joint ventures after tax 8 – – 8
Profit before tax from discontinued operations 107 – (59) 48
Tax (note 7) (18) (3) 17 (4)
Profit for the year from discontinued operations 89 (3) (42) 44
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 90 (3) (42) 45
Non-controlling interests (1) – – (1)
89 (3) (42) 44
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
94 4. Discontinued operations and held for sale assets and liabilities continued
(b) Breakdown of assets held for sale
As at
31 March
2016
£m
Non-current assets
Goodwill and other intangibles arising on consolidation 83
Other 129
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 20,789
Cash and cash equivalents 359
Restricted funds 33
Total held for sale assets 21,393
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (20,738)
Overdraft (81)
Provisions (12)
Other (4)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables (4)
Provisions (3)
Other (19)
Total held for sale liabilities (20,861)
Net assets held for sale 532
5. Earnings per share
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit  
or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 
during the year, adjusted for own shares held. The Group also calculates trading EPS (basic and diluted) from the trading profit.  
The Group believes that this is the most appropriate measurement for assessing ICAP’s performance since it better reflects the 
business’s trading earnings.
The diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting share capital in issue for the additional weighted average number of ordinary shares  
that are likely to be issued under various employee share award schemes as at the balance sheet date. 
EPS relating to the Group’s total operations (including discontinued operations)
Year ended 31 March 2016 Year ended 31 March 2015
Trading basic and diluted
Earnings
£m
Shares
millions
Earnings
per share
pence
Earnings
£m
Shares
millions
Earnings
per share
pence
Trading basic 160 650 24.6 185 645 28.7
Dilutive effect of share options – 12 (0.4) – 14 (0.6)
Trading diluted 160 662 24.2 185 659 28.1
Year ended 31 March 2016 Year ended 31 March 2015
Basic and diluted
Earnings
£m
Shares
millions
Earnings
per share
pence
Earnings 
£m
Shares 
millions
Earnings 
per share 
pence
Basic 68 650 10.5 84 645 13.0
Dilutive effect of share options – 12 (0.2) – 14 (0.2)
Diluted 68 662 10.3 84 659 12.8
Weighted average number of ordinary shares excludes the weighted average number of shares held as Treasury Shares of 14m 
(2014/15 – 15m) and those owned by employee share trusts relating to employee share schemes on which dividends have been 
waived, being 5m shares (2014/15 – 6m). Further information is contained in note 25.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
95
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report 6. Dividends payable
The Company recognises the final dividend payable only when it has been approved by the shareholders of the Company  
in a general meeting. The interim dividend is recognised when the amount due has been paid.
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year
Year ended
31 March
2016
£m
Year ended
31 March
2015
£m
Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2015 of 15.40p per ordinary share (2014 – 15.40p) 99 99
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2016 of 6.60p per ordinary share (2015 – 6.60p) 42 42
Total dividend recognised in the year 141 141
The final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2015 and the interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2016 were both satisfied 
in full with cash payments of £99m and £42m respectively.
The directors have proposed a final dividend of 15.40p per share for the year ended 31 March 2016. This has not been recognised  
as a liability of the Group at the year end as it has not yet been approved by shareholders. Based on the number of shares in issue at 
the year end, the total amount payable would be £100m. Therefore, subject to shareholders’ approval of the proposed final dividend  
of 15.40p per share, the full-year dividend will be 22.00p per share, which will be covered 1.1 times (2014/15 – 1.3 times) by the 
trading EPS (basic) of 24.60per share (2014/15 – 28.70p per share).
The right to receive dividends has been waived in respect of the shares held in employee share trusts and no dividend is payable  
on Treasury Shares.
7. Tax
Tax on the profit for the year comprises both current and deferred tax as well as adjustments in respect of prior years. Tax is charged 
or credited to the consolidated income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to other comprehensive 
income or directly to equity, in which case the tax is also included in other comprehensive income or directly within equity respectively.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted, 
by the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, in respect of temporary differences between the carrying value of assets  
and liabilities for reporting purposes and the tax bases of the assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is calculated at the rate of tax 
expected to apply when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that  
it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and intangibles 
arising on consolidation, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax group where  
there is both the legal right and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Calculations of current and deferred tax liability have been based on ongoing discussions with the relevant tax authorities, 
management’s assessment of legal and professional advice, case law and other relevant guidance. Where the expected tax 
outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were recorded initially, such differences will impact the current  
and deferred tax amounts in the period in which such determination is made.
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
96 7. Tax continued
Tax charged to the consolidated income statement in the year
The following tax charge breakdown is based on a total Group basis (including discontinued operations):
Tax on trading profit
Year ended
31 March
2016
£m
Year ended
31 March
2015
£m
Current tax
Current year 56 41
Adjustment to prior years (10) (6)
46 35
Deferred tax
Current year (6) 7
Adjustment to prior years 3 2
(3) 9
Tax charge on trading profit 43 44
Tax credit on acquisition and disposal costs
Current year (3) –
Deferred tax current (13) (15)
Total tax credit on acquisition and disposal costs (16) (15)
Tax credit on exceptional costs
Current year (6) (16)
Adjustment to prior years – (2)
Total tax credit on exceptional costs (6) (18)
Total tax charge to the consolidated income statement 21 11
Attributable to:
Continuing operations 5 7
Discontinued operations (note 4) 16 4
The Group’s share of profit of associates in the consolidated income statement is shown net of tax of £2m (2014/15 – £2m).
The Group’s share of joint ventures in the consolidated income statement is shown net of tax of £1m (2014/15 – £1m).
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
97
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report 7 . Tax continued
Tax charged to the consolidated income statement in the year continued
The following reconciliation of the tax charge is based on a total Group basis (including discontinued operations):
Year ended
31 March
2016
£m
Year ended
31 March
2015
£m
Trading profit before tax 203 229
Tax on trading profit at the standard rate of Corporation Tax in the UK of 20% (2014/15 – 21%) 41 48
Reconciling items:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 8 (1)
Non-taxable income (6) (2)
Impact of overseas tax rates and bases 8 1
Prior year adjustment to current and deferred tax (7) (4)
Impact of change in rates (1) 2
2 (4)
Total tax charge on trading profit 43 44
Attributable to:
Continuing operations 23 26
Discontinued operations (note 4) 20 18
The Group’s 2015/16 effective tax rate on trading profit is 21% (2014/15 – 19%).
Year ended
31 March
2016
£m
Year ended
31 March
2015
£m
Profit before tax 89 95
Tax on profit at the standard rate of Corporation Tax in the UK of 20% (2014/15 – 21%) 18 20
Reconciling items:
Trading profit (see above) 2 (4)
Acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items not deductible for tax purposes 5 4
Impact of overseas tax rates on adjusted items (2) (7)
Impact of change in rates on adjusted items (2) –
Impact of prior years’ adjustments on adjusted items – (2)
3 (9)
Total tax charged to the consolidated income statement 21 11
The standard rate of Corporation Tax in the UK changed from 21% to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. Further reductions to the 
main rate have been enacted reducing it to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 18% from 1 April 2020. Whilst not yet enacted it has been 
announced that legislation in Finance Bill 2016 will set the rate at 17% from 1 April 2020. UK deferred tax will therefore unwind at 
a rate of 19% for periods from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2019.
For tax expense relating to discontinued operations, see note 4.
Deferred tax balances recognised on the balance sheet
As at
31 March
2016
£m
As at
31 March
2015
£m
Deferred tax assets 13 6
Deferred tax liabilities (67) (73)
Net balances (54) (67)
Deferred tax assets of £15m and liabilities of £nil were transferred to held for sale during the year.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
98 7 . Tax continued
Deferred tax – movement of Group balances before offset within countries
Goodwill
£m
Intangible
assets
arising on
consolidation
£m
Employee-
related items
£m
Deferred 
income 
and accrued 
expenses
£m
Losses 
carried 
forward
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Net balances at 1 April 2015 (78) (15) 26 2 – (2) (67)
Tax (charge)/credit 4 12 2 1 – (2) 17
FX adjustments (2) – 1 1 – (2) (2)
Transfer to held for sale (note 4) 10 – (12) (1) – 1 (2)
Net balances as at 31 March 2016 (66) (3) 17 3 – (5) (54)
Goodwill
£m
Intangible
assets
arising on
consolidation
£m
Employee-
related items
£m
Deferred
income
and accrued
expenses
£m
Losses
carried
forward
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Net balances at 1 April 2014 (62) (29) 22 4 1 2 (62)
Tax (charge)/credit (7) 15 2 (1) (1) (2) 6
FX adjustments (9) (1) 2 (1) – (2) (11)
Net balances as at 31 March 2015 (78) (15) 26 2 – (2) (67)
Deferred tax assets of £22m (2014/15 – £23m) have not been recognised in respect of certain trading losses because it is not 
probable that future profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits. The principal movement in deferred tax 
relates to the ongoing release of the deferred tax liability on the amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation. 
The brought forward deferred tax liability in relation to US goodwill was overstated by £6.4m as at 31 March 2015. This has been 
corrected through the tax charge in acquisition and disposal costs in the current period.
8. Employee information and expense
ICAP operates a number of pension plans throughout the Group including both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes. 
Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement as they fall due.  
Any difference between the payments and the charge is recognised as a short-term asset or liability.
The Group awards share options and other share-based payments as part of its employee incentive schemes as well as other 
share-based payment transactions. The fair value of services acquired is measured by the fair value of the shares or share options 
awarded at the grant date and is charged to employee expenses over the period the service is received on a straight-line basis.  
A corresponding amount is recognised in equity.
(a) Analysis of employee costs
Year ended
31 March
2016
£m
Year ended 
31 March
2015
£m
Gross salaries (including bonuses) 628 714
Social security costs 51 53
Share-based payments (note 8(c)) 8 7
Pension costs 11 10
Gross employee costs 698 784
Employee costs capitalised as internally generated intangible assets (note 13) (45) (41)
Net employee costs 653 743
As at 31 March 2016, there is a net defined benefit liability position of £8m (2014/15 – £6m) of which £5m has been transferred  
to held for sale.
 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
99
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report 8. Employee information and expense continued
(b) Number of employees analysed by business segment (including discontinued operations)
Average Year end
Year ended
31 March
2016
Year ended
31 March
2015
As at
31 March
2016
As at
31 March
2015
Electronic Markets 666 571 696 607
Post Trade Risk and Information 659 593 677 619
Global Broking 2,167 2,671 2,113 2,336
Infrastructure 751 778 785 744
Total 4,243 4,613 4,271 4,306
(c) Share-based payments
The total charge to the consolidated income statement in respect of employee share awards in the year was £8m (2014/15 – £7m) 
which includes £1m (2014/15 – £1m) charged to acquisition and disposal costs.
Year ended 
31 March
2016
£m
Year ended
31 March
2015
£m
Bonus Share Matching Plan (BSMP) – –
Long term incentive plan (LTIP) 4 4
SAYE 1 1
Other share-based payments schemes 3 2
Total 8 7
The BSMP is a long term incentive plan for the executive directors where the directors are granted a number of ICAP plc shares with  
a value equal to half their pre-tax cash bonus. A matching award equivalent to half of the cash bonus is awarded. These awards are 
subject to certain service and performance conditions.
The LTIP is a long term incentive plan awarded to the GEMG members and certain other senior managers in the Company. These  
share awards consist of basic and matching awards. Under the basic awards, a certain percentage of the pre-tax bonus is deferred  
in ICAP plc shares for three years with no performance conditions attached. The matching awards equal the basic awards, but are 
subject to certain service and performance conditions. 
In the prior year, the vesting probability of the 2012 and 2013 LTIP and BSMP awards were revised down to nil, which resulted in  
a credit to the income statement. Other share-based payment schemes include £1m relating to new share awards this year in one  
of the Group’s subsidiaries, where the awards are in the shares of that subsidiary. 
(d) Key management remuneration
Key management consists of the members of the GEMG, including the executive directors of the board. The aggregate remuneration 
for key management was £17m (2014/15 – £15m). The executive directors’ remuneration of £5m (2014/15 – £6m) is disclosed 
separately in the remuneration report.
A debit of £2m (2014/15 – debit of £1m) was recognised in the consolidated income statement relating to share options held by key 
management. As disclosed in the remuneration report, the vesting of the matching shares awarded to key management is subject to 
the satisfaction of certain performance conditions. 
Retirement benefits accrued to six (2014/15 – five) members of the GEMG under defined contribution schemes and during the year 
key management received £0.1m (2014/15 – £0.1m) in post-retirement benefits.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
100 9. Net finance expense
The net finance expense breakdown below is on a Group basis (including discontinued operations).
Year ended
31 March
2016
£m
Year ended
31 March
2015
£m
Finance income
Interest receivable and similar income
Bank deposits 2 4
Other 1 –
3 4
Other finance income
Dividends received on equity investments 1 –
Revaluation of deferred considerations* 1 –
Other 1 –
3 –
Total finance income 6 4
Finance costs
Interest payable and similar charges
Bank loans and overdrafts (28) (34)
Other finance costs (2) (1)
Total finance costs (30) (35)
Net finance expense (24) (31)
Attributable to:
Continuing operations (28) (33)
Discontinued operations (note 4) 4 2
*   The revaluation and unwinding of deferred considerations are presented in the acquisition and disposal costs column of the income statement, in line with the Group’s presentation of the 
income statement policy as disclosed on page 85.
Interest rate risk exposure
The Group has an exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on both its cash positions and borrowings which it manages through a 
combination of pound sterling, euro and yen debt drawn on fixed and floating rate terms. The Group’s objective is to minimise its interest 
cost and the impact of interest rate volatility on the Group’s consolidated income statement. In addition to debt, the Group’s treasury 
policies also permit the use of derivatives including interest rate swaps, interest rate options, forward rate agreements and cross 
currency swaps to meet these objectives.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
101
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report 9. Net finance expense continued
Interest rate risk exposure continued
At 31 March 2016, after taking into account the impact of the euro to pound sterling cross currency swaps, the interest rate profile  
of the Group’s cash and debt (including discontinued operations) was as follows:
Year ended 31 March 2016 Year ended 31 March 2015
Floating rates
£m
Fixed rates
£m
Total
£m
Floating rates
£m
Fixed rates
£m
Total
£m
Pounds sterling
Cash 204 – 204 160 – 160
Debt (191) (321) (512) (31) (303) (334)
Dollars and currencies closely related to the dollar
Cash 217 – 217 215 – 215
Debt – – – – (130) (130)
Other currencies
Cash 95 – 95 106 – 106
Debt – (152) (152) (3) (82) (85)
Total 
Cash 516 – 516 481 – 481
Debt (191) (473) (664) (34) (515) (549)
A 100 basis-points parallel increase in Libor and Libid rates, which the Group considers to be an appropriate sensitivity measure, would 
decrease net finance costs by £1m in relation to pounds sterling and by £2m in relation to dollars. In the event that Libor and Libid 
rates each diverge by an additional 100 basis-points, net finance costs would increase by £3m in relation to pounds sterling and  
by £2m in relation to dollars.
At 31 March 2016, £359m of cash and £81m of debt is presented within held for sale assets and liabilities on the balance sheet.
Company
The Company is only exposed to interest rate movements as a result of a loan from a subsidiary of £140m. It is estimated that the 
impact of a 100 basis-point movement in interest rates would have a £1m impact on the net finance costs of the Company.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
102 10. Borrowings
Long-term borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, being their issue proceeds net of issuance costs incurred. At subsequent 
reporting dates long-term borrowings are held at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, with changes in value 
recognised through the consolidated income statement. Issuance costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement over 
the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
The borrowings note is presented on a Group basis, including borrowings attributable to held for sale liabilities. 
(a) Long-term borrowings
Group 
2015/16
£m
Group
2014/15
£m
Company
2015/16
£m
Company
2014/15
£m
As at 1 April 386 540 134 135
New long-term borrowings 108 – – –
Reclassified as short-term borrowings – (117) – –
Exchange adjustment 25 (37) 1 (1)
As at 31 March 519 386 135 134
Analysis of long-term borrowings
Fair value
as at
31 March
2016
£m
Group
as at
31 March
2016
£m
Fair value
as at
31 March
2015
£m
Group
as at
31 March
2015 
£m
Company
as at
31 March
2016
£m
Company
as at
31 March
2015 
£m
Five-year senior notes repayable 2019 280 276 262 252 – –
RCF repayable 2016 110 108 – – – –
Retail bond repayable 2018 131 124 133 124 124 124
Ten-year senior notes repayable 2023 14 11 13 10 11 10
535 519 408 386 135 134
The five-year senior notes are presented on the balance sheet at amortised cost, net of fees. To enable the Group to manage the 
translational exposure which arises as a result of the notes being denominated in euros and to meet its risk management objective  
of minimising both interest cost and the impact of interest volatility on its consolidated income statement, the Group entered into  
a number of cross currency swaps to convert its obligations over the life of €250m of the notes from euros to pounds sterling at an  
FX rate of 1.21. These swap from a fixed effective euro interest rate of 3.20% to a fixed pound sterling interest rate of 4.39%. The 
swaps have been accounted for as a cash flow hedge and at 31 March 2016 have a fair market value of £7m liability (2014/15 – 
£28m liability) and they offset the effect of FX on the notes. This resulted in a £1m charge (2014/15 – £nil) being recognised in the 
consolidated income statement and a £3m credit (2014/15 – £nil) in other comprehensive income during the year. The remaining 
€100m of the notes remain in euros and have been designated as a net investment hedge of the Group’s euro-denominated net assets.
£110m of the Group’s £425m RCF was drawn at 31 March 2016 (2014/15 – undrawn). This is presented on the balance sheet net  
of fees of £2m. The RCF has a maturity date of March 2018 and incorporates a $200m swingline facility of which $75m is available  
as a late day fronted solution. The weighted average effective interest rate for the year was 2.2% (2014/15 – 2.5%).
The Group’s bank facilities contain a number of customary financial and operational covenants. Included in these, the Company  
is required to remain as the ultimate holding company in the Group. The Group and Company remained in compliance with the  
terms of all its financial covenants throughout the year ended 31 March 2016. 
Fair values of the five-year senior notes repayable 2019 and the retail bond repayable 2018 have been measured using level 1  
fair value measurement inputs. The fair value measurements of the ten-year senior notes repayable 2023 use level 2 fair value 
measurement inputs, which are derived from the fair values of similar bonds.
At 31 March 2016, the Group had committed headroom under its core credit facilities of £315m (2014/15 – £425m).
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
10 3
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report 10. Borrowings continued
(a) Long-term borrowings continued
Committed facilities
Group
as at
31 March 
2016
£m
Drawn
Group
as at
31 March 
2016
£m
Undrawn*
Group
as at
31 March 
2015
£m
Drawn
Group
as at
31 March 
2015
£m
Undrawn*
Less than one year 62 – 130 –
Between one and two years 108 315 – 425
Between two and five years 400 – 376 –
More than five years 11 – 10 –
581 315 516 425
*  The undrawn balance has been classified based on the maturity date of the facility.
At 31 March 2016, the Group’s long-term issuer ratings were Baa3 (stable) by Moody’s and BBB (stable) by Fitch. 
The retail bond and ten-year senior notes are issued in the Company.
(b) Short-term borrowings
Fair value
as at
31 March
2016
£m
Group
as at
31 March
2016
£m
Fair value
as at
31 March
2015
£m
Group
as at
31 March
2015
£m
Company
as at
31 March
2016
£m
Company
as at
31 March
2015
£m
Japanese yen loan 62 62 – – – –
Subordinated loan notes repayable 2015 – – 130 130 – –
Overdrafts 83 83 33 33 – –
145 145 163 163 – –
For several years, the Group has entered into a series of yen 10bn term loans with Tokyo Tanshi Co Limited, borrowing each for a term 
of up to six months. These loans have been refinanced either immediately on maturity or a few days thereafter with similar terms. 
The subordinated loan notes of £130m were repaid in June 2015. 
Bank overdrafts are for short-term funding and are repayable on demand and are generally repaid within a very short time period. 
£81m of the overdrafts arose due to short-term timing differences from unsettled matched principal trades which reversed 
subsequently. This £81m is presented in held for sale liabilities on the balance sheet.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
104 11. Cash
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments which are 
subject to insignificant risk of change in fair value and are readily convertible into a known amount of cash with less than three 
months’ maturity.
The Group holds money, and occasionally financial instruments, on behalf of customers (client money) in accordance with local 
regulatory rules. Since the Group is not beneficially entitled to these amounts, they are excluded from the consolidated balance 
sheet along with the corresponding liabilities to customers.
Restricted funds comprise cash held with a CCP clearing house, or a financial institution providing ICAP with access to a CCP ,  
and funds set aside for regulatory purposes, but excluding client money. The funds represent cash for which the Group does  
not have immediate and direct access or for which regulatory requirements restrict the use of the cash.
The cash note is presented on a Group basis, including cash attributable to held for sale assets. 
(a) Reconciliation of Group profit before tax to net cash flow from operating activities
Group
year ended
31 March
2016
£m
 Group
 year ended
 31 March
 2015
 £m
 (restated)
Profit before tax from continuing operations 27 47
Profit before tax from discontinued operations (note 4) 62 48
Operating exceptional items 40 75
Share of profit of associates after tax (3) (4)
Share of profit of joint ventures after tax (4) (4)
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on consolidation 38 55
Impairment of investment in associates 25 –
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising from development expenditure 37 34
Depreciation and impairment of property and equipment 11 15
Other acquisition and disposal costs 12 4
Share-based payments (trading) 7 6
Net finance expense 24 31
Increase of trading provision 2 –
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 278 307
Decrease in trade and other receivables 12 33
Timing differences on unsettled match principal trades (40) (29)
Increase in restricted funds (17) (4)
Increase in trade and other payables – 6
Cash generated by operations before exceptional items 233 313
Operating exceptional items paid (29) (48)
Cash generated by operations 204 265
Interest received 3 4
Interest paid (26) (39)
Tax paid (34) (31)
Cash flow from operating activities 147 199
The movement in trade and other receivables and trade and other payables excludes the impact of the gross-up of matched principal 
trades as permitted by IAS7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’. The gross-up has no impact on the cash flow or net assets of the Group.  
The cash flow movement in trade and other receivables includes the net movement on matched principal transactions and deposits 
for securities borrowed/loaned.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
105
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report 1 1. Cash continued
(b) Net debt
Net debt comprises total cash less other debt.
Group
as at
31 March
2016
£m
Group
as at
31 March
2015
£m
Gross debt (note 10) (664) (549)
Cash and cash equivalents 516 481
Net debt (148) (68)
(c) Total cash
Group
as at
31 March
2016
£m
Group
as at
31 March
2015
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 516 481
Overdrafts (83) (33)
Net cash and cash equivalents 433 448
Restricted funds 59 43
Total cash 492 491
(d) Cash information by businesses
As at 31 March 2016
Electronic 
Markets
£m
Post Trade 
Risk and 
Information
£m
Global 
Broking
£m
Central 
treasury
£m
Group
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 113 30 354 19 516
Overdrafts – – (81) (2) (83)
Net cash and cash equivalents 113 30 273 17 433
Restricted funds 25 – 33 1 59
Total cash 138 30 306 18 492
Discontinued operations hold £359m of cash, £33m of restricted funds and £81m of overdrafts (see note 4).
As at 31 March 2015 
Electronic 
Markets
£m
Post Trade
Risk and 
Information
£m
Global
Broking
£m
Central 
treasury
£m
Group
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 62 30 345 44 481
Overdrafts – – (33) – (33)
Net cash and cash equivalents 62 30 312 44 448
Restricted funds 6 – 36 1 43
Total cash 68 30 348 45 491
(e) Client money
At 31 March 2016, the Group held client money of £12m (2014/15 – £10m). This amount, together with the corresponding liabilities 
to customers, is not included in the Group’s consolidated balance sheet.
(f) Restricted funds
Restricted funds comprise cash held at a CCP clearing house or a financial institution providing ICAP with access to a CCP. The balance 
fluctuates based on business events around the year end and increased during the year by £16m to £59m at 31 March 2016.
12. Capital and liquidity planning and management
The Group does not seek to take proprietary market risk positions, so does not seek to expose its capital to market risk, and it does not 
undertake any form of maturity transformation so does not seek liquidity risk. Thus the overall approach to the planning and management 
of the Group’s capital and liquidity is to ensure the Group’s solvency, i.e. its continued ability to conduct business, deliver returns to 
shareholders and support growth and strategic initiatives. This risk profile meets the necessary conditions for an investment firm 
consolidation waiver and the Group continues to benefit from a waiver under the CRD IV provisions in force since 1 January 2014.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
106 12. Capital and liquidity planning and management continued
Liquidity
Group
The Group incurs exposure to liquidity risk as a result of trades executed as principal and trades executed on exchange on behalf of 
clients. Since principal trades are executed as matched principal there is no net funding requirement in the normal course of business 
and the liquidity requirements arise only in relation to the margin and collateral requirements of clearing houses, either directly or via 
financial institutions that provide ICAP with access to the clearing houses.
In order to execute and clear matched principal trades in securities the relevant entities need access to clearing and settlement 
facilities, which requires access to credit during the settlement cycle, so typically only for a one to three-day period. In order to execute 
trades in on-exchange derivatives the entities need access to credit facilities to carry the trades until they are taken up by customers.
In both cases, the Group can be required to post collateral or margin to support the credit lines, so access to liquidity is needed to 
ensure trades can continue to be supported uninterrupted. The most significant margin requirements arise in the US where, as part  
of its Global Broking and Electronic Markets businesses, ICAP provides clearing services to customers and is required to deposit 
margins with the FICC and NSCC. Trading entities of the Group use locally held highly liquid assets, predominantly cash held to  
meet capital requirements, together with committed and uncommitted credit facilities to meet their liquidity requirements.
The Group has a centralised approach to the provision of contingency funding for its trading entities. Through the GFC, the board 
periodically reviews the liquidity demands of the Group and the financial resources available to meet these demands. The GFC ensures 
that the Group, in totality and by subsidiary, has sufficient liquidity available in order to provide constant access, even in periods of market 
stress, to an appropriate level of cash, other forms of marketable securities and committed funding lines to enable it to finance its 
ongoing operations, proposed acquisitions and other reasonable unanticipated events on cost-effective and attractive terms. Therefore, 
to meet its liquidity requirements, the Group has maintained minimum core liquidity, in the form of centrally held cash and undrawn 
debt facilities, of $250m throughout the year.
As at 31 March 2016, the Group had gross debt of £664m (2014/15 – £549m), the maturity analysis of which is set out in note 10,  
and cash and cash equivalents of £516m (2014/15 – £481m) (see note 11(c)). Cash held at clearing houses, or a financial institution 
providing ICAP with access to a CCP , to which the Group has no immediate access in practice is disclosed as restricted funds in the 
financial statements (note 11(f)).
The Group invests its cash balances in a range of capital protected instruments including money market deposits, AAA-rated liquidity 
funds and government bonds with the objective of optimising the return, while having regard to counterparty credit risk and liquidity. 
With the exception of some small, local cash management balances, surplus cash is invested with strong institutions which have an 
equivalent credit rating of A or better.
Company
The Company’s policy is to ensure that it has constant access to an appropriate level of liquidity to enable it to finance its forecast 
ongoing operations, proposed acquisitions and other reasonable unanticipated events on cost-effective and attractive terms. If the 
Company has any cash, it is loaned intra-Group for further investment. With the exception of the retail bond of £125m repayable 
2018, and the €15m bond repayable 2023, all of the Company’s financial liabilities are payable within three months.
Capital management
The Group’s capital strategy is to maintain an efficient and strong capital base which maximises the return to its shareholders, while 
also maintaining flexibility and ensuring compliance with supervisory regulatory requirements. The capital structure of the Group 
consists of debt (note 10) and equity, including share capital (note 25), share premium, other reserves (note 26) and retained earnings.
The Group seeks to ensure that it has sufficient regulatory capital at Group level and in individual regulated trading entities to meet 
regulatory requirements. The FCA granted a waiver until December 2017 that allows the Group to disregard the application of the 
consolidated capital requirements of CRD IV and its requirements include the Group being prohibited from taking proprietary positions. 
The Group continues to comply with these requirements.
The waiver modifies the calculation of the Group regulatory capital position and in effect excludes goodwill adjustments from the 
capital computation. As a result of the waiver, the Group’s Pillar 1 regulatory capital headroom represents the difference between  
the capital resources of the Company, on a stand-alone basis, and the regulatory capital requirements of the Group calculated,  
in accordance with the requirements of the waiver, on an aggregate basis. Pillar 1 headroom is approximately £0.8bn (2014/15  
– £0.7bn) and is relatively stable due to the low amount of market and credit risk in the Group, but may fluctuate due to the timing  
of dividends and the distribution of subsidiaries’ profits to the Company.
Regulatory capital at solo entity level depends on the jurisdiction in which it is incorporated and operates. In each case the approach is to 
hold an appropriate surplus over the local minimum. The highest capital requirements arise in the UK, where they are predominantly driven 
by the fixed overhead requirement, which is based on the fixed costs of the prior year and so does not fluctuate significantly within the year. 
As the Group does not take proprietary positions it does not have an inventory of assets so regulatory capital is mostly covered by cash.
ICAP also evaluates at a Group and individual legal entity level the risks facing the business, to determine whether its capital is 
sufficient to cover any expected losses. The Group uses a scenario-based model which assesses the economic capital required to 
cover expected risks. The process followed at Group level is consistent with the CRD requirement for ICAP’s FCA regulated entities  
to perform an internal capital adequacy assessment process (ICAAP) under Pillar 2. The results for both are documented, updated  
and approved annually by the board and the UK regulated entity boards respectively. The Group overall and each regulated trading 
company complied with their regulatory capital requirements throughout the year.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
107
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report 12. Capital and liquidity planning and management continued
Capital management continued
In general, higher levels of market volatility can result in increased demand for the Group’s services. However, as the regulatory  
capital requirement is driven predominantly by the fixed cost base, the impact of changes in volumes on the capital requirement  
is significantly dampened. As such, absent a material acquisition, loss of the waiver or a change in the computation basis, existing 
capital resources are viewed as sufficient to operate and to continue to invest in the development of the Group’s businesses.
Following the disposal of IGBB, it is expected that the Group will not be subject to consolidated regulatory capital requirements.
1 3. Intangible assets arising from development expenditure
Development expenditure on software is recognised as an intangible asset in accordance with the provisions of IAS38 ‘Intangible 
Assets’. Capitalised expenditure is recognised initially at cost and is presented subsequently at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and provisions for impairment. Amortisation of these assets is charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the expected useful economic life of the asset of three to five years. The Group reviews the useful economic lives of 
these assets on a regular basis.
Development costs are incurred and capitalised when a final development plan (including the specifics of the assets to be 
developed) is signed off by a committee with appropriate delegated authority (including business management boards). As part  
of the approval process, the committee considers the commercial viability and technological feasibility of bringing the asset into 
use. When a project is abandoned in the development phase, costs are charged to the income statement. Prior to this stage, costs 
incurred in the research phase including undertaking feasibility studies are recorded in the income statement. Once an internally 
generated software asset is brought into use, any ongoing related costs are charged to the income statement to the extent that 
they relate to ongoing maintenance of the asset. Where any costs are identified by an appropriately authorised management 
committee to be an enhancement to the original asset, these costs are capitalised and amortised over the remaining expected 
useful life of the asset.
The Group has an internal threshold for capitalisation of £5,000 for individual assets and £1 25,000 for software-related projects.
The key component of the development costs is compensation of employees. Each of the Group’s businesses and the Group’s 
infrastructure area have their own dedicated IT project development teams. 
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets arising from development expenditure is charged within operating expenses. 
Amortisation is charged against assets from the date at which the asset becomes available for use.
Group
2015/16 
£m
2014/15
£m
Cost
As at 1 April 274 245
Additions* 54 48
Disposals (58) (32)
Transfer to held for sale (note 4) (85) –
Exchange adjustments 6 13
As at 31 March 191 274
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
As at 1 April 166 150
Amortisation charge for the year 37 34
Impairment in the year 4 3
Disposals (58) (32)
Transfer to held for sale (note 4) (49) –
Exchange adjustments 3 11
As at 31 March 103 166
Net book value
As at 31 March 88 108
* Included within additions are £45m (2014/15 – £41m) of employee costs (note 8(a)).
Intangible assets arising from development expenditure as at 31 March 2016 include assets under development of £39m  
(2014/15 – £27m). No amortisation charge was recorded on these assets. The additions and amortisation charge during the  
year are disclosed by operating segments in note 1. Disposals represents retirement of fully amortised assets, and those that  
are no longer in use, from the fixed assets register.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
108 14. Intangible assets arising on consolidation
Since 1 April 2004, intangible assets arising on consolidation include goodwill and other separately identifiable intangible assets such 
as customer relationships and customer contracts that arose on business combinations. The amortisation and any impairment is 
included in the consolidated income statement within the column ‘Acquisition and disposal costs’. The Group reviews the performance 
of the acquired businesses and reassesses the period over which the acquired intangible asset is likely to continue to generate 
cash flows that exceed the carrying value. 
(i) Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries when the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration transferred, the  
amount of any non-controlling interest and the fair value of any previously held equity interest in the acquiree exceeds the amount  
of the identifiable net assets acquired. If the amount of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired is greater, the difference  
is recognised immediately in the income statement. Goodwill is initially recognised at cost and is subsequently held at cost less  
any provision for impairment.
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of investments in joint ventures when the cost of investment exceeds ICAP’s share of the  
net fair value of the joint venture’s identifiable assets and liabilities. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of joint ventures is included  
in ‘Investments in joint ventures’ and is not tested separately for impairment. See note 21. 
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of interests in associates when the cost of investment exceeds ICAP’s share of the net fair  
value of the associate’s identifiable assets and liabilities. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is included in ‘Interests  
in associates’ and is not tested separately for impairment. See note 22. 
Where the Group makes an acquisition and the balances are reported as provisional at the year end, the Group has a measurement 
period of up to 12 months from the date of acquisition to finalise the provisional amounts where new information becomes 
available about facts and circumstances that existed at the balance sheet date, which could impact the value of goodwill  
and intangible assets arising on consolidation. The measurement period ends as soon as the information required is received.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable goodwill is included in the calculation of the profit or loss  
on disposal, except for goodwill written off to reserves prior to 1998, which remains eliminated.
(ii) Separately identifiable intangible assets
The Group has recognised separately identified intangible assets on acquisitions where appropriate. These generally include 
customer contracts and customer relationships. Intangible assets acquired by the Group are stated initially at fair value and are 
adjusted subsequently for amortisation and any impairment. Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation 
are recognised in the second column of the consolidated income statement. Where an impairment has taken place, the asset is 
reviewed annually for any reversal of the impairment. Any reversals of impairment are credited to the consolidated income 
statement. All separately identifiable intangible assets have a finite life (excluding goodwill).
Amortisation of separately identifiable intangible assets is charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis 
over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Customer relationships     2 – 10 years 
Customer contracts     Period of contract 
Other intangible assets     Period of contract
A deferred tax liability is recognised against the asset for which the amortisation is non-tax deductible. The liability unwinds  
over the same period as the asset is amortised.
(iii) Impairment
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indicator of impairment. Goodwill and 
other intangible assets arising on consolidation are allocated to a cash generating unit (CGU) at acquisition for the purpose of 
impairment testing, which is undertaken at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. The 
identification of CGUs is reviewed where there is a significant change to the Group’s segmental reporting structure. Impairment 
testing is performed by comparing the recoverable amount of a CGU with its carrying amount. The carrying amount of a CGU  
is based on the assets and liabilities of each CGU, including attributable goodwill. The recoverable amount of a CGU is the higher  
of its fair value less cost to sell and its value in use (VIU). VIU is the present value of the expected future cash flows from a CGU. 
Where the carrying value of the asset exceeds its VIU, an impairment charge is recognised immediately in the consolidated income 
statement, and the asset is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses. For goodwill, impairment charges previously 
recognised are not reversed and impaired intangible assets are reviewed annually for reversal of previously recognised impairment.
This process requires the exercise of significant judgement by management; if the estimates made prove to be incorrect or 
performance does not meet expectations which affect the amount and timing of future cash flows, goodwill and intangible  
assets may become impaired in future periods.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
109
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report 14. Intangible assets arising on consolidation continued
(a) Intangible assets arising on consolidation
Goodwill
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
As at 1 April 2015 1,062 625 1,687
Additions 5 – 5
Transfer to held for sale (92) – (92)
Exchange adjustments 24 – 24
As at 31 March 2016 999 625 1,624
Amortisation and impairment
As at 1 April 2015 185 572 757
Amortisation charge for the year – 38 38
Write off 3 – 3
As at 31 March 2016 188 610 798
Net book value
As at 31 March 2016 811 15 826
Goodwill
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
As at 1 April 2014 1,013 622 1,635
Transfers to held for sale (13) (2) (15)
Exchange adjustments 62 5 67
As at 31 March 2015 1,062 625 1,687
Amortisation and impairment
As at 1 April 2014 185 517 702
Amortisation charge for the year – 55 55
As at 31 March 2015 185 572 757
Net book value
As at 31 March 2015 877 53 930
The Group recognises £826m of intangible assets arising on consolidation, with £811m relating to goodwill and £15m relating  
to other intangible assets. The other intangible assets at 31 March 2016 mainly represent customer relationships, and have varying 
remaining amortisation periods across CGUs.
The £826m of intangible assets excludes goodwill and other intangible assets of £92m primarily relating to IGBB which were reclassified 
to held for sale assets (note 4). There was no impairment recognised in relation to IGBB. Following the reclassification of the shipping 
business to held for sale, an impairment charge of £9m was recognised.
The individual CGUs’ goodwill, other intangible assets arising on consolidation and net assets were tested for impairment, which 
resulted in no impairment. During the year, exiting non-core Electronic Markets businesses resulted in writing off £3m of goodwill, 
which has been presented as exceptional.
Additions of £5m relate to the acquisition of Molten Markets Inc. The goodwill is monitored as part of EBS for impairment review purposes.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
11 0 14. Intangible assets arising on consolidation continued
(b) Impairment testing of intangible assets arising on consolidation 
As at 31 March 2016
CGU Business segment
% of total 
goodwill 
and other 
intangibles
Goodwill
£m
Other
£m
Net book 
value
£m
BrokerTec Electronic Markets 18 145 – 145
EBS Electronic Markets 44 357 5 362
Reset Post Trade Risk and Information 18 146 – 146
TriOptima Post Trade Risk and Information 7 57 – 57
Traiana Post Trade Risk and Information 13 106 10 116
Total 100 811 15 826
As at 31 March 2015
CGU Business segment
% of total 
goodwill 
and other 
intangibles
Goodwill
£m
Other
£m
Net book
value
£m
BrokerTec Electronic Markets 16 145 – 145
EBS Electronic Markets 40 345 33 378
Reset Post Trade Risk and Information 15 141 – 141
TriOptima Post Trade Risk and Information 6 52 – 52
Traiana Post Trade Risk and Information 13 103 19 122
Information Post Trade Risk and Information – 3 – 3
Global Broking Global Broking 10 88 1 89
Total 100 877 53 930
Impairment testing methodology
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined using VIU calculations, which are based on discounting management’s pre-tax  
cash flow projections for the CGU. The pre-tax discount rate used is the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) ICAP allocates  
to investments in the businesses within which the CGU operates. A long-term growth rate estimate is used to extrapolate the  
cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term nature of the businesses in the CGUs. 
Discount rate Long-term growth rate
Key assumptions
2016 
%
2015 
%
2016
%
2015
%
BrokerTec 8.7 8.7 4.5 4.9
EBS 8.9 8.9 4.2 4.6
Reset 9.0 9.0 4.3 4.6
TriOptima 8.4 8.5 4.3 4.5
Traiana 8.5 8.5 4.5 5.1
Discount rates
The Group’s pre-tax WACC was 8.6% (2014/15 – 8.5%). The Group’s WACC is a function of the Group’s cost of equity, derived using 
a Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM), and the Group’s cost of debt. The cost of equity estimate depended on inputs in the CAPM 
reflecting a number of variables including the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated. 
These inputs are based on the market’s assessment of economic variables and management judgement, which are subject to scrutiny 
by the GFC and the Audit Committee (see page 49). All inputs to the CAPM model were externally sourced. The CGU-specific WACCs 
were then derived by adjusting the Group WACC for business-specific risk factors.
Nominal long-term growth rate
The growth rate reflects weighted average real GDP growth and inflation for the countries within which the CGUs operate. The rates 
are based on the International Monetary Fund’s medium term forecasts as they are deemed to be reliable estimates of likely future 
trends. The rates applied do not exceed the expected growth in the local economy or, for businesses which operate on a global scale, 
the global GDP. Given continuing challenges, a nil terminal growth rate was applied for Global Broking.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
111
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report 14. Intangible assets arising on consolidation continued
(b) Impairment testing of intangible assets arising on consolidation continued
Management’s judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU
The cash flow projections for each CGU are based on plans approved by the board of directors. For the 2015/16 annual impairment 
testing of Traiana, management’s cash flow projections for the three years ending 31 March 2018 were used. For all other CGUs, 
management cash flow projections for the year ending 31 March 2017 were used.
Based on the conditions at the balance sheet date and having assessed sensitivities of the key assumptions, management determined 
that a reasonably possible change in any of those key assumptions noted above would not cause an impairment in any of the CGUs.
15. Provisions
A provision is recognised where there is a present obligation, either legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it  
is probable there will be a transfer of economic benefits to settle the obligation. A provision is only recognised where a reliable 
estimate can be made of the value of the obligation.
Restructuring 
£m
Regulatory
 matters
£m
Legal
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
As at 1 April 2015 17 15 2 5 39
Amounts recognised in the income statement – – – 7 7
Settled during the year (5) (1) (1) – (7)
Reclassified from accruals – – (1) – (1)
Exchange adjustments – (1) – (1) (2)
Transfer to held for sale (note 4) (2) (11) – (2) (15)
As at 31 March 2016 10 2 – 9 21
As at 1 April 2014 – 13 1 5 19
Amounts recognised in the income statement 17 11 1 – 29
Settled during the year – (8) – – (8)
Reclassified from accruals – – – 1 1
Exchange adjustments – (1) – (1) (2)
As at 31 March 2015 17 15 2 5 39
The expected maturity profile of the contractual provisions is disclosed in note 18.
Other provisions of £7m recognised during the year include £6m estimated provisions relating to separation costs to be incurred prior 
to the completion of the IGBB disposal. Transferred to held for sale includes £2m of restructuring provisions relating to the onerous 
lease provisions for Jersey City offices in the US, £2m of other provisions, and £11m of regulatory matters provisions in relation to the 
€14.9m fine imposed by the European Commission in February 2015. 
Restructuring provisions of £10m at 31 March 2016 relate to onerous lease provisions for the London and Singapore offices  
as the Group will continue to retain the leases following the completion of the IGBB disposal. 
16. Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees
The Group’s contingent liabilities include possible obligations that arise from past events whose existence will be confirmed only  
by the occurrence, or non-occurrence, of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of ICAP. Additionally, 
contingent liabilities also include present obligations that have arisen from past events but are not recognised because it is not 
probable that settlement will require the outflow of economic benefits, or because the amount of the obligations cannot be 
reliably measured. Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the probability of 
the outflow of the Group’s economic resources is remote. Judgements applied in concluding the appropriateness of contingent 
liabilities disclosure are confirmed after consultation with external counsel and discussions with the Audit Committee.
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
11 2 16. Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees continued
Contingent liabilities
The Company and its subsidiaries continue to co-operate with the government agencies in Europe and the US relating to their 
investigations into the setting of yen Libor. The Company is no longer a named defendant in the initial US civil litigation against various 
yen Libor and euroyen Tibor setting banks. However, the plaintiff in that litigation was given permission by the court to add ICAP 
Europe Limited (IEL) as a defendant, and an amended complaint doing so was filed on 29 February 2016. IEL intends to file a motion  
to dismiss the amended complaint by the 16 May 2016 deadline set by the court for such a motion. On 24 July 2015, a new litigation 
was filed on behalf of two additional plaintiffs in the same court based on similar allegations. The new litigation includes claims against 
ICAP plc and IEL, both of which have filed motions to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction and have joined co-defendants’ motion to 
dismiss for failure to state a claim. Oral argument on these motions is scheduled for 5 May 2016. Plaintiffs in the Euribor civil litigation 
named ICAP plc and IEL on 13 August 2015 as parties to that pre-existing litigation. ICAP plc and IEL have joined the other defendants 
in filing motions to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction and for failure to state a claim. These motions are fully briefed and the parties 
are awaiting scheduling of oral argument. Plaintiffs in one of the US dollar Libor civil litigations sought permission to add the Company 
and IEL as defendants in that case. On 15 April 2016, the court denied the plaintiffs’ request on the grounds that it lacked personal 
jurisdiction over the Company and IEL, with the result that neither company will be added to the litigation. It is not practicable to 
predict the ultimate outcome of these inquiries or the litigations. As a result it is not possible to provide an estimate of any potential 
financial impact on the Group.
ICAP continues to co-operate with inquiries by the US government agencies into the setting of USD ISDAFIX rates. In 2014, civil 
lawsuits were filed in the US against USD ISDAFIX setting banks, where a subsidiary of the Company was originally named, but  
was subsequently replaced by ICAP Capital Markets LLC, as a defendant. Those suits have now been consolidated into a single  
action. The Company intends to defend these litigation claims vigorously. It is not practicable to predict the ultimate outcome of  
these inquiries or the litigation. As a result it is not possible to provide an estimate of any potential financial impact on the Group.
On 25 November 2015, a civil class action was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against a 
number of banks, Tradeweb Markets LLC and ICAP Capital Markets LLC (ICM) alleging that the defendants together colluded to prevent 
buy-side customers from accessing the interest rate swaps market on electronic, exchange-like platforms. ICM will be filing a motion to 
dismiss the complaint for failure to state a claim. On 18 February 2016, a civil class action was filed in the United States District Court 
for the Northern District of Illinois against a number of banks, Tradeweb Markets LLC and ICM alleging that the defendants boycotted 
and collusively targeted a series of new electronic, exchange-like trading platforms that would have allowed access to buy-side 
customers. The action asserts claims of violation of antitrust laws and unjust enrichment. ICAP has not yet been formally served with 
the complaint. In addition to these two class action litigations, ICM has been named as a defendant in civil litigation filed on 18 April 
2016 against a group of banks, as well as Tradeweb, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York by the 
Tera Exchange and affiliated entities. The suit alleges that the defendants conspired to boycott plaintiff’s platform in order to undermine 
increased competition in the interest rate swaps market. The action includes claims of violation of antitrust laws, unjust enrichment, and 
tortious interference with business relations. ICM has not yet been formally served with the complaint. The case has been accepted by 
the Southern District of New York as related to the class action litigation described above. It is not possible to predict the outcome of 
these litigations or to provide an estimate of any potential liability or financial impact on the Group.
From time to time the Group is engaged in litigation in relation to a variety of matters, and is also required to provide information  
to regulators and other government agencies as part of informal and formal inquiries or market reviews.
Details of regulatory and other matters that have a provision recognised for them are detailed in note 15.
Contractual commitments
Operating lease commitments 
At the end of the financial year, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 
operating leases which fall due as follows (including commitments that will transfer to TP ICAP):
As at
31 March
2016
£m
As at
31 March
2015
£m
Within one year 24 22
Between one and five years 53 64
After five years 11 17
88 103
The commitments include onerous lease provisions, but before the estimated receipt of £2m under a non-cancellable sublease as at 
31 March 2016 (2014/15 – £3m). Operating lease commitments relate to the rental of premises for office space in the UK, US, Israel 
and Asia Pacific.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
11 3
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
16. Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees continued
Contractual commitments continued
Guarantees
In the normal course of business certain Group companies enter into guarantees and indemnities to cover clearing and settlement 
arrangements and/or the use of third party services/software. It is not possible to quantify the extent of any potential liabilities, but 
there are none currently expected to have a material impact on the Group’s consolidated results or net assets. As at 31 March 2016, 
the Group has given £231m (2014/15 – £373m) of guarantees to counterparties.
1 7 . Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently reviewed for recoverability. A provision for impairment  
of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due 
according to the original terms of receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter 
bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments, are considered indicators that the trade receivable  
is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of the  
future cash flows. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of  
the loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement within ‘operating expenses’. When a trade receivable is determined  
to be uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts 
previously written off are credited against ‘Operating expenses’ in the consolidated income statement.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial instruments which have a fixed or determinable value. They are recognised  
at cost, less any provisions for impairment in their value.
Fair value through profit or loss assets are designated as such where they meet the conditions of IAS39 ‘Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement’. They are recognised initially at fair value and any subsequent changes in fair value are recognised 
directly in the consolidated income statement. These assets are usually held for short-term gain, or are financial instruments not 
designated as hedges. The accounting policy for derivative financial instruments is included in note 27.
Matched principal transactions are those where the Group acts in a non-advisory capacity as principal in the commitment  
to purchase and sell securities and other financial instruments through two or more transactions between our customers. Such 
trades have no contractual settlement date and are complete only when all sides of the transaction are settled, and therefore an 
aged analysis of matched principal trade receivables is not appropriate. Substantially all matched principal receivables and payables 
settle within a short period of time, usually within three days of the trade date. All amounts due to and payable by counterparties 
in respect of matched principal business are shown gross as matched principal trade receivables and matched principal trade payables 
(note 19), except where a netting agreement, which is legally enforceable at all times, exists and the asset and liability are either 
settled net or simultaneously. If any unmatched trades remain outstanding, the asset or liability is held within matched principal trade 
receivables or payables as appropriate and fair valued through the consolidated income statement until the trade is completed.
The Group acts as an intermediary between our customers for collateralised stock lending transactions. Such trades are complete 
only when both the collateral and stock for each side of the transaction are returned. The gross amounts of collateral due to and 
receivable are disclosed in the balance sheet as deposits paid for securities borrowed and deposits received for securities loaned 
(note 18).
Financial instruments not held at fair value are impaired where there is objective evidence that the value may be impaired. The 
amount of the impairment is calculated as the difference between the carrying value and the present value of any expected future 
cash flows, with any impairment being recognised in the consolidated income statement. Subsequent recovery of amounts previously 
impaired are credited to the consolidated income statement.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
11 4 1 7 . Trade and other receivables continued
Group 
as at
31 March
2016
£m
Group
as at
31 March
2015
£m
Company
as at
31 March
2016
£m
Company
as at
31 March
2015
£m
Non-current receivables
Deposits 3 2 – –
Other receivables 6 3 124 124
9 5 124 124
Current receivables
Matched principal trade receivables 59,322 23,351 – –
Deposits paid for securities borrowed – 758 – –
Other trade receivables 69 196 – –
Impairment of other trade receivables (1) (3) – –
Amounts owed by subsidiaries – – 34 97
Amounts owed by associates – 3 – –
Amounts owed by other related parties 1 1 – –
Derivative financial instruments 3 7 – –
Other receivables 58 58 – –
Prepayments 9 40 – –
59,461 24,411 34 97
Current trade receivables of £20,789m, not included above, have been reclassified to held for sale (note 4). The increase in trade 
receivables and payables is principally due to a change in clearing arrangements for certain US Treasuries within BrokerTec.
(a) Credit risk management
The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by counterparties in respect of its name give-up, matched 
principal, exchange-traded and corporate treasury operations. The Group does not bear any significant concentration risk to either 
counterparts or markets.
The credit risk in respect of name give-up and post trade risk and information services businesses is limited to the collection of 
outstanding commission and transaction fees and this is managed proactively by the Group’s accounts receivable function with 
oversight from the independent credit risk function.
The matched principal business involves the Group acting as a counterparty on trades which are undertaken on a delivery versus 
payment basis. The Group manages its credit risk in these transactions through appropriate policies and procedures in order to  
mitigate this risk including stringent on-boarding requirements, setting appropriate credit limits for all counterparts which are closely 
monitored by the regional credit risk teams to restrict any potential loss through counterparty default. A significant portion of the Group’s 
counterparty exposure at any given point throughout the year is to investment grade counterparts (rated BBB-/Baa3 or above).  
The Group’s potential stressed counterparty credit risk calculated in the ICAAP is less than 5% of the Group’s total capital resources.
The credit risk on core cash, cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments is monitored on a daily basis. All financial institutions  
that are transacted with for corporate purposes are approved by the Group Finance Committee and internal limits are assigned to each 
one based on a combination of factors including external credit ratings. The majority of cash and cash equivalents is deposited with 
investment grade rated financial institutions.
Company
The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by counterparties. This risk is considered minimal as all 
counterparties are Group companies and the risk of non-payment is viewed as low.
(b) Impairment of other trade receivables
Other trade receivables represent amounts receivable in respect of agency business and information services. All receivables are 
individually assessed for impairment at the reporting date. Management judgement is applied in determining whether there is 
objective evidence that a loss event has occurred and, if so, the measurement of the impairment allowance. In determining whether 
there is objective evidence that a loss event has occurred, judgement is exercised in evaluating all relevant information on indicators  
of impairment, which is not restricted to the consideration of whether payments are contractually past due but includes broader 
consideration of factors indicating deterioration in the financial condition and outlook of customers affecting their ability to pay.  
For those receivables where objective evidence of impairment exists, management determines the size of the allowance required 
based on a range of factors including probability of default and, if defaulted, expectation of recovery. If in a subsequent period, the 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
11 5
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
1 7 . Trade and other receivables continued 
(b) Impairment of other trade receivables continued
amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment  
was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed and the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
As at 31 March 2016, £2m of other trade receivables remain impaired (2014/15 – £3m), which includes £1m classified as held  
for sale. There have been no new impairments during the year.
Past due but not impaired trade and other receivables are those in respect of which the debtor has failed to make a payment or  
a partial payment in accordance with the contractual terms of the invoice, but there is no major concern over the credit worthiness  
of the counterparty, therefore they are not impaired. In the prior reporting periods, receivables past a ‘normal settlement date’ were 
considered past due and were reported on that basis. As at 31 March 2016 the following other trade receivables were past due but 
not impaired:
Group
As at
31 March
2016
£m
As at
31 March
2015
£m
Less than 30 days overdue 101 113
Over 30 days, but less than 90 days overdue 48 54
Over 90 days, but less than 180 days overdue 13 12
Over 180 days overdue 16 14
178 193
Other trade receivables past due but not impaired of £178m include £110m classified as held for sale.
(c) Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
The Group operates under a clearing arrangement for certain US matched principal transactions on a fully disclosed clearing basis, 
which provides the Group with the legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and settle on a net basis. As such, 
certain matched principal trade receivables and payables (note 18) are recorded on a net basis. Absent the change in the clearing 
arrangements for certain US Treasuries within BrokerTec during the year, the gross amounts netted in the year would have been 
£59,322m higher. 
Group
As at
31 March
2016
£m
As at 
31 March
2015
£m
Gross recognised receivable 172,779 171,599
Gross recognised payable 171,807 171,182
Gross amounts that are netted 171,807 171,182
Gross amounts subject to netting arrangements that are not offset 972 417
Deposit securities paid (collateral) 37 15
The above disclosure is on a Group basis and therefore includes held for sale.
(d) Trade receivables by currency
The table below shows the concentration of the Group’s trade receivables by currency (including those classified as held for sale):
Trade receivables as at 31 March 2016
Group
Pound 
sterling
£m
Dollar
£m
Euro
£m
Yen
£m
Other 
currencies
£m
Total
£m
Matched principal trade receivables 2,591 69,489 5,778 572 545 78,975
Deposits paid for securities borrowed 71 917 – – – 988
Other trade receivables (net) 31 110 20 2 15 178
2,693 70,516 5,798 574 560 80,141
Trade receivables as at 31 March 201 5
Group
Pound
sterling
£m
Dollar
£m
Euro
£m
Yen
£m
Other 
currencies
£m
Total
£m
Matched principal trade receivables 4,533 13,475 3,120 356 1,867 23,351
Deposits paid for securities borrowed – 758 – – – 758
Other trade receivables (net) 32 120 19 3 19 193
4,565 14,353 3,139 359 1,886 24,302
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
11 6 18. Trade and other payables
Accounts payable are recognised initially at fair value based on the amounts exchanged and subsequently held at amortised cost.
The accounting policies for matched principal transactions and collateralised stock lending are included within the trade and other 
receivables note (note 17).
Details of the accounting policy relating to derivative financial instruments is included in note 27.
Group 
as at
31 March
2016
£m
Group
as at
31 March
2015
£m
Company
as at
31 March
2016
£m
Company
as at
31 March
2015
£m
Current payables
Matched principal trade payables 59,322 23,307 – –
Deposits received for securities loaned – 758 – –
Other trade payables 9 15 – –
Amounts owed to subsidiaries – – 507 277
Amounts owed to joint ventures – 2 – –
Amounts owed to associates 4 – – –
Amounts owed to related parties 1 1 – –
Derivative financial instruments 12 10 – –
Accruals 89 231 – –
Other tax and social security 6 13 – –
Deferred income 16 21 – –
Other payables 4 16 3 2
Contingent deferred consideration 1 3 – –
Deferred consideration – 1 – –
59,464 24,378 510 279
Current trade payables of £20,738m, not included above, have been reclassified to held for sale (note 4).
Group 
as at
31 March
2016
£m
Group
as at
31 March
2015
£m
Company
as at
31 March
2016
£m
Company
as at
31 March
2015
£m
Non-current payables
Accruals – 1 – –
Contingent deferred consideration 3 1 – –
Derivative financial instruments 8 30 – –
Other payables – 1 – –
Deferred income 1 4 – –
Total 12 37 – –
As at 31 March 2016 the fair value of trade and other payables is not materially different from their book values.
Non-current trade payables of £4m, not included above, have been reclassified to held for sale (note 4).
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
11 7
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
18. Trade and other payables continued
(a) Maturity of trade and other payables and provisions
The table below shows the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities included within trade and other payables (excluding those 
classified as held for sale) based on the contractual amount payable on the date of repayment:
Maturity of trade and other payables and provisions as at 31 March 2016
Less than
three months
£m
Three months 
to one year
£m
One to
five years
£m
Greater than
five years
£m
Total
£m
Matched principal trade payables 59,322 – – – 59,322
Other trade payables 9 – – – 9
Derivative financial instruments 4 8 8 – 20
Amounts owed to associates 4 – – – 4
Amounts owed to related parties 1 – – – 1
Other payables 4 – – – 4
Contingent deferred consideration – 1 3 – 4
Provisions 1 3 5 1 10
Accruals 57 32 – – 89
59,402 44 16 1 59,463
Maturity of trade and other payables and provisions as at 31 March 201 5
Less than
three months
£m
Three months
to one year
£m
One to
five years
£m
Greater than
five years
£m
Total
£m
Matched principal trade payables 23,307 – – – 23,307
Deposits received for securities loaned 758 – – – 758
Other trade payables 15 – – – 15
Derivative financial instruments 10 – 30 – 40
Amounts owed to joint ventures 2 – – – 2
Amounts owed to related parties 1 – – – 1
Other payables 13 3 1 – 17
Contingent deferred consideration 2 1 1 – 4
Deferred consideration – 1 – – 1
Provisions 3 17 19 – 39
Accruals 59 172 1 – 232
24,170 194 52 – 24,416
The gross amounts payable have been disclosed above, rather than their net present value. Based on their short-term nature there  
is no material difference between the net present value and gross amount of the balances disclosed above.
Company
The current trade and other payables of £509m (2014/15 – £279m) are all due within 90 days.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
11 8 19. Financial assets and liabilities
(a) Financial assets
The carrying value less impairment of current trade receivables and payables is assumed to approximate their fair values due to their 
short-term nature.
As at 31 March 2016 and 2015, the fair values of financial assets are not materially different from their book values.
The table below excludes financial assets classifed as held for sale:
Classification of financial assets as at 31 March 2016
Hedging 
instruments
£m
Available-
for-sale
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Total
£m
Cash and cash equivalents – – 157 157
Restricted funds – – 26 26
Available-for-sale investments – 9 – 9
Matched principal trade receivables – – 59,322 59,322
Non-current deposits paid – – 3 3
Other trade receivables (net) – – 68 68
Amounts owed from other related parties – – 1 1
Derivative financial instruments 3 – – 3
Other receivables – – 64 64
3 9 59,641 59,653
Classification of financial assets as at 31 March 201 5 
Hedging 
instruments
£m
Available-
for-sale
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Total
£m
Cash and cash equivalents – – 481 481
Restricted funds – – 43 43
Available-for-sale investments – 17 – 17
Matched principal trade receivables – – 23,351 23,351
Deposits paid for securities borrowed – – 758 758
Non-current deposits paid – – 2 2
Other trade receivables (net) – – 193 193
Amounts owed by associates – – 3 3
Amounts owed from other related parties – – 1 1
Derivative financial instruments 7 – – 7
Other receivables – – 61 61
7 17 24,893 24,917
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
11 9
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
19. Financial assets and liabilities continued
(a) Financial assets continued 
Financial assets can be reconciled to the balance sheet as follows:
As at
31 March
2016
£m
As at 
31 March
2015
£m
Current receivables (note 17) 59,461 24,411
Non-current receivables 9 5
Available-for-sale financial investments (note 23) 9 17
Cash and cash equivalents including restricted funds 183 524
Excluded:
Prepayments (9) (40)
59,653 24,917
Prepayments and certain items included within other receivables are not defined as financial assets under IAS39.
(b) Financial liabilities
As at 31 March 2016 and 2015, the fair values of financial liabilities are not materially different from their book values except for the 
fair value of the retail bond repayable in 2018 and five-year senior notes repayable in 2019 (note 10).
Classification of financial liabilities
As at 31 March 2016 As at 31 March 2015
Hedging 
instruments
£m
Amortised
cost
£m
Total
£m
Hedging 
instruments
£m
Amortised
cost
£m
Total
£m
Matched principal trade payables – 59,322 59,322 – 23,307 23,307
Deposits received for securities loaned – – – – 758 758
Other trade payables – 9 9 – 15 15
Derivative financial instruments 20 – 20 40 – 40
Amounts owed to joint ventures – – – – 2 2
Amounts owed to associates – 4 4 – – –
Amounts owed to related parties – 1 1 – 1 1
Other payables – 4 4 – 17 17
Contingent deferred consideration – 4 4 – 4 4
Deferred consideration – – – – 1 1
Accruals – 89 89 – 232 232
Borrowings and overdrafts – 583 583 – 549 549
Provisions – 10 10 – 32 32
20 60,026 60,046 40 24,918 24,958
Provisions of £11m, not disclosed above, have been reclassified to held for sale (note 4).
Financial liabilities can be reconciled to the balance sheet as follows:
As at 
31 March 
2016
£m
As at
31 March
2015
£m
Current payables 59,464 24,378
Non-current payables 12 37
Borrowings and overdrafts (note 10) 583 549
Provisions (note 15)* 10 32
Excluded:
Tax and social security (6) (13)
Deferred income (17) (25)
60,046 24,958
* Excludes non-contractual provisions.
Taxes payable, deferred income and certain provisions are not classified as financial liabilities under IAS39.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
120 19. Financial assets and liabilities continued
(b) Financial liabilities continued
Company
Financial assets and liabilities
All the Company’s financial assets are classified as loans and receivables and the financial liabilities are held at amortised cost.  
The fair value of these assets and liabilities is not materially different from their book values.
20. Principal subsidiaries
An entity is regarded as a subsidiary if the Company has control over its strategic, operating and financial policies and intends  
to hold the investment on a long-term basis for the purpose of securing a contribution to the Group’s activities.
The Company recognises investments in subsidiaries initially at fair value, and subsequent changes in value as a result of impairment 
are recognised in the income statement.
Investment in subsidiaries – Company
The Company’s immediate subsidiary companies are ICAP Group Holdings plc, Intercapital Limited and Garban Group Holdings  
Limited, all of which are incorporated in England and Wales and are 100% owned by the Company. At 31 March 2016 the book  
value of these investments was £2,315m (2014/15 – £2,036m). During the year, ICAP plc made a capital contibution of £279m  
to Intercapital Limited through intergroup receivables. There were no impairment charges recognised during the year.
All of the Company’s other subsidiaries are indirectly owned. The exemption under section 410 of the Companies Act 2006 to  
show only the principal subsidiaries has ceased for accounts signed on or after 1 July 2015. A complete list of subsidiaries, joint 
ventures and associates is given in note 30. The Company’s principal subsidiaries, their country of incorporation and the Group’s 
ownership are listed below:
% held
Australia ICAP Australia Pty Limited* 100
ICAP Brokers Pty Limited* 100
Brazil ICAP do Brasil Corretora de Títulos e Valores Mobiliários Ltda* 100
England EBS Dealing Resources International Limited 100
ICAP Energy Limited* 100
ICAP Europe Limited* 100
ICAP Global Derivatives Limited* 100
ICAP Management Services Limited* 100
ICAP Securities Limited* 100
iSwap Limited* 50.1
Japan ICAP Totan Securities Co Ltd* 60
Singapore Reset Private Limited 100
Sweden TriOptima AB 100
Switzerland EBS Service Company Limited 100
United States BrokerTec Americas LLC 100
EBS Dealing Resources Inc 100
ICAP Capital Markets LLC 100
ICAP Corporates LLC* 100
ICAP Energy LLC* 100
ICAP Securities USA LLC* 100
ICAP Services North America LLC* 100
Traiana Inc 86.7
* These subsidiaries are included within discontinued operations.
The percentage held represents the percentage of issued ordinary share capital held (all classes) and also represents the voting  
rights of the Company.
The Group has an economic interest of 40.2% in iSwap Limited, but the investment is classed as a subsidiary because the Group  
is the largest single shareholder (next largest economic interest is 13.3%). The Group also employs the key management personnel  
of iSwap Limited.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
12 1
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report  
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
20. Principal subsidiaries continued
Investment in subsidiaries – Company continued
ICAP do Brasil Corretora de Títulos e Valores Mobiliários Ltda has a 31 December year end as required as part of local regulatory 
requirements. All other principal subsidiaries have a 31 March year end.
All companies operate in their country of incorporation. ICAP Energy Limited, ICAP Europe Limited, ICAP Securities Limited,  
EBS Dealing Resources International Limited, ICAP Securities USA LLC, ICAP Corporates LLC and BrokerTec Americas LLC also  
operate from branches outside the countries of incorporation.
21. Investment in joint ventures
Investments in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method. Under this method, such investments are initially stated at  
cost, including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post acquisition change in the Group’s share of net assets.
Investments in joint ventures are reviewed for indicators of impairment under IAS39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement’. Whenever application of IAS39 indicates that an investment may be impaired, the carrying amount of the 
investment, including attributed goodwill, is tested for impairment as a single asset under IAS36, by comparing the carrying 
amount with its recoverable amount (the higher of VIU and fair value less costs to sale).
The Group adopted IFRS11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ and IAS28 ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’ for the financial year 
beginning 1 April 2014. Previously, the Group proportionally consolidated the joint ventures’ results and position of its joint ventures 
under IAS31. The Group determined that as a result of the adoptions of IFRS11 and IAS28 the joint ventures’ results will not be 
proportionately consolidated in the Group financial statements but will be treated under the equity accounting method.
Movements in investments in joint ventures
2015/16
£m
2014/15
£m
As at 1 April 13 10
Share of profit for the year 4 4
Dividends received (2) (1)
Transfer to held for sale (note 4) (9) –
As at 31 March 6 13
Summary financial information of joint ventures
The Group’s share of joint ventures’ assets, liabilities and profit is given below:
As at
31 March
2016
£m
As at
31 March
2015
£m
Assets 29 16
Liabilities (15) (5)
Year ended
31 March
2016
£m
Year ended
31 March
2015
£m
Revenue 16 18
Operating expenses (11) (13)
Profit before tax 5 5
Tax (1) (1)
Share of profit of joint ventures after tax 4 4
Attributable to:
Continuing operations 1 1
Discontinued operations 3 3
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
12 2 21. Investment in joint ventures continued
Joint ventures – Group
The Group’s joint ventures and their country of incorporation are listed below:
% held Principal activity
England TFS-ICAP Limited 23.0 Broking
Germany Tradition Financial Services GmbH 33.3 Broking
Mexico SIF ICAP, S.A. de C.V.* 50.0 Broking
United States TFS-ICAP LLC 23.0 Broking
* This joint venture is included in held for sale assets.
All joint ventures have a 31 December year end. The difference in the joint ventures’ year ends to the Group’s year end is not 
considered to have a material impact on their results.
22. Investment in associates
Investments in associates are recognised using the equity method. Under this method, such investments are initially stated at cost, 
including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post acquisition change in the Group’s share of net assets.
Investments in associates are reviewed for indicators of impairment under IAS39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement’. Whenever application of IAS39 indicates that an investment may be impaired, the carrying amount of the 
investment, including attributed goodwill, is tested for impairment as a single asset under IAS36, by comparing the carrying 
amount with its recoverable amount (higher of VIU and fair value less costs to sell).
Movements in interests in associates
2015/16
£m
2014/15
£m
As at 1 April 68 65
Additions 39 1
Transfer from available-for-sale investment 1 –
Share of profit for the year 3 4
Dividends received (6) (4)
Other movements 11 –
Impairment (25) –
Exchange adjustments 3 2
Transfer to held for sale (note 4) (42) –
As at 31 March 52 68
Additions
During the year, the Group invested £17m in acquiring new associates and increasing its stake in existing associates. New PTRI 
investments include £7m in Abide Financial Limited and £7m in AcadiaSoft, Inc. The Group also invested £3m to increase its stake  
in Duco Technology Limited, an existing PTRI associate. The remaining £22m of additions is mainly driven by the recognition of  
a £20m investment in Howe Robinson Partners Pte Ltd representing fair value of a 35% stake on 1 April 2015.
Impairment charges
During the year, following the identification of impairment indicators under IAS39, impairment reviews were performed in our 
investments, resulting in impairment charges of £10m in BSN Holdings Limited, £14m in Howe Robinson Partners Pte Ltd  
and £1m in Capital Shipbrokers Limited.
Other
Other includes £11m investment in ENSO LP on 1 October 2014. The Group’s investment in associates at 31 March 2015 did not 
include the additional investment, with an equal and opposite error in the Group’s translation reserve at 31 March 2015. This has  
been corrected in the current period.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
12 3
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report Available-for-sale financial assets are debt and equity non-derivative financial assets and are initially recognised at fair value.
Available-for-sale investments in equity assets that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value 
cannot be reliably measured, are subsequently recorded at cost less impairment. If there is objective evidence that an impairment  
loss has been incurred on such financial assets, the amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the 
carrying amount of the financial asset and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market  
rate of return for a similar financial asset.
All other available-for-sale financial assets are fair valued subsequently at each period end. Any subsequent changes in fair value  
are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset  
has been recognised in other comprehensive income and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative 
unrealised loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the consolidated income statement.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
22. Investment in associates continued
Summary financial information for associates
The Group’s share of associates’ assets (excluding goodwill), liabilities and profit is given below:
As at
31 March
2016
£m
As at
31 March
2015
£m
Assets 93 67
Liabilities (41) (26)
Year ended
31 March
2016
£m
Year ended
31 March
2015
£m
Revenue 66 41
Operating expenses (61) (35)
Profit before tax 5 6
Tax (2) (2)
Share of profit of associates after tax 3 4
Attributable to:
Continuing operations (1) 5
Discontinued operations 4 (1)
The Group’s associates and their country of incorporation are listed below:
% held Principal activity
China Shanghai CFETS-ICAP International Money Broking Co Limited 33.0 Broking
England BSN Capital Partners Limited 25.1 Broking
Hong Kong Capital Shipbrokers Limited 45.0 Broking
Japan Totan ICAP Co., Ltd* 40.0 Broking
Central Totan Securities Co., Ltd* 20.0 Broking
Jersey ENSO LP 42.0 PTRI
Malaysia Amanah Butler Malaysia Sdn Bhd* 32.1 Broking
Spain Corretaje e Información Monetaria y de Divisas SA* 21.5 Broking
Singapore Howe Robinson Partners Pte Ltd 35.0 Broking
United States CLS Aggregation Services LLC 42.5 PTRI
First Brokers Securities LLC* 40.0 Broking
OpenGamma Inc 15.4 PTRI
* These associates are included in held for sale assets.
All share holdings are in ordinary shares except for the investment in Capital Shipbrokers Limited which is a combination of voting and 
non-voting shares.
BSN Capital Partners Limited, Shanghai CFETS-ICAP International Money Broking Co Limited, CLS Aggregation Services LLC and 
OpenGamma Inc have 31 December year ends. The difference in these associates’ year ends to the Group’s year end is not considered 
to have a material impact on their results. All other associates have a 31 March year end.
23. Available-for-sale investments
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
124 23. Available-for-sale investments continued
2015/16
£m
2014/15
£m
As at 1 April 17 18
Additions 5 –
Disposals (1) (2)
Impairment – (1)
Revaluation in the year recognised in other comprehensive income – 1
Transfer to associates (1) –
Exchange adjustments – 1
Transfer to held for sale (note 4) (11) –
As at 31 March 9 17
Additions of £5m include £2.5m of additional investment in DTCC common stock, £1m investment in Cloud9 Technologies LLC, 
£0.8m additional investment in Exotix Partners LLP and £0.7m investment in Digital Asset Holdings LLC.
The disclosure below does not include available-for-sale investments which have been transferred to held for sale (note 4).
Year ended
31 March
2016
£m
Year ended
31 March
2015
£m
Non-current available-for-sale investments
Held at fair value 1 2
Held at cost less impairment 8 15
Total 9 17
The fair value of £1m (2014/15 – £2m) was determined using level 1 inputs, being the quoted prices of the equity instruments.
Year ended
31 March
2016
£m
Year ended
31 March
2015
£m
Listed securities
Equities listed in the US 1 1
Equities listed in the rest of the world – 1
Total listed securities 1 2
Unlisted securities
Equity investments 4 15
Other 4 –
Total unlisted securities 8 15
Total available-for-sale investments 9 17
Impairment losses recognised in the consolidated income statement for an investment in an available-for-sale equity instrument  
are not reversed through the consolidated income statement. Dividends on available-for-sale equity investments are recognised 
in the consolidated income statement when the right to receive payment is established. When an available-for-sale financial asset 
is derecognised, any cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised previously in other comprehensive income is transferred to the 
consolidated income statement.
These assets are generally expected to be held for the long term and are included in non-current assets. Assets such as shares or 
seats in exchanges, cash-related instruments, and long-term equity investments that do not qualify as associates or joint ventures, 
are classified as available-for-sale.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
125
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
23. Available-for-sale investments continued
Available-for-sale investments are denominated in the following currencies:
Group
Pound
sterling
£m
Dollar
£m
Euro
£m
Yen
£m
Other
currencies
£m
Total
£m
As at 31 March 2016 7 2 – – – 9
As at 31 March 2015 6 3 1 5 2 17
24. Property and equipment
Property and equipment is recognised initially at cost including the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable 
to bringing the asset into its intended use. Property and equipment is subsequently presented at initial cost less accumulated 
depreciation and any provisions for impairment in its value. It is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its expected useful 
economic life as follows:
Short leasehold property improvements  Period of lease
Furniture, fixtures and equipment   3 – 5 years
The Group reviews its depreciation rates regularly to take account of any changes in circumstances. These rates are determined 
on consideration of factors such as the expected rate of technological development and anticipated usage levels.
When a leasehold property becomes surplus to the Group’s foreseeable business requirements, a provision is made on a discounted 
basis for the expected future net cost of the property.
2015/16 2014/15
Group
Short
leasehold
property
improvements
£m
Furniture, 
fixtures and
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Short
leasehold
property
improvements
£m
Furniture,
fixtures and
equipment
£m
Total
£m
Cost
As at 1 April 45 97 142 49 114 163
Additions 2 15 17 – 9 9
Disposals (1) (26) (27) (6) (33) (39)
Exchange adjustments 2 3 5 2 7 9
Transfer to held for sale (note 4) (45) (31) (76) – – –
As at 31 March 3 58 61 45 97 142
Accumulated depreciation
As at 1 April 31 71 102 31 88 119
Charge for the year 3 8 11 4 11 15
Disposals (1) (26) (27) (6) (33) (39)
Exchange adjustments 2 4 6 2 5 7
Transfer to held for sale (note 4) (34) (27) (61) – – –
As at 31 March 1 30 31 31 71 102
Net book value
As at 31 March 2 28 30 14 26 40
Additions during the year include assets under construction that are expected to become available for use of £5m (2014/15 – £4m).
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
126 25. Share capital
Ordinary shares are recognised in equity as share capital at their nominal value. The difference between consideration received 
and the nominal value is recognised in the share premium account.
Company shares held in trust in connection with the Group’s employee share schemes are deducted from consolidated shareholders’ 
equity. Purchases, sales and transfers of the Company’s shares are disclosed as changes in the consolidated shareholders’ equity. 
The assets and liabilities of the trusts are consolidated in full into the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
Treasury Shares are recognised in equity and are measured at cost. Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also 
recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and original cost being taken to retained earnings.
(a) Issued share capital
2015/16 2014/15
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Number of
shares
millions
Nominal
value
£m
Number of
shares
millions
Nominal
value
£m
As at 1 April 2015 and at 31 March 2016 665 66 665 66
During the year no ordinary shares were issued (2014/15 – nil) or cancelled (2014/15 – nil).
The number of ordinary shares in issue at 31 March 2016 was 664,537,006 (2014/15 – 664,537,006) with 12,986,546 (2014/15 
– 15,314,513) held as Treasury Shares and 4,787,904 (2014/15 – 5,573,089) held in employee share trusts. The cost of Treasury 
Shares is deducted from retained earnings. The cost of shares held in employee share trusts is loaned to the trusts by the Company 
and is reported as other receivables.
(b) Potential issues of share capital
Certain employees hold 3,678,251 share options over the Company’s shares, which are potentially issuable. These options were 
granted between 2005/06 to 2015/16 and the weighted average exercise price ranges from 272.0p to 486.0p. 
(c) Shares held in trust for employee share schemes
The Company has established employee share trusts in respect of the SEEPP , the BSMP , the Traiana Plan and the LTIP which are 
funded by the Company and have the power to acquire shares in the open market to meet the Company’s future obligations under 
these schemes. As at 31 March 2016, these trusts owned 4,787,904 ordinary shares in the Company (2014/15 – 5,573,089)  
with a market value of £23m (2014/15 – £29m).
Number of shares millions
2015/16 2014/15
As at 1 April 6 6
Exercised by employees during the year (1) –
As at 31 March 5 6
(d) Treasury Shares
During the year the Company did not purchase any of its own shares (2014/15 – nil), but transferred 2,327,967 shares  
(2014/15 – 1,393,008) to employees under its share-based payments schemes. As at 31 March 2016, the number of  
shares held as Treasury Shares was 12,986,546 (2014/15 – 15,314,513).
Number of shares millions
2015/16 2014/15
As at 1 April 15 17
Transferred to employees (2) (2)
As at 31 March 13 15
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
12 7
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
26. Reserves
(a) Analysis of consolidated other reserves
Group
Merger
reserve
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Revaluation 
reserve
£m
Total
other
reserves
£m
As at 1 April 2015 28 1 (6) 56 79
Unrealised (loss)/gain in the year – – (3) 1 (2)
As at 31 March 2016 28 1 (9) 57 77
Group
Merger
reserve
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
Revaluation
reserve
£m
Total
other
reserves
£m
As at 1 April 2014 28 1 2 55 86
Unrealised (loss)/ gain in the year – – (8) 1 (7)
As at 31 March 2015 28 1 (6) 56 79
The merger reserve was created on the merger of Garban and Intercapital in 1999 and also includes goodwill arising before 1 January 1998 
written off to reserves. This amount remains eliminated.
The capital redemption reserve was created as a result of shares cancelled in 1998 and 2005. The revaluation reserve represents 
revaluations of available-for-sale investments. The hedging reserve arises from fair value movements of derivative financial instruments 
that were designated as cash flow hedges on the balance sheet.
(b) Company reserves
The Company has retained earnings of £1,309m (2014/15 – £1,324m) of which £512m (2014/15 – £512m) is not distributable.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
128 27 . Currency risk management
The Group uses various financial instruments as hedges to reduce exposure to FX and interest rate movements. These can include 
forward FX contracts, currency options and cross-currency swaps. All derivative financial instruments are initially recognised  
on the balance sheet at their fair value, adjusted for transaction costs. Where derivative financial instruments do not qualify  
for hedge accounting, changes in the fair value are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement, along with 
transaction costs. Where they do qualify, gains and losses are recognised according to the nature of the hedge relationship  
and the item being hedged. Hedges are either classified as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
The fair values of the Group’s derivative financial instruments are determined using appropriate valuation techniques from observable 
data, including discounted cash flow analysis, as no active markets with quoted prices exist for the instruments held by the Group.
The method of recognising the movements in the fair value of a derivative depends on whether the instrument has been 
designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the exposure being hedged. To qualify for hedge accounting, the 
terms of the hedge must be documented clearly at inception and there must be an expectation that the derivative will be highly 
effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. Hedge effectiveness is tested 
throughout the life of the hedge and, if at any point it is concluded that the relationship can no longer be expected to remain 
highly effective in achieving its objective, the accounting for the hedge relationship is terminated.
Fair value hedges: derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge an exposure to changes  
in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability that is attributable to a particular risk that could affect the consolidated income 
statement. The hedging instrument is recorded at fair value on the balance sheet, with changes in its fair value being taken through 
the consolidated income statement. For periods in which the hedge is shown to be effective, the gain or loss on the hedged item 
attributable to the hedged risk adjusts the carrying amount of the hedged item and is recognised in the consolidated income 
statement. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Cash flow hedges: derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Group’s exposure  
to changes in the cash flows attributable to a particular asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction. Gains or losses 
on designated cash flow hedges are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, to the extent that they are determined to 
be effective. Any remaining ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement. 
On recognition of the hedged asset or liability, any gains or losses relating to the hedging instrument that had previously been 
recognised directly in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of the fair value of the asset or liability. 
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative 
gain or loss in equity remains there and is recognised in the consolidated income statement when the forecast transaction is 
ultimately recognised. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported 
in other comprehensive income is transferred immediately to the consolidated income statement.
Net investment hedges: changes in the value of foreign-denominated investments due to currency movements are recognised 
directly in other comprehensive income. The accounting treatment for a net investment hedging instrument, whether it is a 
derivative financial instrument or a recognised asset or liability on the balance sheet, is consistent with the aforementioned treatment 
for a cash flow hedge. Gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are included in the consolidated income 
statement on the ultimate disposal of the foreign-denominated investment. The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion  
is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Group
The Group presents its consolidated financial statements in pounds sterling and conducts business in a number of other currencies, 
principally the dollar and euro. Consequently the Group (both continuing and discontinued operations) is exposed to FX risk due to 
exchange rate movements which affect the Group’s transactional revenue and the translation of the earnings and net assets of its 
non-pound sterling operations.
(a) Transactional exposures
The Group’s policy is for all subsidiaries to hedge their material non-functional currency transactional exposures through a combination 
of forward FX contracts and options for up to two years forward. Under this policy, a minimum of 75% of the forecast exposures are 
hedged for the first six months, 50% for the following six months and 25% for the next six months. The majority of these exposures 
relate to dollar and euro sales arising in pound sterling functional currency companies. 
The Group has contracts in place, designated as cash flow hedges under IAS39 where appropriate, with a total notional value of  
63% of its forecast dollar and 50% of its forecast euro transactional exposures for the year to 31 March 2017. These contracts  
are at average rates of $1.5275/£ and €1.3479/£ respectively.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
129
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
27 . Currency risk management continued
Group continued
(b) Balance sheet translational exposures
The Group is exposed to balance sheet translational exposures at the local entity level where the local consolidated balance sheet  
may contain monetary assets or liabilities denominated in a currency other than the entity’s functional currency. Where material,  
it is the Group’s policy to hedge 100% of these exposures using a mix of foreign currency swaps and forward FX contracts.
Balance sheet translational exposures also arise on consolidation as a result of the retranslation of the balance sheet of the Group’s 
non-pound sterling operations, principally dollar and euro, into pounds sterling, the Group’s presentational currency. The Group’s 
general policy is not to actively manage these exposures, as active management using instruments with a shorter tenure than the 
underlying net asset can give rise to a net cash outflow. However, from time to time it will use forward FX contracts, cross-currency 
swaps or non-pound sterling denominated borrowings to mitigate these exposures. As at 31 March 2016 the Group has $235m of 
forward FX contracts, €100m of the 2019 five-year senior notes and the €15m 2023 ten-year senior notes, designated as hedging 
instruments against the underlying dollar and euro exposures respectively. As at 31 March 2016 these exposures were $1.4bn (2014/15 
– $1.5bn) and €0.2bn (2014/15 – €0.2bn) including intangible assets arising on consolidation, but before $0.2bn (2014/15 – $0.4bn) 
and €0.1bn (2014/15 – €0.1bn) of hedging. 
The table below shows the actual impact on the Group’s equity of movements in the dollar and euro exchange rates in terms of 
transactional and translational exposures. The table below also discloses the anticipated impact on the Group’s equity of a 10 cent 
weakening, which the Group considers to be an appropriate sensitivity measure, in the dollar and euro in terms of transactional and 
translational exposure.
2015/16 2014/15
Dollar 
£m
Euro 
£m
Total
£m
Dollar
£m
Euro
£m
Total
£m
Actual impact 41 (8) 33 68 (9) 59
10 cent weakening (65) (8) (73) (60) (7) (67)
(c) Derivative financial instruments
Among other methods, the Group uses derivative financial instruments to implement its FX policy. These include the use of forward  
FX contracts to hedge a portion of its transactional dollar and euro exposures and cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge the FX 
and interest rate risks on its senior notes. Where these are designated and documented as cash flow hedges in the context of IAS39 
and are demonstrated to be effective, mark-to-market gains and losses are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and 
transferred to the consolidated income statement on derecognition of the underlying item being hedged. The table below presents  
the carrying value of the Group’s derivative financial instruments:
As at 31 March 2016 As at 31 March 2015
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Forward FX contracts – cash flow hedges 3 (12) 7 (12)
Cross-currency swaps – cash flow hedges – (8) – (28)
3 (20) 7 (40)
No amounts (2014/15 – £nil) were recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year as a result of ineffective hedges.
Fair value hierarchy for the derivative financial instruments:
As at 31 March 2016 As at 31 March 2015
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Derivative assets – 3 – – 7 –
Derivative liabilities – (20) – – (40) –
In deriving fair value of all derivative instruments as at 31 March 2016, valuation models were used which incorporated observable 
market data. There were no significant inputs used in the models that were unobservable.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
130 27 . Currency risk management continued
Company
(d) Balance sheet translational exposures
The Company is exposed to balance sheet translational exposures where the balance sheet contains financial assets or liabilities 
denominated in a currency other than pounds sterling. While it is the Group’s policy to hedge 100% of these exposures at Group  
level, at Company level these exposures can affect the Company’s profit after tax.
At 31 March 2016, the Company had £11m of financial assets or liabilities denominated in foreign currencies which related to its 
ten-year senior notes (2014/15 – £10m).
(e) FX exposure
The table below shows the actual impact on the Group’s 2015/16 results of the movement during the year of the dollar and euro 
exchange rates in terms of transactional and translational exposure:
For the year ended 31 March 2016 For the year ended 31 March 2015
Dollar
£m
Euro
£m
Total
£m
Dollar
£m
Euro
£m
Total
£m
Group trading operating profit 14 (11) 3 (11) (4) (15)
Other – – – – – –
Group operating profit 14 (11) 3 (11) (4) (15)
The Group does not hedge the translation of those profits or losses earned by its non-pound sterling operations.
The principal exchange rates which affected the Group, expressed in currency per pound sterling, are shown below:
Closing rate
as at
31 March
2016
Closing rate
as at
31 March
2015
Average rate
year ended
31 March
2016
Average rate
year ended
31 March
2015
Dollar 1.44 1.48 1.50 1.61
Euro 1.26 1.38 1.36 1.28
The table below shows the impact on the Group’s 2015/16 results of a 10 cent appreciation, which the Group considers to be an 
appropriate sensitivity measure, in the dollar and euro in terms of transactional and translational exposure:
Dollar
£m
Euro
£m
Total
£m
Group trading operating profit 10 6 16
Other – – –
Group operating profit 10 6 16
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
13 1
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
28. Related party transactions
Group
(a) Exotix Holdings Limited (Exotix)
As part of the disposal of Exotix to IPGL (a company controlled by Michael Spencer, the Group Chief Executive Officer) in 2007,  
the Group loaned employees of Exotix Limited, a subsidiary of Exotix, £1.5m to enable them to purchase a shareholding. The Group 
collected revenue of £15,225,771 (2014/15 – £8,439,804) on behalf of Exotix. As at 31 March 2016, there was a balance due  
to Exotix from the Group of £1,473,580 (2014/15 – £10,169,250). The Group holds £1.9m (2014/15 – £1.9m) as collateral  
from Exotix on deposit.
(b) TFS-ICAP LLC, TFS-ICAP Australia, TFS-ICAP Japan, TFS-ICAP Limited and TFS-ICAP Singapore
The Group invoices and collects revenue on behalf of TFS-ICAP LLC. As at 31 March 2016 the outstanding balance from all the joint 
ventures to the Group was £643,290 (2014/15 – £533,494 due from the Group).
(c) BSN Capital Partners Limited (BSN)
The Group provides BSN, an associate undertaking, with office space and facility services and also has a preferred brokerage agreement 
with BSN. As at 31 March 2016 the outstanding balance due to the Group was £1,192,603 (2014/15 – £497 ,824).
(d) CLS Aggregation Services LLC (CLSAS)
The Group recharged CLSAS, an associate company, £2,908,277 (2014/15 – £4,410,083) as compensation for technical services 
during the year. As at 31 March 2016 the total outstanding balance due to the Group was £320,870 (2014/15 – £459,588). 
Related party transactions are made on an arm’s-length basis.
Company
ICAP plc is the Group’s ultimate parent company and is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
During the year the Company entered into the following transactions with subsidiaries:
Year ended
31 March
2016 
£m
Year ended
31 March
2015
£m
Management services expenses – –
Net interest from related parties 4.0 3.0
Amounts owed to the Company from subsidiaries are disclosed in note 17 and amounts owed by the Company to subsidiaries are 
disclosed in note 18.
29. Post balance sheet events
On 13 April 2016, ICAP acquired ENSO Financial Analytics (ENSO), a leading provider of a data analytics platform for hedge funds  
and prime brokers, from its founders (Matthew Bernard, Michael Gentile and Dwaine Alleyne) and other minority stakeholders.
The Group made its first investment in ENSO in June 2013, followed by a subsequent investment in October 2014. ENSO will become 
a subsidiary of ICAP’s PTRI division. The acquisition was led by Euclid Opportunities, ICAP’s early-stage fintech investment incubator. 
ENSO provides powerful portfolio analytics to the hedge fund and asset management industry. Its team of prime brokerage, asset 
management, technology and data specialists delivers identifiable and measurable operational insight on counterparty credit risk, 
collateral management, and portfolio financing and treasury functions. With more than $1trn in total assets under advisory, ENSO 
provides operational insights and key analytics to many of the world’s most successful fund managers.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
13 2 30. Group subsidiaries and related undertakings
In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings, the 
country of incorporation and the effective ownership percentage, as at 31 March 2016, is disclosed below. All subsidiaries are included 
in the consolidation and all joint ventures and associated undertakings are included in the Group’s financial statements using the equity 
method of accounting.
Subsidiaries
Unless otherwise stated the subsidiary undertakings below are wholly-owned and the share capital disclosed comprises ordinary 
shares or common stock (or the local equivalent thereof) which are indirectly held by ICAP plc. These undertakings are controlled  
by the Group and their results are fully consolidated into the Group’s financial statements. 
Wholly-owned subsidiaries
Company name Country of incorporation Note
Altex-ATS Limited UK
Astley & Pearce (Curacao) N.V. Netherlands 
Antilles
Astley & Pearce (International) B.V. Netherlands
Astley & Pearce B.V. Netherlands
Astley & Pearce  
Deutschland GmbH Germany
Astley & Pearce Investments B.V. Netherlands
Astley & Pearce Limited UK
BGU Brokers Europe B.V. Netherlands 1
BrokerTec Americas LLC US 7
BrokerTec Europe Limited UK
BrokerTec Global Holdings Limited UK 1
BrokerTec Holdings Inc. US
BrokerTec Investments UK
Capital Shipbrokers LLP UK 2
Capital Shipbroking Limited UK
Catrex Limited British Virgin 
Islands
Cleverpride Limited UK
EBS Dealing Resources  
International Limited UK
EBS Dealing Resources Inc. US
EBS Dealing Resources  
Japan Limited Japan
EBS Financial Technologies Limited Israel
EBS Global Facility Limited UK
EBS Global Holdings Limited UK 1
EBS Group Limited UK
EBS Holdco Inc. US
EBS Investments UK
EBS No. 2 Limited UK
EBS No. 4, LLC US 7
EBS Service Company Limited Switzerland
Euclid Opportunities Limited UK
Euclid Opportunities SA Luxembourg
Exco Bierbaum AP Limited UK
Exco International Limited UK
Exco Nominees Limited UK
Exco Noonan Pension LLC US 7
Company name Country of incorporation Note
Exco Overseas Limited UK
Garban Broking Holdings  
(Europe) Limited UK 1, 3, 4
Garban Broking Services Limited UK
Garban Group Holdings Limited UK 5
Garban Harlow Resources Limited UK
Garban International UK
Garban-Intercapital (2001) Limited UK
Garban-Intercapital Quest  
Trustee Limited UK
Garban-Intercapital US Investments 
(Holdings) Limited UK
Garban-Intercapital US Investments  
(No 1) Limited UK
Godsell, Astley & Pearce  
(Foreign Exchange) Limited UK
Godsell Astley & Pearce  
(Holdings) Limited UK
Harlow (London) Limited UK
Harlow Butler (NZ) Limited New Zealand 1
Harlow Ueda Savage Limited UK
Howe Robinson Shipping (India)  
Private Limited India
ICAP America Investments Limited UK
ICAP AP (Singapore) Pte. Limited Singapore
ICAP Australia Pty Limited Australia
ICAP Brokers Pty Limited Australia
ICAP Broking Holdings  
North America LLC US 7
ICAP Capital Markets (Canada) Inc. Canada
ICAP Capital Markets LLC US 7
ICAP Corporates LLC US 7
ICAP Currency Options Pte. Ltd Singapore
ICAP del Ecuador S.A. Ecuador
ICAP Deutschland GmbH Germany
ICAP do Brasil Corretora de  
Títulos e Valores Mobiliários Ltda Brazil
ICAP do Brasil Participações Ltda Brazil
ICAP Electronic Markets Limited UK
ICAP Energy AS Norway
ICAP Energy Limited UK
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
13 3
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report Company name Country of incorporation Note
ICAP Energy LLC US 7
ICAP Energy Pte. Ltd Singapore
ICAP Energy Suisse SA Switzerland
ICAP Equities Asia Limited Hong Kong
ICAP Europe Limited UK
ICAP Finance Limited UK
ICAP Financial Products Pte. Ltd Singapore
ICAP Foreign Exchange  
Brokerage Limited
Republic of Korea
ICAP Futures (Australia)  
Pty Limited Australia
ICAP Futures Holdings Inc. US
ICAP Global Broking  
Holdings Limited UK
ICAP Global Broking Inc. US
ICAP Global Broking Investments UK
ICAP Global Derivatives Limited UK
ICAP Global Information  
Services Limited UK
ICAP Group Holdings plc UK 6
ICAP Group Investments Inc. US
ICAP Holdings (Asia Pacific) Limited UK
ICAP Holdings (EMEA) Limited UK
ICAP Holdings  
(Latin America) Limited UK
ICAP Holdings (Nederland) B.V. Netherlands
ICAP Holdings (UK) Limited UK
ICAP Holdings (USA), LLC US 7
ICAP Holdings Limited UK
ICAP (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong
ICAP Hyde Holdings Limited UK 1
ICAP IEB Z Limited UK 1, 3, 4
ICAP Information Services Inc. US
ICAP Information Services Limited UK
ICAP International  
Investments Limited UK
ICAP International Limited UK
ICAP Investment Holdings Inc. US
ICAP Investments (Nederland) B.V. Netherlands
ICAP Investments LLC US 7
ICAP Lat Am Services S.A. Argentina
ICAP Latin American Holdings B.V. Netherlands
ICAP Ltd. & Co. oHG Germany
ICAP Luxembourg Holdings  
(No. 1) S.A.R.L. Luxembourg
ICAP Luxembourg Holdings  
(No. 2) S.A.R.L. Luxembourg
ICAP Luxembourg Services Gibraltar
Company name Country of incorporation Note
ICAP Management Services  
Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong
ICAP Management  
Services Limited UK
ICAP Management Services  
Private Limited Singapore
ICAP Media LLC US 7
ICAP Merger Company LLC US 7
ICAP New Zealand Limited New Zealand
ICAP North America LLC US 7
ICAP Post Trade Holdings Limited UK
ICAP Scandinavia  
Fondsmæglerselskab A/S
Denmark
ICAP Securities & Derivatives  
Exchange Limited UK
ICAP Securities (No. 1) B.V. Netherlands
ICAP Securities (No. 2) B.V. Netherlands
ICAP Securities Co. Limited Thailand
ICAP Securities Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong
ICAP Securities Limited UK
ICAP Securities USA LLC US 7
ICAP SEF (US) LLC US 7
ICAP Services No. 1 Gibraltar
ICAP Services No. 2 Gibraltar
ICAP Services North America LLC US 7
ICAP Shipping (Germany) GmbH Germany
ICAP Shipping (Hong Kong) Limited Hong Kong
ICAP Shipping (Shanghai)  
Co. Limited China
ICAP Shipping Derivatives Limited UK 1, 8
ICAP Shipping International Limited UK
ICAP Shipping Limited UK
ICAP Shipping Middle East DMCCO United Arab 
Emirates
ICAP Shipping Singapore Pte. Ltd Singapore
ICAP Shipping Tankers Limited UK
ICAP Shipping Tankers Pte Limited Singapore
ICAP Spot USA LLC US 7
ICAP UK Investments No. 1 UK
ICAP UK Investments No. 2 UK
ICAP United Inc. US
ICAP US Financial Services LLC US 7, 9
ICAP US Holdings No. 1 Limited Gibraltar
ICAP US Holdings No. 2 Limited Gibraltar
ICAP US Investment Company UK
ICAP WCLK Limited UK
ICAP-AP (Thailand) Co. Ltd Thailand
Intellectual Property Holdings Inc. US
Interbank Financial Services Sp. z o.o. Poland
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
30. Group subsidiaries and related undertakings continued
Wholly-owned subsidiaries continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
134 Company name Country of incorporation Note
Intercapital Limited UK 5
Intercapital Management Services  
No. 2 Limited UK
Intercapital Management  
Services Pte. Ltd Singapore
Intercapital Securities Inc. US
Intercapital Services  
North America LLC US 7
LCA Group Pty Ltd Australia 1
Linkbrokers Derivatives LLC US 7
Midhurst Chartering Limited UK
MKI Securities  
International, Limited UK 1
Molten Markets, Inc. US
Municipal Brokers Limited UK
Nexstep HK 2 Limited Hong Kong
Nexstep HK 3 Limited Hong Kong
Nextgen Holding Co., Ltd Thailand 4
Noranda Investments Pte. Ltd Singapore
ReMatch Holdings Limited UK
ReMatch Inc. US
ReMatch Limited UK
Reset Holdings Private Limited Singapore
Reset Private Limited Singapore 3, 4
The Link Asset & Securities  
Company (Proprietary) Limited South Africa
The Link Asset and Securities  
Company Limited UK
TriOptima AB Sweden
TriOptima Asia Pacific Pte. Limited Singapore
TriOptima Japan K.K. Japan
TriOptima North America LLC US 7
TriOptima UK Limited UK
Vantage Capital Holdings Ltd British Virgin 
Islands
Wrightson ICAP LLC US  7
30. Group subsidiaries and related undertakings continued
Wholly-owned subsidiaries continued Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100%
Company name Country of incorporation
% ICAP 
ownership Note
FCB Harlow Butler  
(Capital Market) Pty Ltd South Africa 66.3 1
Garban South Africa  
(Pty) Limited South Africa 66.3
ICAP African  
Brokers Limited Nigeria 66.3
ICAP Broking Services 
South Africa (Pty) Ltd South Africa 66.3
ICAP Capital Markets 
Argentina S.A. Argentina 60.0
ICAP Colombia  
Holdings S.A.S. Colombia 94.2
ICAP Holdings South  
Africa (Pty) Limited South Africa 66.3
ICAP Philippines Inc. Philippines 99.9 10
ICAP Securities  
South Africa  
(Proprietary) Limited South Africa 66.3
ICAP Totan  
Securities Co., Ltd Japan 60.0 7
Intermoney AP & Co. 
Geld-und Eurodepotmakler 
OHG Germany 74.7 2
iSwap AUD NZD  
Pty Limited Australia 50.1
iSwap Euro Limited UK 50.1
iSwap Limited UK 50.1 11
iSwap US Inc US 50.1
Pronous Asset 
Management LLC US 70.0 7
PT ICAP Indonesia Indonesia 85.0
Traiana Limited UK 86.7
Traiana Technologies 
Limited Israel 86.7
Traiana, Inc. US 86.7 4
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
13 5
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report 30. Group subsidiaries and related undertakings continued
Related undertakings
Associated undertakings
Unless otherwise stated, the share capital disclosed comprises ordinary shares or common stock (or the local equivalent thereof) 
which are indirectly held by ICAP plc. The ownership percentage is provided for each associated undertaking.
Company name Country of incorporation
%  ICAP 
ownership Note
Abide Financial Limited UK 30.0 12, 13
AcadiaSoft, Inc. US 25.0 14
Amanah Butler  
Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 32.1
Automated Confirmation 
Service Limited UK 30.3
BSN Capital  
Partners Limited UK 25.1
BSN Capital Partners LLC US 25.1 7
BSN Holdings Limited Cayman Islands 25.1 4
Capital Shipbrokers  
Limited Hong Kong 50.0 15
Central Totan  
Securities Co., Ltd Japan 20.0
CLS Aggregation  
Services LLC US 42.5 7
Corretaje e Información 
Monetaria y de  
Divisas, S.A. Spain 21.5 4
Datos Técnicos, S.A. Peru 25.0
Duco Technology  
Limited UK 40.7 16
Enso Financial 
Management LLP US 20.0 2
Enso LP Jersey 42.0 2, 17
Exotix Holdings Limited UK 21.8
Exotix Investment  
Partners LLP UK 20.5 2
First Brokers  
Securities LLC US 40.0 7, 18
Howe Robinson Partners 
(Gibraltar) Limited Gibraltar 35.0
Howe Robinson Partners 
(UK) Limited UK 35.0
Company name Country of incorporation
%  ICAP 
ownership Note
Howe Robinson Partners 
Pte. Ltd Singapore 35.0
ICAP (Middle East) W.L.L. Bahrain 49.0
ICAP Bio Organic  
S. de RL de CV Mexico 25.0 2
ICAP IL India  
Private Limited India 40.0 19
ICAP Institutional Stock 
Exchange of India Limited India 38.0
ICAP Training Solutions 
(Proprietary) Ltd South Africa 46.4
KAF-Astley & Pearce  
Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 40.0
OpenGamma, Inc. US 15.4 20
Plataforma Mexicana de 
Carbono S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico 50.0 2
Shanghai CFETS-ICAP 
International Money 
Broking Co., Ltd China 33.0 5, 7
SIF Agro, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 50.0
SIF ICAP Chile  
Holdings Ltda Chile 50.0 2
SIF ICAP Chile SpA Chile 30.0
SIF ICAP Derivados,  
S.A. de C.V. Mexico 50.0 21
SIF ICAP Servicios,  
S.A. de C.V. Mexico 50.0 22
The Notification Company 
Limited UK 50.0 1, 23
Totan ICAP Co., Ltd Japan 40.0
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
continued
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
136 30. Group subsidiaries and related undertakings continued
Related undertakings continued
Joint ventures
The ownership percentage is provided for each joint venture. 
These undertakings are indirectly held by ICAP plc. 
Company name Country of incorporation
 
 % ICAP
 ownership Note
BCIE-ICAP Capital 
Markets S.A. de C.V. Mexico 50.0 1
Patshare Limited UK 50.0
SIF ICAP , S.A. de C.V. Mexico 50.0
SET-ICAP FX S.A. Colombia 47.9
SET-ICAP Securities S.A. Colombia 47.4
TFS-ICAP Currency 
Options Limited UK 23.0
TFS-ICAP Holdings 
Limited UK 45.0
TFS-ICAP Holdings LLC US 45.0
TFS-ICAP Limited UK 23.0
TFS-ICAP LLC US 23.0
Tradition Financial 
Services GmbH Germany 33.3
Notes
1.  In liquidation as at 31 March 2016
2.  Partnership interest
3. A ordinary shares or A ordinary common stock
4. B ordinary shares or B ordinary common stock
5. Directly held by ICAP plc
6. Directly held by ICAP plc with the exception of one share that is held indirectly
7. Membership interest
8. Ordinary shares and junior redeemable non-cumulative preference shares
9. A common shares, B common shares and series B preferred shares
10. A ordinary shares (99.9%)
1 1. B ordinary shares and A2 shares
12. D ordinary shares
13. E ordinary shares
14. Series B convertible preferred stock (1 1. 1%) and series D convertible preferred stock (37 .4%)
15. A ordinary shares (50%) and B ordinary shares (45%)
16. A ordinary shares (96.9%)
17.  Class A units (87%) and class B units (15.2%) 
18. Class B units
19.  Non-cumulative non-convertible redeemable preference shares, non-cumulative 
optionally convertible preference shares and ordinary shares (40%)
20. Series C preferred stock (66.2%)
21. Series I ordinary shares and series II ordinary shares
22. Series IB shares
23. A ordinary shares, B ordinary shares (50%) and C ordinary shares (50%)
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
13 7
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report DEFINITIONS
In the Annual Report the following words shall have  
the following meanings:
Basel III
An international regulatory framework, developed by the Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervisions, to strengthen the regulation, 
supervision and risk management of the banking sector
BSMP
The ICAP 2003 and 2013 Bonus Share Matching Plan
CCP
central counterparty
CDS
credit default swaps
CFETS
Shanghai CFETS-ICAP International Money Broking Co. Limited
CGU
cash generating unit
CNH
represents the exchange rate of renminbi that trades offshore  
in Hong Kong
Code
FRC’s UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 201 4
Companies Act
Companies Act 2006 (as amended)
Company or ICAP
ICAP plc (formerly Garban-Intercapital plc and Garban plc)
CPI
consumer price index
CRD 
Capital Requirements Directive
Dodd-Frank Act
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer  
Protection Act
dollar or $
unless otherwise specified all references to dollars or $ dollar 
symbol are to the currency of the US
DSBP
ICAP plc 2015 Deferred Share Bonus Plan
ECB
European Central Bank
EMIR
European Market Infrastructure Regulation
EPS
earnings per share
ETR
effective tax rate
EU
European Union
Exco
Exco plc, which changed its name to Intercapital plc on  
26 October 1998
FCA
Financial Conduct Authority
FICC 
Fixed Income Clearing Corporation
Fitch
Fitch Ratings Limited
FRC
Financial Reporting Council
FTSE 100
index comprised of the 100 largest companies listed on the 
London Stock Exchange in terms of their market capitalisation
FTSE 250
index comprised of medium-capitalised companies listed on  
the London Stock Exchange not included in the FTSE 100 index
FTSE All-Share
the aggregation of the FTSE 100, FTSE 250 and FTSE Small  
Cap indices
FX
foreign exchange
Garban
Garban plc
GDP
gross domestic product
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
138 GEMG
Global Executive Management Group
GFC
Group Finance Committee
GOC
Global Operating Committee
Group
the Company and its subsidiary undertakings
Group CEO
Group Chief Executive Officer
HMRC
Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs
IAS
International Accounting Standards
IASB
International Accounting Standards Body
ICAAP
internal capital adequacy assessment process
ICAP shares
ICAP plc ordinary shares of 10p each
ICAP Trust
ICAP Employee Share Trust
IFRS
International Financial Reporting Standards
IGBB
ICAP’s global hybrid voice broking and information business, 
including ICAP’s associated technology and broking platforms 
(including i-Swap and Fusion) and certain of ICAP’s joint ventures 
and associates 
IIS
ICAP Information Services
INFBV
INCAP Finance BV
Intercapital
Intercapital Limited (formerly Intercapital plc)
Intercapital companies
those companies acquired from IPGL at the time of their merger 
with Exco in October 1998
IPGL
IPGL (Holdings) Limited
ISDA
International Swaps and Derivatives Association
ISDX
ICAP Securities & Derivatives Exchange Ltd
Libid
London interbank bid rate
Libor
London interbank offered rate
LTIP
long term incentive plan
merger
the merger of Garban and Intercapital on 9 September 1999
MiFID
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive
MiFIR
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and Regulation
Moody’s
Moody’s Investors Services
NDF
non-deliverable forward 
Newco
ICAP Newco plc, a public limited company incorporated  
in England and Wales with registered number 10013770,  
whose registered office is at 2 Broadgate, London EC2M 7UR 
non-bank
encompassing the professional trading community including 
hedge funds, trading houses and corporates
NSCC
National Securities Clearing Corporation
OTC
over-the-counter markets in which instruments are traded 
directly between participants by telephone and/or electronically 
rather than via an exchange
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
139
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report PSP
ICAP plc 2015 Performance Share Plan
PTRI 
Post Trade Risk and Information
PwC
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
RCF
revolving credit facility
Reset
Reset Holdings Private Limited and its subsidiaries
RPI
retail price index
SEEPP
ICAP Senior Executive Equity Participation Plan
SEF
swap execution facility
SPA
Agreement for the sale and purchase of the share capital of  
ICAP Global Broking Holdings Ltd dated 11 November 2015
Tibor
Tokyo interbank offered rate
TP ICAP
Enlarged Tullett Prebon on completion of the Transaction
Traiana
Traiana, Inc. and its subsidiaries
Transaction
the proposed disposal of IGBB by the ICAP Group to Tullett 
Prebon as set out in the circular and explanatory statement 
issued to shareholders of ICAP plc on 1 March 2016 
Treasury Shares
shares as defined by the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares 
(Treasury Shares) Regulations 2003 which came into force on  
1 December 2003
TriOptima
TriOptima AB and its subsidiaries
TSR
total shareholder return
Tullett Prebon
Tullett Prebon plc, a company registered in England and Wales 
with registered number 05807599, whose registered office is  
at Tower 42, Level 37, 25 Old Broad Streeet, London EC2N 1HQ 
 
 
Forward-looking statements
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the expectations, plans and aims of the Group  
relating to future performance, financial position and results. All forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because  
they relate to future events and circumstances that are beyond the Group’s control and/or that may cause results and developments  
to differ materially from those anticipated. The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date  
of preparation of this Annual Report. However, we can give no assurance that expectations will not differ materially from actual  
outcomes and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. Nothing in this Annual Report  
should be construed as a profit forecast.
DEFINITIONS
continued
In this document, according to context, the expressions ICAP and 
the Group are also used to mean the ICAP plc Group as a whole, 
or ICAP plc and/or its relevant subsidiaries. The business of ICAP 
plc is solely that of a holding company. ICAP plc itself conducts  
no broking or other activities.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
140 Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental 
Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press 
chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99%  
of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Revive 100 Offset, a paper  
containing 100% post consumer recycled fibre certified  
by the FSC®. The pulp used in this product is bleached  
using a totally chlorine free (TCF) process.
Emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this 
product have been measured and reduced to net zero through  
a verified carbon offsetting project via Natural Capital Partners. 
This is in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol, the  
global leading standard for carbon neutrality.
Consultancy, design and production by Luminous  
www.luminous.co.uk ICAP plc
2 Broadgate
London EC2M 7UR
United Kingdom
T: +44 (0) 20 7000 5000
F: +44 (0) 20 7000 5975
E: investor@icap.com
www.icap.com
Company number 3611426
ICAP plc Annual Report 201 6
