 1 2014 Annual Report
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2014
EXPLORE OUR INTERACTIVE REPORT  2 IG Group Holdings Plc 
IG is a global leader in online trading. 
Our aim is to become the default choice 
for active traders around the world. 
 ‘This was a good year for IG, with growth in revenue, profit and 
dividends, and importantly we also made strong progress on 
our strategic priorities, designed to deliver the next phase of 
our growth. We will continue to make significant investments in 
initiatives this year and beyond, to deliver sustainable growth 
into the future.’ 
Tim Howkins, Chief Executive Officer
3 2014 Annual Report
DILUTED EARNINGS
PER SHARE
(2)
30.77p
32.57p
37.54p
38.80p
40.18p
FY10
(3)
FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14
OWN FUNDS GENERATED
FROM OPERATIONS
£140.7m
£154.3m
£160.6m
FY10
(3)
FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14
£137.7m
£114.4m
TOTAL DIVIDEND
PER SHARE
18.50p
20.00p
22.50p
23.25p
28.15p
FY10
(3)
FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14
NET TRADING REVENUE
(1)
FY10
(3)
FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14
£298.6m
£312.7m
£366.8m
£361.9m
£370.4m
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
(2)
£157.6m
£163.2m
£185.7m
£192.2m
£194.7m
FY10
(3)
FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14
AT A GLANCE
(1)   Net trading revenue is trading revenue excluding interest on segregated client funds and is net of introducing partner commissions.
(2)  The profit before tax and diluted earnings per share figures for FY10 and FY11 exclude both the amortisation and impairment of goodwill and 
customer relationships associated with our Japanese business, IG Securities (formerly FXOnline), and of the Group’s Sport business.
(3)  Net trading revenue, profit before tax, own funds generated from operations and diluted earnings per share include the Group’s Sport business 
(excluding impairment of goodwill) in FY10.
NET TRADING REVENUE
(1)
5.5%
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
(2)
5.4%
OWN FUNDS GENERATED  
FROM OPERATIONS
8.9%
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
(2)
6.9%
TOTAL DIVIDEND PER SHARE
11.1%
FOUR-YEAR COMPOUND 
ANNUAL GROWTH RATE
OUR VISION
Company Overview  
Our Vision 2
At a Glance 3
Global Presence 4
Chairman’s Statement 6
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review  8
Introducing Our Strategy  11
What We Do 12
Our Strategic Objectives  16
Our Business Model 17
Our Strategy in Action  18
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 24
Corporate Social Responsibility Report  26
Chief Financial Officer’s Review  32
Managing Our Business Risk  42
Corporate Governance Report
Chairman’s Introduction to Corporate Governance 48
Corporate Governance Statement  49
The Board  50
Nomination Committee 58 
Remuneration Committee 60
Directors’ Remuneration Report  62
Audit Committee  88
Board Risk Committee  94
Directors’ Report  96
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 99 
Independent Auditors’ Report  100
Financial Statements 
Group Income Statement  104 
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 105
Statements of Financial Position 106
Statement of Changes in Equity 107
Cash Flow Statements 109
Notes to the Financial Statements 110
Investor Resources
Five-Year Summary  152
Examples 156
Glossary of Terms 160
Global Offices 162
Shareholder and Company Information  164
Our Vision | Company Overview 
HOW TO USE THIS INTERACTIVE PDF 
You can navigate through this  
document using the controls at  
the top right of each page.
 
Alternatively, use the clickable  
tabs on the right-hand edge  
of most pages.
Always know where you are 
from the footer at the bottom 
left of each page.
Previous 
page
Home 
page
Next 
page 4 5 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
Global Presence
(1)  No.1 CFD and spread betting provider: for CFDs, based on revenue excluding FX, published financial statements, July 2014; for spread betting, number of 
active UK financial spread betting accounts (Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, December 2013).
126,100
Active clients worldwide
144
Countries where clients are resident
48% 
Revenue outside the UK
Chicago
-
Oslo
Madrid
Milan
Dublin
Paris
London
Stockholm
Luxembourg
Amsterdam
Düsseldorf
Melbourne
Tokyo
Singapore
Johannesburg
Geneva
RETAIL BRANDS
GLOBAL PRESENCE
IG is a global leader in online trading and currently the No.1 
provider of CFDs and financial spread betting worldwide.
(1)
 
Initially established in the UK, we began our global expansion  
by entering Australia in 2002. Since then we have opened  
offices in a further 14 countries around the world and now serve 
clients in over 140 countries. Our headquarters are located in the  
City of London.
A SINGLE WORLDWIDE IDENTITY
Late in 2012 we took the important step of unifying our 
retail brands, with the exception of Nadex, under the single 
identity of IG. This ensures worldwide consistency across 
all our platforms and is a better representation of the scale 
of our offering. We acquired a number of domain names, 
including IG.com and a range of local country IG domains, 
and enabled clients to access multiple accounts, products 
and platforms from a single login. We have now migrated 
all of our websites to IG.com. Over time, we expect this to 
enhance our search engine rankings and to increase our 
buying power for paid search, ultimately improving our 
client acquisition rates. As we begin to broaden our  
product set to appeal to a wider range of active traders,  
we believe that our single identity will raise awareness of  
IG and our products and become a valuable client  
recruitment resource.
REGION
UK
• Introduced the first financial spread betting  
product in 1974
• Offices located in the City of London and Dublin 
(Republic of Ireland)
• Annual revenue of £192.7 million in the 2014 
financial year, with 59,300 active clients trading
• Accounts for 52% of Group revenue
AUSTRALIA
• Entered the market in 2002
• Office located in Melbourne
• Annual revenue of £52.2 million in the 2014 financial 
year, with 18,000 active clients trading
• Accounts for 14% of Group revenue
EUROPE
• Entered the market in Germany in 2006, with rapid 
expansion across Europe from 2007
• Offices located in France, Germany, Italy, 
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden 
and Switzerland
• Annual revenue of £82.1 million in the 2014 financial 
year, with 26,000 active clients trading
• Accounts for 22% of Group revenue
REST OF WORLD
• Began expansion in 2006
• Offices located in Japan, Singapore, South Africa 
and the US
• Annual revenue of £43.4 million in the 2014 financial 
year, with 22,800 active clients trading
• Accounts for 12% of Group revenue
THE GROUP
| Company Overview  6 7 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
I am delighted to report another record year for the 
Group. Our revenue increased by 2.4% to £370.4 million 
(2013: £361.9 million), whilst our diluted earnings per share 
increased by 3.6% to 40.18 pence (2013: 38.80 pence).
We continue to build on our long history of growth, with 
profitability having increased every year since our public 
listing in 2005. As part of our aim to become the default 
choice for active traders, we are now progressing new 
initiatives which should have positive long-term benefits 
for shareholders. These include our stockbroking product, 
our forthcoming entry into Switzerland, our application 
to the regulator in Dubai for a retail-trading licence and 
our continued technology developments, with particular 
emphasis on mobile applications and our online presence.
As we continue to be a highly cash-generative business, 
we are able to invest in our strategic growth initiatives, 
together with further improving our technology and client 
experience, whilst maintaining a progressive dividend 
policy. With this in mind, the Board proposes to increase 
the ordinary dividend payout ratio to approximately 70% of 
Group earnings, from the current level of 60%, with effect 
from the 2014 financial year, whilst retaining a progressive 
dividend policy. Simultaneously the Board will adopt a new 
policy of paying the interim dividend each year, calculated 
at approximately 30% of the prior year’s full-year dividend.
The Board recommends a final ordinary dividend for the 
2014 year of 22.40 pence per share, taking the full-year 
ordinary dividend to 28.15 pence per share, representing 
approximately 70% of the Group’s full-year earnings. 
The Board will continue to monitor the capital structure of 
the business closely to allow sufficient headroom for the 
planned investment in growth initiatives, whilst retaining 
the ability to respond to any changes in the regulatory or 
financial environment. 
REGULATION
As the regulatory environment continues to develop, we are 
cognisant of the importance of maintaining collaborative 
and constructive relationships with all the relevant 
regulatory authorities that oversee IG’s operations. IG fully 
appreciates that the industry in which we operate requires 
considered and sophisticated regulatory oversight. In 
particular, we embrace such concepts as appropriateness 
and conduct, which we believe form the foundations of a 
sensible consumer-protection regime. We wish to see these 
principles applied with total consistency across the industry. 
As IG expands globally, the regulatory challenges it faces 
are complex. Although each region is separately regulated, 
countries are increasingly impacted by the growing 
globalisation of commerce and the rules which surround it. 
This is particularly so in Europe, where regulatory bodies 
not only have influence over our activities on the Continent 
but increasingly on our domestic business in the UK. This 
presents us with obvious challenges, as the UK is only one 
of twenty-eight member states with an interest and a say 
in how regulation develops. Consequently we continue 
to monitor and manage this very carefully. Enhancing our 
ability to respond to regulatory challenges will form part of 
the remit of the new Board Risk Committee, set up under 
the Chairmanship of Stephen Hill. More details of this new 
committee are set out in Board Risk Committee report.
BOARD EVALUATION
We completed our last external evaluation of the Board in 
2012 and, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(‘the Code’), it is our intention to undergo another external 
review in the coming financial year. Our Company Secretary, 
Bridget Messer, and I conducted an internal evaluation 
of the Board this year. I am pleased to report that no 
substantive issues were raised.
BOARD COMPOSITION
As previously announced, there were a number of changes 
to our Board in the past year. Jim Newman joined the Board 
on 1 October 2013. Jim has deep experience in the financial 
services industry, currently with Resolution plc, where he 
was Chief Financial Officer until March 2013, and is now 
Corporate Development Director for Friends Life. Jim will be 
taking over as the Chairman of the Audit Committee on the 
retirement of Martin Jackson at this year’s Annual General 
Meeting (AGM). 
I wish to record my personal thanks to Martin Jackson, who 
has done such an outstanding job as Chairman of the Audit 
Committee for the past nine years. Martin’s energy, eye for 
detail and ability to keep abreast of the legal and regulatory 
developments that have taken place on his watch have been 
a joy to experience. Martin goes with our gratitude and best 
wishes for his retirement.
I am also pleased to welcome Andy Green to our Board 
as Deputy Chairman. As foreshadowed in my Chairman’s 
Statement last year, Andy will succeed me at this year’s AGM. 
The search for Andy was led by our Senior Independent 
Director, Roger Yates. Roger and the Nomination Committee 
reviewed both internal and external candidates and 
concluded that, of the many excellent candidates that were 
seen, Andy was the best fit for us, with his background and 
understanding of IT and marketing, which are two of our 
biggest differentiators. 
As Roger Yates approaches his maximum tenure as an 
independent Non-Executive Director, we anticipate that he 
will leave IG no later than the AGM in 2015. A search for a 
replacement for Roger will commence in the near future.
Following our proposed Board changes, we will continue to 
be fully compliant with provision B.1.2 of the Code.
The intention again this year is to put every Board Director, 
with the exception of myself and Martin, up for re-election (or 
in the case of Andy, election) at the AGM, in compliance with 
paragraph B.7.1 of the Code.
REMUNERATION
The Remuneration Committee, under the Chairmanship of 
Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Director, reviewed the 
remuneration of all Senior Management during the year. 
Last year the committee decided to undertake a complete 
review of our executive compensation, including changing 
our external advisors. As you will see in the Remuneration 
Committee report, we have not made any substantive 
changes to the structure of our remuneration for the coming 
year. The Remuneration Report is much longer this year, due 
to the new Code requirements of disclosure, and meets the 
Financial Conduct Authority’s remuneration principles. 
STRATEGY AND REPOSITIONING
IG has grown for nearly 40 years to be the global leader in 
its category. This has been achieved through ruthless focus 
on the client experience, with constant investment in the 
development of market-leading technology and consistent 
delivery of high-quality customer service. The category in 
which we lead continues to display good growth, particularly 
in the continental European countries where our products 
have been offered for less than ten years. However, leveraged 
trading will remain a niche activity into the future. Although 
we will continue to grow this niche through ongoing 
education, platform development and excellent execution, 
we also have an opportunity to use the skills and technology 
at our disposal to broaden our product range and enter new 
markets. We believe that the launch of our execution-only 
stockbroking offering will both open up new revenue streams 
and broaden the appeal of our current business, supporting 
our aim to become the default choice for active traders.
CONCLUSION
As this is my last statement as Chairman, I would like to  
take this opportunity to thank all of my executive and  
non-executive colleagues, both past and present, for 
supporting me and giving me so much valuable advice and 
input, particularly since our public listing in April 2005. From 
that date until the end of this financial year our shares have 
increased in value by approximately 500%, and we have 
been a FTSE 350 top-decile performer in terms of Total 
Shareholder Return. 
There has been much discussion and comment about the 
recent low levels of volatility. Our excellent results have 
been achieved despite these volatility headwinds, which 
have adversely affected so many financial services firms 
in the past year. It is impossible to forecast volatility levels 
into the future, but I have no doubt that our management 
team will be able to take full advantage of the business 
opportunities that will arise, and give our clients the leading 
execution service they have come to expect.
As always, none of our success could have been achieved 
without the commitment of all of our employees. Our 
colleagues have again responded admirably to the 
challenges that the markets and competition have 
presented us, and I have no doubt that this will continue 
into the future. My fellow Directors and I would like to 
express our sincere thanks to them for their personal 
contributions to the Group’s successes again this year.
Jonathan Davie 
Chairman 
22 July 2014
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
 ‘As part of our aim to become  
the default choice for active 
traders, we are now progressing 
new initiatives which should  
have positive long-term benefits 
for shareholders.’
Chairman’s Statement 8 9 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
Trading revenue for the year of £370.4 million was at record 
levels, up 2.4% on the prior year, and ahead of the previous 
record set two years ago in the elevated volatility of the 
2012 financial year. In contrast, market volatility was relatively 
low throughout most of this year and particularly subdued 
as the year drew to a close. In May we saw 25-year lows 
in forex volatility and came close to 25-year lows in equity 
volatility, and these conditions have continued into the 
early part of the 2015 financial year. Against this backdrop, 
as is normal, our clients reduced their activity levels. While 
client trading levels were relatively subdued towards the 
end of the year, we did reach record levels of client money 
in the final quarter. At the year-end, client money deposits 
were 4% higher than one year before and 11% higher than 
two years before. This is one encouraging indicator that we 
continue to build a valuable client base, which is ready to 
trade as soon as markets provide more opportunities. 
Monetary policies across the globe have converged over 
the last few years, consisting of near-zero interest rates 
and a process of quantitative easing (QE). One effect 
of such a monetary policy is to reduce volatility across 
asset classes, with low and stable interest rates having a 
particularly dampening impact on the forex market. This 
phase of monetary policy appears to be drawing to a 
close in some countries, with the tapering of QE in the US 
and suggestions from the Bank of England that interest-
rate rises could come sooner than markets had been 
anticipating. As monetary policies shift in response to the 
improving economic situation, I would expect that IG will be 
a beneficiary in three ways. Firstly, we should see an increase 
in market volatility, which would drive greater levels of client 
activity; secondly, as we hold almost £1.4 billion of cash and 
other interest-earning assets, interest income will rise and, 
thirdly, a greater level of consumer confidence tends to 
increase trading activity among current clients and increase 
the risk appetite among prospects, and therefore produce a 
greater flow of new clients into the industry.
Against the backdrop described we saw modest growth 
from the UK and Ireland, up 3%, and a fall in revenue from 
Australia, down 7%. Both economic conditions and consumer 
sentiment are noticeably weaker in Australia, which has 
lagged the rest of the world with its economic downturn.
We delivered strong growth in Europe, up 16% overall. 
All four large European offices grew, with the strongest 
growth rates of 20% and 15% coming from our two largest 
offices, Germany and France respectively. Germany is one 
of the few markets in which we operate where we are not 
the largest provider. I am very pleased that the most recent 
independent market research, received in the middle of 
June, shows that over the past year the gap in market share 
between us and the largest provider has narrowed, and that 
our gains were most marked among higher-value clients. 
Our European businesses are still at a relatively early stage 
in their development, and most of the growth to date 
has been against the headwind of recession, so we are 
confident that they can continue to deliver strong growth 
for some years to come. This year, 22% of our revenue came 
from Europe, and this proportion is growing, making Europe 
an increasing contributor to our overall growth rate.
In the Rest of World business segment, revenue was down 
10%, as the impact of exceptionally low volatility in forex 
was felt most in Singapore and Japan, where forex makes 
up the majority of client trading activity.
Within this segment, our US business, Nadex, delivered 
55% revenue growth but, at £3.1 million of revenue, it 
remains small. Shortly before the year-end, two additional 
market makers joined the exchange, one of which has 
been consistently providing additional liquidity for the last 
couple of months. This greater liquidity, along with narrower 
effective spreads, should make Nadex a more attractive 
venue for trading.
Following another strong year for cash generation, and 
given our continued confidence in future cash delivery, the 
Board proposes to increase the ordinary dividend payout 
ratio to approximately 70% of Group earnings, from the 
current level of 60%, with effect from the 2014 financial year, 
while maintaining a progressive dividend policy.  
Importantly, we retain the capacity to invest in the strategic 
initiatives which are designed to diversify and broaden the 
business to deliver longer-term sustainable growth.
A more detailed review of the performance of all our offices 
is set out in the Operating and Financial Reviews.
Beyond revenue performance, this was a year in which we 
made significant progress on a number of longer-term 
projects which we expect to be drivers of future growth. 
ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF  
ACTIVE TRADERS
We have completed the development work necessary to 
offer stockbroking, on all of our platforms, as part of our 
comprehensive share-trading offering, and we are currently 
testing this with a pilot group of clients prior to a full launch 
in September. This service will initially be available in the 
UK and Ireland, but we are developing our plans to offer it 
in some of our other markets in 2015. In the UK market, as 
we roll out the full functionality, our technology will provide 
a number of features that are not available from the large 
market participants. We offer streaming live prices which are 
sourced from both the primary exchange and multilateral 
trading facilities. We provide smart order routing into the 
best execution venue, and the ability to see market depth 
and interact directly with the order book. This level of 
functionality is not currently available in the UK market and 
we believe it will ultimately form a compelling offering for 
the active trader. 
The majority of our existing UK clients have online share-
trading accounts with another provider, and many of them 
have told us previously that they would consider using our 
service when it is launched. Shortly after launch, we will offer 
clients the ability to use their share portfolio as collateral 
to support their CFD trading or spread betting. Initially we 
anticipate that existing clients will form the bulk of the early 
adopters of our stockbroking service, but beyond that, over 
time, we will target those who are actively trading in shares 
with other online brokers as well as active clients of our 
current competitors.
This is an important development for IG and a key 
milestone in our journey to become the default choice for 
active traders. A challenge that we face with our existing 
products is that many within the target audience either 
do not know about the existence of our products or have 
discounted them without due consideration. Broadening 
our offering to a more mainstream product should help us 
to engage with this wider audience, and I hope we will see 
the benefit both in the revenue we generate directly from 
stockbroking and, over time, from increasing the reach and 
take-up of our current products. 
STRENGTHEN GLOBAL PRESENCE
We are in the final stages of our application for a licence 
to operate in Switzerland, with the office now fully staffed 
and ready to welcome clients. The regulatory regime in 
Switzerland is such that, to provide our normal offering to 
clients, it is necessary to hold a Swiss banking licence. The 
application process for obtaining such a licence has been 
demanding and we have been subject to intense regulatory 
scrutiny. We are confident that the application will be 
successful in due course, and this reflects extremely well on 
the quality of our systems and processes and, above all, our 
people. The earliest we would now carry out a full launch of 
the IG offering is in the Autumn of 2014. 
We have been in constructive discussions with regulators in 
Dubai for some time. There is further work to do before our 
application to the Dubai Financial Services Authority for a 
licence is complete, but we are hopeful that we will be able 
to establish an office in the Dubai International Financial 
Centre in 2015. We consider this and the surrounding region 
to be an attractive opportunity.
We continue to have ongoing dialogue with regulators in 
other countries, but these discussions are at early stages 
and are not expected to lead to the establishment of new 
offices in the immediate future.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
  ‘Our drive to innovate and to 
grow our business remains 
extremely strong and I believe 
that IG is better placed than 
ever before to deliver the next 
phase of growth.’
| Strategic Report 10 11 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Introducing Our Strategy
SUSTAIN TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP
During the year we acquired a number of local domain 
names to support IG.com in specific countries, as well as 
investing in a number of new generic top-level domains 
(gTLDs) which are directly relevant to our business. This 
investment positions us well to take full advantage, over the 
coming years, of possible changes to the way people use 
and search the internet if, as we expect, gTLDs become an 
increasingly integral part of its structure.
Towards the end of the year we established an offshore IT 
and marketing development office in Eastern Europe, which 
is focused on recruiting and converting clients through 
mobile apps; around a third of all client trades are made 
using mobile apps. Our current apps are designed with our 
most experienced and demanding clients in mind, and we 
will continue to ensure we lead the industry in this category. 
However, this new team will focus on developing apps 
more suited to less-experienced new and potential clients, 
concentrating on early-stage education and simplification of 
the recruitment and conversion process through apps.
DELIVER QUALITY SERVICE TO CLIENTS
We continually monitor the quality of our service through a 
number of different methods, including a rolling survey of 
our client base and independent mystery-shopping which 
tests our customer service and that of our main competitors. 
We continue to score highly in these surveys, and during 
this year we saw an increase in levels of satisfaction with the 
quality of our customer service.
During this year we introduced ‘Think Tank’, an online forum 
for invited clients to provide feedback on various aspects 
of our products, platforms and services. This new resource 
has proved valuable in more formally incorporating clients’ 
suggestions and comments into our development process. 
I am extremely grateful to those clients who participate in 
Think Tank for the time and thought they devote to helping 
us shape our offering. 
REGULATION
Although there are few tangible signs of progress by the 
11 EU member states seeking to introduce a financial 
transaction tax (FTT) under the enhanced-cooperation 
process, the rhetoric suggests that eventually we will see 
some form of levy on financial transactions. However, we 
continue to believe that any tax would be considerably less 
onerous than originally proposed, and could most easily 
take a form similar to UK stamp duty or the French FTT, 
neither of which impact on our business.
In Japan, new rules came into force halfway through the 
financial year on binary options. Since these rules took 
effect we have seen an increase in our share of the binary 
options market, although the longer-term impact from a 
new online suitability test is yet to be fully understood.
As we reported two years ago, the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore (MAS) has indicated an intention to introduce 
stricter leverage restrictions on retail forex trading at some 
point. It now looks as if these rules may come into force 
during the course of 2015. We expect the restrictions to have 
only a limited impact on our business, as they do not apply 
to clients with higher levels of income or assets – accredited 
investors – who make up the majority of our revenue. MAS 
has recently approved an e-learning module, which went live 
at the start of July, and this should provide some relief from 
current impediments to recruiting clients in Singapore who 
have no prior experience of trading our products.
OUR CHAIRMAN
Jonathan Davie has chaired IG since before our public 
listing in 2005; he has therefore served the full term 
permitted for an Independent Non-Executive Director 
and, as announced last year, will step down at the next 
Annual General Meeting in October. During Jonathan’s 
tenure as Chairman we have expanded from operating in 
two countries to operating in 15, and we have grown our 
revenue more than sevenfold. I would like to put on record 
the Board’s thanks for his contribution to this success.  
I am pleased to welcome Andy Green as our Chairman-
Designate, and I very much look forward to working with 
him as we continue to develop IG.
OUTLOOK
In November, IG will celebrate its 40th anniversary. We have 
grown our revenues in virtually every one of those 40 years 
and have achieved that against a broad range of market 
and economic backdrops – bull and bear markets, the 1987 
crash, the dotcom frenzy, the most recent financial crisis – 
and through cycles of boom and bust. Our operating model 
and risk management have been thoroughly tested and 
have proved highly resilient. We have continually adapted 
our business to a changing world, moving from telephone-
based dealing to internet dealing and increasingly to 
dealing using mobile apps. Our drive to innovate and to 
grow our business remains extremely strong and I believe 
that IG is better placed than ever before to deliver the next 
phase of growth. In particular, the imminent launch in the UK 
of our stockbroking service, as part of our comprehensive 
share-trading offering, positions us well to address the 
needs of a much broader audience of active traders.
Tim Howkins 
Chief Executive Officer 
22 July 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW (CONTINUED) INTRODUCING OUR STRATEGY
As we drive towards our 
vision of becoming the 
default choice for active 
traders, we maintain  
focus on five key  
strategic objectives. 
ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF  
ACTIVE TRADERS
ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN OR EXTEND  
MARKET LEADERSHIP 
STRENGTHEN GLOBAL PRESENCE
DELIVER QUALITY SERVICE TO CLIENTS
SUSTAIN TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP
OPENING OUR OFFICE IN SWITZERLAND
We are in the final stages of our application for a  
licence to operate from our new office in Geneva. This 
will give us immediate access to a significant financially 
engaged population, in a country with extremely high 
average income per head and an underdeveloped 
competitive environment.
LAUNCHING OUR EXECUTION-ONLY 
STOCKBROKING OFFER
Our stockbroking service, which we began to pilot-test in 
July, is powered by our existing leading technology and 
provides clients with access to live streaming prices and a 
transparent execution process, as well as a cost-effective 
way to trade international equities. We believe in many 
cases this will greatly improve their trading experience 
compared with their current stockbroking provider.
FURTHER DEVELOPING OUR MOBILE OFFER
Technology is a key differentiator and we continue to invest 
heavily in this area. Our clients will increasingly interact with 
us using mobile devices, with around a third of trades now 
coming from mobile apps. Our recent focus has been on 
providing functionality on mobile devices equivalent to that 
on desktops, enabling clients to trade and to service their 
accounts fully on the move. During the year we launched 
iPhone and iPad apps on iOS 7, and released a mobile 
version of IG.com for all operating systems.
STRENGTHENING OUR BRAND
Building on the global rollout of IG.com, we have 
developed an increasingly responsive, real-time approach  
to our marketing. We have made significant gains in our 
ability to use our market-leading technology to target 
customers with contextual messaging and promotions, 
wherever they are in the world. And with the launch of  
IG Live, we now stream live video analysis and commentary 
from our in-house studio three times a day. 
Elsewhere, the year also saw us make a major addition to 
our global sponsorship portfolio, with the announcement 
of an exciting three-year partnership with Harlequins Rugby 
Club in the UK.
We have achieved our status as a global leader in online trading as a result of many years focused on delivering defined 
goals, with meticulous attention to detail, in technology development, risk management, sales and marketing and customer 
service. As we look to the future, our vision is to become the default choice for active traders, and our five strategic 
objectives are designed to give us a clear route to realising this vision. 
In the following sections, we first introduce our product range and the essentials of what we do, before describing our 
strategic objectives in more detail and explaining how they link to our business model. We then explore in detail five 
examples of our strategies in action.
In recent months we have taken a number of significant steps towards our goals:
| Strategic Report 12 13 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
What We Do
WHAT WE DO
We provide active traders with fast and flexible access to the 
financial markets using our award-winning dealing platforms. 
Clients can trade seamlessly across a range of instruments, 
including indices, shares, forex and commodities.
OUR PRODUCTS
We offer a variety of products, in line with the differing regulatory environments in the territories where we operate.
CONTRACTS FOR DIFFERENCE (CFDs )
CFDs are derivatives that enable clients to take advantage of changes in an asset’s price, without owning the asset itself. 
• We are the world’s No.1 CFD provider
(1)
• We offer global CFD trading, including direct market access (DMA) to shares and forex markets 
The diagram below shows, in simplified form, how a CFD can be used to ‘sell’ a market when you expect it to fall. This is 
known as ‘going short’. In this scenario, a subsequent fall in the market price results in a profit for the client while a rise 
results in a loss. The diagram below should be viewed in conjunction with our more detailed example of a CFD trade on 
page 158.
Our clients can choose to trade in a variety of ways. In the UK, our direct clients who wish to hold assets over a longer period 
can use our execution-only stockbroking service to buy and sell both UK and international equities, as well as exchange-
traded funds. For clients seeking a shorter-term trade, our range of leveraged products enables them to go long or short on 
multiple asset types, without the need to hold the underlying instrument and with only a relatively small deposit of margin. 
We also offer trading opportunities on interest rates, government bonds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and a number of 
other markets. 
Our clients can deal 24 hours a day and access their accounts on the move using our range of customised apps for mobile 
devices. We also provide clients with access to advanced chart packages and automated-trading facilities, as well as tools 
and resources to help them keep abreast of market movements and identify trading opportunities.
(1) Based on revenue excluding FX, published financial statements, July 2014.
COMMODITIES
The prices of key resources such as gold, oil 
and wheat.
INDICES
The movements of global stock indices such as 
the DAX, the Dow Jones and the FTSE 100.
FOREX
The value of one currency 
in relation to another, 
such as the pound versus 
the dollar.
SHARES
The performance of 
thousands of individual 
companies.
OUR RANGE OF 
OVER 10,000 GLOBAL 
FINANCIAL MARKETS 
INCLUDES:
FX
320p 350p 370p 270p 290p CLOSING 
PRICE
MARKET  
PRICE 
CLOSING 
PRICE
MARKET 
RISE 
MARKET 
FALL
GOING SHORT
If you expect the market to fall,  
you ‘sell’ at the MARKET PRICE
THE TRADE
You open a trade for 500 contracts  
at the market price of 320p
SIZE (SHARES)
500
MARKET PRICE RISES
CLOSING PRICE
350p LOSS
£150.00
MARKET PRICE FALLS
CLOSING PRICE
290p PROFIT
£150.00
MARKET PRICE
320p The market moves by 30p
COMMISSION
£10.00
| Strategic Report 14 15 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
What We Do
STOCKBROKING
In July we began pilot-testing our execution-only 
stockbroking service in the UK on both web and mobile 
platforms, representing our first significant diversification 
out of leveraged products. Once fully operational, our 
stockbroking service is expected to offer market-leading 
advantages for clients, including:
• Improved underlying and live pricing sourced from 
multiple trading venues
• Transparent access to a broad range of international 
equities, with cost-effective currency conversions to 
facilitate trading within an ISA/NISA
• Superior trading tools across multiple platforms  
and devices, powered by our existing award- 
winning technology 
• Direct market access available as a standard feature,  
free of additional charge
BINARIES 
Our pioneering binary contracts are based on a single 
question: ‘Will the underlying market behave in a specific 
way before the contract expires?’. Clients use their 
knowledge of the financial markets to predict whether the 
answer will be yes or no.
• Our binaries enable clients to trade with limited risk 
• Binaries are unrestricted by low volatility, remaining 
attractive to clients when markets are relatively stable
• This year we have added ‘sprint markets’ – high-speed, 
limited-risk trades which offer clients the opportunity to 
trade in even the flattest markets
NORTH AMERICAN DERIVATIVES  
EXCHANGE (NADEX) 
Nadex is our US derivatives exchange, enabling US 
investors to trade options on global financial markets in 
retail-sized contracts. 
• Nadex is the first and largest US-based retail- 
oriented exchange 
• We provide a flexible way for our clients to trade with 
limited risk
• The main product on Nadex is the binary option
HOW WE GENERATE REVENUE  
AND PROFIT
Our principal revenue sources are the dealing spreads 
or commission charges we apply to each transaction, 
according to the asset and product type being traded. 
As clients are trading on margin, we also levy a financing 
charge for positions held overnight. 
We derive our earnings from the volume of our clients’ 
dealing transactions, which is influenced by the level 
of activity in the underlying financial markets. Since our 
clients can choose to ‘buy’ or ‘sell’, dealing volumes can be 
maintained, and we are able to profit, irrespective of the 
direction in which markets are moving.
Our centralised operating model enables us to consolidate 
the market risk associated with client trades from around 
the globe, which lessens our requirement to hedge due to 
the net impact of clients buying and selling the same asset, 
and so reduces risk and cost. This model also enables us 
to maintain low-cost and capital-efficient processes, while 
robust risk-management procedures help us monitor and 
control the impact of market and credit risk.
WHAT WE DO (CONTINUED)
SPREAD BETTING 
Financial spread betting in the UK and Ireland is a tax-free
(1)
 way to deal by betting on the price  
movement of an asset. The size of a client’s win or loss depends on the magnitude and direction of the price movement. 
• We are the UK’s largest and longest-running spread betting provider
(2) 
• We hold 41% of the UK financial spread betting market
(3)
The diagram below shows, in simplified form, how a spread bet can be used to ‘buy’ a market when you expect it to rise. 
This is known as ‘going long’. In this scenario, a subsequent rise in the market price results in a profit for the client while a 
fall results in a loss. The diagram below should be viewed in conjunction with our more detailed example of a spread bet on 
page 156.
(1) Tax laws are subject to change and depend on individual circumstances. 
(2) No.1 spread betting provider: number of active UK financial spread betting accounts (Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, December 2013).
(3)  By number of active primary accounts. All market share data presented in this report is provided by Investment Trends Pty Limited (please refer to the Investor 
Resources section on page 165 for further details).
MARKET 
RISE 
1000
1001
1002
0998
0999
If you expect the market  
to rise, you ‘buy’ at the  
OFFER PRICE
GOING LONG
THE
SPREAD
IG BUY/OFFER 
PRICE
MARKET 
FALL
UNDERLYING 
MARKET VALUE
IG SELL/BID 
PRICE
SIZE (£ PER POINT)
£10.00
THE DEAL
You open a position for £10.00 per point  
at the offer price of 1001
BUY/OFFER PRICE
1001
MARKET PRICE RISES
MARKET PRICE FALLS
SELL/BID PRICE
1007
PROFIT
£60.00
SELL/BID PRICE
0991
LOSS
£100.00
The market moves by eight points
| Strategic Report 16 17 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Our Strategic Objectives
OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OUR BUSINESS MODEL
STRATEGIC 
OBJECTIVES
PROGRESS IN 2014 PRIORITIES FOR 2015
ADDRESS THE 
NEEDS OF ACTIVE 
TRADERS
• Completed the technical development for our 
execution-only stockbroking service in the UK 
• Extended trading hours on over 20 key US equities, 
enabling clients to trade outside the core US stock 
market hours
• Successfully offered a number of pre-IPO  
grey markets
• Introduced sprint markets to allow clients to quickly 
take advantage of opportunities, even in relatively 
flat markets
• Launch and grow our 
stockbroking service in the UK
• Roll out our stockbroking service 
to at least one country outside 
the UK
• Increase the number of extended-
hours US stocks offered
ACHIEVE, 
MAINTAIN OR 
EXTEND MARKET 
LEADERSHIP 
• Maintained our UK market leadership position in 
spread betting and increased our lead in CFDs, with 
over 59,000 active clients trading during the year
• Increased our Australian CFD market leadership 
to 20 percentage points, with around 18,000 active 
clients trading with us during the year
• Retained our number one position in forex in 
Singapore and became the number two provider  
of CFDs
• Increase our growth rate in the 
UK through the introduction of 
our stockbroking service
• Increase growth in Europe against 
improving market backdrop
• Manage the impact of the 
proposed forex leverage 
reductions in Singapore 
• Grow the business across APAC, 
using Australia as the hub
STRENGTHEN 
GLOBAL 
PRESENCE
• Prepared IG Switzerland office for launch
• Continued to grow our European business, where 
revenues increased by 15.6% over the prior year
• Introduced two additional market makers to 
the Nadex exchange, one of which has been 
consistently providing additional liquidity since 
joining, and increased revenue by 54.6%
• Completed the consolidation of our global  
brand under IG.com, helping us to optimise our 
search rankings and create a recognisable single 
identity worldwide
• Launch our CFD offering  
in Switzerland
• Open our office in Dubai
• Continue exploring opportunities 
to serve additional countries  
in APAC
• Develop the introduced-business 
model for the Nadex exchange
DELIVER QUALITY 
SERVICE TO 
CLIENTS
• Radically improved payments process, leading to 
faster payments to/from clients
• Implemented further improvements to online self-
service functionality to enhance client experience
• Achieved joint-first ranking in IPSOS mystery-
shopper exercise
• Received rating of ‘good’ or ‘very good’ from 89% 
of spread bettors and 88% of CFD traders who 
responded to independently conducted  
satisfaction surveys
(1)
• Continue to focus on delivering 
industry-leading customer service
• Develop more multi-channel 
support for our clients, eg social 
media, live chat, mobile, self-service
• Improve access to our global 
support teams around the clock 
• Optimise our support tools 
in order to improve efficiency 
and provide a more joined-up 
customer service experience
SUSTAIN 
TECHNOLOGY 
LEADERSHIP
• Built a version of IG.com for mobile devices
• Launched iPhone and iPad apps on iOS 7
• Increased the suite of mobile apps for Nadex 
• Increased mobile engagement through push 
notifications of key market movements, technical 
analysis and macro-economic events 
• Maintained consistently high levels of  
platform uptime
• Extend availability of full version 
of IG.com to all mobile platforms
• Continue to support new 
products, eg stockbroking
• Invest in mobile app 
development to increase rate of 
client sign-ups
• Continue to maintain consistent 
platform uptime
We have developed a business model that harnesses the demand 
from active traders for fast, flexible and secure online trading.
We attract clients globally via a number of 
channels, including:
• Our international network of offices, 
through local seminars and public-
relations exercises
• Our multi-channel brand and targeted 
advertising campaigns
• Our optimised online and  
app-store presence
• Our worldwide network of  
high-quality partners
Our clients can trade across a wide variety of markets, geographies and asset classes.
OUR CLIENTS
FINANCIAL MARKETS
OUR TECHNOLOGY
OUR PRODUCTS
HIGH-CALIBRE STAFF
STRENGTH AND STABILITY
AUTHORITY AND EXPERTISE 
CLIENT FOCUS
KPIs  
(SEE PAGE 24)
REVENUE
REVENUE PER 
CLIENT
ACTIVE CLIENTS
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
DILUTED EARNINGS 
PER SHARE
CASH GENERATION
DIVIDEND PER 
SHARE
PLATFORM UPTIME
NET PROMOTER 
SCORE
KEY RISKS  
(SEE PAGE 42) 
CREDIT
MARKET
LIQUIDITY
OPERATIONAL
REGULATORY
CONDUCT
TECHNOLOGY
Indices Shares Forex Commodities
Other markets: Interest rates, bonds, ETFs and industry sectors
(1) Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, December 2013.
FX
| Strategic Report 18 19 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Our Strategy in Action
NEW STOCKBROKING SERVICE
In July we commenced pilot-testing of our execution-only 
stockbroking service in the UK across web and mobile 
platforms, representing our first significant diversification 
from leveraged trading. 
Our clients are active traders, and we strive to ensure  
that we offer the right products on the right platforms  
to address their needs. The launch of stockbroking in  
the UK enables clients to trade cash equities on IG’s  
award-winning platforms.
Prior to developing the service we conducted a survey of IG 
clients which suggested there is a complementary audience 
for cash equities: 60% of respondents told us that they also 
trade cash equities, and 65% of those said that they would 
consider moving their business to IG if we offered this service.
Over the last 40 years, retail trading 
in equities has become a mainstream 
activity in the UK. This is a significant 
opportunity for IG.
We have concluded that this is a market where we can add 
substantial value to these clients’ trading and create a new, 
profitable business stream for IG. 
The trading life of a cash equity client is generally longer 
than that of IG’s existing client base. Many of them are 
wealthy, and there is a constituency that trades very actively. 
We will have the potential to retain clients that lapse from 
CFD trading by offering them access to execution-only 
stockbroking on the same trading platform.
IG seeks to attract active traders, and the structure of our 
execution-only stockbroking offer is designed with that goal 
in mind:
• We offer price transparency, with the underlying real-time 
price being displayed throughout the trade, including 
when trading in overseas shares
• Where most platforms provide a passive trading 
experience, we enable clients to interact with the market 
order books to judge precisely the level at which they 
want to trade
• By adapting our existing state-of-the-art mobile-trading 
technology, we have been able to give our stockbroking 
clients the opportunity to trade wherever they like, on 
their device of choice
• The pricing of the offering has also been designed with 
the active trader in mind, with high volume driving lower 
commissions and low exchange-rate conversion fees 
when trading on overseas shares
This offering is clearly at a very early stage, with our first UK 
marketing campaign in September. We are launching the 
product in the UK initially before deciding on the precise 
order and extent of any international rollout.
In adding stockbroking to our platforms we have 
demonstrated our focus on understanding the needs of 
active traders. We will continue to ensure this understanding 
informs both improvements to our existing products and 
our new product development.
ADDRESS THE NEEDS  
OF ACTIVE TRADERS
In this section 
we explain 
our strategic 
objectives in more 
depth, and focus 
on some examples 
of our progress  
in each.
ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF ACTIVE TRADERS
The most valuable clients are those who trade most frequently or in the 
largest deal size. It is therefore imperative that our platforms, services and 
products address the needs of these clients. Our investment in technology 
and commitment to client service focuses on active traders, while we are 
conscious of the need to deliver an excellent trading experience for all. 
See page 19
See page 23
STRENGTHEN GLOBAL PRESENCE
We have offices in 15 countries, serving clients in over 140 countries, 
and we continue to seek opportunities to grow our client base in both 
established and new regions. In the last 18 months we have opened three 
new offices, in Dublin, Oslo and Geneva, and our Swiss licence application is 
in progress. Our single global identity – IG – is designed to help us develop 
our brand reach, increase our market penetration and target regional markets 
from the countries where we already operate.
See page 21
DELIVER QUALITY SERVICE TO CLIENTS
We strive to maintain absolute integrity in our relationship with clients, 
and we invest in training our team to ensure that we are delivering 
excellent client service. 
By combining this service with fast and reliable execution, transparent 
pricing and full segregation of retail client funds, we help our clients 
feel secure and confident in trading with us. We also support our clients 
with education, market insight resources and 24-hour technical help.
See page 22
See page 20
SUSTAIN TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP
Our financial strength has enabled us to continually invest in IT  
development and infrastructure, and to build the superior platform 
technology, tools and resources our clients demand. Our market-leading 
position is underpinned by our platform’s award-winning performance and 
proven resilience – factors that are essential in maintaining high levels of 
client satisfaction and retention and keep us at the forefront of the industry.
(1)  No.1 CFD and spread betting provider: for CFDs, 
based on revenue excluding FX, published financial 
statements, July 2014; for spread betting, number 
of active UK financial spread betting accounts 
(Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, 
December 2013).
ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN OR EXTEND  
MARKET LEADERSHIP
We are a global leader in online trading and aim to be the default choice 
for active traders. We are currently the No.1 global provider of CFDs and 
financial spread betting
(1)
 and a recognised authority on financial trading, with 
our expert opinion often sought by the media and regulatory bodies. 
We have achieved our position at the forefront of the industry by recruiting 
talented people, developing superior technology and providing clients with 
the tools and products they require. We continue to leverage these key 
advantages to maintain or establish leadership in our major markets.
OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION
| Strategic Report 20 21 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Our Strategy in Action
OPPORTUNITIES IN THE SWISS MARKET
We expect our products to be a natural fit for Switzerland, 
which is a country with high average income, low 
unemployment, political stability and a highly educated and 
financially astute population. Although there is meaningful 
competition in the region, many of the global providers are 
absent and we believe those in the market lack the breadth 
of service which exists in most other countries. This offers us 
an opportunity to grow our market share more rapidly. 
OVERCOMING CHALLENGES
The application process has been extremely rigorous, 
requiring us to apply for a full banking licence – something 
which would have been quite daunting for us only a few 
years ago. This is also a good indicator of the progress that 
we have made in establishing our credibility and reputation. 
In order to comply with local regulations, we have set up  
IG Switzerland as a standalone entity, with a separate Board 
of Directors, support functions and financial reporting 
requirements. In addition, under Swiss law, providers must 
offer clients the option to have all of their personal data  
ring-fenced within Switzerland, meaning that their details 
must not be accessible to the broader IG Group. We have 
met this technical challenge, along with the need to operate 
in four languages: German, French, Italian and English.
We are currently in the final stages of our application for a 
licence and have scheduled our first significant marketing 
campaign for September, after the quieter summer season, 
in order to maximise the impact of the launch.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS
We recently announced our intention to open an office  
in Dubai and we continue to appraise new territories for  
the future. Meanwhile, we are growing our client base  
in markets where we already have an established  
commercial presence.
We have always sought to expand our worldwide presence, 
where regulation allowed and where the economics of 
operating in a particular market made it attractive.
In the last 13 years, we have expanded 
into 13 new countries around the 
world. This year we have also opened 
our Geneva office and are ready to 
trade on the granting of a licence. 
Our Swiss offering is designed to attract both the active 
retail investors and the high-net-worth individuals who 
reside there, and is also aimed at the intermediated market 
of institutional wealth managers.
We maintain our competitive position by focusing on 
quality customer service and the continued development 
of our product offering, including our proprietary trading 
platforms. Our strategies for achieving, maintaining and 
extending market share have varied to suit each market:
UK
IG Index was founded in 1974, becoming the UK’s first 
financial spread betting company. Our UK business is based 
in the City of London and accounted for just over half our 
Group revenue in 2014.
IG Markets was introduced in 2000, offering CFDs to the UK 
client base. Both brands subsequently offered a full suite 
of assets (indices, shares, forex and commodities) and were 
ultimately rebranded as IG late in 2012. We now offer both 
CFDs and spread betting under our single brand.
Last year over 59,000 active clients traded with us in the UK 
and Ireland, and in the UK market we are the market leader 
by a significant margin in both spread betting and CFDs. The 
total numbers of active traders in the UK market using CFDs 
and spread betting have both grown over the last four years, 
from 18,000 to 21,000 and from 83,000 to 85,000 respectively.
AUSTRALIA
Our Australian business is based in Melbourne and 
represented 14% of Group revenue in 2014. 
We entered the market in 2002, and overtook the market 
leader to become the largest CFD provider with a 38% 
market share, 20 percentage points ahead of the second-
placed provider. However, the Australian market does 
remain very competitive, with increasing challenges being 
posed by small local forex specialists.
The total CFD market has grown strongly over the last five 
years, up 58%, and now numbers 41,000 traders. We expect 
this figure to increase further as more online share traders 
learn about leveraged products. 
SINGAPORE
We entered the Singapore market in 2006. Since then 
we have grown our market share to overtake most other 
providers. We are now the second-largest CFD provider, 
with a market share of 19%, and in forex we became market 
leader in 2012, with a market share of 16%. 
In this region, there is a greater tendency for clients to 
want face-to-face contact with their provider, so we have 
focused on offering in-office seminars and one-to-one 
demonstrations, as well as maintaining a presence at 
investment fairs. Last year we opened our new shop-front 
office in the centre of Singapore, with an eye-catching 
design scheme, to improve accessibility for our client base. 
To maintain and extend our leading position, we need to 
remain responsive to any external pressures that might 
affect the market. We are currently working on plans to 
help clients understand and adapt to the proposed forex 
leverage reductions which we expect the regulator to 
introduce in 2015.
 
OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION (CONTINUED)
ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN OR  
EXTEND MARKET LEADERSHIP 
STRENGTHEN  
GLOBAL PRESENCE
| Strategic Report 22 23 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
The right products, delivered on an industry-leading 
technology platform, are clearly critical in meeting our 
clients’ needs, but alone they are not sufficient for success: 
the entire client trading and support experience must be 
superior. Our 81-strong trading services team is located in 
five offices around the world, supports 16 languages and 
deals with around 80,000 client communications a month.
We focus on being:
• Accessible and flexible 
Clients should be able to access rapid and convenient 
support across all channels, including phone, email,  
social media and live chat. There should also be a  
high level of self-service available across all platforms,  
and our technology must be optimised to ensure a 
seamless experience
• Effective and engaging 
Clients should feel that they are dealing with highly 
competent people who know our products and 
technology in depth and are enthusiastic about financial 
trading. They should also notice that our staff take the 
time to understand their individual needs and empathise 
with their issues
 
Key to clients’ loyalty to IG is our provision of a secure, 
reliable and intuitive platform that facilitates fast deal 
execution and trading across web, mobile and tablet 
devices. Our continued investment in these areas has led to 
99.23% of deals being executed in under 0.1 seconds,
(1)
 and 
to a core platform uptime of 99.97%
(2)
 (2013: 99.95%).
In the last year 126,100 clients used our 
online dealing platforms and tailored 
mobile apps to make over three million 
transactions per month. 
We recognise the increasing significance of mobile 
technology and continue to develop and invest in our range 
of tailored, device- and platform-specific apps. By the end 
of this financial year clients were executing around a third of 
their trades using our dedicated mobile apps, with over half 
of clients using apps to interact with IG in some way. 
We anticipate that in the future the majority of our 
interactions with clients and potential clients will be through 
mobile devices and apps, and we recognise that for 
continued success we must fully address the client journey 
on such devices. We continue to increase our investment in 
mobile applications to ensure that we lead the market all 
the way from the point when a potential client expresses an 
interest in trading, through identifying IG as the right partner, 
opening an account, trading and carrying out the full range 
of account maintenance. During the year therefore, we:
• Launched iPhone and iPad apps on iOS 7, plus an  
Android tablet and phablet app 
• Extended the functionality of our mobile charts, 
introducing specifically chart-centric views in the Android 
tablet and iPad apps
• Deployed our Android apps in more stores, including the 
Amazon store
• Built a specific version of IG.com for mobile platforms
• Built push notifications to our mobile platforms for time-
critical events, including price levels, economic data and 
technical analysis alerts
• Achieved improved search-engine ranking for searches 
performed on mobile devices
• Continued to build the functionality of our apps to match 
that available in our web-based platform
• Delivered engaging content to our clients using mobile 
(eg streaming video)
Ongoing IT development and superior platform technology, 
along with tools and resources for our clients, will continue 
to underpin our future financial success as our clients’ needs 
change and become increasingly sophisticated.
OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION (CONTINUED)
SUSTAIN TECHNOLOGY  
LEADERSHIP
 
DELIVER QUALITY  
SERVICE TO CLIENTS
(1)  99.23% of trades executed in 0.1 seconds: average per month, IG globally 
(12 months to 31 May 2014).
(2)  99.97% core platform uptime: average per month, IG globally (12 months 
to 31 May 2014).
We made significant strides in delivering against this 
strategy in the last year:
• We introduced a new competency-based role structure 
designed to align individual performances with the 
department and Group’s priorities. Members of our 
trading services team must now consistently demonstrate 
certain behavioural and technical competences to achieve 
progression through three separate role levels. We 
anticipate that this pathway will benefit clients through 
improved staff retention and higher motivation levels
• We improved our online self-service functionality, most 
notably around our client payments system, which was the 
subject of 40% of all client email communications in 2013. 
The new system enables complete client self-service
• We introduced a client development scheme, offering 
personal account management and enhanced support to 
clients with the desire and potential to be active traders
We consistently monitor response times to ensure our 
customer service remains industry-leading. This year:
• Average speed of dealing and client services calls 
remained within ten seconds
• Over 90% of emails were answered within 24 hours
• We developed a dedicated social media  
response strategy
We were also ranked joint first in an IPSOS mystery-shopper 
exercise involving UK spread betting providers, with the 
survey also providing very useful insights into the areas 
where we have further room for improvement. Meanwhile, 
our service was rated as ‘good’ or ‘very good’ by 89% of 
spread bettors and 88% of CFD traders who responded to 
independently conducted satisfaction surveys.
(1)
(1)  Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, December 2013.
Our Strategy in Action | Strategic Report 24 25 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs )
Below are the nine key metrics which we judge to be strong 
indicators of our recent financial and operational performance 
and our progress on delivering the strategic goals of the business. 
Certain of these indicators are also used to determine the 
Executive Director and staff share-plan awards or vesting and 
the level of staff discretionary pay. The links to remuneration are 
detailed, where appropriate, for each KPI.
NET PROMOTER SCORE (NPS)
To better understand how well we deliver quality service to our clients, we use NPS, as well as other measures of 
satisfaction, to assess the extent of client recommendations. Over the last year we have seen improvements in Germany 
and France and, while our absolute score has fallen across other markets, we have maintained our ranking and compare 
very favourably against the industry average. This measure is one of a suite of non-financial indicators used to determine 
share-plan and bonus awards – an assessment is provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
IG’s most
recent NPS
Industry
average
6%
21%
UK SPREAD BETTING
IG’s most
recent NPS
Industry
average
-10%
12%
AUSTRALIA
IG’s most
recent NPS
Industry
average
1%
17%
UK CFDS
IG’s most
recent NPS
Industry
average
-4%
16%
GERMANY
IG’s most
recent NPS
Industry
average
-23%
-13%
SINGAPORE
IG’s most
recent NPS
Industry
average
-6%
17%
FRANCE
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (DEPS)
DEPS includes all components of the Group’s performance based 
on profitability and capital structure. The award or vesting of our 
new Executive Director and senior staff share plans is partially with 
reference to DEPS. DEPS increased by 3.6% over the prior year, 
reflecting growth in after-tax profitability.
3.6%
38.80p
40.18p
FY13
FY14
REVENUE 
Revenue performance demonstrates business growth in terms of 
global reach, active clients and revenue per client, and is also a driver 
of the staff bonus pool. Revenue grew by 2.4% in the year, against the 
backdrop of relatively subdued financial markets. An assessment of 
our performance is provided in the Operating and Financial Reviews.
2.4%
FY13
FY14
£361.9m
£370.4m
REVENUE PER CLIENT 
Revenue per client is calculated as total revenue divided by the 
number of active clients in the period, and is a measure of client 
activity and quality. Revenue per client increased by 10.4% in the 
year, partly due to the deliberate decision to de-emphasise clients 
with the very lowest levels of trading activity.
10.4%
£2,659
£2,937
FY13
FY14
ACTIVE CLIENTS 
Active clients are those clients who have opened at least one trade in 
the period. The reduction in active clients in the year again primarily 
reflects the deliberate decision to de-emphasise clients with the very 
lowest levels of trading activity.
7.3%
FY13
FY14
136,100
126,100
PROFIT BEFORE TAX (PBT) 
The increase in PBT in the year demonstrates both the top-line 
growth of our business and effective cost management. The vesting 
of legacy share plans is partly with reference to the growth in PBT 
over a three-year period. A detailed commentary on our PBT 
performance is provided in the Operating and Financial Reviews.
1.3%
£192.2m
£194.7m
FY13
FY14
OWN FUNDS GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
High profit-to-cash conversion gives us strong liquidity and supports 
our robust risk-management strategy and our dividend payment. 
Maintaining a high level of cash generation, after the required 
investment, is key to delivering strong shareholder returns. A detailed 
commentary is provided in the Operating and Financial Reviews.
4.1%
£154.3m
£160.6m
FY13
FY14
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
Progressive returns to shareholders reflect the strength of our business, 
our capital position and our expectations of future performance. This 
year we raised our dividend payout policy to be approximately 70% of 
profit after tax, as described in the Chairman’s Statement. As a result, 
our total dividend increased by 21.1% over the prior year.
23.25p
28.15p
FY13
FY14
PLATFORM UPTIME
The availability of the dealing platform is key to our clients’ confidence in 
trading with IG. Reliability has been strong in the current year, with both 
our internal and regulatory targets exceeded. This measure is one of a 
suite of non-financial indicators used to determine share-plan and bonus 
awards – an assessment is provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
FY13
FY14
99.95%
99.97%
21.1%
NPS is calculated by asking respondents: ‘How likely are you to recommend this company to a friend or colleague?’ 
Respondents reply on a 0-10 scale, with the final NPS calculated as the percentage of promoters (those answering 9 or 10) 
minus the percentage of detractors (those answering 0-6).
0.02%
| Strategic Report 26 27 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Corporate Social Responsibility Report
event, sharing their leadership stories and providing an 
opportunity for those attending to discuss future IG strategy. 
By the end of the 2015 financial year, we expect all of our 
managers to have participated in a leadership programme 
and to have benefited from ongoing 360° feedback and 
coaching and development conversations with their line 
manager. As of May 2014, 90% of our more senior managers 
have attended a workshop, and by the end of October 2014, 
60% of our more junior managers will have attended.
TALENT MANAGEMENT 
Retention of talent can be challenging in companies with 
relatively flat organisational structures, and we recognise  
the importance of encouraging people to grow and  
stretch themselves in roles that have limited scope for 
vertical movement. 
We have career pathways and associated competency 
frameworks in place for key areas of the business. These 
frameworks describe what is needed for exceptional 
performance in each role and provide space for individuals 
to strengthen their performance in readiness for future 
horizontal or vertical moves. We also have a mentoring 
programme to motivate and develop the careers of 
employees with high potential. This provides insight into 
IG’s operations and support from members of the senior 
management team, thereby strengthening the talent pool. 
We encourage members of this pool to act as mentors to 
more junior staff.
To attract new, high-calibre staff, we offer three graduate 
schemes, in IT, operations and finance. Graduates joining 
the IT and operations schemes follow a 12-month training 
plan before we assign them to a permanent position. The 
finance scheme is longer-term, aiming to train graduates as 
qualified accountants within the team. Graduates joining 
IG benefit from the support of a business mentor, access 
to cross-business placements, structured training plans 
and reviews, which fast-track their development to first-role 
competence in their chosen area. 
DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY
We are committed to maintaining a diverse workforce at 
all levels of the Group. We believe that diversity is a broad 
issue, encompassing variations in an individual’s experience, 
skills, personal attributes and background, as well as more 
traditional diversity factors such as religion and gender. Our 
total employee gender breakdown is shown to the right. 
In terms of gender, our workforce is made up as follows:
Male
Female
Percentage female: 11%
8
1
BOARD
Male
Female
Percentage female: 22%
7
2
STRATEGIC
MANAGEMENT
TEAM
(1)
Male
Female
Percentage female: 13%
21
3
SENIOR
MANAGEMENT
TEAM
(2)
Male
Female
Percentage female: 36%
823
297
TEAM
MEMBERS
Male
Female
Percentage female: 35%
852
301
TOTAL
OUR PEOPLE 
The Group provides a dynamic and successful working 
environment for over 1,100 employees, located around 
the world. We believe strongly that our people take pride 
in what we have achieved and have a powerful sense of 
belonging to IG Group. 
We appreciate that the quality of our employees is crucial 
to our success, and we offer competitive packages to 
recognise past performance and retain key talent in the 
future. We pay performance-related bonuses to most 
staff, and we reward our key personnel through long-term 
incentive plans. All our people based in the UK, Australia 
and the US have the opportunity to acquire shares under 
various tax-authority-approved share-incentive plans.
We also provide a full range of appropriate benefits, 
including pension contributions. In the UK, we contribute 
up to 10% of an employee’s basic salary to their pension, 
provided the employee contributes 5% of their salary. If they 
choose to contribute less than 5%, we will contribute double 
the individual rate. We successfully introduced pension 
’auto-enrolment’ within the UK, on the planned staging date 
of 1 November 2013, as part of the government’s Workplace 
Pensions reform, and we have over 95% participation in our 
Group pension schemes.
LEADERSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
We continually invest in developing our employees 
worldwide, improving the quality of learning opportunities 
and encouraging our people to progress within the 
business. This year we launched an online learning and 
policy-management system, which has improved access 
to and recording of development activities in all of our 
offices. It has also given us the opportunity to share ’Views 
from the Bridge‘ – videos featuring members of the senior 
management team which aim to ensure that our key 
leadership messages reach all of our people globally. 
We support our staff in their continuing personal and 
professional training and development, and encourage 
attendance at external and industry-recognised training 
courses, sponsoring our people to undertake formal 
education programmes and achieve professional 
qualifications. We also offer internal secondments.
We have made significant progress in terms of articulating 
our vision and strategy for the future, as well as ensuring 
that we are building a strong group of managers equipped 
with the skills and behaviours to lead IG forward. 
This year, we developed a set 
of leadership behaviours for our 
managers, focusing on four core 
principles: communicating with others, 
leading by example, developing people 
and being passionate about results.
These behaviours now form an intrinsic part of our 
managers’ performance and are embedded into the 
appraisal process. 
To support our managers in their continued development, 
we have introduced a structured leadership programme. 
From Board level to middle-management, our managers 
participate in an Inspirational Development programme 
which focuses on the outcomes of 360° feedback and the 
behaviours associated with generating high performance. 
Our more junior managers attend a Transition to Leadership 
programme, which specifically targets the process of 
developing from a technical specialist to a leader of people. 
Learning from these workshops is further embedded 
through coaching triads, networking events and 
reinforcement by senior managers. Senior IG managers 
continue to demonstrate their commitment to the 
programmes by acting as guest speakers at each 
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
We are committed to high standards of corporate 
responsibility, and we recognise that having a  
long-term strategy which develops our people is  
one of the keys to our success, supporting our 
reputation within the financial services industry.
(1)  The strategic management team is defined as the employees responsible 
for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
(2)  The senior management team is defined as the strategic management 
team plus the Directors of the subsidiary companies included in the 
consolidated Financial Statements.
| Strategic Report 28 29 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
COMMITMENT TO OUR CUSTOMERS
We aim to put our customers at the heart of everything 
we do, and we strive to ensure that we consistently deliver 
a beneficial service for our clients. The Group has a very 
low tolerance for poor consumer outcomes, and we are 
committed to investing in process, training and culture to 
prevent unsatisfactory customer experiences. We maintain 
this policy even when it may have a negative impact on our 
own revenue or costs. 
We ensure that commitment to our customers is embedded 
in our culture, and we regularly seek feedback from our 
clients. This enables us to develop our products and 
services specifically to meet the needs of active  
traders globally. 
Central to our commitment to our customers is the quality 
of our order execution. We offer near-instantaneous 
execution, with around 99.6% of client orders accepted 
automatically. We never requote prices and, outside our 
set margin of tolerance, our innovative price-improvement 
technology enables customers to receive a better price if 
one becomes available as a trade is executed.
CLIENT SUPPORT AND EDUCATION
We offer extensive educational resources for clients, 
including an introduction programme for new clients  
that promotes responsible trading, and a wide range of  
in-person client seminars and webinars.
We also provide an extensive range of trading tools, such as 
regular free news, commentary and analysis via the Market 
Insight section of our website. We offer charting packages 
and various technical analysis tools that enable our clients 
to screen markets for trading opportunities and to receive 
alerts when trading signals appear.
CLIENT APPROPRIATENESS
Our products are not suitable for everyone. For this reason, 
we have a number of procedures to ensure that our 
marketing reaches the right audience and that our clients 
understand how our services work.
We follow strict guidelines to ensure that we only promote 
our products to appropriate sectors and demographic 
groups. We also conduct rigorous checks to ensure that 
any promotion is clear, fair and not misleading, and that 
it contains a balanced description of risks alongside the 
benefits of our products. 
Before we allow a prospective client to open an account, 
we undertake an assessment to determine whether our 
products are appropriate or suitable for them. This involves 
asking about their trading knowledge and experience, as 
well as their income and savings. Based on the results of this 
assessment, we may choose to provide the applicant with 
a warning about the appropriateness of the product, or we 
may decline to open an account.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CONTINUED)
We are also an equal opportunities employer, and we have 
extensive human resource policies in place to ensure that 
our people can expect to work in an environment free from 
discrimination and harassment.
For this reason, we continuously reinforce the need to treat 
all employees fairly. We are committed to creating a work 
environment free from bullying, where everyone is treated 
with dignity and respect.
We give full consideration to applications for employment 
from disabled persons, where the candidate’s aptitudes and 
abilities are consistent with meeting the requirements of the 
job. Where existing employees become disabled, whether 
on a temporary or permanent basis, it is our policy to 
provide continuing employment wherever practicable in the 
same or an alternative position, and to provide appropriate 
training and/or graduated back-to-work programmes to 
achieve this aim.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
This year we partnered with IBM to deliver our Employee 
Engagement Survey, enabling us to benchmark our results 
against global and local standards for high-performing 
organisations and the finance sector. The data has 
been invaluable in helping us to plan appropriate local 
engagement strategies for countries which culturally score 
differently to the UK.
This year, 80-85% of employees  
who completed our engagement 
survey agreed that team spirit, 
outstanding vision of the future 
and trust in senior leadership were 
strengths for IG, all scoring above 
external global benchmarks.
We continue to work on communication lines, enhancing 
development opportunities and improving managers’ skills 
in providing feedback and recognising performance. 
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
We take pride in being an open, non-hierarchical 
organisation, with direct and open access among all teams 
and at all levels. The Chief Executive Officer addresses all 
employees every six months, at the half-year and full-year 
points, and presents the Group’s financial results, business 
updates and plans for the future. He and other members of 
senior management maintain a schedule of overseas office 
visits and take these opportunities to address each local 
employee audience. 
Our people participate directly in the success of the 
business through the Group’s performance-related bonus 
schemes and employee share plans. Bonus payments 
are based on a communal pool driven by the overall 
performance of the Group, and this pool covers around 90% 
of our employees, with the rest covered by Remuneration 
Committee-approved sales-incentives schemes. In addition, 
over 35% of eligible employees take part in our HMRC-
approved share-incentive plan. 
TOP EMPLOYER
Our positive workplace culture continues to be recognised, 
as IG celebrates being named as one of Britain’s Top 
Employers for the seventh year running in 2014. 
The Top Employer certification is awarded only to 
organisations that meet the highest standards in human 
resource management, and we are very proud to be a long-
standing recipient. The award, by the Corporate Research 
Foundation, is based on a strong performance in each 
of the audited categories: pay and benefits, training and 
development, corporate culture and career development. 
SOCIETY AND EMPLOYEE SPONSORSHIP
We are keen to encourage our people to engage in 
activities that both help their own development and support 
local communities, so we are proud to support a wide 
variety of different charities that are close to our employees’ 
hearts. We match any funds our employees have raised for 
sponsored events. 
To make the most of charitable donations, we continue 
to work with the Charities Aid Foundation, allowing 
our employees to operate a charity fund and make 
contributions to selected charities from gross earnings, 
directly from their monthly pay.
Not only do we support charities with gifts of money, 
but also by providing time and resources. Our absence-
management policy offers the opportunity for our people to 
take up voluntary work, for which we grant additional leave 
on a like-for-like basis up to a maximum of five matched 
days per annual leave year.
We have a volunteering scheme with Beanstalk, a national 
registered charity with 17 regional branches that gives one-
to-one literacy support to children in primary schools in the 
most deprived areas of England. Reading helpers volunteer 
once a week for an hour, and commit for a minimum of one 
year to work with the same children each week.
In 2014, we signed up to be a member of City Action, a 
partnership scheme which enables City-based businesses 
to share skills with community organisations and social 
enterprises, in the City and neighbouring boroughs, 
through volunteering.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
We believe that our employees are one of our most 
valuable assets, and we are committed to providing each 
employee with a safe and healthy working environment. 
Health and safety is an integral part of our business, and by 
providing key members of staff with the relevant external 
training, and all other staff with appropriate in-house 
training, we ensure that we comply with all statutory health 
and safety requirements. 
WELLBEING
We are fully committed to our employees’ health and 
wellbeing, and the benefits we provide to all employees 
include private medical cover, permanent health insurance 
and life assurance. 
To help our people enjoy healthy lifestyles, we reimburse 
50% of the costs of employees’ annual gym subscriptions, 
up to a specified amount, on a global basis. We also 
support cycling, and we offer our staff savings on bicycles 
under the government-backed cycle-to-work initiative, 
as well as providing free-of-charge bicycle parking at our 
London office.
We support our employees’ wellbeing by providing a 
confidential employee assistance programme, which offers 
a 24/7 telephone counselling service to all our European 
office employees and their immediate families. Our people 
can use this service for impartial advice on all matters, from 
housing to personal finance.
SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS
We recognise the fundamental importance of having a 
reputation for transparency and quality in the financial 
services industry, and commitment to these values is a 
cornerstone of our success. We apply high standards  
across our businesses, and specifically in our corporate 
governance – as set out in the Corporate Governance 
Report and the statement by the Directors in compliance 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Our commitment to the principles of transparency and 
quality is embodied in each of the following service 
offerings and behaviours.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Strategic Report 30 31 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Purchased energy
Combustion
Operation of facilities
EMISSION CATEGORY
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
As a business which conducts nearly all of its client trades 
online and undertakes no industrial activities, we do not see 
ourselves as a significant emitter of environmentally harmful 
substances. However, we are mindful of the impact that our 
operations have on the surrounding environment and take 
several steps to manage this.
Our greatest environmental impact comes from the running 
and maintenance of our IT infrastructure, which supports 
our award-winning platform and ensures we are able to 
consistently maintain our high level of platform uptime. 
Powering and cooling our datacentres results in the majority 
of our power usage – as well as our energy costs. As such, 
we update our hardware and software as appropriate to 
save money and energy.
During the year we made a number 
of energy savings in our datacentres, 
including applying virtualisation 
technologies to our existing 
infrastructure and upgrading our 
uninterruptible power supply to lower 
electricity consumption. 
This year we replaced a number of our rack servers with 
new blade technology. This has allowed us to integrate 
power and cooling technologies across the server estate 
and provides a considerable saving in energy and costs. 
We recycled the legacy hardware in accordance with our 
internal recycling policy, ensuring that any data was securely 
destroyed before recycling the remaining components.
After our datacentres, our global offices are the next-largest 
users of energy. We implement a number of energy-saving 
processes, and we are committed to a far-reaching recycling 
policy. This encompasses not only a proportion of our daily 
office waste, but also extends to our IT equipment when 
we replace hardware. Our head office building, where 
more than half of our employees are based, is also ISO 
14001 certified, and we complement this environmental-
management system with our own sensor-lighting to reduce 
our energy use.
A further environmental challenge is presented by the 
need for our people to travel between our headquarters 
and our global offices to provide local support for staff and 
clients. We have taken steps to minimise the need for these 
journeys by installing state-of-the-art video-conferencing 
equipment in seven of our global offices.
We provide emissions data in respect of the financial year 
ending 31 May 2014 in the Mandatory Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Report and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity 
Ratio tables to the right. In the tables, Scope 1 emissions 
are those incurred in air conditioning our offices and 
running back-up generators for our servers, while Scope 2 
emissions are purchased energy such as electricity. For the 
most significant sources of energy consumption discussed 
above, we purchase electricity via our landlords. 
BASIS OF PREPARATION
• Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated on the basis 
of financial control, with the emissions data included for 
the companies consolidated in the Financial Statements, 
noting the Statement of Exclusions given below
• We have based our methodology on the principles of the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol
• We have reported on all the measured emissions sources 
required under The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013, except 
those noted in the Statement of Exclusions 
• This includes emissions under Scope 1 and 2, except 
those noted in the Statement of Exclusions, but excludes 
any emissions from Scope 3
• Conversion factors for electricity, gas and other emissions 
are those published by the Department for Environment, 
Food and Rural Affairs for 2013-14
Statement of Exclusions
• Global diesel use (for vehicles) has been excluded from 
the report on the basis that it is wholly immaterial to our 
carbon footprint
• We have restricted the scope of reporting for our fugitive 
emissions to the United Kingdom only, and these are 
shown in our Scope 1: operation of facilities emissions. 
Other regions have been excluded due to lack of data  
or immateriality
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT (CONTINUED)
Electricity
Gas
Diesel
F-gas
EMISSION SOURCE
Emission type
Tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent 
(tCO
2
e)
Scope 1: operation of facilities 166
Scope 1: combustion 239
Total Scope 1 emissions 405
Scope 2: purchased energy 3,542
Total Scope 2 emissions 3,542
Total emissions 3,947
MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS  
EMISSIONS REPORT
Total footprint (Scope 1  
and Scope 2) – tCO 2e 3,947
Turnover (£m) 370.4
Intensity ratio (tCO
2
e/£m)
10.66
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INTENSITY RATIO
LIMITING CLIENT LOSSES
We have a number of services designed to help limit  
client losses. 
Our clients can choose to attach 
guaranteed stops to their positions, so 
that they know their maximum possible 
loss at the outset of the trade.
Our close-out monitor (COM), which automatically liquidates 
clients’ positions when their margin has been significantly 
eroded, also aims to restrict our clients’ potential losses. At 
31 May 2014, 99.81% of all client accounts were subject to 
the automatic COM procedure. Further details are set out in 
note 36 to the Financial Statements.
PROTECTING OUR CLIENTS’ DATA AND FUNDS
We prioritise the security of our clients’ information and have 
achieved the ISO 27001 certificate for Information Security. 
We fully segregate all funds for individuals, whether we are 
required to by regulation or not, and we hold segregated 
client money entirely separately from our own money. This 
ensures that, in the event of our default, client funds would 
be returned to the clients rather than being treated as a 
recoverable asset by our general creditors. 
We continue to engage PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to 
conduct ongoing independent reviews of our controls and 
procedures for client money calculation and segregation 
(ISAE 3000). In committing to this review process, we have 
taken an additional step, over and above standard audit 
checks and our regulators’ reporting requirements. This 
reflects our dedication to keeping our clients’ funds secure 
and delivering beneficial outcomes for customers. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Report | Strategic Report 32 33 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Chief Financial Officer’s Review
Net trading revenue for the year was up 2.4% at  
£370.4 million (2013: £361.9 million). Although financial 
markets were quite subdued, revenue was well ahead for 
most of the year. A particularly dull period externally then 
drove a relatively weak finish in the final quarter, against 
exceptional revenue performance in the same quarter of 
the prior year. As has been traditional, revenue was slightly 
higher in the second half of the year than the first, although 
unusually the first and third quarters were the strongest, 
reflecting the fact that financial markets were slightly more 
interesting in these periods.
Across the Group, active client numbers were down  
by 7.3% in the year, at 126,100, and average revenue 
per client was up by 10.4% at £2,937. This reflected IG’s 
consistent focus on active traders, with some specific 
measures taken late in the 2013 financial year to  
de-emphasise clients with the very lowest levels of  
trading activity.
Net operating income was up by 1.7%, as the drop in the 
betting duty charge for the year was more than offset by 
lower interest received on client money balances, due 
primarily to the fall in interest rates in Australia over the 
last year. Administrative costs of £178.9 million were up 
by 1.7% in the year (2013: £176.0 million), due mainly 
to investment in additional staff to support various 
ongoing growth initiatives, such as the launch of an 
execution-only stockbroking service, the set up of a new 
office in Switzerland and an increasing emphasis on the 
development of mobile applications. This resulted in an 
increase in profit before tax of 1.3%, to £194.7 million  
(2013: £192.2 million).
Diluted earnings per share were up by 3.6% to 40.18 pence, 
benefiting from a lower Group tax rate, down from 26.3% 
in the prior year to 24.5%, due mainly to the fall in the UK 
Corporation Tax rate.
IG continues to be a highly cash-generative business, which 
allows for both investment in strategic growth initiatives 
and a progressive dividend policy. With this in mind, the 
Board is proposing to increase the ordinary dividend payout 
ratio to approximately 70%, from the current level of 60%, 
with effect from the 2014 financial year, while retaining a 
progressive dividend policy in the future. 
Simultaneously, the Board will adopt a new policy of paying 
the interim dividend each year, calculated at approximately 
30% of the prior year’s full-year dividend. The Board has 
recommended a final ordinary dividend of 22.40 pence, 
taking the full-year ordinary dividend per share to  
28.15 pence, up by 21.1%, and representing 70.1% of 
diluted earnings per share; this reflects both the growth in 
earnings in the year and the enhancement to our ordinary 
dividend policy.
REVENUE
2.4%
Our revenue was  
£370.4 million, up 2.4% on  
the prior year
PROFIT  
BEFORE TAX
1.3%
Profit before tax was  
£194.7 million, up 1.3%  
year-on-year
DILUTED  
EARNINGS  
PER SHARE
3.6%
Increasing to 40.18 pence, 
our diluted EPS was up 
3.6% compared to the 2013 
financial year
DIVIDEND  
PER SHARE
21.1%
Our total ordinary dividend 
per share was 28.15 pence, 
representing approximately 
70% of Group earnings
OPERATING REVIEW
FY14 FY13
Revenue
(£m)
Active clients 
(000s)
Revenue 
(£m)
Active clients 
(000s)
% change in revenue  
per client from FY13
(1)
UK 192.7 59.3 186.5 68.3 19.1%
Australia 52.2 18.0 56.3 19.0 (2.2%)
Europe 82.1 26.0 71.0 24.6 9.5%
Rest of World 43.4 22.8 48.1 24.2 (4.4%)
Total 370.4 126.1 361.9 136.1 10.4%
(1) Calculated on the underlying, unrounded numbers.
UK
The UK segment comprised the offices in London and Dublin. Net trading revenue in the UK was 3.3% ahead of the prior 
year at £192.7 million (2013: £186.5 million). The revenue proportion delivered in the two halves was very similar to that of 
the overall Group, with a slightly stronger second-half performance, driven by a good third quarter.
Active client numbers were down by 13.2% in the year, while average revenue per client was up by 19.1%. While the 
uncertain economic backdrop continued to make client recruitment challenging, the fall in client numbers was primarily a 
function of management actions to de-emphasise clients with the very lowest levels of trading activity, including raising the 
minimum deposit level to £100.
An annual study of the UK’s retail leveraged-trading industry, released towards the end of 2013, showed that IG’s market 
share of spread bettors had fallen from 44% to 41% and our share of CFD traders had risen from 32% to 34%.
 
Although IG  
is still the clear market leader in both categories, with the second-placed providers in each category holding shares of 6% 
and 7% respectively, the precise numerical conclusions are increasingly less relevant in the context of our focus on active 
retail traders, who generate a more significant share of revenue. Inevitably, our focus in this regard contributed to a fall in  
the overall size of the market from 104,000 to 93,000.
We have now completed the technology development and internal testing that enable us to offer our execution-only 
stockbroking service as part of our comprehensive share-trading package in the UK. In July, we began an external pilot 
programme within our UK client base, with the aim of carrying out a full UK launch in September 2014.
AUSTRALIA
The Australia segment comprised the Melbourne office and revenue from New Zealand and other countries in the Asia 
Pacific region. In Australia, net trading revenue for the year was down by 7.3% to £52.2 million (2013: £56.3 million). Active 
client numbers in the year were down by 5.1%, and average revenue per client was down by 2.2%.
Our business in Australia continued to experience some weakness for several reasons. Consumer sentiment remains 
subdued, with the Australian economy lagging most global regions and entering a recessionary phase later in the cycle. Our 
results were also softened by the extremely low levels of volatility in the forex market, which had a negative impact on client 
  ‘IG continues to be a highly 
cash-generative business, which 
allows for both investment in 
strategic growth initiatives and a 
progressive dividend policy.’
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER’S REVIEW
| Strategic Report 34 35 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER’S REVIEW (CONTINUED)
IG’s share has increased slightly to 13%, after two years of 
small declines. We have maintained second place in the 
market and closed the gap on the market leader by six 
percentage points.
REST OF WORLD
The Rest of World segment comprised the offices in 
Singapore, Japan and South Africa and our retail exchange, 
Nadex, in the US. Net trading revenue in the Rest of World 
region was 9.8% behind the prior year, at £43.4 million 
(2013: £48.1 million).
Singapore revenue was behind by 10.3%, predominantly 
due to a fall in average revenue per client, which was 
down 4.9%. Revenue in Singapore is traditionally weighted 
towards forex trading, and the sustained period of low 
volatility in this asset class negatively impacted our 
performance in the year. For some time, an industry-wide 
group in Singapore has been designing an e-learning 
module that will help new traders gain an appropriate level 
of knowledge to begin trading. Following approval by the 
regulator, this module was launched at the start of July and 
should assist with the flow of new clients to CFD trading. As 
previously discussed, we continue to expect that leverage 
restrictions will be applied to retail forex trading in 2015.
In Japan, net trading revenue was down by 23.4% to  
£12.2 million (2013: £15.9 million). The majority of our 
Japanese revenue comes from forex trading, and this 
year volatility in this asset type was unusually low. This 
compares to the prior year, which finished particularly 
strongly following a shift in economic policy that caused 
considerable volatility in the yen. The new regulations 
surrounding binaries came into force on 1 December 2013, 
restricting the range of products from our main competitors 
and enabling us to increase our range. Consequently, we 
experienced an almost instantaneous uplift in market share 
and volumes in this product. The regulations also placed 
restrictions on new binary traders, in the form of an online 
test; it is too early to assess how impactful this will be to the 
flow of new binary traders.
South Africa had another strong year, with revenue ahead 
by 12.2% to £5.1 million (2013: £4.6 million). Results here 
continue to be constrained by the weakness of the South 
African Rand and the ongoing exchange controls, which 
prevent easy access to overseas-quoted instruments.
In the US, revenue was ahead by 54.6% at £3.1 million  
(2013: £2.0 million). Nadex volumes reached another record, 
with 2,927,000 lots traded in the year, against 1,623,000 in 
the prior year. Monthly client numbers peaked in April at 
around 2,200, up from around 1,300 at the same time in 
the prior year. Towards the end of the fourth quarter, two 
new market makers joined the exchange, one of which has 
been consistently providing additional liquidity for the last 
couple of months. Over time this should have the effect of 
decreasing spreads and increasing available liquidity on the 
traded contracts.
FACTORS IMPACTING NET  
TRADING REVENUE
DISTRIBUTION OF DAILY REVENUE
The tight distribution of our daily revenue during the year 
is illustrated in the chart below. The absence of proprietary 
trading in IG and the hedged nature of the business  
model – ie hedging with third parties to cover the residual 
risk above preset limits – tends to deliver a more stable 
revenue stream, irrespective of the direction of underlying 
market movements. Management regularly reviews the 
exposure limits on all traded products in order to maximise 
returns within an appropriate risk-control environment.
FY14 REVENUE DISTRIBUTION
18
21
24
15
12
9
6
3
1.0 0.5 0 1.5 2.5 2.0 3.0
Count of days
Revenue (£m)
ASSET MIX
IG has consistently benefited from the broad range of assets 
it enables clients to trade, resulting in a more stable revenue 
stream in different market conditions. This year we derived 
47% of our revenue from clients trading indices (2013: 46%) 
and had a strong year in shares trading, delivering 20% of 
Group revenue (2013: 18%). Our weakest asset type year-
on-year was forex, and this was a common theme across the 
global trading industry, particularly in the final quarter of the 
financial year. Client forex trading delivered 20% of Group 
revenue, down from 24% in the prior year. The remaining 
13% of net trading revenue came from clients trading 
binaries and commodities (2013: 12%).
REVENUE BY PRODUCT
60
50
40
30
20
10
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
FY13 FY14
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Revenue (£m)
Equity indices Commodities Forex Binaries Shares
trading activity in this asset type – Australia gleans a larger 
proportion of its revenue from forex trading than the UK 
and Europe. The ongoing weakness in the Australian dollar 
also resulted in a negative translation impact, as much of 
the local revenue is dollar-denominated.
During the year, an annual market-research study concluded 
that IG had grown its market share of the retail CFD 
industry by one percentage point to 38% and extended 
its leadership over the second-largest provider by four 
percentage points. In the same time period, the market size 
dropped from 44,000 participants to 41,000.
EUROPE
The Europe segment comprised the German, French, Italian, 
Spanish, Dutch, Luxembourg, Swedish and Norwegian offices. 
Although still weak in absolute terms, the European economy 
is showing signs of improvement, and this has positively 
impacted the performance of our European business. Net 
trading revenue in Europe for the year was up by 15.6% at 
£82.1 million (2013: £71.0 million), with strong growth in both 
the number of clients trading, up 5.6%, and average revenue 
per client, up 9.5%. There was strong performance from the 
two countries with the greatest revenue, Germany and France, 
which were ahead by 19.8% and 15.0% respectively. The 
European segment accounted for 22.2% of Group revenue in 
the period, against 19.6% in the prior year.
An annual market-research report into the French retail 
CFD market was published in April 2014. It concluded that 
IG had retained its market leadership, with a stable market 
share of 22%, after a small decline in the prior year. It also 
showed that our share of the forex market had increased to 
11%. Shortly after the end of the financial year, an equivalent 
study for Germany was published. Encouragingly, it showed 
 REVENUE AND ACTIVE CLIENTS BY MONTH
30
35
40
45
25
20
15
10
5
50
60
70
80
90
40
30
20
10
Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
2013/2014
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May
2012/2013
Revenue (£m) Clients (000s)
Revenue Clients
Chief Financial Officer’s Review | Strategic Report 36 37 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
Administrative expenses, as detailed below, increased by 
£2.9 million to £178.9 million (2013: £176.0 million). 
Over the year, the Group continued to invest in longer-
term projects to broaden its offering to active traders 
through a stockbroking offering, extending its technological 
lead – particularly in the mobile sphere – and expanding 
geographically. As a result, both headcount and the 
associated costs have increased, reflected in the higher 
employee remuneration costs. Additionally, performance-
related remuneration has increased following the improved 
relative revenue and EPS performance for the year.
2014
£000
2013 
£000
Employee remuneration costs 89,255 86,276
Advertising and marketing 31,660 32,558
Premises-related costs 9,973 10,164
IT, market data and 
communications 13,800 12,211
Legal and professional 4,266 4,772
Regulatory fees 5,544 6,394
Bad and doubtful debts 1,614 (348)
Other costs 13,103 11,787
Depreciation and amortisation 9,697 12,166
Administrative expenses 178,912 175,980
EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION COSTS
Employee remuneration costs increased by 3.5% to  
£89.3 million (2013: £86.3 million) in the year. 
The investment in headcount during the year brought the 
year-end employee number to 1,153 (2013: 1,009) and the 
average headcount for the year to 1,070 (2013: 1,005). Total 
salary costs, however, show an increase of only 2.7% as a 
change in the staff mix has brought the average salary down 
by 2.8%.
The sustained performance plan (SPP) introduced during 
the year replaced both the annual bonus and the long-
term share schemes for the Executive Directors. Therefore, 
a direct individual comparison of year-on-year bonus and 
share schemes costs respectively is inappropriate.
The £2.6 million aggregated increase in performance-
related bonuses and share-based payment schemes 
charges reflects both the re-alignment of executive 
remuneration, as discussed in the Remuneration Report, 
and higher staff bonus payments in line with the improved 
year-on-year performance.
Inclusive of National Insurance and pension costs, employee 
remuneration costs comprise:
2014
£000
2013 
£000
Total salaries 64,987 63,306
Performance-related bonuses  
and commissions 17,191 17,304
Share schemes 7,077 4,414
Redundancy programme costs – 1,252
Employee remuneration costs 89,255 86,276
Investment in IT development resource continued 
throughout the year to assist the Group in achieving 
its strategic priorities. The overseas IT and marketing 
development team in particular has grown, with a new 
office in Eastern Europe, allowing the Group to focus on 
the development of mobile apps, which could improve the 
recruitment and conversion of new clients. At 31 May 2014 
year-end, IT headcount was 497 (2013: 411), an increase of 
almost 21% over the level at the prior year-end.
ADVERTISING AND MARKETING COSTS
Advertising and marketing costs decreased by £0.9 million  
to £31.7 million (2013: £32.6 million) during the year. The  
prior year included £1.1 million in relation to the IG brand  
re-launch, thus marketing costs are relatively flat year on year.
During 2014 the Group completed the migration to the 
IG.com domain. During the transition process the Group 
increased its spending on pay-per-click advertising in order 
to maintain its online visibility.
The main marketing campaigns run in the year focused on 
the Group’s forex trading opportunities, the live market-
insight offerings and its grey markets available in the days 
leading up to a number of high-profile IPOs. 
The Group has also made a significant change to its global 
sponsorship portfolio, replacing its cycling sponsorship with 
a three-year partnership with Harlequins Rugby Club.
OTHER EXPENSES
Premises-related costs are in line with the prior year at 
£10.0 million (2013: £10.2 million). The increase in costs in 
relation to the new offices established in Switzerland and 
Eastern Europe during the year has been mitigated by the 
downsizing of the office space in Japan, bringing this in line 
with current business needs. Furthermore, the office move 
in Melbourne completed in 2013 not only better located the 
business, but also resulted in lower premises costs.
IT, market data and communication costs include the cost 
of IT maintenance and short-term licence arrangements 
as well as market data fees from exchanges. The increase 
in costs from the prior year is due to a change in software 
agreements from perpetual licences to cloud software. 
This resulted in more items being expensed, rather than 
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER’S REVIEW (CONTINUED)
FINANCIAL REVIEW
SUMMARY GROUP INCOME STATEMENT
2014
£000
2013 
£000
% 
change
Net trading revenue
(1)
370,408 361,857 2.4%
Net interest on 
segregated client funds 5,500 8,188 (32.8%)
Betting duty and FTT (3,873) (5,204) (25.6%)
Other operating income 2,132 3,067 (30.5%)
Net operating income 374,167 367,908 1.7%
Administrative expenses (178,912) (175,980) 1.7%
Operating profit 195,255 191,928 1.7%
Net finance  
(expense) / income (532) 280 
Profit before tax 194,723 192,208 1.3%
Tax expense (47,688) (50,460) 
Profit for the year 147,035 141,748
Diluted earnings  
per share 40.18p 38.80p 3.6%
Total dividend per share 28.15p 23.25p 21.1%
(1)  Net trading revenue is trading revenue excluding interest on segregated 
client funds and is net of introductory partner commissions.
NET OPERATING INCOME 
As discussed earlier, net trading revenue has increased by 
2.4% to £370.4 million (2013: £361.9 million).
Net interest income on segregated client funds has 
decreased by £2.7 million to £5.5 million (2013: £8.2 million). 
This was driven by the decrease in the Australian base 
interest rate and the reduction in the margins paid by the 
UK banks on sterling client money deposits in response to 
Basel III.
Betting duties paid by the Group, in relation to net losses 
for spread betting clients, amounted to £3.5 million  
(2013: £5.2 million). The reduction of £1.7 million reflected 
the changes in client profitability over the two years.
The Italian Financial Transaction Tax, introduced in 2013, has 
added to the Group’s expenses for the year. During the year 
the Group made payments of £0.4 million (2013: £nil).
Other operating income includes income of  
£1.4 million (2013: £1.3 million) in relation to a revenue-
share arrangement with Spreadex Limited, following the 
sale of the Group’s Sport business client list in 2012. The 
agreement ended on 23 June 2014 and the income in the 
next financial year will be minimal. It also includes inactivity 
fees, amounting to £0.7 million (2013: £0.5 million), which 
the Group commenced charging in February 2013. These 
are applied to any account that has not traded for more 
than two years and has a positive account balance.
capitalised, and ultimately amortised. The corresponding 
cost reduction can also be seen in software amortisation. 
Legal and professional fees, which include audit, taxation, 
legal and other professional fees, decreased by £0.5 million 
to £4.3 million (2013: £4.8 million). 
Regulatory fees decreased by £0.9 million to £5.5 million. 
The reduction is primarily due to a lower Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme levy (‘FSCS levy’) incurred in the 
year, as the FCA decided to defer a potential £30 million 
interim levy on the investment intermediary firms. The FSCS 
levy for the year was £4.3 million (2013: £5.1 million). The 
level of FSCS levy paid by the Group remains dependent 
on investment intermediary firms’ failures and the eventual 
compensation paid. Accordingly, this charge is outside of 
the Group’s control and is hard to forecast accurately.
For the forthcoming financial year, following an amendment 
to the accounting requirements, the way in which the Group 
accounts for the FSCS levy will change. A full explanation 
is provided within note 40 to the Financial Statements. 
However, in summary this change will require the Group 
to recognise, in full, an estimate of the FSCS levy for the 
applicable year on 1 April each year, with comparative 
figures restated accordingly, with the result that there will be 
no explicit expense in the first half of the year. 
The Group also pays other regulatory fees to the FCA in the 
UK, as well as regulatory bodies in other jurisdictions where 
it operates. 
Provisions against bad and doubtful debts were £2.9 million 
(2013: £1.0 million) for the year and remain less than 1% of 
net trading revenue. The Group recovered £1.3 million of 
cash against previously provided debts, £0.1 million lower 
than last year, with legacy debt recoveries now largely dealt 
with. The management of credit risk is described in both the 
Managing Our Business Risk section of the Strategic Report 
and in note 36 to the Financial Statements.
Other costs include bank charges, training, travel, 
recruitment and irrecoverable sales taxes. The increase 
in other costs is primarily attributable to the increase in 
recruitment fees driven by the investment in headcount. 
Depreciation and amortisation decreased by £2.5 million to 
£9.7 million (2013: £12.2 million), partly due to the change 
in IT licence agreements from perpetual licences to cloud 
software mentioned earlier. 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review | Strategic Report 38 39 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER’S REVIEW (CONTINUED)
PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION
Profit before taxation grew 1.3% to £194.7 million  
(2013: £192.2 million). Profit before tax margin, calculated 
with reference to net trading revenue, decreased slightly to 
52.6% (2013: 53.1%). 
Profit before taxation is used as a primary measure of our 
underlying profitability, and the vesting of a proportion of 
the awards made under the Group’s value-sharing plan is 
calculated with reference to this measure. 
OPERATING PROFIT MARGINS
The Group uses operating profit margin, which includes 
an allocation of central costs, as an indicator of regional 
performance (refer to note 4 of the Financial Statements, 
Segment Information). 
Operating profit increased by 1.7% to £195.3 million  
(2013: £191.9 million). However, the Group operating profit 
margin (operating profit as a percentage of net trading 
revenue) decreased slightly to 52.7% (2013: 53.0%). 
The following table summarises operating profit margin  
by region:
Operating profit margin by region 2014 2013
UK 61.0% 59.1%
Australia 60.1% 65.0%
Europe 38.8% 37.5%
Rest of World 33.4% 38.5%
Group 52.7% 53.0%
UK and Europe increased their operating profit margins, 
as the revenue for both of these regions increased by 3.3% 
and 15.6% respectively. Despite the relatively high increase 
in the revenue for Europe, the operating profit margin only 
increased by 1.3%, as the operating costs for this region 
include the costs associated with establishing the new office 
in Switzerland, which is still to generate income. 
Australia and Rest of World regions, however, experienced a 
decrease in their revenue levels compared to the prior year 
primarily driven by the reduced volatility in the forex market, 
which negatively impacted on client trading activity, and 
therefore margin, as the majority of the revenue in these 
regions comes from forex trading. 
TAXATION EXPENSE
The effective rate of taxation for the year ended  
31 May 2014 decreased to 24.5%, compared to a rate 
of 26.3% for the prior year. The rate for the current year 
benefited from the reduction in the UK corporation tax  
rate to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014. However, as  
the proportion of profit in higher-tax-rate jurisdictions 
increases, this will apply upward pressure to the Group’s 
effective tax rate. 
The calculation of the Group’s tax charge involves a degree 
of estimation and judgment, in particular with respect 
to certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally 
determined until agreement has been reached with the 
relevant tax authority. Further detail is provided in note 10 
to the Financial Statements.
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
Diluted earnings per share increased by 3.6% to  
40.18 pence from 38.80 pence (for further detail please  
refer to note 11 of the Financial Statements). 
Diluted earnings per share are used as a primary measure 
of our underlying profitability and as a financial measure 
in relation to the new Executive Director and senior 
management share plans.
DIVIDEND POLICY
The Group continues to be a highly cash-generative 
business, which allows for both investment in strategic 
growth initiatives and a progressive dividend policy. 
With this in mind, the Board is proposing to increase the 
ordinary dividend payout ratio to approximately 70%, 
from the current level of 60%, with effect from the 2014 
financial year, while retaining a progressive dividend policy. 
Simultaneously, the Board will adopt a new policy of paying 
the interim dividend each year calculated at approximately 
30% of the prior year’s full-year dividend. The Board has 
recommended a final ordinary dividend of 22.40 pence, 
taking the full-year ordinary dividend per share to  
28.15 pence, up by 21.1% and representing 70.1% of  
diluted earnings per share; this reflects both the growth in 
earnings in the year and the enhancement to the ordinary 
dividend policy.
The Board will continue to monitor the capital structure of 
the business closely and allow sufficient headroom for the 
planned investment in growth initiatives, while retaining 
the ability to respond to any changes in the regulatory or 
financial environment.
SUMMARY GROUP CASH FLOW 
The following cash flow statement summarises the Group’s 
cash generation during the year and excludes all cash flows 
in relation to monies held on behalf of clients. In order to 
provide a clear presentation of the Group’s ‘cash’ assets, 
both amounts due from brokers and financial investments 
held in the Group’s liquid assets buffer have been treated as 
‘cash equivalents’ and included within ‘own funds’. For an 
explanation of the derivation of ‘own funds’, please refer to 
the table presented in the Own Funds section opposite. A 
more detailed version of the cash flow presented on page 
39 is provided in note 19 to the Financial Statements.
2014
£000
2013 
£000
Operating activities
Profit before tax 194,723 192,208
Depreciation and amortisation 9,697 12,166
Other non-cash adjustments 3,897 3,204
Income taxes paid (47,761) (53,247)
Own funds generated  
from operations
160,556 154,331
Movement in working capital (3,298) (12,038)
Outflow from investing and 
financing activities (96,815) (100,732)
Increase in own funds 60,443 41,561
Own funds at 1 June 429,291 388,221
Exchange losses on own funds (2,453) (491)
Own funds at 31 May 487,281 429,291
The year ending 31 May 2014 saw strong cash flow, where 
own funds generated from operations increased to  
£160.6 million (2013: £154.3 million). The cash conversion 
rate, calculated as own funds generated from operations 
divided by profit before tax, also increased to 82.4%  
(2013: 80.3%). 
‘Own funds’ increased by £60.4 million (2013: £41.6 million), 
after adjustments for movements in working capital 
balances and significant outflows in relation to investing  
and financing activities. The outflow from investing and 
financing activities includes £11.5 million in relation to 
capital expenditure (2013: £16.8 million) and £84.8 million  
(2013: £81.6 million) in relation to the final 2013 and interim 
2014 dividend payments. The Group made investments of 
£8.1 million on a combination of IT development, software 
assets and domain names (2013: £12.0 million). Cash 
investment in tangible fixed assets totalled £3.4 million  
and includes £2.5 million of spend on IT hardware and  
£0.7 million on the fit-out of newly leased offices. 
OWN FUNDS 
The Group’s liquid assets, as set out in the table on the 
right, comprise cash balances available to the Group for 
its own purposes and exclude all monies held on behalf of 
clients. Own funds are used in normal business operations 
as well as for the funding of broker margin requirements. 
Consequently, own funds are held either with the Group’s 
banking or broking counterparties. The Group is also 
entitled to use ‘title transfer funds’ in normal business 
operations and as broker margin. Title transfer funds are 
those held on behalf of corporate clients where the client 
agrees, under a Title Transfer Collateral Arrangement 
(TTCA), that full ownership of such monies is unconditionally 
transferred to the Group. 
Own funds include financial investments held in accordance 
with the BIPRU 12 liquidity standards and the Group’s 
regulatory oversight by the FCA. These assets comprise the 
Group’s ‘liquid assets buffer’ and are available to the Group 
in times of liquidity stress, and therefore are considered as 
available for the purposes of overall liquidity planning. Own 
funds increased 13.5% to £487.3 million (2013: £429.3 million) 
in the year to 31 May 2014, reflecting the high level of cash 
generation set out earlier in this report. An analysis of own 
funds is provided in the following table, and in more detail 
in note 19 of the Financial Statements: 
2014
£000
2013 
£000
Own cash and title transfer funds 101,487 98,345
Amounts due from brokers 303,861 283,940
Financial investments – liquid  
assets buffer 82,457 50,468
Other amounts due to the Group 20,450 15,003
Liquid assets 508,255 447,756
Liquid assets are analysed as:
 Own funds 487,281 429,291
 Title transfer funds 20,974 18,465
An element of the Group’s liquidity is not available for 
the purposes of the centrally performed market risk 
management, as it is held in overseas businesses for 
the purposes of local regulatory and working capital 
requirements, or is currently held within segregated client 
money bank accounts to ensure the Group’s segregation 
obligations are met. At 31 May 2014, the unavailable cash 
increased by £1.6 million from that unavailable in the 
prior year, to £49.1 million (2013: £47.5 million), as a result 
of higher prudent margins held to ensure appropriate 
segregation of client card transactions.
Available liquid assets enable the funding of large  
broker margin requirements when required, and should  
be considered in the context of the intra-year-high  
broker margin requirement of £290.3 million  
(2013: £297.5 million), the requirement to hold a liquid 
assets buffer, the continued growth of the business, the 
Group’s commitment to segregation of individual clients’ 
money and the final proposed dividend for the year ending 
31 May 2014, all of which draw on the Group’s liquidity.
The Group’s available liquidity (‘net available liquidity’) is 
disclosed in the following table on page 40, and is inclusive 
of the liquid assets buffer and title transfer funds and after 
the payment of broker margin. 
Chief Financial Officer’s Review | Strategic Report 40 41 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER’S REVIEW (CONTINUED)
2014
£000
2013 
£000
Liquid assets 508,255 447,756
Less amounts required to ensure 
appropriate client money 
segregation – other amounts due 
to the group (20,450) (15,003)
Less amounts required for 
regulatory and working capital of 
overseas subsidiaries (28,666) (32,542)
Available liquid assets 459,139 400,211
Less broker margin requirement (285,102) (245,689)
Net available liquidity 174,037 154,522
Of which held as a liquid  
assets buffer 82,457 50,468
In order to mitigate liquidity risks, the Group regularly stress-
tests its three-year liquidity forecast, both to validate the 
appropriate level of committed unsecured bank facilities held 
and to meet the requirements of the Group’s lead regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority. During the year, the Group 
renegotiated its liquidity facility with a syndicate of three 
banks. As a result, the Group increased the size of the overall 
facility to £200.0 million (2013: £180.0 million) and established 
a longer-term liquidity funding arrangement – £80.0 million 
of the facility is committed for a period of three years. These 
facilities were drawn to a maximum of £50.0 million for a 
period of 30 days but partially repaid down to £25.0 million 
for a further 32 days in October to December 2013, following 
the reduction in available liquidity after payment of  
£63.8 million of dividend and at a time of relatively high 
levels of broker margins. In the year ended 31 May 2013, the 
facilities were drawn down to a maximum of £25.0 million 
for a period of 22 days in April 2013 when the broker margin 
requirement reached a level of £294.7 million. 
A detailed analysis of the Group’s liquidity and our 
approach to the management of liquidity risk are provided 
in note 19 to the Financial Statements.
REGULATORY CAPITAL RESOURCES
Throughout the year, the Group maintained a significant 
excess over the Pillar 1 capital resources requirement, both 
on a consolidated and individual regulated-entity basis. 
The Group considers there are significant benefits to being 
well capitalised at a time of continuing global economic 
uncertainty. The Group is well placed in respect of any 
regulatory changes which may increase our capital or 
liquidity requirements, and high levels of liquidity are 
important in the event of significant market volatility.  
The Group’s liquidity requirements have historically  
been, and remain, significantly in excess of its regulatory 
capital requirements. 
The following table summarises the Group’s Pillar 1  
capital adequacy on a consolidated basis. The Group’s 
capital management is reviewed further in note 37 to the 
Financial Statements.
2014
£m
2013  
£m
Total Tier 1 capital 570.8 508.4
Less:
 Intangible assets (122.7) (120.5)
 Investment in own shares (1.1) (1.5)
 Deferred tax assets (5.7) –
Total capital resources (CR) 441.3 386.4
Capital resources requirement (CRR) (115.4) (115.1)
Pillar 1 surplus 325.9 271.3
SUMMARY GROUP STATEMENT OF  
FINANCIAL POSITION
2014
£000
2013 
£000
Property, plant and equipment 13,038 14,469
Intangible assets 122,670 120,479
Financial investments 32,150 –
Deferred tax assets 5,711 9,470
Non-current assets 173,569 144,418
Trade and other receivables 339,765 310,914
Cash and cash equivalents 101,487 98,345
Financial investments 50,307 50,468
Current assets 491,559 459,727
Total assets 665,128 604,145
Trade and other payables 75,236 72, 828
Income tax payable 20,178 24,289
Current liabilities 95,414 97,117
Redeemable preference shares 40 40
Non-current liabilities 40 40
Total liabilities 95,454 97,157
Total equity 569,674 506,988
Total equity and liabilities 665,128 604,145
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
As discussed earlier in the Strategic Report, the Group 
continues to invest in technology both to enhance client 
experience and to improve the capacity and resilience of 
dealing platforms, each of which is critical to the success of 
the business. 
Intangible assets purchased during the year include  
£1.8 million (2013: £4.0 million, including IG.com) for a suite 
of country-code and generic top-level domains that are 
directly relevant to our business. 
Intangible assets also include goodwill of £106.7 million 
(2013: £107.3 million), primarily arising on the acquisition  
of IG Group plc and its subsidiaries in 2003, the goodwill 
associated with the acquisition of Nadex of 
£4.5 million (2013: £5.0 million) and the goodwill  
arising on the acquisition of our South African business  
of £1.2 million (2013: £1.4 million). Refer to note 16 of the 
Financial Statements. 
Capitalised investment in relation to development costs  
and software and licences amounted to £6.1 million  
(2013: £7.3 million) and includes investment relating to the 
development of the stockbroking platform. During the year 
the Group also invested £3.4 million in property, plant  
and equipment (2013: £4.4 million) including £2.5 million 
(2013: £2.5 million) in relation to IT equipment.
CURRENT ASSETS
Trade and other receivables include amounts due from 
brokers, amounts due to be received from segregated 
client money accounts on the following working day, and 
prepayments. Amounts due from brokers represent cash 
placed with counterparties in order to provide initial and 
variation margin in relation to the Group’s market-risk 
management. Amounts due from brokers have increased 
to £303.9 million (2013: £283.9 million) primarily as a result 
of higher broker margins than at the prior year-end, driven 
by the Group’s hedging of clients’ futures and options 
positions. The intra-year-high broker margin requirement 
was £290.3 million (2013: £297.5 million).
CLIENT MONEY
Total monies held on behalf of clients at year-end was 
£879.4 million (2013: £842.0 million), of which £858.4 million 
(2013: £823.5 million) is segregated in trust bank accounts 
and treated as ‘segregated client money’, and therefore 
excluded from the Group Statement of Financial Position. 
The remaining monies held on behalf of corporate clients 
of £21.0 million (2013: £18.5 million) represent ‘title transfer 
funds’ where the client agrees, under a Title Transfer 
Collateral Arrangement (TTCA), that full ownership of such 
monies is unconditionally transferred to the Group. 
Although the levels of client money can vary depending on 
the overall mix of financial products being traded by clients, 
the long-term increase in the level of client money placed 
with the Group is a positive indicator of client ability and 
propensity to trade.
LIABILITIES
Trade and other payables include amounts due to clients in 
relation to title transfer funds, accruals and other payables. 
Trade and other payables increased by £2.4 million, mainly 
due to an increase in the number of title transfer clients. 
Income tax payable has decreased by £4.1 million following 
the reduction in the effective tax rate, as discussed earlier in 
this section. 
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
An overview of our commitment to corporate and social 
responsibility is included within the Strategic Report and in 
more detail on our corporate website at iggroup.com.
PREPARATION OF THE OPERATING AND  
FINANCIAL REVIEWS
Our Operating and Financial Reviews have been prepared 
solely to provide additional information to shareholders to 
assess our strategies and the potential for those strategies 
to succeed. They should not be relied on by any other party 
or for any other purpose.
The Operating and Financial Reviews contain certain 
forward-looking statements. These statements are made 
by the Directors in good faith based on the information 
available to them up to the time of their approval of this 
report. Such statements should be treated with caution  
due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic 
and business risk factors, underlying any such forward-
looking information.
The Directors, in preparing the Operating and Financial 
Reviews, have sought to comply with the guidance set out 
in the Accounting Standards Board’s Reporting Statement: 
Operating and Financial Review. The Directors also believe 
they have adequately discharged their responsibilities under 
Section 417(3) of the Companies Act 2006 in providing this 
business review.
The critical accounting estimates and judgements that 
impact the Group’s financial performance, together with 
new and amended accounting standards adopted in the 
preparation of the Financial Statements, are set out in notes 
1 and 40 to the Financial Statements. 
For disclosure relating to the Regulatory environment, 
please refer to the Chief Executive Officer’s Review and the 
Managing Our Business Risk section.
A further discussion of our results during the financial 
year can be found in the Investor Relations section of our 
website at iggroup.com.
Chief Financial Officer’s Review | Strategic Report 42 43 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Managing Our Business Risk
Over time we have developed a robust and consistent Risk 
Management Framework and, while we continually seek to 
improve, our broad approach to managing the key risks has 
not changed over the course of this year. 
In this section we explain how we manage risk in 
accordance with our Risk Appetite Statement (RAS) and 
Risk Management Framework. We also explain in detail the 
key risks we face, our governance structure for risk, and the 
reporting cycle that we use to monitor and report on risk.
RISK APPETITE STATEMENT
The RAS defines the amount of risk that the Board 
is prepared to accept, both on an individual risk and 
aggregate basis, in pursuit of its business objectives and 
strategic goals. 
The RAS provides parameters within which the business can 
operate, and is reviewed by the Board. We have identified 
three main types of risk affecting our business, and we 
explain these in more detail later in this section.
1. BUSINESS MODEL RISKS
These are risks we actively manage and are able to measure, 
control and assign limits and parameters to:
• Credit risk – see page 44
• Market risk – see page 45
• Liquidity risk – see page 45
2. INDUSTRY RISKS
These are risks we accept as arising from operating in 
the financial services sector. For these risks we set a risk 
tolerance rather than a risk appetite. They include (but are 
not limited to):
• Financial institution credit risk – see page 44
• Operational risk – see page 46
• Regulatory risk – see page 46
• Conduct risk – see page 47
• Technology (IT) risk – see Operational Risk, page 46
• Review and challenge the system of internal control and 
risk management
• Review and challenge capital and liquidity stress-testing
• Approve the Corporate Governance Report in the  
Annual Report
Board committees
The Board is supported in its monitoring of the  
Risk Framework by the Board Risk, Audit and  
Remuneration Committees. 
During the year, we formed the Board Risk Committee 
in recognition of the Board’s continued development 
of the Group’s focus on risk management. The new 
committee provides the Board with a more in-depth level 
of understanding of, and governance over, the Group’s risk 
framework. This is becoming increasingly important as we 
expand our reach and extend our product range, at the 
same time as global regulators continue to strengthen  
their regimes.
The Board Risk Committee’s responsibilities in relation to 
risk management are to:
• Consider and recommend for approval by the Board the 
RAS and KRIs for the current and future strategy
• Monitor, review and challenge the Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and Internal 
Liquidity Adequacy Assessment (ILAA)
• Ensure rigorous stress-testing and scenario-testing of 
the Group’s business and receive reports that explain the 
impact of identified risks and threats
• Ensure a sufficient level of risk mitigation is in place
• Review the Group’s major risk exposures
• Consider the adequacy and effectiveness of the 
technology infrastructure and supporting documentation 
in the Risk Management Framework
• Provide input to the Remuneration Committee on the 
alignment of the remuneration policy to risk performance
MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RISK
Effective management of our business risks is 
critical to the successful delivery of our strategy. It is 
imperative for us to identify the nature and potential 
impact of these risks, and establish methodologies 
to measure their effect, so that we can design and 
operate an environment where risks are effectively 
controlled throughout the business.
The Audit Committee’s responsibilities in relation to risk 
management are to:
• Receive an annual report from the Board Risk  
Committee on the Company’s internal controls and  
Risk Management Framework
• Review an assessment of the control environment, via 
internal audit reports, and progress on implementing 
both internal and external audit recommendations
• Monitor and review the internal audit function’s 
effectiveness in the overall context of the Group’s internal 
controls and risk-management systems 
The Remuneration Committee’s responsibility in relation 
to risk management is to review the structure and level 
of remuneration throughout the business and assess the 
impact of remuneration on risk. 
An overview of all the Board committees’ main duties and 
activity during the financial year is set out in the Corporate 
Governance Report, and the Chairman of each committee 
has provided a review of its activity for the year in the 
Corporate Governance Report.
Executive committees 
Executive Risk Committee
The Executive Risk Committee is an executive committee 
chaired by the Chief Risk Officer. Its role is to oversee 
day-to-day risk-management activity across the Group. 
The committee generally meets weekly to ensure that it 
deals with issues as they arise, reflecting the commitment 
of senior management to play an active role in risk-
management decision-making. It also sets the tone across 
the Group that risk management is central to corporate 
culture. The Board receives copies of the Executive Risk 
Committee minutes.
Client Money Committee
The Client Money Committee is chaired by the Chief 
Financial Officer, who is responsible for overseeing our 
processes and controls over segregating client funds and 
3. ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS
These are risks over which we have minimal control. They 
include (but are not limited to): 
• Natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes and  
disease epidemics
• Strikes and civil unrest
The RAS contains a set of statements and Key Risk 
Indicators (KRIs). These balance quantitative and  
qualitative measures to provide an indication of increasing 
or declining risk levels over an appropriate timescale.  
They are designed to alert the Board and management 
that a risk is approaching, or has exceeded, an acceptable 
level, and we monitor them on an ongoing basis. The Board 
receives regular reports on our performance against the 
KRIs, and the Board reviews the KRIs in conjunction with the 
RAS annually.
OUR RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
In order to establish an effective environment for controlling 
risk, we have developed a Risk Management Framework 
to identify, measure, manage and monitor risks faced by 
the business. Our Risk Management Framework provides 
the Board with assurance that we have understood and 
managed our risks as far as possible, within appropriate 
boundaries. It comprises our Risk Governance Framework 
and Risk Reporting Cycle.
OUR RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
The diagram opposite sets out the framework for the Board 
and executive committees, independent control functions 
and ongoing business operations that exercise governance 
over risk.
Responsibilities of the Board
The responsibilities of the Board in relation to risk 
management are to:
• Set and review the RAS and the KRIs
• Review and challenge updates from the Board  
Risk Committee
THE BOARD
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Board Risk 
Committee
BOARD COMMITTEES
CONTROL FUNCTIONS
BUSINESS OPERATIONS
Finance Risk Compliance Legal
Executive Risk
Committee
ICAAP & ILAA 
Committee
Client Money 
Committee
Senior 
Accounting 
Officer 
Committee
Internal controls implemented by management
Review by 
internal 
audit of risk 
management 
and internal 
controls
| Strategic Report 44 45 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RISK (CONTINUED)
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)’s CASS operational 
oversight function. The committee meets monthly and 
receives reports from a number of control functions, 
enabling it to monitor the effectiveness of our global 
processes and controls for segregating client money. 
ICAAP and ILAA Committee
In addition to managing individual risks, we stress-test 
and scenario-test as part of the Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process (ICAAP) and the Individual Liquidity 
Adequacy Assessment (ILAA). These assessments test 
the potential impact on capital and liquidity of a series 
of combined risk events. The committee meets monthly 
and oversees the results of the ongoing stress-testing 
and scenario-testing process, ensuring that risks are 
continuously identified and assessed.
Senior Accounting Officer Committee
The Senior Accounting Officer (SAO) Committee is 
responsible for reviewing and challenging the processes 
and controls put in place to ensure we comply with HMRC 
requirements to certify that each of our UK subsidiaries 
‘had appropriate tax arrangements throughout the financial 
year’. The committee reports to the Chief Financial Officer, 
who is the designated SAO.
Control functions
Additional levels of assurance are provided by control 
functions, which are independent of the business operations – 
namely finance, risk, compliance, legal and internal audit. The 
control functions provide periodic reporting to the Board and 
executive committees as appropriate.
Business operations
In addition to the control functions, we have embedded 
risk management into our underlying business operations. 
Heads of department are responsible for maintaining risk 
registers and, where necessary, taking action to mitigate 
risks and enhance the control environment. The risk and 
compliance control functions use these registers in  
co-ordinating the identification, measurement and 
monitoring of risk across the business.
OUR RISK REPORTING CYCLE
The diagram opposite represents the flow of information and 
feedback that supports the Risk Governance Framework.
OUR KEY RISKS
The following section describes the key risks that we face 
and the steps that we take in order to manage these risks.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty fails to perform 
its obligations, resulting in financial loss. Our credit risk is 
managed on a Group-wide basis. The principal sources of 
credit risk to our business are from financial institutions and 
individual clients.
Financial institution credit risk
All financial institutions with which the Group has a 
relationship are subject to a credit review. Exposure limits 
are set and approved by the Executive Risk Committee. 
We monitor a number of key metrics on a daily basis in 
respect of financial institution credit risk. These include 
balances held, change in short- and long-term credit rating 
and any change in credit default swap (CDS) price.
The Group is responsible, under various regulatory regimes, 
for the stewardship of client monies. These responsibilities 
include appointing and periodically reviewing institutions 
where we deposit client money. Our aim is that all financial 
institutions holding client money and assets should have 
a minimum Standard and Poor’s short-term and long-term 
rating of A-2 and A- respectively. Where this is not possible, 
we set low exposure limits and seek to use the best 
available counterparty – preferably one that is considered 
locally systemic and therefore most likely to receive support. 
We also maintain multiple brokers for each asset class. 
We monitor our exposure to financial institutions with whom 
the Group holds money through a daily review against 
financial limits and diversification criteria. 
Client credit risk
Client credit risk principally arises when a client’s total 
deposited funds are insufficient to cover any trading losses 
incurred. In particular, client credit risk can arise where there 
are significant, sudden movements in the market, due to 
high general market volatility or specific volatility relating to 
an instrument in which the client has an open position.
We mitigate client credit risk in a number of ways. We only 
accept clients that pass certain suitability criteria, and our 
training programme aims to educate clients in all aspects of 
trading and risk management, as well as encouraging them 
to collateralise their accounts to an appropriate level. We 
also conduct a pre-deal credit check on every client order.
We offer a number of risk-management tools that enable 
clients to manage their exposures, including: 
• Guaranteed and non-guaranteed stops
• Limit orders
• Extended trading hours
• Trading via mobile platforms
In addition, we manage our overall credit risk exposure 
through real-time monitoring of client positions via our 
‘close-out monitor’ and through the use of tiered margining. 
For a small number of generally long-standing clients, we 
grant credit against unrealised losses, with credit terms 
such that any losses arising are payable immediately on the 
closure of transactions.
For more information refer to note 36 to the  
Financial Statements. 
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of financial assets 
and financial liabilities will change due to movements in 
market prices. 
We manage market risk on a real-time basis, monitoring 
all client positions against market risk limits set by the 
Executive Risk Committee. The Group operates within these 
limits by hedging our residual market risk exposure. We do 
not take proprietary positions based on the expectation of 
market movement. 
Our technology enables us to monitor our market  
exposure constantly and in real time. If exposures exceed 
our pre-agreed limits, our risk-management policy requires 
that we hedge the positions to bring the exposure back into 
line with these limits. 
For more information, including our risk limits and  
residual exposures at 31 May 2014, refer to note 36 of the 
Financial Statements.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that we will be unable to meet 
payment obligations as they fall due.
BUSINESS OPERATIONS
REPORTS
OUR 
KEY RISKS
REGULATORY
CONDUCT
OPERATIONAL
MARKET
IT
CREDIT
LIQUIDITY
£ €
¥ $
AUDIT
COMMITTEE
BOARD REVIEW
BOARD AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES
CONTROL FUNCTIONS
Finance       |       Risk       |       Compliance       |       Legal  
Remuneration  |  Risk  |  Client Money |  ICAAP and ILAA |  
Senior Accounting Officer
• Periodic reporting
• Monthly risk reporting (including Key  
Risk Indicators)
• Internal audit
• Risk registers
• Most significant risks
• External audit control report
• ICAAP and ILAA
ACTIONS
Control 
actions
Monitored by 
internal audit
OUR RISK REPORTING CYCLE
Managing Our Business Risk | Strategic Report 46 47 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
We manage liquidity risk by ensuring that we have sufficient 
liquidity to meet our broker margin requirements and 
other financial liabilities when due, under both normal and 
stressed conditions. We carried out an Individual Liquidity 
Adequacy Assessment during the year and, while this 
applies specifically to the Group’s FCA-regulated entities, 
it provides the context within which we manage liquidity 
throughout the business.
Due to the very short-term nature of our financial assets 
and liabilities, we do not have any material mismatches 
in our liquidity maturity profiles. Short-term liquidity 
‘gaps’ can arise, due to our commitment to segregate all 
individual client funds. If a significant market fall occurs, and 
assuming our client base holds a net long position which 
we have hedged, we are required to fund margin payments 
to brokers before releasing funds from segregation. 
During periods of very high client activity, or of significant 
directional movements in global markets, we may need to 
fund higher margin requirements with our brokers to hedge 
increased underlying client positions. We do this from our 
own available liquidity.
At 31 May 2014 we had total liquidity, including committed 
unsecured facilities and after accounting for broker margin, 
of £708.3 million (2013: £627.8 million). This includes the 
liquid assets buffer, which consists of £82.5 million of UK 
government securities. We hold this, as required by the 
FCA, to provide a safeguard in times of stress. 
We monitor total available liquidity on a daily basis, including 
our committed unsecured facilities. We perform daily stress 
tests and regularly stress-test our three-year liquidity forecast 
to validate the level of committed unsecured bank facilities 
we hold. At the year-end, these amounted to £200 million 
(2013: £180 million), and during the year we termed out  
£80 million of this for three years. Our Japanese business,  
IG Markets Securities, has a ¥300 million liquidity facility as at 
31 May 2014 (2013: ¥300 million).
For more information on how we calculate our total 
available liquidity see note 19 to the Financial Statements.
Operational risk
Operational risk is the risk of financial loss due to 
inadequate or failed internal processes and systems. It 
can also arise from human error or external events that we 
cannot influence.
Our approach to managing operational risk is governed 
by the Risk Appetite Statement and Risk Management 
Framework. We have designed and implemented a system 
of internal controls to manage, rather than eliminate, 
operational risk. 
The reliability of our client trading platforms is key to 
delivering our strategy, and we invest significantly in the 
technology infrastructure to ensure that these platforms 
Change risk
The regulatory environment continues to evolve, and there 
are currently a number of policy initiatives and proposals in 
development that may impact or have already impacted our 
sector, as described below:
• Financial Transactions Tax (FTT) in the European Union: 
the Enhanced Cooperation FTT effort, involving 11 of 
the 28 member states, has continued this year. We have 
expended significant efforts throughout the year to 
maintain an accurate knowledge of the status of these 
tax initiatives, to understand the many stakeholders’ 
interests and views and to ensure IG’s voice is heard 
in the debate. It remains unclear what the ultimate 
outcome of the Enhanced Cooperation FTT will be, 
and although progress is extremely slow recent rhetoric 
suggests increased political will for the introduction of 
an Enhanced Cooperation FTT. The lack of detail makes 
the potential impact on our revenue from Europe very 
difficult to assess, but it ranges from quite negative to 
neutral, depending on the scope of any tax. We continue 
to monitor developments carefully
• European Markets Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR): 
the main impact of this legislation on our business is 
increased reporting requirements to trade repositories. 
Potentially, we will also be impacted in the medium- 
to longer-term by the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO), European Securities 
and Markets Authority (ESMA) and European Banking 
Authority (EBA)’s work on margin for over-the-counter 
trading, but the rules on this have not yet been settled
• Markets in Financial Instruments (MiFID) II: the MiFID 
II dossier has continued to develop this year, including 
the adoption of the MiFID II and Markets in Financial 
Investments Regulation (MiFIR) Level One texts. We 
remain of the view that MiFID II is unlikely to pose a 
threat to our UK and European businesses. We continue 
to monitor MiFID II carefully and to take part in industry 
consultation where appropriate
• Packaged Retail Investments Products Regulation (PRIPS): 
this will impose an obligation on us to provide our UK and 
European clients with information about our products in 
a standardised form. We do not anticipate this having a 
negative impact on our business 
• Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) regulatory 
framework for margined derivatives: the MAS has now 
confirmed that it will push forward with its proposal 
to increase margin requirements for non-accredited 
investors on a forex trade from 2% to 5%, thereby 
reducing leverage from 50 times to 20 times. The 
reduction in leverage will apply only to forex trading and 
not to the other asset types. It is also intended that the 
rules will not apply to accredited investors, defined by 
virtue of their wealth or income level. We believe that the 
are operationally stable, with system access being centrally 
controlled. Our investment supports the resilience and 
reliability of the platform, ensuring low levels of latency, 
maintaining and testing system capability under significant 
load and conducting penetration testing. On a monthly 
basis, the Executive Risk Committee reviews our Key Risk 
Indicators, a process which includes monitoring levels of 
core system uptime and deal latency.
To ensure that we provide our clients with a consistent and 
uninterrupted level of service, we run a complete disaster-
recovery solution. This involves a fully functional secondary 
site with real-time replication of all systems across the two 
locations and fully independent power supplies. We support 
these systems with ongoing business-continuity planning 
and regular testing. 
All our IT and data-security systems conform to the  
ISO 27001:2005 Information Security Management  
System standards. 
Cyber risk is a constant threat in the modern online 
environment. We have a dedicated team which has 
implemented a robust, multi-layered system, providing 
round-the-clock monitoring and intruder-prevention controls. 
Regulatory risk
We regard regulatory risk as one of our most significant 
risks. In short, we define regulatory risk as:
• Breach risk: the risk that we breach a regulation that 
applies to our business, leading to client or market 
detriment, sanctions, fines, reputational damage and,  
in extreme situations, loss of licence
• Change risk: the risk that one of our regulators 
introduces new regulations that make our business less 
profitable or impossible
• Expansion risk: the risk that policy and regulation in 
jurisdictions where we do not currently operate remain 
onerous and closed to our business model, limiting our 
geographic expansion opportunities
We invest significant time and resources to manage and 
control our regulatory risk in parallel with the development 
of business strategy.
Breach risk
Our compliance, legal and risk teams provide a robust 
line of defence to ensure that our processes and controls 
are effective in ensuring we comply with our regulatory 
obligations. During the year, the Group has successfully 
undergone a number of external reviews into key areas 
such as client money and information security, giving us 
assurance that we are managing and controlling breach 
risk well. As our business becomes more complex, this risk 
also grows, and we remain committed to increasing our 
investment in breach risk controls.
majority of IG’s revenue currently comes from clients who 
would qualify for accredited investor status. In addition, 
the use of guaranteed stops enables clients to further 
manage leverage levels
• Japan binary regulation: new rules governing the offering 
of binary contracts in Japan came into force during the 
course of the year. Since their inception these new rules 
have had a positive impact on IG’s business, because they 
have stopped providers from offering very short-term 
and up/down binaries, which were staple products for 
the majority. The only type of binary now permitted is a 
volatility-based contract with an expiry in excess of two 
hours, a product in which IG has historically specialised. 
Partially offsetting this benefit is the fact that any new 
binary clients need to undertake additional suitability 
testing by way of an online assessment, which has made 
the account-opening process longer and more difficult 
We seek to mitigate change risk by engaging with our 
regulators and policymakers as much as possible, as part 
of policy consultations and more generally, and also by 
investing in public relations programmes and ensuring we 
have access to up-to-date information on regulatory change. 
Expansion risk
Like change risk, we seek to mitigate expansion risk by 
engaging with regulators and policymakers in countries 
where we do not yet operate, but which are desirable 
targets for our future expansion. Of course, regulatory 
change can also represent an opportunity for our business, 
and we are in talks with certain regulators who are 
considering changing their regulations in order to allow 
retail derivatives trading. These discussions are still at an 
early stage. 
In summary, we work closely with our regulators to ensure 
that we operate to the highest regulatory standards and can 
adapt quickly to regulatory change. We are committed to 
engaging proactively with regulators and industry bodies, 
and will continue to support changes which promote 
protection for clients and greater clarity of the risks they face. 
However, we cannot provide certainty that future regulatory 
changes will not have an adverse impact on our business.
Conduct risk
Conduct risk is the risk that the Group’s conduct poses to 
the achievement of fair outcomes for consumers or to the 
sound, stable, resilient and transparent operation of the 
financial markets. Put another way, conduct risk is the risk 
that the manner in which we carry out our business causes 
poor outcomes for our clients or the markets.
The Board has developed a conduct risk strategy that 
applies across the organisation, and training is ongoing 
to embed this strategy into the current business practices. 
Work will continue throughout the coming year as we 
develop this strategy further.
MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RISK (CONTINUED)
Managing Our Business Risk | Strategic Report 48 49 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Chairman’s Introduction to Corporate Governance
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE
The UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’) sets 
out the standards of good practice in relation to how a 
company should be directed and governed. As we have 
a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange, the 
Company reports in accordance with the Code published 
in 2012. The Code is published by the Financial Reporting 
Council (FRC) and further information can be found on their 
website at frc.org.uk.
The Board has reviewed the Code and considers that the 
Company has been compliant with its provisions for the year 
ended 31 May 2014.
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
OVERVIEW OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK AS AT 31 MAY 2014
ICAAP and ILAA 
Committee
Executive Risk 
Committee
Senior Accounting 
Officer Committee
Client Money 
Committee
THE BOARD
SHAREHOLDERS
INDEPENDENT 
EXTERNAL 
AUDITORS
CHIEF E XECUTIVE OFFICER AND E XE CUTIVE DIREC TORS
Senior  
management  
team
Five independent Non-Executive Directors (NEDs), three Executive Directors and Non-Executive Chairman
BOARD COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES
Elect the Board
Appoint the auditors
In order to serve the needs of all our stakeholders and to 
deliver sustainable future growth, the Board of Directors  
is responsible for the governance of the Company, and  
we are committed to applying the principles of good 
corporate governance. 
For the Board to be most effective, it must have an 
appropriate balance of relevant experience, knowledge and 
skills. Last year we announced that both Martin Jackson, 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, and I will step down,  
after nine and ten years of service respectively, at the  
Annual General Meeting (AGM) in October this year. 
Therefore one of the key areas of focus for the Board has 
been the implementation of a succession plan for a smooth 
handover before our AGM. In October 2013, we welcomed 
Jim Newman as a Non-Executive Director. Jim will be taking 
over from Martin as Chairman of the Audit Committee 
on Martin’s retirement. Jim, who is a qualified Chartered 
Accountant, is the Corporate Development Director for 
Friends Life Group. His strong background in finance and 
experience of financial services regulation is already proving 
invaluable to the Board. The Board wishes to thank Martin 
for his outstanding contribution to IG, and we wish him well 
in his much-deserved retirement. 
I am also pleased to welcome Andy Green, who joined 
the Board as Deputy Chairman in June 2014 and will take 
over my role as Chairman at the conclusion of our AGM 
in October. Andy was previously Group Chief Executive of 
Logica plc and held various senior roles on the Board of  
BT Group plc. He is currently a Non-Executive Director 
of ARM Holdings plc. His experience at major listed 
companies and in IT and marketing-led businesses makes 
him an ideal candidate to chair the Board.
As Chairman, it is my responsibility to ensure that the Board 
is operating effectively to deliver long-term success for 
the Company. To this end, I ensure we review the Board’s 
effectiveness annually. This year we conducted an internal 
evaluation, which concluded that the Board continues to 
operate effectively. The present plan is to have an external 
review in the coming year. More information on the 
evaluation process can be found on page 56.
Another area of focus for the Board has been to build 
on our existing, well-established governance framework. 
During the year, the Board strengthened its framework by 
creating a Board Risk Committee, chaired by Stephen Hill, 
to provide a more focused level of support and challenge 
on risk-management issues. As a result of this change, 
midway through the year a number of the duties performed 
by the Audit Committee were handed over to the Board 
Risk Committee. Martin Jackson and Stephen Hill report on 
the activities of the Audit Committee and the Board Risk 
Committee respectively later in this report.
The Corporate Governance Report details the Group’s 
governance framework and its management practices. 
Together with the Directors’ Remuneration Report, it 
explains how the Company has applied the principles of  
the UK Corporate Governance Code for the year ended  
31 May 2014.
Jonathan Davie 
Chairman  
22 July 2014
Board Risk 
Committee
(Four independent  
NEDs)
Nomination 
Committee
(Three independent  
NEDs and Non-
Executive Chairman)
Remuneration 
Committee
(Three independent  
NEDs and Non-
Executive Chairman)
Audit 
Committee
(Four independent  
NEDs)
 ‘At IG, we believe it is essential 
that a company maintains  
the highest standards in the 
way in which it is directed  
and governed.’
| Corporate Governance Report 50 51 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
The Board
THE BOARD
ROGER YATES
SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 57 YEARS OLD
Roger joined the Board as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in February 2006, and has over 28 years’ 
experience in the fund management industry, both as an investment professional and a business manager. Roger 
brings a broad knowledge and understanding of investor issues and the financial services sector. He previously 
served as Chief Investment Officer of Invesco Global, and has held senior roles at fund management firms LGT 
and Morgan Grenfell. He joined Henderson Global Investors as Chief Executive in 1999, and in 2003 went on 
to lead its de-merger from its then parent AMP . He became Chief Executive of the resulting listed entity (now 
Henderson Group plc) until November 2008. He has previously served as a Non-Executive Director for F&C Asset 
Management plc, and is currently a Non-Executive Director of St James’s Place plc and JPMorgan Elect plc, as 
well as Chairman of Electra Private Equity plc and Pioneer Global Asset Management SpA.
SAM TYMMS
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 50 YEARS OLD
Sam joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in May 2013. She is currently a Managing Director at 
Promontory Financial Group, a leading strategy, risk-management and regulatory-compliance consulting firm, 
where she advises financial services businesses on a wide range of risk and regulatory matters. Sam began her 
career in 1987 at the London Stock Exchange’s Surveillance Division, which over time became the Securities 
and Futures Authority and eventually the Financial Services Authority. During that time she held a range of 
supervisory roles and worked for two years in the Investigations and Enforcement Division. As a supervisor, she 
ran departments overseeing global investment firms, retail and investment banks and major insurance groups. 
Sam’s extensive experience in the regulatory field and her knowledge of compliance matters provide a valuable 
contribution to the Board.
STEPHEN HILL
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 54 YEARS OLD
Stephen joined the IG Board in April 2011, bringing significant and extensive board experience across a wide 
range of businesses. He was the CEO of Betfair plc from 2003 to 2005, and prior to this he spent 15 years at 
Pearson plc in various managerial roles, including serving as CEO of the Financial Times Group from 1996 
to 2002 and on Pearson’s management board. He has been a member of the boards for Royal Sun Alliance 
Insurance Group plc, Psion plc and Channel 4. He was also Chairman of Interactive Data Corporation in the 
US from 1998 to 2002. Currently he is Chairman and CEO of D’Aval Limited, his family’s private investment 
company, and Trustee and Chairman of the Royal National Institute for Deaf People – Action on Hearing 
Loss. He is also a member of the Advisory Board of the Cambridge Judge Business School and a Non-
Executive Director of Applerigg Limited and Aztec Limited, a fund administration business, and of Ofcom, the 
independent regulator for the UK communications industries. 
MARTIN JACKSON
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 65 YEARS OLD
Martin joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee in April 2005. A 
fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, Martin has wide experience in financial services, having held a 
number of directorships in this sector. He was Group Finance Director of Friends Provident plc between 2001-
2003, of Friends Provident Life Office from 1999- 2001 and of London & Manchester Group plc from 1992-1998, 
until the latter was acquired by Friends Provident Life Office. In April 2014 Martin stepped down from the Board 
of Admiral Group plc, where he had served as a Non-Executive Director since August 2004 and was Chairman 
of the Group Risk Committee. After nine years at IG, Martin will step down from the Board following the AGM 
on 16 October 2014. 
CHRISTOPHER HILL
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, 43 YEARS OLD 
Christopher joined the IG Board in April 2011 from Travelex, a group providing cross-border payment and 
foreign exchange services to corporate and retail customers, where he served as Chief Financial Officer. 
A Chartered Accountant, Christopher has extensive finance and accounting experience from a number 
of different business sectors. He has previously held roles at VWR International, a global laboratory-
supply company (2005-2007), General Electric (2000-2005) and Arthur Andersen (1992-2000). Christopher 
graduated from Oxford University with a degree in Modern History and is an associate member of the 
Association of Corporate Treasurers.
JIM NEWMAN
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 49 YEARS OLD
Jim joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in October 2013. He is currently Corporate Development 
Director for Friends Life Group, where his responsibilities have included overseeing the final separation 
and integration of the UK life businesses acquired by Resolution plc, as well as the delivery of the overall 
group change portfolio and strategic corporate development. Prior to this Jim, who is a qualified Chartered 
Accountant, was Finance Director for Resolution plc, having joined the company in 2005 as Group Financial 
Controller. Jim spent ten years at Aviva, where he was Group Integration Director for the CGU/Norwich Union 
merger and also Finance Director of Norwich Union Life, Aviva’s UK life insurance business. His in-depth 
knowledge and experience of the financial services sector, as well as his considerable experience both as a CFO 
and in the implementation of transformation programmes, is proving invaluable to the Board. 
JONATHAN DAVIE  
NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN, 67 YEARS OLD 
Jonathan joined the Board as Chairman in January 2004. He is currently a Non-
Executive Director of Persimmon plc and Hansa Trust plc, and also Chairman 
of First Avenue, an alternatives advisory boutique. Jonathan is a fellow of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants, and he joined George M. Hill and Co, a 
jobber on the London Stock Exchange, in 1969. The firm was acquired by Wedd 
Durlacher Mordaunt and Co in 1970, and he became a partner in 1975. He 
was the Senior Dealing Partner when the company was acquired by Barclays 
Bank to form BZW in 1986. Jonathan developed BZW’s fixed-income business 
prior to becoming Chief Executive Officer of the global equities division in 
1991. In 1996 he became Deputy Chairman of BZW, and was appointed Vice 
Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston in 1998, on its acquisition of some of 
BZW’s businesses from Barclays Bank. Jonathan’s in-depth understanding of the 
financial services sector and extensive experience on PLC boards has proved 
invaluable in promoting good governance and providing effective leadership 
of the Board. He will be stepping down from the Board following the Annual 
General Meeting on 16 October 2014, having served as Chairman for ten years.
TIM HOWKINS 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, 51 YEARS OLD
Tim was appointed Chief Executive Officer of IG in 2006, having served as 
the Group’s Finance Director since joining the company in 1999. Tim qualified 
as a Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Young, and is also a member of the 
Chartered Institute of Taxation. In 1990 he was one of a group of partners 
and staff who left Ernst & Young to form Rees Pollock, a firm of Chartered 
Accountants targeted at entrepreneurial, owner-managed businesses. He was 
a partner in Rees Pollock for seven years, and there developed a relationship 
with IG, taking responsibility for the Group’s audit. With a strong finance 
background and a considerable number of years in the business, in his role 
as our Chief Executive Tim continues to work with the Board and lead IG to 
develop and implement our strategy. He is also a member of the Board and 
Executive Committee of FIA Europe, formerly known as the Futures and Options 
Association. Tim graduated from the University of Reading with a first-class 
degree in Mathematics and Computer Science.
PETER HETHERINGTON
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, 45 YEARS OLD
Peter was an officer in the Royal Navy prior to joining IG Group as a graduate trainee in 1994. In 1999 he 
became Head of Financial Dealing, and in 2002 he joined the Board following his appointment as Chief 
Operating Officer. Peter’s considerable experience, built over 20 years in the business, is invaluable in his 
role as Chief Operating Officer. Peter graduated from Nottingham University with a degree in Economics, 
and from the London Business School with a Masters in Finance. 
| Corporate Governance Report 52 53 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
LEADERSHIP
ROLE OF THE BOARD
The principal responsibility of the Board is to promote and 
ensure the long-term success of the Group through the 
creation and delivery of sustainable shareholder value. It 
provides guidance and leadership by setting the strategic 
direction of the Group and overseeing management’s 
implementation of the strategy, within a framework of 
effective risk controls. 
The Board seeks to ensure that, while the ultimate focus is 
on long-term growth, management also delivers on short-
term objectives and achieves the right balance between 
immediate and future goals. When setting the Group’s 
strategy and monitoring its implementation, the Board 
considers the impact its decisions may have on various 
stakeholders, such as employees, shareholders, suppliers and 
the environment as a whole. It is accountable for ensuring 
that, as a collective body, it has the appropriate skills, 
knowledge and experience to perform its role effectively.
The powers of the Board are set out in the Company’s 
articles of association, which are available on the Group’s 
website, iggroup.com. The Board may exercise all powers 
conferred on it by the articles and in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 and other applicable legislation.
Certain key decisions and matters are reserved for 
approval by the Board in order to ensure that it meets its 
responsibilities. These include:
• Setting Group strategy
• Approving major acquisitions, divestments and  
capital expenditure
• Approving expansion into new business or geographies
• Approving annual budgets
• Approving changes relating to the Group’s capital 
structure, including reduction of capital
• Reviewing operational and financial performance
• Setting the risk appetite of the Group
•  Approving any changes to the Group’s risk management 
policy which materially increase the Group’s risk profile 
• Reviewing the Group’s systems of internal control and  
risk management
• Approving Board, Board committee and company 
secretarial appointments
• Ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and 
senior management
•  Defining and setting Board committee terms of reference 
• Approving policies relating to Directors’ remuneration 
and the severance of Directors’ contracts
• Receiving reports on the views of the  
Company’s shareholders
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the 
Board’s decision can be found on the Group’s website.
Matters not specifically reserved for the Board are 
delegated to the Executive Directors. These include:
•  Developing, recommending and implementing strategic 
plans for the Group
• Day-to-day monitoring of the Group’s operating and 
financial results 
•  Prioritising the allocation of capital and resources 
• Developing and implementing risk management systems, 
policies and procedures
• Promoting good standards of corporate governance and 
shareholder engagement
BOARD STRUCTURE
During the year, the Board had nine members – the 
Chairman, three Executive Directors, including the  
Chief Executive Officer, and five independent  
Non-Executive Directors.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and 
the Chief Executive Officer is set out in writing and has been 
approved by the Board.
The Chairman, Jonathan Davie, is responsible for leading 
the Board and creating the right conditions for its effective 
working and overall governance. He sets the Board’s 
agenda, in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer 
and Company Secretary, taking full account of Board 
members’ issues and concerns and the need to allow 
sufficient time for items on the agenda to be discussed. 
It is the Chairman’s responsibility to encourage and 
facilitate active engagement by Directors, drawing on their 
skills, knowledge and experience. The Chairman is also 
responsible for ensuring there is effective communication 
with shareholders and other stakeholders, and that Directors 
are aware and maintain an understanding of their views.
The Chief Executive Officer, Tim Howkins, is responsible 
for recommending the Group’s strategy to the Board, 
implementing the agreed strategy and managing the  
day-to-day business of the Group. This responsibility has 
been delegated to him by the Board, and he is accountable 
to the Board.
The Executive Directors support the Chief Executive Officer 
in implementing the Group’s strategy and in the operational 
performance of the business.
The Non-Executive Directors are independent of 
management and are considered by the Board to be 
free from any business or other relationships which could 
compromise their independence. Their role is to advise and 
constructively challenge management, along with monitoring 
management’s success in delivering the agreed strategy 
within the risk appetite and control framework set by the 
Board. They are also responsible for determining appropriate 
levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors.
Roger Yates is the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director, and his role is to provide a sounding board for the 
Chairman and support him in the delivery of his objectives. 
He serves as a trusted intermediary for the other Directors 
when necessary. The Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns 
which communication via the normal channels of  
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other Executive 
Directors has failed to resolve, or when shareholders prefer 
to speak directly to him.
HOW THE BOARD OPERATES
The Board meets regularly – at least five times a year – and 
attends an additional off-site strategy day. There were nine 
Board meetings this year, including the annual strategy day.
The Board also meets when necessary to discuss important 
ad-hoc emerging issues that require consideration between 
scheduled Board meetings. Each Director committed an 
appropriate amount of time to their duties during the 
financial year, and the Non-Executive Directors met the time 
commitment specified in their letters of appointment.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet formally in 
the absence of the Executive Directors at least twice a year.
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS
The number of full Board meetings attended by each 
Director during the year, including the Board strategy day, is 
set out below:
Board
Scheduled 
meetings 
eligible to 
attend
Scheduled 
meetings 
attended
Chairman
Jonathan Davie 9 9
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Stephen Hill 9 9
Martin Jackson 9 9
Jim Newman 7 7
Sam Tymms 9 9
Roger Yates 9 9
Executive Directors
Tim Howkins 9 9
Peter Hetherington 9 9
Christopher Hill 9 9
THE BOARD (CONTINUED)
The Board | Corporate Governance Report 54 55 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
During the year, the Board decided to create the Board 
Risk Committee in order to provide an appropriate level of 
challenge and oversight for the Group’s Risk Management 
Framework. The activities, role and responsibilities of this 
committee are laid out and discussed in a report from its 
Chairman, Stephen Hill, on page 94.
EFFECTIVENESS
BOARD COMPOSITION
The Board’s size, and the skills and experience of its 
members, have a significant impact on its effectiveness. 
The Board reviews these factors regularly to ensure that it 
has the right mix of skills and experience for constructive 
discussion and, ultimately, effective Board decisions.
INDUSTRY/BACKGROUND EXPERIENCE
(1)
Experience
Number of 
Non-Executive 
Directors and 
Non-Executive 
Chairman
Financial services 6
Accountancy/finance expert 3
Regulatory 2
Marketing and PR 1
Current or recent Chief Executive 
Officer and/or Chairman
3
Prior plc experience 5
(1) Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories. 
There is an appropriate combination of Executive Directors 
and Non-Executive Directors, such that no individual 
or small group of individuals can dominate the Board’s 
decision-making. 
During the year, the Company was headed by an 
experienced Board of nine Directors, comprising an 
independent Non-Executive Chairman, three Executive 
Directors, including the Group Chief Executive Officer, and 
five independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom  
is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. During 
the year Jim Newman joined the Board, on 1 October 2013, 
as a Non-Executive Director. The Company is fully compliant 
with Code provision B.1.2, which requires that at least half  
of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise 
Non-Executive Directors who are determined by the Board 
to be independent.
THE BOARD (CONTINUED)
DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The Board considers and reviews the independence of each 
Non-Executive Director on an annual basis, as part of the 
Board effectiveness review. It considers factors such as 
length of tenure and relationships or circumstances which 
are likely to affect or appear to affect the Director’s 
judgment in determining whether they remain independent. 
Following this year’s review, the Board concluded that all  
of the Non-Executive Directors continue to demonstrate 
their independence.
COMPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE AND INDEPENDENT 
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON THE BOARD
Chairman
Executive Directors
Independent Non-
Executive Directors
1
3
5
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which 
they may have interests that conflict with those of the 
Company, unless that conflict is first authorised by the 
Board. Directors must disclose both the nature and extent 
of any potential or actual conflicts with the interests of  
the Company. 
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s 
articles of association allow the Board to authorise potential 
conflicts that may arise, and to impose such conditions or 
limitations as it sees fit. During the year, potential conflicts 
were considered by the Board and approved where 
appropriate. The Company keeps records of Board minutes 
detailing authorisations granted. 
SUCCESSION PLANNING AND APPOINTMENTS TO 
THE BOARD 
The Board uses succession planning to ensure that the 
Group is managed by executives with the necessary skills, 
experience and knowledge to deliver the Company’s 
strategy, and that it has the right balance of individuals to 
be able to discharge its responsibilities. The Board regularly 
reviews its composition to keep it constantly refreshed. Any 
searches for Board candidates, and appointments made, 
are based on merit against objective criteria.
The Nomination Committee has specific responsibility for 
the appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors, 
and it recommends new appointments to the Board. 
The Board as a whole is also involved in overseeing the 
development of management resources across the Group.
LENGTH OF TENURE OF  
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
0-3 years
3-6 years
6-9 years 2
1
2
INDUCTION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
On joining the Board, each new Director receives a full and 
formal induction to familiarise them with their duties and 
the Company’s business operations, risk and governance 
arrangements. The induction programme, which is 
coordinated by the Company Secretary, includes briefings 
on regulatory matters relating to the Company, as well 
as meetings with senior management in key areas of the 
business, such as compliance, legal, IT, human resources, 
finance, risk, marketing and investor relations. These are 
supplemented by induction materials such as recent Board 
papers and minutes and relevant company policies. Newly 
appointed Directors also meet the company’s external 
auditors and corporate brokers and attend a presentation 
led by Linklaters on the roles and responsibilities of a UK-
listed company director. 
Inductions are tailored to each Director’s individual 
experience, background and areas of focus. For example, 
Jim Newman’s induction programme took into account his 
planned role replacing Martin Jackson as Chairman of the 
Audit Committee on the latter’s departure from the Board.
HOW THE BOARD DISCHARGED ITS 
RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE YEAR
During the year, the Board has been engaged across 
the key areas of strategy, governance, risk and financial 
performance, as highlighted in the following chart. In 
addition to regular reviews of performance, the Board 
discussed risk appetite, capital and liquidity planning and 
talent management, including succession planning. The 
Board also held an off-site strategy day to review strategic 
options open to the Group in the context of the regulatory 
and economic environment.
BOARD ALLOCATION OF TIME
Quarterly forecast 
and budget
Strategy
Business, operational 
highlights and current 
trading
Risk and governance
Financial performance
Client money
Other
BOARD COMMITTEES
To assist it with carrying out its responsibilities and to ensure 
that there is independent oversight of internal control 
and risk, the Board has delegated certain governance 
responsibilities to Board committees.
The Board committees are: 
• Audit Committee
• Nomination Committee 
• Remuneration Committee
• Board Risk Committee
These Board committees comprise independent Non-
Executive Directors and, in some cases, the Chairman. Each 
committee has agreed terms of reference approved by the 
Board, which are available on our corporate website.
The Chairman of each Board committee reports to the 
Board on the matters discussed at committee meetings, 
and the minutes of each committee meeting are made 
available to all Directors. Reports from the Chairman of each 
Board committee, including information on the committee’s 
composition and activities in the year, can be found in  
the sections relating to each committee within this  
Annual Report.
The Board | Corporate Governance Report 56 57 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
BOARD EVALUATION
We conduct an annual evaluation of the Board’s 
effectiveness. This year, it took the form of an internal 
assessment aiming to improve the Board’s performance 
as a whole. The assessment process involved the use 
of a questionnaire covering the Board’s composition 
and processes and its activities and behaviours. During 
this process, the Board reviewed its progress against 
the findings arising from its self-evaluation in the 2013 
financial year. Particular progress has been made in the 
areas of Board induction on appointment and in ensuring 
appropriate processes, such as the use of experts, are in 
place to facilitate complex judgments.
The 2014 financial year evaluation concluded that the Board 
was operating effectively as a unitary body. Among other 
things, it was felt that the Board and the Board committees 
are effectively constituted. The level of discussion and the 
quality of debates at Board meetings are considered to 
be of a high calibre. The strategic aims of the Company 
are effectively set by the Board, and the Board creates a 
performance culture that drives value without exposing the 
Company to excessive risks.
While these findings indicated that overall the Board was 
operating effectively, and that each Director continued 
to demonstrate commitment to the role, we recognise 
the need to increase the level of focus on the long-term 
composition of the Board and the review of management 
information received by the Board. In addition, plans will  
be put in place to ensure the Board plays a more active 
role in talent management and succession planning below 
Board level.
We will report on our progress against these 
recommendations in next year’s Annual Report.
The performance of the individual Executive Directors, 
other than the Chief Executive Officer, is appraised annually 
by the Chief Executive Officer, to whom they report.  
The Chief Executive Officer’s performance is appraised 
annually by the Chairman, and the Chairman’s performance 
is reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors. They are led 
by Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director, and take into account feedback from the  
Executive Directors.
The UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial 
Reporting Council’s guidance on board effectiveness 
require the Board to evaluate its performance annually, 
and recommend that this evaluation should be externally 
facilitated every three years. In 2012, the Board 
commissioned an independent external Board effectiveness 
facilitator, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review, who has no 
other connection to the Company, to assist in an evaluation 
of its effectiveness. In 2015, the Board will again use an 
external facilitator for this purpose.
THE BOARD (CONTINUED)
ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining  
good communication with the Company’s shareholders,  
and we have a comprehensive programme to facilitate this 
each year. 
Our Annual Report is an important medium for 
communicating with shareholders, setting out detailed 
reviews of the business and its future developments in the 
Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
and the Strategic Report.
Our dialogue with institutional investors and shareholders 
is ongoing, and includes presentations by management 
around the time of the Group’s year-end and half-year 
results announcements. These are coordinated by our 
Investor Relations team. We make these presentations 
available in real time on the Group’s website, which also 
provides a wide range of other information to shareholders 
and prospective shareholders. We also respond to ad hoc 
requests from shareholders on a very regular basis.
The Chairman and Executive Directors hold meetings 
with the Company’s largest institutional shareholders and 
market analysts to discuss governance, business strategy 
and financial performance. Non-Executive Directors are 
also available to meet with institutional shareholders when 
required. During the year, Roger Yates met with major 
shareholders to discuss the Group’s remuneration policy in 
his capacity as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Following all investor presentations and meetings, feedback 
is passed to the Board on any opinions or concerns 
expressed by shareholders. The Directors receive regular 
updates on shareholder views, as well as analysts’ reports 
on market perception of the Group’s performance and 
strategy, and are made aware of the financial expectations 
of the Group from the outside market.
The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting (AGM) to 
communicate with private and institutional investors, and 
we welcome their participation. We send the Annual Report 
and notice of the AGM to shareholders, or make them 
available on the Group’s website, at least 20 working days 
before the date of the meeting. The Notice of AGM sets 
out a clear explanation of each resolution to be proposed 
at the meeting. Shareholders have the opportunity to ask 
questions and, if they are unable to attend, can submit 
written queries in advance of the meeting. At the meeting, 
we will make available to shareholders full details of the 
proxy votes received on each resolution, and we will also 
publish these on the Company’s website on the same 
day. The Chairman aims to ensure that all the Directors, 
including the Chairmen of the Board committees, are 
available at the AGM to answer questions. 
Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director, is available to meet shareholders on request, 
and also ensures that the Board is aware of shareholder 
concerns not resolved through other communication 
mechanisms. The Chairman and the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director provide feedback to the Board on 
any views or concerns expressed to them by shareholders.
Ongoing professional development and training is 
important, given the rapidly changing environment in which 
the Group operates. All Directors are given regular updates 
on changes and developments in the business and on any 
relevant legislative, regulatory and governance changes. 
The Chairman ensures that the Directors continually update 
and refresh their skills and knowledge, and independent 
professional advice is provided when required, at the 
Company’s expense.
INFORMATION PROVIDED TO THE BOARD
All Directors have access to the advice and services 
of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the 
Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed 
and compliance with applicable rules and regulations is 
observed. The Company Secretary also ensures appropriate 
and timely information flows within and to the Board and its 
committees, enabling the Board to exercise its judgment 
and make fully informed decisions when discharging  
its duties. 
The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in setting 
the Board agenda, and Board papers are distributed to 
all Directors in advance of Board meetings via a secure 
electronic system. Directors receive financial and risk 
information on the company on a monthly basis, and they 
receive briefings from the Chief Executive Officer in the 
periods between meetings.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that all 
directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject 
to annual election by shareholders. Each Director and 
the Board as a whole (excluding Andy Green, who was 
appointed after 31 May 2014) underwent a performance 
evaluation during the course of the year. Following this,  
all Directors with the exception of Jonathan Davie 
and Martin Jackson, who will be stepping down at the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) on  
16 October 2014, will stand for re-election (or in the case  
of Andy Green, election) as relevant at the AGM. 
The Board | Corporate Governance Report 58 59 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Nomination Committee
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
The committee’s purpose is to ensure that the Board’s 
composition, in terms of structure, size, skills and 
experience, meets the Company’s needs. We maintain and 
implement an effective succession plan to ensure that the 
Board is progressively refreshed. This year, our attention 
has centred on the appointment of a new Non-Executive 
Director to replace Martin Jackson and the search, led by 
Roger Yates, for a replacement Chairman. The latter was 
essential to ensure an orderly succession on my retirement 
from the Board in October 2014.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE
The committee consists of independent Non-Executive 
Directors and meets as necessary to consider appointments 
to the Board. The Chief Executive Officer also attends, but 
is not involved in decisions relating to his own succession.
ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE 
The responsibilities of the committee are to:
• Review the composition of the Board and Board 
committees to ensure that they are appropriately 
balanced in terms of skills, knowledge and experience
• Ensure that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new Directors
• Recommend appointments to the Board
• Ensure that plans are in place for orderly succession, 
for appointments to the Board and to other senior 
management positions
The Terms of Reference of the committee are available on 
the Group’s website, iggroup.com.
ACTIVITY DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
In 2013, we announced that Martin Jackson and I will be 
stepping down from the Board, as Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman respectively, at the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) in October 2014. The committee therefore put into 
action a succession-planning process for both roles. 
We engaged an external search agency to support 
us in appointing a Non-Executive Director to replace 
Martin Jackson, both as a Non-Executive Director and as 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. JCA Group, which has 
no other connection with the Company, assisted with the 
recruitment process and conducted an extensive search 
and benchmarking exercise. We provided a brief setting 
out the role specification and the desired skills, knowledge 
and experience to the search consultants, who identified 
a shortlist of potential candidates. Following detailed due 
diligence and an extensive interview process by members 
of the committee, we selected Jim Newman as the most 
suitable and preferred candidate, on the basis of his strong 
background in finance and understanding of UK financial 
governance. Jim’s experience of financial services regulation 
complements the Group’s business strategy and activity, 
and is highly relevant to the markets in which we operate. 
We recommended his appointment to the Board, and he 
formally took up his position on 1 October 2013.
During the year, the committee also began the search for  
a new Chairman, with the process being led by  
Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director. We appointed the Zygos Partnership, an executive 
search firm, to assist us. The Zygos Partnership has no other 
connection with the Company. The committee, along with 
the Board, agreed the specification for the role. This was 
based on objective criteria, including the skills, experience, 
knowledge and capabilities required for the role of 
Chairman. We also specified that candidates must be able 
to give the necessary time commitment to the role. The 
Zygos Partnership prepared a list of potential candidates, 
following which a shortlist of individuals were interviewed by 
Scheduled 
meetings 
eligible to 
attend
Scheduled 
meetings 
attended
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Jonathan Davie
(1)
3 3
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Martin Jackson 6 6
Jim Newman 3 3
Roger Yates 6 6
(1)  Jonathan Davie did not attend meetings relating to the search for a  
new Chairman.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
the committee members (other than myself), the  
Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Directors. 
As the current Chairman of the Company, I did not chair  
the Nomination Committee meetings and discussions 
leading to the appointment of the new Chairman. After 
extensive interviews and a due diligence exercise, the 
committee recommended to the Board the appointment 
of Andy Green as Chairman Designate. The Board took 
into account Andy’s wealth of corporate experience and 
in-depth knowledge of leading-edge technology and 
marketing when making its decision on his appointment. 
Following regulatory approval by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, we were pleased to announce in June 2014 that 
Andy would join the Board as Deputy Chairman, and will 
succeed me as Chairman at the AGM in October 2014.
In addition to overseeing appointments to the Board, the 
committee also reviewed the membership of the Board 
committees during the year. Following the committee’s 
recommendation, and with the Board’s approval,  
Stephen Hill stepped down as a member of the Audit 
Committee and was appointed Chairman of the newly 
created Board Risk Committee. 
The Nomination Committee recommended to the Board 
that the committee would benefit from an additional 
member. As a result, Jim Newman was appointed as a 
member of the Nomination Committee in December 2013.
DIVERSITY POLICY
As a business, we are committed to maintaining a diverse 
workforce at all levels across the Company, and more 
information on how we do this can be found in the Our 
People section, on page 27.
The Directors understand the significant benefits that 
come with having a diverse Board. We recognise the 
importance of gender diversity on the Board, however 
we believe that diversity is a wider issue and also includes 
variations in experience, skills, personal attributes and 
background. While the Board supports Lord Davies’ 
recommendations, as set out in his report on ‘Women on 
Boards’, the Nomination Committee has not set a specific 
target for female representation on the Board. We continue 
to appoint on merit, based on the skills and experience 
required for membership of our Board, while giving 
consideration to gender diversity when the committee 
reviews the Board’s composition. For appointments to the 
Board, we use executive search firms who have signed up to 
the voluntary code of conduct setting out the key principles 
of best practice in the recruitment process. These principles 
include a recommendation that search firms should consider 
gender diversity when drawing up a shortlist of candidates.
Jonathan Davie 
Chairman, Nomination Committee 
22 July 2014
Jonathan Davie, Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee, gives his review of the committee’s 
activities during the financial year.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME
Succession planning
Board composition
| Corporate Governance Report 60 61 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Remuneration Committee
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 
31 May 2014, which, in accordance with the new reporting 
regulations, is split into two parts: 
• The Directors’ Remuneration Policy report sets out the 
remuneration policy and framework for 2014 and beyond, 
which will be subject to a binding vote at this year’s 
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
• The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out the 
remuneration paid to Directors in respect of the 
2014 financial year, together with details of how the 
remuneration policy will be implemented for 2015, which 
will be subject to an advisory vote at this year’s AGM
In addition to the two votes referred to above, a separate 
resolution is being put forward which will permit the 
Company to use newly issued shares when satisfying awards 
under the existing long-term incentive plan (LTIP), subject 
to the existing 10% in ten years dilution limit covering all 
our share plans. This limit has previously been agreed with 
shareholders for other share plans. Executive Directors are 
not eligible to participate in this LTIP; it applies to selected 
individuals in key manager roles below Board. Full details 
will be provided in the Notice of AGM. 
CHANGES IN OUR PAY STRUCTURE 
APPROVED LAST YEAR
As I reported in last year’s Remuneration Report, the 
committee has spent significant time over the past two 
years reviewing its executive remuneration policy. The 
goal of the review was to assess whether IG’s executive 
remuneration structure supports the business strategy and 
encourages the delivery of safe and sustainable growth in 
long-term shareholder value. The high-level conclusion of 
this review was that the structure in place between 2010 
and 2013 was no longer aligned with an organisation at 
IG’s stage of development. The long-term incentive plan 
known as the value-sharing plan (VSP), in particular, was 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Roger Yates, Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee, gives his review of the committee’s 
activities during the financial year.
too highly ‘geared’, with very high upside potential linked 
to exceptional growth, but with insufficient emphasis on 
driving sustained, reliable performance. Also, due to the 
high upside potential in the VSP , base salaries had fallen 
behind, at 80-90% of mid-market levels. In reducing the 
upside gearing in the VSP it was also essential to address 
the relatively uncompetitive nature of the base salaries.
As a result of the review, the committee recommended 
several changes which were disclosed in last year’s Notice of 
AGM and supported by shareholders:
• The establishment of a new, simpler remuneration policy, 
with a single incentive plan – the sustained performance 
plan (SPP) – to replace both the existing annual bonus 
and the VSP for the Executive Directors. The SPP is 
entirely share-based, with a lower maximum award size 
(5 x base salary for maximum performance) than the 
combined previous plans, and with extended vesting 
periods (up to seven years)
• The introduction of minimum shareholding guidelines for 
Executive Directors (2 x base salary for the Chief Executive 
Officer and 1 x base salary for other Executive Directors)
• Salary increases of 7.5% for all Executive Directors, effective 
1 June 2013, in order to bring the Directors closer to mid-
market levels against FTSE 250 companies of a similar size
The committee’s recommendations were supported by over 
90% of shareholders at the 2013 AGM. We are grateful to 
shareholders for their trust and support in this vote. 
THE BUSINESS CONTEXT IN 2014
The current year saw IG invest significantly in longer-term 
strategic projects, including the launch of stockbroking, 
expansion into Switzerland and increased emphasis on 
mobile technology. Against this backdrop, revenue for 2014 
was £370.4 million, which represents a 2.4% increase on 2013, 
and diluted earnings per share increased by 3.6% to 40.18 
pence per share. Own funds increased by £60.4 million and, 
in recommending a total dividend of 28.15 pence, an increase 
of 21.1%, the Board is proposing an increase in the ordinary 
dividend payout ratio to approximately 70% of earnings for 
the financial year 2014 from the current level of 60%, while 
retaining a progressive dividend policy in the future. 
REMUNERATION OUTCOMES FOR 2014
For the 2014 plan year, the Executives will receive awards 
under the SPP with a face value of 2.7 x base salary, 
representing 54% of maximum possible award. We believe 
this award is reflective of the 2014 performance and 
business context as set out above.
The 2014 award under the SPP is driven by three measures:
• Earnings Per Share (EPS) – 45% of the maximum potential 
award. The EPS target range for 2014 was set by the 
committee at 37.50 pence to 42.00 pence, with a linear 
relationship in between. Our actual EPS of 40.18 pence 
resulted in 59.6% of this portion being granted
• Total Shareholder Return (TSR) – 35% of the maximum 
potential award. The Company achieved a TSR of 19%, 
which ranked the Company slightly above the median  
of the peer group, resulting in 27% of this portion  
being granted
• Non-financial metrics – 20% of maximum potential award. 
The committee looks at the Company’s execution and 
delivery of key strategic initiatives and performance 
against key quantitative and qualitative non-financial 
metrics. This year, the performance against these metrics 
was strong and resulted in a 90.5% achievement level
We remind shareholders that the SPP is the Company’s only 
Executive Director incentive plan for 2014, and has replaced 
both the annual bonus and long-term incentive plans. 
In addition, the Executive Directors will receive a small 
vesting from their 2011 VSP awards. Full details of these 
awards are set out on page 81. 
Finally, the committee has recommended a 3% base salary 
increase for the Executive Directors to take effect from  
1 June 2014. T o provide some context, the general increase 
for employees across the Group is expected to be around 4%.
The committee believes shareholders deserve thorough 
disclosure on remuneration. To this end, the Company has 
set out extensive explanation of the judgments it has made 
in making the above awards. This disclosure is set out in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration on page 75. 
The committee has worked over the past 18 months to 
ensure that the recent changes to the Executive Directors’ 
remuneration policy support the Group’s strategy and 
objectives over the longer term and reflect the sustained, 
strong performance of the Group and its executive team. 
Given the level of consultation with shareholders during 
the remuneration review, we hope you continue to be 
supportive of the remuneration policy we introduced last 
year and of our implementation of such for 2014. 
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION 
POLICY FOR 2015
For 2015, the committee will use the same three metrics 
described above, in the same proportions. Accordingly, EPS 
will drive 45%, TSR will drive 35% and non-financial metrics 
will drive 20% of the maximum potential award.
In relation to the EPS targets, the committee has ensured a 
sufficiently stretching range has been set by taking account 
of a number of internal and external reference points. The 
target range will be disclosed in next year’s report.
I hope that you will be supportive of the remuneration 
resolutions to be proposed at the next AGM. If in the 
meantime you have any questions regarding our remuneration 
policy then my colleagues and I on the Remuneration 
Committee would be pleased to consider them. 
Roger Yates  
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
22 July 2014
Scheduled 
meetings 
eligible to 
attend
Scheduled 
meetings 
attended
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Roger Yates 6 6
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Jonathan Davie 6 6
Stephen Hill 6 6
Martin Jackson 6 6
| Corporate Governance Report 62 63 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Directors’ Remuneration Report
PREPARATION OF THE DIRECTORS’  
REMUNERATION REPORT
Our Directors’ Remuneration Report covers the 
remuneration of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors 
of IG Group Holdings plc. In line with new regulations 
governing the disclosure and approval of directors’ 
remuneration, the report is split into three parts: the 
preceding annual statement from the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, a Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
and an Annual Report on Remuneration which follow. 
We have prepared the Remuneration Report in accordance 
with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as 
amended), and it complies with the Financial Conduct 
Authority’s Listing Rules. In developing our remuneration 
policy, we have taken into account the principles of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the views of our 
major shareholders.
The disclosures required under Article 450 of the Capital 
Requirements Regulation are provided on the corporate 
website and accordingly are not detailed within the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report or elsewhere in the  
Annual Report.
Unless otherwise stated, information and disclosures  
within the Directors’ Remuneration Report are unaudited. 
The regulations require the Company’s auditors to report on 
the audited information in the report and to state that this 
section has been properly prepared in accordance  
with these regulations. The audited sections, which fall 
within the Annual Report on Remuneration, have been 
clearly identified.
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy will be put to a  
binding shareholder vote at the 2014 Annual General 
Meeting (AGM). 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
This part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report sets out 
the remuneration policy for the Directors and, subject to 
approval, will take effect from 16 October 2014, the date of 
the AGM. 
THE ROLE OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The committee is responsible for making recommendations 
to the Board on the Group’s senior executive remuneration 
policy. Operating within defined and agreed terms of 
reference, it determines an overall remuneration package 
for the Executive Directors in order to attract and retain 
high-quality Directors capable of achieving the Group’s 
objectives. The committee’s terms of reference can be 
found on our corporate website at iggroup.com.
The committee sets and agrees with the Board a 
competitive and transparent remuneration framework which 
is aligned to the Company strategy and is in the interests 
of both the Company and its shareholders. The committee 
determines the contractual terms, remuneration and other 
benefits for each of the Executive Directors, including 
performance-related incentive arrangements, pension 
rights, compensation payments and share-incentive awards. 
The committee’s other responsibilities are to:
• Determine and review the Group’s remuneration policy, 
ensuring it is consistent with effective risk management 
across the Group, and to consider the implications of this 
remuneration policy on risk
• Determine and agree the policy for the remuneration of 
the Board Chairman and the Executive Directors
• Review and note pay and employment conditions and the 
remuneration trends across the Group
• Approve all share-based awards under the Group’s 
employee incentive schemes, to determine each year 
whether awards will be made and, if awards are made, to 
monitor their operation, the size of such awards and the 
performance targets to be used 
• Establish the selection criteria, appoint and set the terms 
of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise 
the committee
• Monitor regulatory developments, including those 
affecting UK-listed companies and financial services 
firms, to ensure the Company’s remuneration policy is 
consistent with these
The Board determines the remuneration of  
Non-Executive Directors.
OBJECTIVES OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY
The Remuneration Committee’s objective is to ensure 
remuneration encourages, reinforces and rewards the 
growth of shareholder value. As such, it has implemented a 
remuneration policy which provides a framework for making 
decisions, including those covering the remuneration of 
Executive Directors. The remuneration policy is set to 
ensure that remuneration has the ability to attract and retain 
senior executives of a high calibre, remains competitive and 
provides appropriate incentive for performance.
The committee has agreed that all matters relating to 
remuneration of Group employees should:
• Align with the best interests of the Company’s 
shareholders and other stakeholders
• Recognise and reward good and excellent performance 
of employees that helps drive sustainable growth of  
the Group
• Focus on retaining high-performing senior management
• Be consistent with regulatory and corporate  
governance requirements
• Be designed to achieve effective risk management
• Be straightforward, easy for employees to understand 
and easy for the Group to monitor
• Not be used to reward behaviour that inappropriately 
increases the Group’s exposure to risks
The committee considers that a successful remuneration 
policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of 
future changes in the Company’s business environment and 
in remuneration practice. There must be transparency and 
alignment to the delivery of strategic objectives at both 
a Company and an individual level. There must also be 
scope to reward for exceptional effort and achievement that 
delivers value both for the Company and the shareholders. 
Likewise, failure to achieve, individually or at Company level, 
will not be rewarded. 
The committee is also mindful of ensuring that there is an 
appropriate balance between the level of risk and reward 
for the individual, the Company and our shareholders. 
When setting levels of variable remuneration, the degree 
of stretch in performance conditions and the balance of 
equity and cash within a package, consideration is given 
to obtaining the appropriate balance of each so as not to 
encourage unnecessary risk-taking. As well as financial risk, 
the committee also ensures that there is an appropriate 
focus on regulatory and governance matters.
The total remuneration package is structured so that a 
significant proportion is linked to performance conditions, 
and it is the Company’s policy to ensure that a high 
proportion of the potential remuneration package is provided 
via share-based instruments. This ensures that executives 
have a strong ongoing alignment with shareholders through 
the Company’s share price performance. 
The table on pages 64-69 summarises each element of the 
remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, explaining 
how each element operates and how each part links to the 
corporate strategy.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
The Remuneration Committee’s objective is to ensure 
remuneration encourages, reinforces and rewards 
the delivery of shareholder value. As such, it has 
implemented a remuneration policy which provides 
a framework for making decisions, including those 
covering the remuneration of Executive Directors.
In line with new regulations governing the disclosure and 
approval of directors’ remuneration, our Directors’ Remuneration 
Report is split into two sections:
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy  62
Annual Report on Remuneration 75
| Corporate Governance Report 64 65 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
Key elements of remuneration
PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS
RECOVERY OR 
WITHHOLDING
BASE SALARY
Provides a sound basis on which to recruit and retain key 
employees of appropriate calibre to deliver the strategic 
objectives of the Company.
Reflects the market value of the role and the post-
holder’s experience, competency and performance 
within the Company.
Salaries are normally reviewed by the committee annually, and 
are usually fixed for 12 months commencing 1 June. Any salary 
increase may be influenced by:
• Scale, scope and responsibility of the role
• Experience of the individual and his or her performance
• Average change in wider workforce pay
• Business performance and prevailing market conditions
• Commercial need
• Periodic benchmarking of similar roles at comparable 
companies selected on the basis of comparable size, 
complexity, geographic spread and business focus 
The general policy is to pay around 
mid-market levels, with annual 
increases typically in line with the 
wider workforce. 
Increases beyond the percentage 
increases granted to the wider 
workforce may be awarded in 
exceptional circumstances,  
such as: 
• Where there is a change in the 
individual’s responsibility
• Where the salary set at initial 
appointment was below the level 
expected once the individual 
gains further experience and a 
track record of performance in 
the role
An above-market positioning may 
be appropriate, in exceptional 
circumstances, to reflect the criticality 
of the role and the individual’ s 
experience and performance.
Base salary levels for the financial 
year ending 31 May 2015 are:
T A Howkins – £472,200
C F Hill – £330,500 
P G Hetherington – £354,300 (FTE)
No performance metrics apply to base salary. No recovery 
or withholding 
applies to  
base salary.
BENEFITS
Competitive, cost-effective benefits to help recruit and 
retain Executive Directors and senior management.
Benefits may include, for example, private medical insurance, 
discounted health club membership and life assurance.
Cash alternatives may be provided for any or all of these 
benefits, depending on individual circumstances.
Relocation and related benefits may be offered where a 
Director is required to relocate.
The aim is to provide market-
competitive benefits, and their 
value may vary from year to year, 
depending on the cost to the 
Company from third-party providers.
Benefits constitute a small 
percentage of total remuneration.
No performance metrics apply to benefits. No recovery 
or withholding 
applies to benefits.
PENSION
Market-competitive, cost-effective retirement benefits 
attract and retain executives.
The Group contributes to Executive Directors’ personal 
pension plans. Executives have the option to receive part, or 
all, of their pension contribution as a cash allowance in lieu of 
Company pension contributions.
The company may contribute up to 
15% of base salary to pension, an 
equivalent cash allowance in lieu, or 
a mixture of both.
No performance metrics apply to retirement benefits. No recovery or 
withholding  
applies to 
retirement benefits.
| Corporate Governance Report Directors’ Remuneration Report 66 67 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
Key elements of remuneration (continued)
PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS
RECOVERY OR 
WITHHOLDING
SUSTAINED PERFORMANCE PLAN (SPP)
Approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM, the SPP 
provides a single incentive plan for Executive Directors 
rather than having separate annual and long-term plans.
It provides a simple and competitive incentive 
mechanism that encourages and rewards both annual 
and sustained long-term performance, linked to the 
Company’s strategic objectives.
The SPP encapsulates traditional annual bonus and 
long-term incentive plans. It is entirely share-based, 
encouraging executives to build up a substantial stake 
in the Company, thereby aligning the interests of 
management with shareholders.
We are initially operating the SPP by reference to five 
consecutive ‘plan years’. The first plan year was the financial 
year ended 31 May 2014.
Awards of shares (either in the form of par value options, 
nil cost options or conditional awards), known as ‘plan 
contributions’, are made after the announcement of results 
relating to each plan year. 
Plan contributions are granted by reference to achievement 
against applicable performance targets and accumulate 
within a participant’s ‘plan account’.
Each year, a percentage of the accumulated balance in  
the plan account vests (ie options or awards are released  
to participants).
Therefore, a participant’s plan account will comprise the 
sum of the plan contribution (if any) being made in relation 
to the relevant plan year plus the accumulated awards 
registered in the plan account from previous plan years.
In the first five plan years, a participant’s plan account vests 
as follows:
Following % of cumulative shares in  
plan account vesting
Plan year 1 40.0%
Plan year 2 40.0%
Plan year 3 33.3%
Plan year 4 33.3%
Plan year 5 33.3%
After plan year 5, the committee may at such time (or at a 
later date during the life of the SPP) close the operation of 
the plan. 
If the SPP is closed following plan year 5, unvested awards 
remaining in the plan account will vest in tranches of 50%, 
25% and 25% on the first, second and third anniversaries of 
the SPP’s closure. The same principles will apply on a later 
termination of the plan.
Participants may receive a payment at the time of delivery 
of vested shares of an amount equivalent to the dividends 
that would have been paid on those shares while in the plan 
account (adopting a first-in, first-out basis). This amount may 
assume dividend reinvestment. Dividends will not accrue on 
vested but unexercised awards.
The maximum plan contribution 
in respect of a plan year is an 
award of shares with a market 
value of no more than 500% of an 
executive’s annual rate of salary.
The quantum of any awards granted is dependent on 
performance against performance targets set by the 
committee for each relevant financial year.
Performance targets may comprise, for example, diluted 
earnings per share (DEPS) targets, Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) and non-financial measures. Performance is 
measured over single plan years (financial years) except 
for TSR (from plan year 2 – awards in respect of financial 
year ending 31 May 2015). We currently intend to apply 
the following performance criteria:
• DEPS – a sliding scale of targets will apply for each 
plan year. The targets will be set at the start of each 
plan year. Targets and performance will be disclosed 
retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration 
for the relevant financial year-end
• Relative TSR – the Company’s share price (plus 
dividends reinvested) performance will be measured 
against an appropriate comparator group. For the 
first plan year, performance is based on that plan 
year alone; for the second plan year, performance is 
based on plan years 1 and 2; thereafter performance 
is measured over three plan years ending with the 
plan year being reported on. The committee retains 
the discretion to scale back the level of award if it 
feels the Company’s underlying financial performance 
does not warrant the level of award resulting from TSR 
performance alone
• Non-financial – these may comprise strategic  
goals, operational and client satisfaction measures 
for each plan year. Targets and performance will be 
disclosed retrospectively
Where possible, a sliding scale of targets will be set. For 
the DEPS and relative TSR measures, no more than 25% 
is payable for achieving threshold performance, rising to 
full payout for achieving a more challenging target.
The scorecard of financial, share price and non-financial 
metrics may vary from year to year in accordance with 
strategic priorities and the regulatory environment.
At the time of determining the contribution for plan  
year 5, in the event that the committee feels the 
Company’s underlying financial performance over the first 
five plan years has not been satisfactory, the committee 
may scale back the final balance of the plan account. 
 
The committee 
may decide within 
three years of a 
plan contribution 
that the 
underlying award 
will be subject to 
clawback. This 
may happen 
where there has 
been a material 
misstatement in 
the Company’s 
financial results 
or an error in 
assessing any 
applicable 
performance 
condition. It may 
also be triggered 
if there has 
been substantial 
failure of risk 
management, or 
if the participant’s 
employment 
is terminated 
for serious 
misconduct.  
The clawback 
may be satisfied 
by a reduction 
in the amount of 
any subsisting 
plan account, a 
reduction in the 
vesting of any 
subsisting vested 
awards or future 
share awards  
and/or a 
requirement  
to make  
cash payment.
| Corporate Governance Report Directors’ Remuneration Report 68 69 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
Key elements of remuneration (continued)
PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS
RECOVERY OR 
WITHHOLDING
ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES
All employees including Executive Directors are 
encouraged to become shareholders through the 
operation of an HMRC-approved share-incentive plan 
(SIP) and/or such other all-employee share plans as the 
Company may adopt in the future.
The SIP is a flexible, tax-efficient, all-employee plan. Partnership, 
free, dividend and matching shares may be granted under the SIP .
If other HMRC-approved all-employee plans are introduced, they 
will operate in accordance with HMRC guidance and limits.
Similar non-UK plans may be operated to enable non-UK 
employees and Directors to participate.
HMRC or non-UK plan equivalent 
limits will apply to any all-employee 
schemes that may be introduced.
This currently constitutes a small 
proportion of Executive Directors’ 
total remuneration.
No performance metrics tend to apply, although they 
may be introduced where applicable and if appropriate.
No recovery 
or withholding 
applies to all-
employee share 
schemes.
SHARE OWNERSHIP POLICY
Aligns the interests of management and shareholders 
and promotes a long-term approach to performance 
and risk management.
A share ownership policy was introduced from the financial year 
ending 31 May 2014.
Under this policy, the Chief Executive Officer is required to  
hold shares to the value of a minimum of 200% of base salary, 
and for other Executive Directors a requirement of 100% of base 
salary applies.
Only shares owned outright by the Executive Director are 
included in the guideline, which must be achieved within five 
years of the introduction of the policy or, if later, from the date of 
appointment to the Board.
The committee will review progress annually, with an expectation 
that Executive Directors will make progress towards achieving 
the shareholding policy each year. 
Not applicable. Not applicable. Not applicable. 
NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE
Choice of performance measures:
The performance measures that are used in the share performance plan (SPP) are a subset of the Company’ s Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). 
Metric Rationale and link to the strategic KPIs How performance measures are set
Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) relative to a suitable 
benchmark group 
(Current weighting: 35%)
TSR measures the total return to IG Group’s shareholders, both through share price 
growth and dividends paid, and as such it is aligned to shareholder interests.
TSR is influenced by how well IG Group performs on a range of other metrics, including 
financial indicators such as revenue, profit, cash generation and dividends, and non-
financial indicators such as client satisfaction and operational performance.
The committee sets the requirements for each plan year. The current benchmark group comprises the constituents of the 
FTSE 350 index (excluding investment trusts).
Diluted earnings per share 
(DEPS)  
(Current weighting: 45%)
DEPS is a key indicator of the profits generated for shareholders, and a reflection of 
both revenue growth and cost control.
The committee determines appropriate performance targets each year, taking account of the annual and longer-term 
business plans. DEPS is calculated on such adjusted basis as the committee reasonably selects (eg adjusting for the effects 
of any share buybacks).
Non-financial performance  
(Current weighting: 20%)
Customer satisfaction We measure customer satisfaction against a number of indicators. One such indicator is 
the Net Promoter Score (NPS) data supplied by Investment Trends. NPS is a measure of 
whether clients would recommend IG Group. It is calculated by asking respondents how 
likely they are to recommend the Company to a friend or colleague. Respondents reply 
on a 0-10 scale, with the final NPS calculated as the percentage of promoters (those 
answering 9 or 10) minus the percentage of detractors (those answering 0-6). 
In addition, the numbers of active and new clients and revenue per client are indicators 
of client satisfaction and sustainability of revenues.
We assess performance by comparing IG Group’s performance against other companies in the sector, with the aim of 
maintaining a high NPS score relative to the sector average.
System reliability/uptime System reliability or uptime is a key measure of the resilience of our trading platforms, 
which is an essential element of revenue generation and client satisfaction.
The committee assesses performance relative to prior years, internal targets and sector averages.
Other Other non-financial criteria may include, for example, effective risk management, 
execution of strategic initiatives, sustaining the Company’s excellent reputation and 
maintaining a good standing with regulators.
Criteria are set each year by the committee, and assessed ‘in the round’, taking account of activities and achievements 
during the year.
| Corporate Governance Report Directors’ Remuneration Report 70 71 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE (CONTINUED)
Annual DEPS targets and non-financial performance measures, where used, are likely to be too sensitive to disclose in 
advance, for commercial reasons. We will, however, disclose the measures and targets (where applicable) used, and the 
extent to which we have achieved them, on a retrospective basis, at the end of the relevant performance period. 
Incentive plan discretions
The committee will operate the current SPP (and other share plans still in operation) according to their respective rules and 
the policy set out above, and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant. Copies of the SPP rules are 
available on request from the Company Secretary. As is consistent with market practice, the committee retains discretion over 
a number of areas relating to operating and administrating these plans. These include (but are not limited to) the following:
• Who participates in the plans
• The timing of grant of award and/or payment
• The size of an award and/or a payment within the plan limits approved by shareholders
• The choice of (and adjustment of) performance measures and targets in accordance with the policy set out above and the 
rules of each plan (including the treatment of delisted companies for the purpose of the TSR Comparator Group) 
• Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction
• Determination of a good leaver (in addition to any specified categories) for incentive-plan purposes, based on the rules of 
each plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules
• Adjustments required in certain circumstances (eg rights issues, corporate restructuring, special dividends and on a 
change of control)
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration. As 
appropriate, it might also be the subject of consultation with the Company’s major shareholders.
Legacy arrangements
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, the Company has authority to honour any 
commitments entered into with current or former Directors that have been disclosed to shareholders previously. This 
includes awards made under the deferred bonus plan, the value-sharing plan (VSP) and any other share plans operated by 
the Company.
REMUNERATION SCENARIOS FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
As a result of the Company’s remuneration policy, a significant proportion of the remuneration received by Executive 
Directors depends on Company performance. The chart on page 71 shows how total pay for the Executive Directors varies 
under three different performance scenarios: minimum, target and maximum:
Minimum
This comprises the fixed elements of pay, being base salary, benefits and pension. Base salary and pension was effective at  
1 June 2014 and the benefits value is the actual value for the year ending 31 May 2013. 
Target
This comprises fixed pay and the target value of SPP (250% of salary).
Maximum
This comprises fixed pay and the maximum value of SPP (500% of salary).
No account has been taken of share price growth, or of dividend shares awarded in respect of the deferred element of 
bonus and SPP awards over the deferral/performance periods.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ SERVICE CONTRACTS
Each Executive Director is employed under a service contract with IG Group Limited (a wholly-owned intermediate holding 
company) for the benefit of the Company and the Group.
The period of notice for existing Executive Directors does not exceed six months and, accordingly, Executive Directors’ 
employment contracts can be terminated on six months’ notice by either party.
In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Director’s service contract other than in accordance with the terms of 
his or her contract, the committee will act in the best interests of the Company and ensure there is no reward for failure. All 
service contracts are continuous, and contractual termination payments relate to the unexpired notice period. 
On a Director’s departure, the Company may at its sole discretion pay base salary and the value of any benefits (including 
pension) that would have been receivable in lieu of any unexpired period of notice. In the event of termination for gross 
misconduct, the Company may give neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice. Where the Company, acting reasonably, 
believes it may have a right to terminate employment due to gross misconduct, it may suspend the executive from 
employment on full salary for up to 30 days to investigate the circumstances prevailing.
The Company may place an executive on gardening leave for up to the duration of the notice period. During this time, the 
executive will be entitled to receive base salary and all contractual benefits (including pension). At the end of the gardening 
leave period, the Company may, at its discretion, pay the executive base salary alone, in lieu of the balance of any period of 
notice given by the Company or the executive.
When considering payments in the event of termination, the Remuneration Committee takes into account individual 
circumstances. Relevant factors include the reasons for termination, contractual obligations and the relevant incentive plan 
rules. When determining any loss-of-office payment for a departing Director, the committee will always seek to minimise 
the cost to the Company, while complying with the contractual terms and seeking to reflect the circumstances in place at 
the time. The committee reserves the right to make additional payments, where such payments are made in good faith in 
discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of settlement or 
compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Director’s office or employment.
For new executive appointments, the committee has discretion to offer a longer notice period of up to 12 months to secure 
an appointment. Any payments in lieu of notice will be at the committee’s discretion, and will be limited to base salary and 
the value of any benefits (including pension) as set out above.
Fixed pay
REMUNERATION SCENARIOS FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
3,000
2,500
2,000
Target Minimum Maximum
T A Howkins
1,500
1,000
500
C F Hill P G Hetherington
100% 32% 19%
68%
81%
100% 27% 16%
73%
84%
100% 32% 19%
68%
81%
Target Minimum Maximum Target Minimum Maximum
£000
SPP
| Corporate Governance Report Directors’ Remuneration Report 72 73 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
Sustained performance plan awards
As a general rule, if a participant ceases to hold 
employment or be a Director within the Group, or gives 
notice of leaving, they forfeit any entitlement to receive 
further plan contributions. All awards subsisting in their plan 
account at such time are forfeited in full.
However, the situation may be different if the participant 
ceases to be an employee or a Director within the Group 
under certain circumstances. These include injury, disability, 
retirement, redundancy, the sale of the participant’s 
employing company or the business for which they work out 
of the Group, or other circumstances at the discretion of the 
committee. In this case, participation in the plan will cease 
once the plan contributions in respect of the plan year in 
which the cessation arises are determined. This will take 
into account the proportion of the full plan year worked. 
Ordinarily, the participant’s plan account will then vest, 
yielding one third immediately and thereafter the remaining 
balance in equal parts on the first and second anniversary of 
such determinations. 
For the purposes of any awards permitted to vest to  
leavers as described above, the committee retains 
discretion to reduce the level of vesting that would 
otherwise result. It may refer to such time-based 
adjustments as it considers appropriate.
Where awards are granted in the form of options, any 
vested awards already held at the time of cessation 
(ie vested awards held outside the plan account but 
unexercised) will remain exercisable for a limited period. 
The exception is when dismissal has been for misconduct,  
in which case such awards lapse in full.
Value-sharing plan (VSP) awards – legacy plan
As a general rule, awards which have not vested will 
lapse when employment ceases. This may differ in certain 
circumstances when there is a good reason for leaving. 
Examples include injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, 
the sale of the participant’s employing company or 
the business for which they work out of the Group, or 
other circumstances at the discretion of the committee. 
The committee has the discretion to determine that an 
Executive Director is a good leaver. In this case, the award 
will not lapse but will continue or, if the committee decides, 
will vest on cessation to the extent the performance 
condition is satisfied. A time pro-rated reduction will apply 
unless the committee determines otherwise. In the event 
of death, awards will vest at that time to the extent that 
performance, in the opinion of the committee, has  
been satisfied.
Deferred bonus share awards – legacy plan
As a general rule, awards which have not vested will lapse 
when employment ceases. For the same good leaver 
reasons as set out above under the VSP , awards will vest on 
the date of cessation unless the Remuneration Committee 
determines that the original vesting date should apply. 
The committee has the discretion to determine that an 
Executive Director is a good leaver.
The Executive Directors’ contracts do not provide for any 
enhanced payments in the event of a change of control 
of the Company, nor for liquidated damages. Copies of 
the Executive Directors’ service contracts are available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered office.
REMUNERATION POLICY ACROSS THE COMPANY
We have designed the remuneration policy for the 
Executive Directors and senior management with regard to 
the policy for employees across the Company as a whole. 
The committee is kept updated through the year on general 
employment conditions, basic salary-increase budgets, 
the level of bonus pools and payouts and participation in 
share plans. The committee is therefore aware of how total 
remuneration at the Executive Director level compares 
to the total remuneration of the general population of 
employees. Common approaches to remuneration policy 
which apply across the Company include:
• Consistency in ‘pay for performance’, with annual bonus 
schemes being offered to the vast majority of employees
• Offering pension, medical and life assurance  
benefits for all employees, where practical given  
geographical location
• Ensuring that salary increases for each category of 
employee are considered, taking into account the overall 
rate of increase across the Company, benchmarking, and 
Company and individual performance
• Encouraging broad-based share ownership through the 
use of all-employee share plans, where practical
RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION POLICY
The committee’s overriding objective is to appoint 
Executive Directors with the necessary background, skills 
and experience to ensure the continuing success of the 
Company. We recognise that the pace of change and 
technology development in our industry, as well as the 
global nature of IG Group, mean that the right individuals 
may often be highly sought-after. 
We set the remuneration package for a new Executive 
Director in accordance with the Company’s approved 
remuneration policy, as detailed on page 71 of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report, subject to the additional 
provisions described below. The maximum level of variable 
remuneration (excluding any buyout arrangements) that 
we can offer to a new executive on an annual basis will be 
in accordance with the sustained performance plan limit, 
being 500% of salary.
In many cases, where we make an external appointment, 
the individual will forfeit incentive awards connected with 
their previous employment on resignation. The committee 
may therefore decide to offer further cash or share-
based payments to ‘buy out’ these existing entitlements 
by making awards of a broadly equivalent value, in the 
committee’s view. These awards can be made either 
under the Company’s existing incentive plans or via other 
arrangements. In determining the appropriate form and 
amount of any such award, the committee will consider 
various factors. These include the type and quantum of 
award, the length of the performance period and the 
performance and vesting conditions attached to each 
forfeited incentive award.
Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different 
performance measures may be set for the SPP for the year 
of joining the Board, taking into account the individual’s  
role and responsibilities and the point in the year when  
they joined. 
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element 
granted in respect of the prior role may be allowed to 
pay out according to its terms, adjusted as appropriate 
to take into account the terms of the Executive Director 
appointment. The committee will carefully determine the 
base salary level for a new Executive Director, taking into 
account the individual’s background, skills and experience, 
and the business criticality and nature of the role being 
offered. It will also consider the Company’s circumstances 
and relevant external and internal benchmarks. Above 
all, the committee must exercise its own judgment in 
determining the most appropriate salary for the  
new appointment.
In certain circumstances, the committee will have set a 
starting base salary which is positioned below the relevant 
market rate. It may then wish to adjust the Executive 
Director’s base salary, at a level above the average increase 
in the Company, as the individual gains experience and 
establishes a strong performance track record in the role. 
Conversely, the base salary may need to be positioned 
above the relevant market rate in order to attract the most 
appropriate candidate for the role.
We will provide benefits in accordance with the approved 
policy. We may pay relocation expenses or allowances,  
legal fees and other costs relating to the recruitment  
as appropriate.
We will set fees for a new Non-Executive Director or 
Chairman in accordance with the approved policy. 
| Corporate Governance Report Directors’ Remuneration Report 74 75 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy applicable to the Non-Executive Directors.
PURPOSE 
AND LINK TO 
STRATEGY
OPERATION OPPORTUNITY
PERFORMANCE 
METRICS
RECOVERY OR 
WITHHOLDING
To attract  
and retain 
Non-Executive 
Directors of 
appropriate 
calibre and 
experience.
The Remuneration 
Committee 
determines the fee 
for the Chairman 
(without the 
Chairman present).
The Board is 
responsible 
for setting 
Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees. 
The Non-Executive 
Directors are not 
involved in any 
discussions or 
decisions by the 
Board about their 
own remuneration.
Fees are within 
the limits set by 
the articles of 
association and 
take account of the 
commitment and 
responsibilities of 
the relevant role.
The Chairman 
receives a single 
fee to cover all 
their Board duties. 
Non-Executive 
Directors receive 
a fee for carrying 
out their duties. 
They may receive 
additional fees 
if they chair the 
primary Board 
committees, and 
for holding the 
post of Senior 
Independent 
Director.
Committee 
membership fees 
may be paid.
Details of current 
fee levels are 
set out in the 
Annual Report on 
Remuneration. 
No performance 
metrics apply.
No recovery 
or withholding 
applies.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts; they are engaged by letters of appointment. Each Non-Executive 
Director is appointed for an initial term of three years subject to re-election, but the appointment can be terminated on 
three months’ notice. 
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS
The committee engages proactively with the Company’s major shareholders. For example, when making any material 
changes to the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee Chair will inform major shareholders of these in advance, 
and will offer a meeting to discuss details as required. During June to August 2013, the Chairman, Jonathan Davie, and the 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Roger Yates, consulted with the main shareholder advisory bodies, the ABI and 
ISS/RREV, and our major shareholders. They discussed the proposed sustained performance plan, which was approved by 
shareholders at the October 2013 Annual General Meeting (AGM). 
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY
In setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the committee takes into account the overall approach to reward for 
employees in the Company. The Group operates in a number of different environments, and has many employees who carry 
out diverse roles across a number of countries. All employees, including Directors, are paid by reference to the market rate, 
and base salary levels are reviewed regularly. When considering salary increases for Directors, the Company will be sensitive 
to pay and employment conditions across the wider workforce, however no remuneration comparison measurements have 
been utilised to date. The committee does not formally consult with employees on the executive remuneration policy. The 
committee is periodically updated on pay and conditions applying to employees across the Company. 
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
This part of the report includes a summary of how we will apply the remuneration policy for the financial year ending  
31 May 2015, and how we implemented it in the financial year ended 31 May 2014 (including payment and awards in respect 
of incentive arrangements). We also give details of the Remuneration Committee’s operation, the Directors’ share interests 
and how shareholders voted at the 2013 AGM.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2015
Base salaries
Base salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed annually by the committee. The Remuneration Committee decided to 
increase base salaries by 3% for the forthcoming year, which is below the average salary increase across the workforce – 
expected to be around 4%. Base salary is the only pensionable component.
The base salaries as at 1 June 2014 and increases from the prior year are:
2015
£
2014
£ Increase
T A Howkins 472,200 458,500 3%
C F Hill 330,500 320,900 3%
P G Hetherington
(1)
283,400 275,200 3%
(1)  P G Hetherington is paid a reduced pro-rata salary of £283,400, calculated as 80% of his full-time equivalent salary of £354,300, to reflect his flexible  
working arrangements. 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ fees were reviewed in July 2014 and the fee levels for the forthcoming financial 
year are:
Chairman: £191,500 (unchanged during the financial year ending 31 May 2014 and to apply until Jonathan Davie steps down 
from the Board on 16 October 2014). 
Chairman Designate: £235,000 (Andy Green will succeed Jonathan Davie and his current fee shall remain unchanged.  
The fee was set by the committee after taking into account the experience of the individual and Chairman fee levels in  
the market). 
Each year, the Board reviews the Non-Executive Director fees (the Remuneration Committee reviews the Chairman’s fees). 
This year as part of the review, the Board instructed New Bridge Street, the company’s remuneration consultants, to carry 
out an external benchmarking exercise to assist the Board with the fee-review process. Following the review, a decision was 
made to set the Non-Executive Directors’ fees as follows: 
Non-Executive Director base fee: £55,000 (increased from £53,000 during the financial year ending 31 May 2014). 
Chairman of the Audit Committee additional fee: £15,000 (increased from £13,500 during the financial year ending 31 May 2014). 
Chairman of Board Risk Committee additional fee: £15,000 (introduction of fee during the financial year ending 31 May 2015). 
Combined role of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director fee: £15,000 (introduction of 
fee during the financial year ending 31 May 2015).
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee will not receive an additional fee. 
Benefits and pension
We will provide benefits and pension in line with the information set out in the Key Elements of Remuneration table on  
page 64 (pension to a maximum of 15% of base salary, cash of equivalent value or a mixture of both).
| Corporate Governance Report Directors’ Remuneration Report 76 77 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
Sustained performance plan
For the awards to be granted in respect of plan year 2, which will end on 31 May 2015, the plan contribution maximum 
opportunity of 500% of annual rate of base salary will apply for Executive Directors. 
The performance targets for these awards are as follows:
MEASURE FURTHER DETAIL
MEASUREMENT 
PERIOD (PLAN YEARS)
WEIGHTING
Diluted 
earnings  
per share 
(DEPS)
The committee has determined a sliding scale of 
targets that will apply for the financial year ending  
31 May 2015. 
Financial year ending  
31 May 2015.
45%
Relative 
Total 
Shareholder 
Return (TSR)
Performance is measured against constituents of the 
FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts. No part of 
this element will be awarded if performance is below 
median. 25% will be awarded for median, increasing 
on a straight-line basis, with full vesting for upper-
quartile performance or better. The committee's 
discretion to scale back vesting will apply as set out in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
The two financial years 
ending 31 May 2015.
35%
Non-
financial 
measures 
The measures will include: 
• System reliability 
• Maintaining good standing with regulators
• Customer satisfaction
• Reputation and PR 
• Risk management
• Execution and delivery of key strategic initiatives
Financial year ending  
31 May 2015.
20%
The committee will ensure the EPS and non-financial targets are suitably stretching. We deem the EPS and non-financial 
measures themselves to be commercially sensitive, and will not disclose these prospectively. However, we will provide 
retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them in next year’s Remuneration Report.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2014
Single total figure of remuneration for each Director (audited)
Contribution to  
SPP plan account
(4)
Legacy incentives
Name of  
Director Year
Fees/ 
basic 
salary
£000
Benefits 
in kind
(2)
£000
Pension
(3)
£000
Vested 
element
£000
Deferred 
element
£000
Total
£000
Annual 
bonus
£000
VSP
(5)
£000
Total
£000
Executive Directors
T A Howkins 2014 459 1 69 498 748 1,246 – 179 1,954
2013 427 1 64 – – – 399 212 1,103
C F Hill 2014 321 1 48 349 523 872 – 107 1,349
2013 299 1 45 – – – 280 – 625
P G Hetherington
(1)
2014 275 1 41 374 561 935 – 107 1,359
2013 256 1 38 – – – 300 132 727
Non-Executive Directors
J R Davie 2014 192 – – – – – – – 192
2013 186 – – – – – – – 186
S G Hill 2014 53 – – – – – – – 53
2013 52 – – – – – – – 52
D M Jackson 2014 67 – – – – – – – 67
2013 65 – – – – – – – 65
J A Newman 2014 40 – – – – – – – 40
2013 – – – – – – – – –
S J Tymms 2014 53 – – – – – – – 53
2013 1 – – – – – – – 1
R P Yates 2014 53 – – – – – – – 53
2013 52 – – – – – – – 52
(1)  P G Hetherington was paid a reduced pro-rata salary of £275,200, based on a £344,000 full-time equivalent salary, to reflect his flexible working arrangements. 
As in previous years, and consistent with the previous legacy arrangements, his SPP opportunity is based on his full-time equivalent salary.
(2) All Executive Directors are entitled to receive private medical cover, discounted gym membership and life assurance cover. 
(3)  The Group contributes 15% of base salary to personal pensions for each of the Executive Directors, who also have the option to receive part, or all, of  
their pension entitlement in cash. The additional cash payment is counted in lieu of pension, and is not treated as base salary for the purposes of calculating 
other benefits. T A Howkins elected to restrict pension contributions to £50,000 and receive the balance of the pension contribution as an additional cash 
payment. C F Hill elected to restrict pension contributions to £46,770 and receive the balance of the pension contribution as an additional cash payment.  
P G Hetherington elected to receive the full pension contributions as an additional cash payment.
(4)  Figures provided are the SPP plan contributions for the year ended 31 May 2014. The vested element is the proportion of the plan contribution that vests 
shortly following the end of the financial year. The deferred element is the proportion that remains deferred in the plan account. Details of SPP awards held in 
the plan account, both vested and unvested, are provided in the Outstanding Share Awards table on page 82.
(5)  The 2010 VSP awards had a performance period ending on 31 May 2013. Half the awards vested on 29 October 2013, with the remainder vesting on  
29 October 2014. The value is based on the actual share price on the date of vesting for the first tranche, and we have used the average share price for the last 
quarter of the financial year ending 31 May 2014 to estimate the value for the second tranche vesting later in 2014. 
  The 2011 VSP awards had a performance period ending 31 May 2014. Half the awards vested on 22 July 2014 with the remainder vesting on 20 July 2015. We 
have used the average share price for the last quarter of the financial year ending 31 May 2014 to estimate the value of these awards.
| Corporate Governance Report Directors’ Remuneration Report 78 79 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
DETERMINATION OF SPP PLAN CONTRIBUTION FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2014
Performance targets for plan year 1 (financial year ending 31 May 2014) comprise diluted earnings per share (DEPS) targets, 
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and non-financial measures. Performance for the financial year ending 31 May 2014 was 
measured over the period from 1 June 2013 to 31 May 2014.
Performance 
measure Weighting
Potential of 
base salary
Threshold  
(25% payout for 
TSR and  
0% for DEPS)
Maximum 
(100% payout)
Actual  
performance
Plan  
contribution as 
percentage of 
base salary
DEPS 45% 225% 37.50 pence 42.00 pence 40.18 pence 134%
TSR 35% 175% Median ranking Upper-quartile 
ranking
149 of 301 
companies
47%
Non-financial 20% 100% See 
commentary  
on page 79
See 
commentary  
on page 79
See 
commentary  
on page 79
90%
Total 100% 500% 271%
PERFORMANCE MEASURES – HOW THESE ARE SET AND REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL 
YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2014 (AUDITED)
Diluted earnings per share
At the start of the year ending 31 May 2014, the committee established a diluted earnings per share (DEPS) range for 
payout under the SPP , which was demanding given the strategic investment the business is making in new technology and 
capability. In setting the DEPS range, the committee took account of the following considerations:
• The higher budgeted costs resulting from the planned significant investment in strategic objectives in the year to  
31 May 2014, for which revenues are expected in subsequent financial years. This included the development of an 
execution-only stockbroking product, the establishment of the Group’s new office in Switzerland and continued 
investment in the Group’s mobile offering
• The actual DEPS for the year ended 31 May 2013 of 38.80 pence
• Developments in the business and levels of market activity between the time of Board agreement of the budget and 
shareholder/committee approval of the SPP , which contributed to the committee setting a threshold that was higher than 
that budgeted
• Analyst DEPS consensus for 2014
As a result, the committee approved the threshold for payout under the DEPS measure of 37.50 pence (with SPP awards 
starting to accrue from this point), with maximum at a DEPS of 42.00 pence (being 12% above threshold performance).
Actual DEPS for the year ended 31 May 2014 was 40.18 pence, resulting in 59.6% of the potential award under this measure 
being granted.
In setting the DEPS range for the 2015 financial year, the committee has taken into account the relevant factors in place at 
the time, including internal and external factors and an appropriate degree of stretch on prior year performance.
Total Shareholder Return
The committee approved a threshold of median-quartile ranking TSR performance against a peer group comprising the 
constituents of the FTSE 350 (excluding investment trusts), at which 25% of the maximum award would be granted. Full 
payout under this measure required upper-quartile ranking or better, with payout determined on a straight-line basis for 
performance between these points.
The actual TSR performance for IG Group, as measured by New Bridge Street, for the year ended 31 May 2014 was 19%. 
Against the peer group, this performance was sufficient to rank IG Group at 149 out of 301 companies and resulted in 27% 
of the potential payout under this measure being awarded. 
Non-financial measures
The committee approved a basket of non-financial measures, comprising strategic goals as well as operational and client 
satisfaction measures, for the year ended 31 May 2014. These measures are also utilised for 25% of the staff general bonus 
pool. These measures, and the assessment of performance, for the year ended 31 May 2014 are set out in the following 
table. An average of the performance under the specific non-financial measures, combined with performance under the 
execution and delivery measure, resulted in an overall assessment of 90.5% of the potential payout under this element of the 
plan being awarded.
METRIC PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
SPECIFIC NON-FINANCIAL MEASURES
System 
reliability/
uptime
The two main measures are core uptime per month and maximum 
percentage downtime in any one day. The Group strives to achieve 99.8% 
for the first measure and less than 4.0% for the second measure. During the 
year, core uptime per month was never breached and maximum percentage 
downtime was breached on a single day in January 2014. 
Overall, system reliability was better than in the prior year. The Group will 
continue to undertake further work in this area – a graphical representation 
of performance on this measure against the prior year is provided in the Key 
Performance Indicators section of the Strategic Report.
85% 
Maintaining 
good 
standing 
relationships 
with 
regulators
The Group maintains constructive and open relationships with regulators. 
During the year ending 31 May 2014, the Group was subject to scrutiny by 
and on behalf of regulators across the markets in which it operates. This 
included an external audit on behalf of the Swiss regulator; an in-depth 
regulatory audit in Singapore; an anti-money-laundering processes review in 
Australia and a number of other regional reviews. None of these gave rise to 
any material issues and the Group has been pleased with the outcomes.
Based on the above, the Remuneration Committee concluded that the Group 
continued to perform well and to make further progress under this metric.
90% 
Reputation The Remuneration Committee assessed whether there have been any events 
resulting in negative media coverage or reputational damage during the year. 
For the year ended 31 May 2014, there was one instance of negative media 
coverage, which was incorrect. The publisher printed a retraction and no 
reputational damage was suffered.
100% 
Risk 
management
The Remuneration Committee used a number of indicators to judge 
performance against this measure, including: the level of bad debts 
throughout the year; the number of material market risk incidents throughout 
the year and the number of loss-making days throughout the year. 
This year the Group enjoyed very low incidence of bad debt (less than 0.4% 
of revenue). There were no material market risk events nor any loss-making 
days during the year.
100% 
| Corporate Governance Report Directors’ Remuneration Report 80 81 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
METRIC PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
SPECIFIC NON-FINANCIAL MEASURES (CONTINUED)
Customer 
satisfaction
The Remuneration Committee uses a number of indicators to measure 
performance against this metric. 
Net Promoter Score data is collected independently by Investment Trends. 
IG’s Net Promoter Score has improved in France and Germany but dropped 
slightly in other regions. Nevertheless, the Group’s high ranking relative to 
competitors has been maintained, while we also scored significantly better 
than the industry average. Please refer to the Key Performance Indicators 
section of the Strategic Report for Net Promoter Score disclosures.
During the year, the Group commissioned an independent study, carried out 
by Ipsos Mori, to conduct a ‘mystery shopping’ programme against a number 
of competitors. The study found that the Group was at least joint-first in each 
of the categories assessed.
An independently conducted customer satisfaction survey, undertaken by 
Investment Trends with regards to UK leveraged trading, reported that clients 
rated the Group’s service as ‘good’ or ‘very good’ 89% and 88% of the time 
for spread betting and CFDs respectively. 
The Remuneration Committee also assessed the customer scores collected 
by the Group’s trading services team. Their survey assesses the overall 
level of customer service received, the quality of information provided, the 
knowledge of the customer service representative and his or her attitude. 
This showed an upwards trend on most metrics.
The Group also launched IG Think Tank, an online community and forum 
which helps us engage with clients and include their feedback into our IT 
development cycle – this has proved to be a very valuable tool in developing 
our future offering.
80%
EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF KEY STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
Execution 
and delivery 
of key 
strategic 
initiatives
As part of the Board’s strategy planning, there is a clear plan of strategic 
projects set down for delivery in the short-to-medium term. 
The Remuneration Committee uses this plan to judge performance against 
this metric. There were several key strategic projects delivered, all of which 
were achieved successfully and on time. 
Examples of such projects include the international rollout of IG.com; the 
rollout of the MetaTrader platform; setting up an office in Switzerland; 
continuing to develop the Nadex exchange and developing the stockbroking 
offering for pilot and launch in the first half of the year ending 31 May 2015.
Specific examples and detailed case studies of the progress made towards 
our strategic objectives are given throughout the Strategic Report. 
90%
Overall summary
Based on performance for the financial year ending 31 May 2014, we will grant awards under the SPP to the value of 271% of 
base salary (54% of the maximum potential payout) as plan contributions to the Executive Directors after the announcement 
of the results. The actual number of shares that will be deposited within the Directors’ plan accounts will be based on the 
ten-day average share price immediately prior to grant.
LEGACY VALUE-SHARING PLAN VESTING IN RELATION TO PERFORMANCE PERIOD ENDING 31 MAY 2014
The legacy value-sharing plan (VSP), which was approved by shareholders in 2010, comprises annual awards. It provides the 
Executive Directors and other senior staff with a pre-defined number of shares for each £10.0 million of surplus shareholder 
value created over three years above a hurdle. Surplus shareholder value was calculated under two criteria: Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) and profit before taxation (PBT). In relation to the 2011 VSP , despite growth in PBT of 19.5% to 
£194.7 million and a TSR of 54.7% over the three-year period ended 31 May 2014, only 3.2% of the maximum award vested.
The total surplus shareholder value created under the 2011 VSP was £109.7 million, and an explanation of the  
calculation follows. The Chief Executive receives 5,000 shares and other participating Directors receive 3,000 shares for  
each £10.0 million of surplus shareholder value created. This resulted in the following awards vesting:
• T A Howkins – 28,596 shares
• C F Hill – 17,158 shares 
• P G Hetherington – 17,158 shares
The VSP awards made in October 2011 (2011 VSP) had a performance period ending 31 May 2014. The calculation of surplus 
shareholder value created in relation to this plan is explained below:
(i)  TSR element (60%): This is based on the value created from the difference between the TSR of IG Group Holdings plc 
and that of the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index, multiplied by the IG Group Holdings plc starting market capitalisation. 
The latter is defined as the average market capitalisation in the three months to 31 May 2011, which was £1,671 million.
  IG Group’s TSR, as measured by Kepler, over the three-year period ending 31 May 2014 was 54.7%. This level of return 
was enough to outperform the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index by 4.0%. Based on a starting market capitalisation of 
£1,671 million, the 4.0% outperformance has resulted in £66.6 million of surplus shareholder value and only 4.0% of the 
maximum award vesting. 
(ii)  Profit before taxation (PBT) (40%): This is based on the growth in PBT over the three-year period, multiplied by a 
fixed multiple determined by the IG Group Holdings plc starting market capitalisation, plus net equity cash flows to 
shareholders above a hurdle return.
  The multiple for the 2011 VSP was 10.75. This is derived by dividing the starting market capitalisation of £1,671 million by 
the PBT for the year ending 31 May 2011 (£155.4 million). The required hurdle return was 12% per annum.
 The surplus shareholder value for this element is £43.1 million, calculated as the difference between: 
•  PBT for the year ending 31 May 2014 of £194.7 million multiplied by the 10.75 multiple plus net equity cash flows to 
shareholders, ie (£194.7 million x 10.75) + £288.8 million = £2,382.5 million, and
• The starting market capitalisation of £1,671 million multiplied by the hurdle rate of return (12% per annum over the 
three-year period), ie £1,671 million x (1+12%)
3
 = £2,339.4 million
For the purposes of the single-figure table disclosed on page 77, the value of the all the options vesting under the 2011 VSP 
has been estimated using the average share price for the last quarter of the financial year ending 31 May 2014.
| Corporate Governance Report Directors’ Remuneration Report 82 83 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
AWARDS GRANTED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2014 (AUDITED)
As part of the move from the value-sharing plan (which has post-grant performance criteria) to the sustained performance 
plan (which has pre-grant performance criteria), no other long-term incentive awards were granted during the financial year 
ending 31 May 2014.
OUTSTANDING SHARE AWARDS
Sustained performance plan
Event 
Plan 
account 
brought 
forward 
(number of 
shares)
Plan  
contribution 
in respect of 
period ending 
31 May 2014 
(estimated 
number of 
shares)
(1)
Plan account 
following 
contribution 
for the year
Dividend 
shares  
accruing 
 on award 
shares held 
in the plan 
account
Estimated 
number of 
award shares 
vesting (40% 
following 
determination 
of plan year 1 
contributions)
Estimated 
cumulative 
number of 
award shares 
remaining in 
plan account 
as unvested 
shares
T A Howkins Plan year 1 – 207,144 207,144 – 82,858 124,286
C F Hill Plan year 1 – 144,979 144,979 – 57,992 86,987
P G Hetherington Plan year 1 – 155,415 155,415 – 62,166 93,249
(1)  The Executive Directors will be granted the awards in respect of plan year 1 following the announcement of results for the year ended 31 May 2014 on  
22 July 2014. The share price used to calculate the number of awards to be granted will be the ten-day average share price directly prior to grant. The above 
number of awards has been estimated using a share price of 601.5 pence, being the share price on 30 May 2014.
Share awards have an exercise price of 0.005 pence and are exercisable until August 2024. In accordance with the scheme 
rules, 40% of the awards granted will vest immediately on the date of grant in August 2014 with the vesting of the remaining 
options deferred.
Other share awards
Award 
date
Share 
price at 
award 
date
Number 
as at 31 
May 2013
Number 
awarded 
during 
the year
Number 
lapsed 
during the 
year
Number 
exercised 
during the 
year
Number 
as at 31 
May 2014
T A Howkins
LTIP: earnings per share award 23 Jul 07 312.25p 151,672 – – (151,672) –
LTIP: share price growth award 23 Jul 07 312.25p 11,701 – – (11,701) –
LTIP: earnings per share award 30 Sep 08 313.75p 26,015 – – (26,015) –
LTIP: share price growth award 30 Sep 08 313.75p 21,865 – – (21,865) –
LTIP: earnings per share award 25 Sep 09 318.80p 36,942 – – (36,942) –
LTIP: share price growth award 25 Sep 09 318.80p 154,908 – – (154,908) –
Long-term bonus plan – 2010
(1)
 10 Sep 10 500.00p 73,195 – – (73,195) –
VSP: profit award – three-year 29 Oct 10 528.50p 117,511 – (100,454) – 17,057
VSP: profit award – four-year 29 Oct 10 528.50p 117,512 – (100,455) – 17,057
VSP: TSR award – three-year 29 Oct 10 528.50p 176,267 – (176,267) – –
VSP: TSR award – four-year 29 Oct 10 528.50p 176,268 – (176,268) – –
VSP: profit award – three-year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 167,099 – (162,785) – 4,314
VSP: profit award – four-year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 167,098 – (162,784) – 4,314
VSP: TSR award – three-year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 250,648 – (240,664) – 9,984
VSP: TSR award – four-year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 250,648 – (240,664) – 9,984
VSP: profit award – three-year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 163,636 – – – 163,636
VSP: profit award – four-year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 163,636 – – – 163,636
VSP: TSR award – three-year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 245,454 – – – 245,454
VSP: TSR award – four-year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 245,453 – – – 245,453
Long-term bonus plan – 2012
(1)
 01 Aug 12 450.45p 108,585 1,353 – – 109,938
Long-term bonus plan – 2013
(1)
 29 Jul 13 545.00p – 38,000 – – 38,000
2,826,113  39,353  (1,360,341) (476,298) 1,028,827
Award 
date
Share 
price at 
award 
date
Number 
as at 31 
May 2013
Number 
awarded 
during 
the year
Number 
lapsed 
during 
the year
Number 
exercised 
during 
the year
Number 
as at 
31 May 
2014
C F Hill
VSP: profit award – three-year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 100,259 – (97,670) – 2,589
VSP: profit award – four-year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 100,259 – (97,670) – 2,589
VSP: TSR award – three-year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 150,389 – (144,399) – 5,990
VSP: TSR award – four-year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 150,389 – (144,399) – 5,990
Long-term bonus plan – 2011
(1)
19 Jul 11 433.70p 25,983 310 – (26,293) –
Share-incentive plan – 2012 matching shares 27 Jul 12 419.18p 328 – – – 328
VSP: profit award – three-year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 130,909 – – – 130,909
VSP: profit award – four-year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 130,908 – – – 130,908
VSP: TSR award – three-year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 196,363 – – – 196,363
VSP: TSR award – four-year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 196,363 – – – 196,363
Long-term bonus plan – 2012
(1)
01 Aug 12 450.45p 71,406 890 – (72,296) –
Share-incentive plan – 2013 matching shares 26 Jul 13 555.19p – 259 – – 259
Long-term bonus plan – 2013
(1)
29 Jul 13 545.00p – 22,783 – – 22,783
  1,253,556  24,242  (484,138) (98,589) 695,071
Award 
date
Share 
price at 
award 
date
Number 
as at 31 
May 2013
Number 
awarded 
during 
the year
Number 
lapsed 
during 
the year
Number 
exercised 
during the 
year
Number 
as at 
31 May 
2014
P G Hetherington
LTIP: earnings per share award 25 Sep 09 318.80p 26,742 – – (26,742) –
LTIP: share price growth award 25 Sep 09 318.80p 112,134 – – (112,134) –
VSP: profit award – three-year 29 Oct 10 528.50p 73,445 – (62,785) (10,660) –
VSP: profit award – four-year 29 Oct 10 528.50p 73,445 – (62,785) – 10,660
VSP: TSR award – three-year 29 Oct 10 528.50p 110,167 – (110,167) – –
VSP: TSR award – four-year 29 Oct 10 528.50p 110,168 – (110,168) – –
VSP: profit award – three-year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 100,259 – (97,670) – 2,589
VSP: profit award – four-year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 100,259 – (97,670) – 2,589
VSP: TSR award – three-year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 150,389 – (144,399) – 5,990
VSP: TSR award – four-year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 150,389 – (144,399) – 5,990
VSP: profit award – three-year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 130,909 – – – 130,909
VSP: profit award – four-year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 130,908 – – – 130,908
VSP: TSR award – three-year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 196,363 – – – 196,363
VSP: TSR award – four-year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 196,363 – – – 196,363
Long-term bonus plan – 2012
(1)
01 Aug 12 450.45p 77,603 967 – (78,570) –
Share-incentive plan – 2013 matching shares 26 Jul 13 555.19p – 258 – – 258
Long-term bonus plan – 2013
(1)
29 Jul 13 545.00p – 25,340 – – 25,340
   1,739,543  26,565 (830,043) (228,106) 707,959
(1)  Under the rules of the previously offered long-term bonus plan the first £100,000 of any bonus granted, plus one third of the remainder, was paid in cash with 
the excess balance deferred for 12 months and provided in shares. The price per share was based on the average of the middle market closing quotation of 
a share as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for each business day in the period of three months ending on the last day of the 
financial year immediately preceding the date of grant.
| Corporate Governance Report Directors’ Remuneration Report 84 85 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
TABLE OF DIRECTORS’ SHARE INTERESTS (AUDITED)
The share interests of each person who was a Director of the Company during the year, as at 31 May 2014 (together with 
interests held by his or her connected persons) were as follows: 
Legally  
owned shares
Share- 
incentive 
plan shares
VSP share  
option awards
Long-term bonus 
plan share option 
awards Total
% of sal-
ary held 
under 
share-
holding 
policy
(1)
31 May 
2013
31 May 
2014
Un- 
vested
V ested but 
unexercised
Un- 
vested
V ested but 
unexercised
31 May 
2014
(2)
% salary
Executive Directors
T A Howkins 3,901,692 1,621,183 – 863,833 17,057 38,000 109,938 2,650,011 2,127%
C F Hill 328 34,500 631 671,701 – 25,340 – 732,172 66%
P G Hetherington
(3)
113,693 113,693 277 682,361 – 25,340 – 821,671 249%
Non-Executive Directors
J R Davie 200,000 200,000 – – – – – 200,000 627%
S G Hill 113,014 117,209 – – – – – 117,209 1,330%
D M Jackson – – – – – – – – –
J A Newman – – – – – – – – –
S J Tymms – – – – – – – – –
R P Yates 25,000 25,000 – – – – – 25,000 284%
(1) Calculated as shares owned on 31 May 2014 at the closing mid-market share price of 601.5 pence.
(2)  This figure excludes awards under the SPP scheme for performance year ending 31 May 2014 which will be granted following the announcement of the Group’s 
results on 22 July 2014. Details of interests relating to this scheme can be found in the single-figure remuneration table on page 77.
(3)  P G Hetherington also held 10,000 preference shares at 31 May 2014 and 31 May 2013. T A Howkins held 10,000 preference shares at 31 May 2013.
A share ownership policy was introduced from the financial year ending 31 May 2014. Under this policy, the CEO is required 
to hold shares to the value of a minimum of 200% of base salary, and for other Executive Directors a requirement of 100% 
of base salary applies. Only shares owned outright by the Executive Director are included in the guideline, which must be 
achieved within five years of the introduction of the policy or, if later, from the date of appointment to the Board.
There have been no changes to any of the Directors’ share interests in the period since 31 May 2014. The awards to be 
made under the Company’s SPP are set out earlier in this report. 
CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Base salary Taxable benefits Bonus
% 
Change 
(2014/ 
2013)
(1)
% 
Change 
(2013/ 
2012)
% 
Change 
(2012/ 
2011)
% 
Change 
(2014/ 
2013)
% 
Change 
(2013/ 
2012)
% 
Change 
(2012/ 
2011)
% 
Change 
(2014/ 
2013)
(2)
% 
Change 
(2013/ 
2012)
%  
Change 
(2012/ 
2011)
Chief Executive 7.49% 3.14% 2.99% 0% 0% 0% N/A (51.28%) 1,337.00%
Group employees 5.91% 4.44% 7.08% 2.78% 19.08% (5.53%) 13.09% (42.40%) 94.00%
(1)  Prior to 2014, the Company operated a highly geared long-term incentive plan, the value-sharing plan (VSP), and Executive Directors were on significantly 
below-market salaries to reflect this high gearing. Following a review of remuneration, it was decided to rebalance the package and a less geared incentive 
arrangement was introduced, the sustained performance plan (SPP). Salaries were increased by more than that of the workforce to partially compensate for the 
reduced total remuneration quantum. After the salary increase, salaries continued to remain below mid-market levels.
(2)  Given the move away from separate annual and long-term plans to a single variable pay plan in the 2014 financial year, it is not possible to compare the change 
in annual bonus opportunity over the year. 
The change in the Chief Executive’s remuneration is compared to the change in remuneration of all employees across the 
business over the last three years. We have not provided a comparison for annual bonus, as an annual bonus did not apply 
for financial year ending 31 May 2014.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ OUTSIDE APPOINTMENTS 
T A Howkins is a member of the Board and Executive Committee of FIA Europe. The Executive Directors have no other 
external appointments. 
PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE (AUDITED)
No Director has departed, nor has there been a payment for loss of office during the year.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
The following table sets out the percentage change in profit, dividends and overall spend on pay over the last five years:
2014
£m
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
2011  
£m
2010 
£m
Profit after tax 147.0 141.7 136.8 (25.3) 101.5
Dividends 102.8 84.6 81.6 72.0 66.8
Employee remuneration costs 89.3 86.3 92.7 75.5 72.1
Average number of employees 1,070 1,005 960 951 828
| Corporate Governance Report Directors’ Remuneration Report 86 87 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT (CONTINUED)
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ACTIVITY 
DURING THE YEAR
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME
Salary and bonus 
scheme arrangements
Incentive awards
Remuneration regulation
Remuneration reporting
Remuneration policy
Other
REMUNERATION  
COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS
The committee undertook an internal, questionnaire-
based review of its own effectiveness during the year. The 
review found that the committee had worked effectively 
and performed well. Areas for further development were 
identified, and plans are in place for a training  
and development programme for the Non-Executive 
Directors as a whole, with specific tailoring for the needs of 
those who sit on the Remuneration Committee and other 
Board committees.
ADVICE TO THE COMMITTEE
During the financial year ending 31 May 2014 the 
committee consulted T A Howkins, Chief Executive, about 
remuneration matters relating to individuals other than 
himself. The Company Secretary also provided advice and 
support to the committee. 
Appropriate Company employees and external advisers 
may attend committee meetings at the invitation of  
the Chairman.
EXTERNAL ADVISORS
The Remuneration Committee was advised during the year 
by New Bridge Street (NBS), which was appointed following 
a competitive tender process in early 2013. 
NBS provided advice in respect of a wide range of 
issues, including the design of the new sustained 
performance plan, transitioning from the previous 
incentive arrangements, remuneration benchmarking, 
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance monitoring, 
investor consultation, drafting the Remuneration Report and 
implementation services.
NBS’s fee for advice provided to the Remuneration 
Committee during the financial year ending 31 May 2014 
was £150,000 (excluding VAT). This included implementation 
services, including legal drafting of the SPP rules, related 
documentation and inserts for the Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) circular during the year. 
The Committee considers the advice obtained from NBS 
to be objective and independent. NBS is a member of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to its 
Code of Conduct, which requires its advice to be objective 
and impartial.
STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING 
AT 2013 AGM
At the October 2013 AGM, a resolution was proposed 
for shareholders to approve the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report for the financial year ended 31 May 2013 and the 
sustained performance plan. The following votes  
were received:
2012/13 Remuneration Report
Total number  
of votes % of votes cast
For
(1)
271,078,248 93.81%
Against 17,874,677 6.19%
Total 288,952,925
(2)
100.00%
Sustained performance plan
Total number  
of votes % of votes cast
For
(1)
270,782,259 91.73%
Against 24,428,068 8.27%
Total 295,210,327
(3)
100.00%
(1) For includes votes at the Chairman’s discretion.
(2) There were 6,398,296 votes withheld.
(3) There were 50,894 votes withheld.
A majority (over 50%) of the votes cast was required for the 
resolutions to be passed, and both were duly approved  
by shareholders. 
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN CHART
The chart below shows the Company’s TSR performance compared with that of the FTSE 350 Financial Services index. As  
IG Group is a member of this index, the committee believes it is appropriate to compare the Group’s performance against it.
300
350
400
250
200
150
100
50
May 2009 May 2010 May 2011 May 2012 May 2013 May 2014
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (REBASED)
Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters)
This graph shows the value, by 31 May 2014, of £100 invested in IG Group on 31 May 2009 compared with the value of 
£100 invested in the FTSE 250 index and the FTSE 350 Financial Services index.  
IG Group FTSE 250 FTSE 350 Financial Services
The graph represents the change in the value of a nominal investment of £100, made on 31 May 2009, in the Company and 
in the FTSE 350 Financial Services index. The closing values at 31 May 2014 represent the value of each nominal holding at 
that date, and reflect the change in the share price and the value of dividend income reinvested over the period.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE - FIVE-YEAR EARNINGS HISTORY
The five-year earnings history of the Chief Executive is shown in the table below:
Financial year 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Single-figure remuneration (£000) 1,456 1,103 2,201 1,141 1,628
Annual bonus outcome (% maximum) – 47% 99% 7% 100%
LTIP vesting outcome (% maximum) – – 61% 40% 48%
VSP vesting outcome (% maximum) 3% 6% – – –
SPP plan contribution (% maximum) 54% – – – –
The SPP replaced the annual bonus and VSP schemes from the financial year ending 31 May 2014. The VSP vesting for  
the financial year ending 31 May 2014 reflects the award that was granted in 2011, which has a performance period ending 
31 May 2014.
APPROVAL
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 22 July 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Roger Yates 
Chair, Remuneration Committee
| Corporate Governance Report Directors’ Remuneration Report 88 89 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Company’s performance, business model and strategy. 
Furthermore, during the year the Board strengthened 
the governance framework by implementing a Board 
Risk Committee to provide it with a more focused level 
of support on risk-management issues. The result of this 
change is that during the year a number of the duties 
performed by the Audit Committee have been transitioned 
to the Board Risk Committee. The Audit Committee’s terms 
of reference, which have been amended to reflect both the 
revised Corporate Governance Code and the establishment 
of the Board Risk Committee in the year, are summarised 
below and can be found in full on the corporate website 
iggroup.com.
ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
In summary, the Audit Committee’s terms of reference are to:
• Monitor the integrity of the Group’s financial statements, 
including Annual and Interim Reports, preliminary results 
announcements and any other formal announcements 
relating to its financial performance, reviewing significant 
reporting issues and judgments which they contain
• Provide advice to the Board on whether the Annual 
Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the company’s performance 
• Review the continuing appropriateness of the Group’s 
accounting policies
• Review the clarity of disclosures, ensuring the Group has 
made appropriate estimates and judgments in preparing 
all material information presented in the Annual Report
• Review an annual report from the Board Risk  
Committee on the Company’s internal controls and  
Risk Management Framework
• Ensure there are suitable whistle-blowing arrangements  
for employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about 
possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
During the year, the Audit Committee has continued to 
maintain its focus on the integrity of financial reporting and 
supported the Board in carrying out its responsibilities in 
relation to the Group’s financial reporting requirements, 
through reviewing the results and formal financial 
announcements. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing 
and approving the Annual Report and other externally 
reported financial information remains with the Board.
The committee again considered the appropriateness of the 
design and effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal 
controls and governance over a wide range of regulatory 
and compliance-related matters, including the segregation 
of client money. The committee also reviewed the quality 
of the external audit process, including the identified audit 
risks, the audit plan and reports from the Company’s auditor.
Additionally, the committee noted the focus on the 
effectiveness of internal audit in the financial services 
sector, and has both received an internal review against 
best practice guidance and commissioned an independent 
external quality assessment, the output of which is 
discussed later in this report. These steps were part of its 
overall consideration of the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal audit function.
This year the committee was briefed by management, and 
consequently received specialist training, with regards to 
a wide range of regulatory and reporting developments 
that impact on this Annual Report. Subsequently the 
committee reviewed the required changes to the Annual 
Report, with particular focus on the Strategic Report and the 
Remuneration Report. 
Following the publication of the revised Corporate 
Governance Code, the Board asked the committee 
to advise whether it considers the Annual Report and 
Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and 
understandable, and whether the document provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Stratigic overview
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Martin Jackson, Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, gives his review of the committee’s 
activities during the financial year.
Scheduled 
meetings 
eligible to 
attend
Scheduled 
meetings 
attended
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Martin Jackson 4 4
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Stephen Hill 2 2
Jim Newman 2 2
Sam Tymms
(1)
4 4
Roger Yates 4 4
• Review an assessment of the control environment, via 
internal audit reports, and progress on implementing 
both internal and external audit recommendations
• Monitor and review the internal audit function’s 
effectiveness in the overall context of the Group’s internal 
controls and risk-management systems
• Consider and approve the internal audit function’s remit, 
ensure it has adequate resources and appropriate access 
to information, and that it has adequate standing and is 
free from management or other restrictions
• Review and assess the internal audit plan
• Consider and make recommendations to the Board  
on appointing, reappointing and removing the 
Company’s external auditors, which are subject to 
shareholder approval 
• Oversee the relationship with the external auditors, 
including approving the audit fee, non-audit fees and 
non-audit services policy, as well as assessing annually the 
external auditors’ independence and objectivity and the 
effectiveness of the audit process
• Review the annual audit plan and the findings of the 
external auditors, including a discussion on major areas 
of audit focus, accounting and audit judgments and any 
errors identified during the audit
• After each committee meeting, make a formal report to 
the Board in which the Chairman of the Audit Committee 
describes the proceedings 
The Company Secretary drafts the agenda for each 
committee meeting, ensuring that each item in the terms of 
reference is covered at least once in the financial year, and 
more frequently if required.
In order to provide clarity, the following responsibilities have 
transitioned to the Board Risk Committee and accordingly 
been removed from the Audit Committee terms of 
reference during the year:
• Review the compliance systems and controls to ensure 
that adequate procedures are in place to comply with 
regulatory obligations, including client money, anti-
money-laundering and treating customers fairly
• Consider the adequacy and effectiveness of the 
technology infrastructure and associated risk-
management framework
• Monitor the completion of control recommendations and 
actions arising from internal and external audits
• Review the relevant risk sections of the Annual Report
AUDIT COMMITTEE – MEMBERSHIP  
AND ATTENDANCE 
All Audit Committee members are independent Non-
Executive Directors who can draw on considerable, recent 
financial services experience.
The Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Head of 
Finance, Head of Internal Audit, Company Secretary and the 
external auditors attend the Audit Committee by invitation 
appropriate to the matters under consideration. Other 
Directors and representatives from the finance function  
and other areas of the business attend the Audit Committee 
as necessary.
The committee normally meets four times a year and as 
and when required. Separately, members of the committee 
also meet privately with the Head of Internal Audit and 
the external auditors to focus on respective areas of 
responsibility and to discuss any potential requirements for 
support from the committee to address any issues arising.
(1)  Sam Tymms attended two meetings of the Audit Committee as an observer.
| Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee 90 91 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
AUDIT COMMITTEE (CONTINUED)
MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE  
FINANCIAL YEAR
As noted earlier, following the establishment of the Board 
Risk Committee, responsibility for compliance, conduct 
risk, client money and fraud was handed over by the Audit 
Committee to the Board Risk Committee. 
In addition to discharging its responsibilities as described 
above, the committee focused on a number of key areas. 
The following summary of activities includes all areas 
covered by the Audit Committee during the financial year 
even where responsibility as at the end of the year has been 
transferred to the Board Risk Committee.
FINANCIAL REPORTING
In relation to financial reporting, the primary role of the 
committee is to work with management and the external 
auditors in reviewing the appropriateness of the half-year 
and annual financial statements. The committee discharged 
its responsibilities in this area through concentrating on, 
among other matters:
• Assessing the quality and acceptability of accounting 
policies and practices
• Ensuring disclosures are clear and compliant with 
financial reporting standards and relevant financial and 
governance reporting requirements
• Considering material areas in which significant judgments 
have been applied or there has been discussion with the 
external auditors 
• Reviewing all formal financial announcements and 
financial statements prior to issuance 
• Evaluating whether the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable 
and provide the information necessary for shareholders  
to assess the Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy
To aid this review, the committee has considered reports 
from the Chief Financial Officer and Head of Finance. It 
has also received reports from the external auditors on the 
outcomes of their half-year review and annual audit. 
The committee considered and addressed the following 
primary areas of judgment in relation to the Financial 
Statements for the year ended 31 May 2014:
Goodwill
In accordance with accounting standards the Group is 
required to review any goodwill balances for impairment 
and consider the underlying assumptions involved in 
calculating the value-in-use of separate parts of the 
business known as cash-generating units (CGUs). The 
committee observed that a significant proportion of the 
Group’s goodwill relates to the UK, Australian and South 
African CGUs, for which both the single-year profit for the 
year ended 31 May 2014 and that included in the Board-
approved budget for the year ending 31 May 2015 are 
greater than the carrying value of the associated goodwill. 
Accordingly, the goodwill impairment reviews of these 
CGUs are not considered to contain material or  
significant judgments.
Therefore the key judgment in terms of goodwill 
impairment reviews relates to the underlying assumptions 
used in calculating the US CGU’s value-in-use. The US CGU 
comprises both the Nadex exchange and the associated 
market-making business (the ‘Nadex business’) as well as 
the wider commercial use of the exchange technology 
within the Group. The Nadex business is in the early stages 
of development and has continued to be loss-making 
for the year ended 31 May 2014. Accordingly the Audit 
Committee received a paper from management setting 
out the financial forecasts for both the Nadex exchange 
business and the platform savings associated with the wider 
use of the exchange technology within the Group. This 
paper set out the key assumptions used in the impairment 
review and an associated sensitivity analysis.
The committee also considered the development of the 
Nadex business through the year ended 31 May 2014. This 
included advances in the platform and product offering, 
increased levels of client acquisition and volumes traded, 
the recent addition of further market-makers to the 
exchange and the continued commitment by management 
to ensure the US business has the investment it needs to 
reach profitability. The committee also reviewed detailed 
financial forecasts and assumptions, noting that each of 
the forecasts used in the goodwill impairment reviews are 
Board-approved. In addition the Group’s auditor provided 
commentary on the matter to the committee.
Useful economic life of intangible fixed assets
The Group is required to make judgments regarding the 
useful economic life and carrying value of all its acquired 
and internally developed software and licences and domain 
names. During the year, the Group continued to invest 
in the technology platform, domain names and industry-
specific generic top-level domains and to consolidate the 
online presence around the IG.com website. As at  
31 May 2014, the Group had £5.25 million of domain  
assets in the Group balance sheet that are amortised 
over a ten-year useful economic life. As there is a risk of 
obsolescence for such assets, the committee reviewed a 
report from management detailing the financially significant 
intangible assets, the rationale for their useful economic life, 
their continued use within the business and their remaining 
carrying value.
Corporation tax
Calculating the Group’s current corporation tax charge 
involves a degree of estimation and judgment, as the tax 
treatment of certain items cannot be finally determined 
until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax 
authority. The Group holds tax provisions in respect of the 
potential tax liability that may arise on these unresolved 
items. However, the amount ultimately payable may be 
materially lower than the amount accrued, and could 
therefore improve the Group’s overall profitability and cash 
flows in future periods. The committee reviewed a report 
from management that detailed the assumptions made in 
calculating the Group’s current corporation tax charge and 
provisions. The Group’s auditor also provided commentary 
on this matter to the committee.
EXTERNAL AUDIT
The committee is responsible for making recommendations 
on the appointment, reappointment and removal of 
external auditors, and for assessing and agreeing the fees 
payable to the Company’s auditor (both audit and non-audit 
fees). The committee is also responsible for reviewing the 
audit plans and reports from the external auditors. The main 
activities undertaken in relation to the external audit are 
summarised below.
Audit tendering
The committee has followed the debate on mandatory 
audit-firm rotation through the year and the guidance 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in the context of 
tendering for the external audit contract at least every ten 
years. The Company’s external audit was last retendered 
in 2010, resulting in a change of external auditors to 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the financial year ended  
31 May 2011. In line with the requirement to rotate the 
senior statutory auditor, the Company’s current audit partner 
will rotate after the audit for the year ending 31 May 2015 
is complete. Having recently conducted a full audit-firm 
tender exercise, provided the committee remains satisfied 
with the external audit process, it does not anticipate a 
formal retender process ahead of the date suggested by 
the UK Corporate Governance Code for the year ending 
31 May 2021. The EU requirements on mandatory rotation 
will apply from 2016, with the first mandatory rotation 
date under the UK implementation of these rules not yet 
being clear. The committee will continue to monitor the 
developing regulation in this area and in particular the 
convergence of EU and UK requirements, including those of 
the Competition and Markets Authority.
Oversight of the external audit
The effectiveness of the external audit process depends 
upon appropriately identifying risks at the start of the audit 
cycle, and consequently the committee receives a detailed 
audit plan from the auditor, on an annual basis, identifying 
its assessment of the key audit risks. International audit 
standards require that both the risk of override of internal 
controls and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition are 
assumed to be significant audit risks. In the auditors’ 
assessment, the primary audit risk identified to the Financial 
Statements concerned management override of internal 
controls, including both information technology and 
possible fraud in revenue recognition. The work performed 
in this area by the audit firm is detailed in its audit opinion. 
The risk associated with information technology relates to 
super-user access to certain legacy areas of the Group’s 
trading system. The committee reviewed reports from 
management and internal audit on the design, operation 
and ongoing monitoring of a number of key controls 
designed to mitigate the risks associated with the super-
user access. Additionally, the committee assessed whether 
the audit process addressed these matters effectively 
through the reporting received from the auditor during the 
audit cycle. Both management and the audit firm consider 
the risk in this area to have been appropriately managed. 
The committee concurs with this view. The committee 
has also considered the auditors’ report on the potential 
override of internal controls, including the   of additional 
substantive audit procedures and manual journal testing 
undertaken. 
The committee also holds private meetings with the external 
auditor through the year as an additional opportunity for 
open dialogue and feedback from both the committee and 
the auditor without management being present. 
Effectiveness of the external auditors
Having performed a review of the external auditors during 
the year, the committee is satisfied with their effectiveness. 
The committee noted that the Company’s current audit 
partner will rotate after the audit for the year ending  
31 May 2015 is complete, and that the replacement partner 
and handover process were key to the external auditors’ 
continued effectiveness. 
Audit and audit-related fees
Details of the Group’s audit and audit-related fees for 
the year ended 31 May 2014 are disclosed in note 6 to 
the Financial Statements. Audit-related fees include the 
statutory audit of the Group and its subsidiaries, as well as 
audits required due to the regulated nature of our business. 
Also included therein are fees associated with the ISAE 
3000 controls opinion relating to the Group’s processes and 
controls over client money segregation.
During the year, the committee reviewed and approved 
a recommendation from management on the Company’s 
audit and audit-related fees. 
Non-audit fees
To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the 
external auditors from becoming compromised, the 
committee has a formal policy governing the engagement 
of the external auditors to provide non-audit services. This 
year, the committee again reviewed the Group’s policy 
governing non-audit work, details of which are provided on 
the corporate website.
The policy makes an important distinction between 
‘audit-related services’ and all other ‘non-audit services’. 
| Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee 92 93 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
AUDIT COMMITTEE (CONTINUED)
This is because a number of ‘audit-related services’ are 
specifically required of the Group’s auditors, through 
regulatory, legislative or contractual obligations in addition 
to the statutory audit services. The policy also sets out the 
considerations and safeguards that are required in relation 
to non-audit services provided by the auditors, and the 
specific services the auditors are precluded from providing. 
Additionally, the policy sets out certain permitted services 
for which the committee has pre-approved management to 
engage the auditors. This approval is subject to the policies 
set out above, and to specified fee limits for individual 
engagements, as well as the reporting requirements for 
all non-audit services to the committee. There were no 
exceptions to this policy during the year.
Since appointing PricewaterhouseCoopers as auditors, 
the Group has established and developed relationships 
with a number of independent advisory and assurance 
firms which provide alternatives to engaging the audit firm. 
During the year, PricewaterhouseCoopers has performed 
non-audit services in accordance with the non-audit policy. 
The committee has monitored PricewaterhouseCoopers 
to ensure that under no circumstances has work been 
performed which affects its independence. This was done 
by carefully assessing the nature of all non-audit work 
performed, reviewing a summary of all the non-audit fees 
paid during the year, evaluating the non-audit policy and 
ensuring that appropriate safeguards were in place for each 
non-audit engagement. The committee also requested and 
received an explanation from PricewaterhouseCoopers of 
its own in-house independence process. 
Non-audit fees of £457,000, payable to the auditors for 
the year ended 31 May 2014, are disclosed in note 6 to the 
Financial Statements. These relate largely to tax compliance 
and filing and corporation and sales-related tax advice. 
Firms other than the auditors have been engaged, following 
a competitive tender process for the provision of a wide 
range of non-audit services, including transfer pricing, tax 
advisory services related to new business offerings and 
changes to regulation, tax compliance services, risk and 
regulatory advice.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The internal audit function provided the committee with 
the internal audit reports and recommendations in line with 
the internal audit plan for this financial year. The main areas 
of focus have been regulatory and operational in nature. 
The committee monitored progress on the implementation 
of the audit recommendations raised by the internal audit 
function, and the effectiveness of the coordination between 
internal and external audit.
The committee reviewed the three-year rolling risk-based 
internal audit plan and considered the resources and skills 
allocated to the internal audit function in order to execute 
the plan. The plan consists of various different types of audit 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CONTROLS
The Group’s operations are heavily dependent on 
information technology (IT), and accordingly the committee 
has reviewed internal audit reports on IT controls and 
assessments of external penetration tests and cyber risk.  
All of these have been supported or performed by  
external specialists. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS
The committee undertook an internal, questionnaire-
based review of its own effectiveness during the year. As a 
result the committee has, among other actions, requested 
arrangements be made for additional formal training for 
all Audit Committee members and that, following the 
establishment of the new Board Risk Committee, the 
roles and responsibilities of each committee were clearly 
delineated and clarified to all Board committees. 
The following chart highlights how the committee spent its 
time during the year ended 31 May 2014.
AUDIT COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME
Statutory reporting
Internal audit matters
Compliance
Risks and control
External audit matters
Other
Martin Jackson 
Chairman, Audit Committee 
22 July 2014
which require different skills in order to provide adequate 
coverage across the Group.
In the current year, internal audit resource was further 
supplemented with functional specialism from external 
advisory companies, and an IT Internal Audit Manager was 
recruited to focus on internal audits of the IT department 
and to provide assurance over technology risks. For the 
forthcoming year, the committee has authorised additional 
investment both in internal audit resource, through the 
addition of another Internal Audit Manager, and in external 
expertise. This will enable an increase in the number and 
scope of audits performed with support from external 
specialists. The Audit Committee considers this additional 
investment will ensure that resources remain sufficient to 
provide adequate coverage of the Group’s risks, while 
retaining flexibility to address new risks as they arise over 
the three-year plan period.
The committee reviewed an assessment of the internal audit 
function performed against the recommendations issued, 
in July 2013, by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors 
with regards to Effective Internal Audit in the Financial 
Services Sector. The internal audit function demonstrated 
adherence to the majority of the recommendations and 
identified six areas for further development. Five of these 
areas were addressed during the financial year, and the 
one remaining action, to make the Internal Audit Charter 
publicly available, will be completed early in the next 
financial year.
In addition, the committee initiated a review of the 
internal audit function, referred to as the External Quality 
Assessment, performed by an independent external firm. 
The External Quality Assessment concluded that the 
Internal Audit Charter, policies and procedures ‘generally 
conforms’ to the IIA Standards and the Code of Ethics. 
This is the highest rating achievable in accordance with the 
IIA Standards. The review also identified some potential 
opportunities for improvement, and the committee will work 
with the internal audit function to take these forward in the 
next financial year.
CLIENT MONEY
The Group is proactive in ensuring that client monies 
are appropriately segregated in each jurisdiction where 
it operates. The design and operating effectiveness of 
controls over appropriate segregation of client monies are 
an important part of the Group’s internal control framework. 
As noted earlier, following the establishment of the Board 
Risk Committee during the year, responsibility for client 
money was handed over by the Audit Committee to the 
Board Risk Committee.
| Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee 94 95 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
During the year, we formed the Board Risk Committee 
to provide the Board with further opportunity to review 
and challenge the Group’s risk management framework in 
relation to the current and potential risk exposures. This 
is becoming increasingly important for IG as we continue 
to expand globally and extend our product range, while 
regulators around the world are engaged in strengthening 
their regimes.
The formation of the Board Risk Committee is an 
important step in the enhancement of our Risk Governance 
Framework as we continually strive to improve our 
management of risk, though our underlying approach 
remains unchanged. The challenge and review of our risk 
management processes, which were previously carried out 
either directly by the Board or under the auspices of the 
Audit Committee, now vest in the Board Risk Committee as 
a dedicated forum for risk matters.
As Chairman, it is my responsibility to report to the Board 
on matters discussed by the committee and to refer 
recommendations to the Board.
BOARD RISK COMMITTEE
Stephen Hill, Chairman of the Board Risk 
Committee, gives his review of the committee’s 
activities during the financial year.
BOARD RISK COMMITTEE - MEMBERSHIP 
AND ATTENDANCE
All Board Risk Committee members are independent  
Non-Executive Directors who can draw on recent and 
relevant experience.
The Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer,  
Chief Risk Officer, Global Head of Legal and Compliance, 
Head of Internal Audit and Deputy Company Secretary 
attend the Board Risk Committee by invitation appropriate 
to the matters under consideration. Other Directors, 
representatives from the finance function and other areas of 
the business attend the Board Risk Committee as necessary.
The committee is scheduled to meet three times a year and 
additionally as and when required. 
ROLE OF THE BOARD RISK COMMITTEE 
The committee’s responsibilities are to:
• Consider and recommend for approval by the Board, the 
Risk Appetite Statement (RAS) and Key Risk Indicators 
(KRIs) for the current and future strategy
• Monitor, review and challenge the Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and Internal 
Liquidity Adequacy Assessment (ILAA). This includes 
stress-testing, the liquidity and regulatory capital 
positions of the Group, the size of the liquidity and 
capital buffers, and the appropriateness of management 
mitigation actions 
• Ensure rigorous stress-testing and scenario-testing of 
the Group’s business and receive reports that explain the 
impact of identified risks and threats
• Ensure a sufficient level of risk mitigation is in place
• Review the Group’s major risk exposures
• Consider the adequacy and effectiveness of the 
technology infrastructure and supporting documentation 
in the Risk Management Framework
• Provide input to the Remuneration Committee on the 
alignment of the remuneration policy to risk performance
• Review the scope and nature of the work undertaken by 
the control functions in connection with business model 
and industry risks, and specifically regulatory, compliance, 
client money, anti-money-laundering and conduct risks
• Review and approve the statements to be included in the 
Annual Report concerning controls and risk management
• Review and monitor risk-related control recommendations 
to ensure they are being actioned appropriately
The Company Secretary drafts the agenda for each 
committee meeting, ensuring that each item in the terms of 
reference is covered at least once in the financial year, and 
more frequently if required.
ACTIVITY DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
The committee met twice during the year. During these 
initial committee meetings the focus was on ensuring it has 
the correct governance structure in place to discharge  
its responsibilities. 
The committee also provided input to the Remuneration 
Committee on the risks associated with our remuneration 
policy, paying particular attention to the design and 
monitoring of sales-incentive schemes.
In addition, the committee discussed the Group’s 
operational risk framework and risk appetite. The Group has 
invested in operational risk over the year to develop and 
clearly document the control environment across the Group. 
The committee reviewed and challenged the proposal to 
introduce a capital model to further strengthen operational 
risk capital component calculations.
Updates were received from Compliance regarding their 
monitoring programme as well as current regulatory themes 
and thematic reviews, including how the department has 
been working across the business to embed conduct risk 
both in the Group’s day-to-day activities and its strategic 
objectives. The internal audit function also provided 
updates on the risks highlighted in its reports. 
The committee reviewed updates to the ICAAP and the 
ILAA, as well as updates to the RAS and associated KRIs. 
The committee received the annual report from the 
Client Money Committee, and also reviewed the risks and 
processes around client money in relation to potential new 
business and product developments.
The following chart highlights how the committee spent its 
time during the year ended 31 May 2014. 
Stephen Hill 
Chairman, Board Risk Committee  
22 July 2014
Scheduled 
meetings 
eligible to 
attend
Scheduled 
meetings 
attended
Chairman of the Board Risk Committee
Stephen Hill 2 2
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Jim Newman 2 2
Sam Tymms 2 2
Roger Yates 2 2
BOARD RISK COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME
Reporting, risks and controls
Governance
ICAAP and ILAA
Compliance and 
conduct risk
Operational risk
Remuneration
Risk appetite
| Corporate Governance Report Board Risk Committee 96 97 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
The Directors are pleased to submit their report, together 
with the Group Financial Statements for the year ended 
31 May 2014. The Directors’ Report comprises pages 
96 to 98 of this report, together with the sections of the 
Annual Report incorporated by reference. 
The Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act‘) requires the Directors 
to present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report and 
Accounts. This information can be found on pages 8 to 
47. The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 
414 C(11) of the Act and as noted in this Directors’ 
Report, to include certain matters in its Strategic Report 
that it would otherwise be necessary to disclose in the 
Directors’ Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
In compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
(DTR) 7.2.1, the disclosures required by DTR 7.2.2 to 7.2.7 
are set out in this Directors’ Report and in the Corporate 
Governance Report on pages 48 to 103 which, together 
with the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, is 
incorporated by reference into this Directors’ Report.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
A statement of the Directors’ responsibilities in respect 
of the Financial Statements is set out immediately prior 
to that section of the Annual Report, on page 99, and a 
statement regarding the use of the going-concern basis 
in preparing these Financial Statements is provided later 
in this report.
The Independent Auditors’ Report, which sets out the 
auditors’ reporting responsibilities, can be found on 
pages 100 to 103.
PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS
The Group’s statutory profit for the year after taxation 
amounted to £147,035,000 (2013: £141,748,000), all 
of which is attributable to the equity members of the 
Company (2013: £141,692,000).
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend 
of 22.40 pence per share, amounting to £81,814,000, 
making a total of 28.15 pence per share and £102,807,000 
for the year. Dividends are recognised in the Financial 
Statements for the year in which they are paid or, in 
the case of a final dividend, when approved by the 
shareholders. The amount recognised in the Financial 
Statements, as described in note 12, includes this 
financial year’s interim dividend and the final dividend 
from the previous year, both of which were paid.
The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 
18 November 2014 to those shareholders on the register 
at 24 October 2014.
OPERATIONS OUTSIDE THE UNITED KINGDOM
In line with our strategic objectives, the Group has 
branches in Australia, South Africa, France, Germany, 
Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Ireland, 
Spain and Sweden. It has operating subsidiaries in the US, 
Singapore, Japan, Australia, India, Switzerland and Belarus.
REVIEW OF BUSINESS AND LIKELY  
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS
We provide a review of the Group’s progress, outlining 
developments during the year and giving an indication 
of likely future developments, in the Strategic Report on 
pages 8 to 47. The Strategic Report also covers an analysis 
of the financial position of the Group at the year-end, and 
information about our Key Performance Indicators.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
The Company’s articles of association (‘the Articles’) are 
available from the Group’s website, iggroup.com, or by 
writing to the Company Secretary at the Group’s registered 
office. The Articles can also be obtained from the UK 
Registrar of Companies. Amendments to the Articles can 
only be made by means of a special resolution at a general 
meeting of the Company’s shareholders.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS
Details of the Directors who held office at the end of the 
year are set out on pages 50 to 51 and are incorporated into 
this report by reference. We provide information about the 
Directors’ service contracts, and their interests in the share 
capital of the Company, in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 62 to 87.
Jim Newman joined the Board as Non-Executive Director 
on 1 October 2013 and will be appointed Chairman of  
the Audit Committee after Martin Jackson steps down 
from the Board at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 
16 October 2014. Jonathan Davie will also retire from the 
Board at the AGM, and will be replaced by Andy Green as 
Chairman of the Group.
APPOINTMENT AND RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS
The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed 
by the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the 
Code’), the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation. 
The Board has the power to appoint any person as a 
Director to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional Director, 
provided the total number of Directors does not exceed 
the maximum prescribed in the Articles. Any such Director 
holds office only until the next AGM, and is then eligible to 
offer himself or herself for election.
The Articles also require that all those Directors who have 
been in office at the time of the two previous AGMs, and 
who did not retire at either of them, must retire as  
Directors by rotation. Such Directors are eligible to stand  
for re-election. However, in line with the Code’s 
recommendation that all directors of FTSE 350 companies 
should be subject to annual election, all our Directors will 
stand for election or re-election at the 2014 AGM, with the 
exception of Jonathan Davie and Martin Jackson, who are 
retiring from the Board.
DIRECTORS’ CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, all Directors 
must disclose both the nature and extent of any potential 
or actual conflicts with the interests of the Company. We 
explain the procedure for this in the Board section, on  
page 55.
INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES
The Group has Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance 
in place, providing appropriate cover for any legal action 
brought against its Directors. Qualifying third-party 
indemnity provisions (as defined by section 234 of the 
Companies Act 2006) were in force during the year ended 
31 May 2014. These provisions remain in force for the 
benefit of the Directors, in relation to certain losses and 
liabilities which they may incur (or have incurred) to third 
parties in the course of acting as Directors of the Company.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
In the ordinary course of business, the Company regularly 
develops new products and services. 
GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS
Information on the required disclosure of the Group’s GHG 
emissions for the year ended 31 May 2014 is set out in the 
Strategic Report on page 31.
POLITICAL DONATIONS
The Company made no political donations to political 
organisations or independent election candidates and 
incurred no political expenditure in the year (2013: £nil). 
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
The Company is fully committed to involving employees 
in all aspects of the business. Detailed information on 
employee engagement can be found on page 28 of the 
Strategic Report.
EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES
We give full and fair consideration to applications for 
employment from people with disabilities. Information on 
the Company’s policy on employing people with disabilities 
can be found on page 28 of the Strategic Report.
SHARE CAPITAL
The Company has three classes of shares: ordinary shares, 
B shares and preference shares. As at 31 May 2014, the 
Company’s issued shares comprised 365,754,631 ordinary 
shares of 0.005p each, 65,000 B shares of 0.001p and 40,000 
preference shares of £1.00 each. Details of movement in 
the Company’s share capital and rights attached to the 
issued shares are given in notes 26 and 27 to the Financial 
Statements. Information about the rights attached to the 
Company’s shares can also be found in the Articles. Details 
of the Group’s required regulatory capital are disclosed in 
note 37 to the Financial Statements.
RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SECURITIES
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities 
in the Company, other than as contained in the Articles 
and certain laws or regulations, such as those related to 
insider trading, which may be imposed from time to time. 
The Directors and certain employees of the Company are 
required to obtain the Company’s approval prior to dealing 
in the Company’s securities. The Company is not aware of 
any agreements between holders of securities that may 
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on  
voting rights.
EXERCISE OF RIGHTS OF SHARES IN EMPLOYEE 
SHARE SCHEMES
The trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust do not seek to 
exercise voting rights on shares held in the employee trusts, 
other than on the direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
No voting rights are exercised in relation to shares 
unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS TO ISSUE OR 
PURCHASE THE COMPANY’S SHARES
The Articles permit the Directors to issue or repurchase the 
Company’s own shares, subject to obtaining shareholders’ 
prior approval. The shareholders gave this approval at the 
2013 AGM. The authority to issue or buy back shares will 
expire at the 2014 AGM, and it will be proposed at the 
meeting that the Directors be granted new authorities 
to issue or buy back shares. The Directors currently have 
authority to purchase up to 36,541,588 of the Company’s 
ordinary shares. However, the Company did not repurchase 
any of its ordinary shares during the year. 
During the year, the Company instructed the trustee of the 
Employee Benefit Trust to purchase shares in order to satisfy 
awards under the Group’s share-incentive plan schemes. 
The Company also issued shares in respect of long-term 
incentive plan and value-sharing plan schemes. Details of 
the shares held by the Group’s Employee Benefit Trusts and 
the amounts paid during the year are disclosed in note 28 
to the Financial Statements.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
| Corporate Governance Report Directors’ Report 98 99 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARES
Information provided to the Company by major shareholders 
pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)’s 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTRs) is published via 
a Regulatory Information Service and is available on the 
Company’s website. The following information has been 
received, in accordance with DTR5, from holders of notifiable 
interests in the Company’s issued share capital. It should 
be noted that some of these holdings may have changed 
since the Company received the notification. Holders are not 
required to notify the Company of any change until the next 
applicable threshold is reached or crossed.
31 May 2014
No. of shares Percentage
Massachusetts Financial 
Services Company 18,150,880 5.00%
Artemis Investment 
Management LLP 18,806,983 5.15%
Black Rock Inc. 18,183,593 4.97%
Cantillon Capital 
Management LLC 17,140,794 4.69%
Prudential plc Group  
of Companies
11,066,471 3.00%
The company was informed of the following movement of 
notifiable interest between 31 May 2014 and 18 July 2014.
18 July 2014
No. of shares Percentage
Massachusetts Financial 
Services Company      36,574,828                 10.00%
CHANGE OF CONTROL
Following any future change of control of the Company, the 
Group’s banking facilities, which are currently undrawn (refer 
to note 18 of the Financial Statements), will be cancelled, and 
any obligations will become immediately due and payable.
There are no agreements between the Company and its 
Directors or employees providing for compensation on 
any loss of office or employment that occurs because of 
a takeover bid. However, options and awards granted to 
employees under the Company’s share schemes and plans 
may vest on a takeover, under the schemes’ provisions.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
The Group is exposed to a number of business risks in 
providing products and services to its clients. The Board is 
responsible for establishing the overall appetite for these 
risks, which is detailed and approved in the Risk Appetite 
Statement. Our Risk Management Framework is supported 
by a system of internal controls designed to embed the 
management of business risk throughout the Group. We 
outline the risks to which the Group is exposed and our 
Risk Management Framework, including a description of its 
system of internal controls, in the Managing Our Business 
Risk section of the Strategic Report.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to prepare 
Financial Statements for each financial year. Under this law, 
the Directors have prepared the Group and parent company 
Financial Statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union. In preparing these Financial Statements, 
the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs issued 
by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). 
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the 
Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group 
and the Company, and of the Group’s profit or loss for that 
financial year. In preparing these Financial Statements, the 
Directors are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies and apply  
them consistently
• Make judgments and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent
• State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and IFRSs issued by the IASB have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Financial Statements
• Prepare the Financial Statements on a going-concern 
basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
company will continue in business
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company 
keeps adequate accounting records. These records must be 
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions 
and disclose the financial position of the Company and the 
Group with reasonable accuracy at any time. They must also 
enable the Directors to ensure that the Financial Statements 
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial 
Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
The Directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and the Group, and so for taking reasonable 
steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Group’s website is 
also the Directors’ responsibility. 
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
It is the Directors’ opinion that the Annual Report and 
Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable and provide the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed 
in the Corporate Governance Report, confirms that, to the 
best of their knowledge:
• The Financial Statements, which have been prepared 
in accordance with the applicable set of accounting 
standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole
•  The Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report included 
within this Annual Report provide a fair review of 
the business’s development and performance, the 
Company’s position and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a 
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the 
Group faces
By order of the Board:
Christopher Hill 
Chief Financial Officer 
22 July 2014
The Directors are responsible for preparing the  
Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report  
and the Financial Statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Details of our use of financial instruments and financial  
risk management are set out in note 35 and 36 to the 
Financial Statements.
RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Details of related-party transactions are set out in note 34 to 
the Financial Statements.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Company’s AGM will be held on 16 October 2014. We 
set out details of the resolutions to be proposed at the 
AGM in a separate circular sent to all shareholders.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
Resolutions to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 
the Company’s auditors and to authorise the Directors to 
determine their remuneration will be put to shareholders at 
the AGM on 16 October 2014.
GOING CONCERN
The Directors have prepared the Financial Statements on a 
going-concern basis, which requires the Directors to have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future.
The Directors have reviewed the Group’s processes for 
controlling the financial risks to which it is exposed, its 
available liquidity, its regulatory capital position and the 
annual budget. As a result of this review, the Directors are 
satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason, they continue to adopt the going-concern basis in 
preparing the Financial Statements.
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF 
INFORMATION TO AUDITORS
So far as each person who was a Director at the date of 
approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information, being information needed by the auditors in 
connection with preparing their report, of which the auditors 
are unaware. Each Director has taken all the steps that he or 
she is obliged to take as a Director in order to make himself 
or herself aware of any relevant audit information, and to 
establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that 
information. This confirmation is given pursuant to section 
418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted 
in accordance with and subject to these provisions.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
The Group has, on 15 July 2014, completed the renegotiation 
of the £200.0 million liquidity facility with a syndicate of three 
banks. In doing so, the Group has renewed the £120.0 million 
element of the facility available for a period of one year (with 
an option to extend for a further year) and renegotiated 
the £80.0 million element of the facility to be available for a 
further three years respectively from 31 July 2014. 
| Corporate Governance Report Directors’ Report 100 101 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Stratigic overview
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
Group’s and Parent Company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed;
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates 
made by the directors; and 
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and 
to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
OVERVIEW OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH
Materiality
We set certain thresholds for materiality. These helped us 
to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, 
both individually and on the financial statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined 
materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole 
to be £9.7 million which represents 5% of profit before tax 
because in our view this is the most relevant measure  
of performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report 
to them misstatements identified during our audit above 
£450,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, 
in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit
The Group consists of a UK holding company with a number 
of subsidiary entities and branches containing the operating 
businesses of both the UK and overseas territories. Both the 
UK and overseas businesses are managed and controlled 
in the UK. As a result, the majority of the audit work was 
performed by the Group engagement team in London, with 
certain, specific procedures carried out by overseas PwC 
engagement teams where necessary.
Where the work was performed by overseas PwC firms, 
we determined the level of involvement we needed to 
have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able 
to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group 
financial statements as a whole. 
REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OUR OPINION  
In our opinion:
• The financial statements, defined below, give a true and 
fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent 
Company’s affairs as at 31 May 2014 and of the Group’s 
profit and of the Group’s and Parent Company’s cash 
flows for the year then ended;
• The Group financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the  
European Union;
• The Parent Company financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the European Union and as applied in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
• The financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in 
the remainder of this report.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED
The Group financial statements and Parent Company 
financial statements (the “financial statements”), which are 
prepared by IG Group Holdings plc, comprise:
• the Group income statement and Group statement of 
comprehensive income for the year ended 31 May 2014;
• the Group and Parent Company statements of financial 
position as at 31 May 2014;
• the Group and Parent Company statements of changes  
in equity and cash flow statements for the year ended  
31 May 2014; and
• the notes to the financial statements, which include a 
summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent 
Company, as applied in accordance with the provisions of 
the Companies Act 2006.
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS INVOLVES 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)). 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of:
Areas of particular audit focus
In preparing the financial statements, the directors made 
a number of subjective judgements, for example in 
respect of significant accounting estimates that involved 
making assumptions and considering future events that 
are inherently uncertain. We primarily focused our work in 
these areas by assessing the directors’ judgements against 
available evidence, forming our own judgements, and 
evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using 
sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we 
considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us 
to draw conclusions. We obtained audit evidence through 
testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures 
or a combination of both. 
We considered the following areas to be those that required 
particular focus in the current year. This is not a complete 
list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit. We 
discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee. 
Their report on those matters that they considered to be 
significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set 
out on page 90.
AREA OF FOCUS
HOW THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE  
AREA OF FOCUS
RISK OF MANAGEMENT OVERRIDE OF INTERNAL CONTROLS INCLUDING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY  
AND RISK OF FRAUD IN REVENUE RECOGNITION
RISK OF MANAGEMENT OVERRIDE OF INTERNAL CONTROLS 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) require that we consider 
this as management is in a unique position to 
perpetrate fraud because of management’s ability 
to manipulate accounting records and prepare 
fraudulent financial statements by overriding 
controls that otherwise appear to be  
operating effectively.
We tested the fraud risk assessment performed by 
management and the prevention and detection controls 
in place in the Group. We tested the appropriateness and 
authorisation of journal entries that we identified  
as unusual. 
We examined significant or one-off transactions 
and considered their accounting treatment. We also 
incorporated an element of unpredictability into our  
testing approach.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
This area of focus relates to super-user access to the 
core trading system by certain individuals in order 
to perform their role. Those individuals have an 
opportunity to commit and conceal fraud.
We understood and tested key controls in place over the 
financial information. Specifically, in relation to information 
technology we performed testing over the IT general 
controls in Universe, the main client ledger system, 
including access rights. Additionally we tested the controls 
mitigating system super-user access including controls that 
would identify unexpected changes to data which could 
impact the financial statements and reconciliations of 
Universe reports to external third party sources including 
broker and bank reconciliations.
RISK OF FRAUD IN REVENUE RECOGNITION
ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there is a risk of  
fraud in revenue recognition because of the  
pressure management may feel to achieve the 
planned results.
We tested the appropriateness and authorisation of journal 
entries relating to revenue that we identified as unusual.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO  
THE MEMBERS OF IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC
| Corporate Governance Report Independent Auditors’ Report 102 103 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Stratigic overview
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration specified by law have not been made. We 
have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part 
of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’). We have nothing 
to report having performed our review.
On page 99 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code 
Provision C.1.1, the directors state that they consider the 
Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information necessary 
for members to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy. On page 90, as required by C.3.8 of 
the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant 
issues that it considered in relation to the financial 
statements, and how they were addressed. Under ISAs (UK 
& Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
• the statement given by the directors is materially 
inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in 
the course of performing our audit; or
• the section of the Annual Report describing the work of 
the Audit Committee does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from  
this responsibility.
OTHER INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and  
Parent Company acquired in the course of performing  
our audit; or
• is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from  
this responsibility.
GOING CONCERN
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the 
directors’ statement, set out on page 98, in relation to  
going concern. We have nothing to report having 
performed our review.
As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have 
concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Group’s 
and Parent Company’s financial statements using the 
going concern basis of accounting. The going concern 
basis presumes that the Group and Parent Company have 
adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the 
directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from 
the date the financial statements were signed. As part of 
our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use of the 
going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the 
Group’s and the Parent Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
OPINIONS ON MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY 
THE COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion:
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements; and
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006.
OTHER MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE 
REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION
ADEQUACY OF ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND 
INFORMATION AND EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from  
this responsibility.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT
OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF  
THE DIRECTORS 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 99, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the Group and Parent Company 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on 
the Group and Parent Company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared 
for and only for the Company’s members as a body in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving 
these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any 
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report 
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Darren Ketteringham (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
22 July 2014
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO  
THE MEMBERS OF IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC
| Corporate Governance Report Independent Auditors’ Report 104 105 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
GROUP INCOME STATEMENT 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2014
Note
2014
Total 
£000
2013
Total 
£000
Trading revenue 407,899 397,946
Interest income on segregated client funds 5,817 8,477
Revenue 413,716 406,423
Interest expense on segregated client funds (317) (289)
Introducing partner commissions (37,491) (36,089)
Betting duty and financial transaction taxes (3,873) (5,204)
Other operating income 3 2,132 3,067
Net operating income 4 374,167 367,908
Analysed as:
Net trading revenue 2, 4 370,408 361,857
Other net operating income 3,759 6,051
Administrative expenses (178,912) (175,980)
Operating profit 5 195,255 191,928
Finance income 8 1,456 2,036
Finance costs 9 (1,988) (1,756)
Profit before taxation 194,723 192,208
Taxation 10 (47,688) (50,460)
Profit for the year 147,035 141,748
Profit for the year attributable to:
Owners of the parent 147,035 141,692
Non-controlling interests – 56
147,035 141,748
Earnings per ordinary share Note 2014 2013
 Basic 11 40.32p 39.02p
 Diluted 11 40.18p 38.80p
The notes on pages 110 to 151 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2014
2014 2013
Group £000 £000 £000 £000
Profit for the year 147,035 141,748
Other comprehensive (expense) / income: 
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:
Change in value of available-for-sale financial assets 59 (38)
Foreign currency translation on overseas subsidiaries (6,452) (4,578)
Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax (6,393) (4,616)
Total comprehensive income for the year 140,642 137,132
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the parent 140,642 137,079
Non-controlling interests – 53
140,642 137,132
All items of other comprehensive income or expense may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss.
The items of comprehensive income noted above are stated net of related tax effects.
 
The notes on pages 110 to 151 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
| Financial Statements Group Income Statement 106 107 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AT 31 MAY 2014
Group Company
Note
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 13 13,038 14,469 – –
Intangible assets 14 122,670 120,479 1,554 –
Investment in subsidiaries 15 – – 471,600 459,977
Financial investments 21 32,150 – – –
Deferred tax assets 10 5,711 9,470 – –
173,569 144,418 473,154 459,977
Current assets
Trade receivables 17 327,478 300,636 – –
Prepayments and other receivables 12,287 10,278 135,784 165,616
Cash and cash equivalents 18 101,487 98,345 – 245
Financial investments 21 50,307 50,468 – –
491,559 459,727 135,784 165,861
TOTAL ASSETS
665,128 604,145 608,938 625,838
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade payables 22 21,902 19,047 – –
Other payables 23 53,334 53,781 7,702 32,460
Income tax payable 20,178 24,289 – –
95,414 97,117 7,702 32,460
Non-current liabilities
Redeemable preference shares 26 40 40 40 40
40 40 40 40
Total liabilities 95,454 97,157 7,742 32,500
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 27 18 18 18 18
Share premium 27 206,758 206,758 206,758 206,758
Other reserves 29 85,468 84,990 34,315 27,444
Retained earnings 277,430 215,222 360,105 359,118
Shareholders’ equity 569,674 506,988 601,196 593,338
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
665,128 604,145 608,938 625,838
The Financial Statements on pages 104 to 151 were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 July 2014 and signed on its 
behalf by:
Tim Howkins  Christopher Hill
Chief Executive  Chief Financial Officer
Registered Company number: 04677092 
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2014
Share 
capital 
(note 27)
Share 
premium 
account 
(note 27)
Other 
reserves 
(note 29)
Retained 
earnings
Shareholders’ 
equity
Non- 
controlling 
interests
Total 
equity
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 June 2012 18 206,291 85,543 155,145 446,997 146 447,143
Profit for the year – – – 141,692 141,692 56 141,748
Other comprehensive expense for the year – – (4,613) – (4,613) (3) (4,616)
Total comprehensive (expense) / income 
for the year – – (4,613) 141,692 137,079 53 137,132
Equity-settled employee share-based 
payments (note 30) – – 4,309 – 4,309 – 4,309
Excess of tax deduction benefit on share-
based payments recognised directly in 
shareholders’ equity (note 10) – – 13 – 13 – 13
Issuance of shares – 467 – – 467 – 467
Exercise of US share-incentive plans – –
(20)
–
(20)
–
(20)
Purchase of own shares – –
(441)
–
(441)
–
(441)
Equity dividends paid (note 12) – – –
(81,615) (81,615)
–
(81,615)
Acquisition of non-controlling interests – – 199 – 199
(199)
–
Movement in equity – 467 (553) 60,077 59,991 (146) 59,845
At 31 May 2013 18 206,758 84,990 215,222 506,988 – 506,988
Profit for the year – – – 147,035 147,035 – 147,035
Other comprehensive expense for the year – –
(6,393)
–
(6,393)
–
(6,393)
Total comprehensive (expense) / income 
for the year – – (6,393) 147,035 140,642 – 140,642
Equity-settled employee share-based 
payments (note 30) – – 6,556 – 6,556 – 6,556
Utilisation of own shares – – 348 – 348 – 348
Exercise of US share-incentive plans – –
(3)
–
(3)
–
(3)
Purchase of own shares – –
(30)
–
(30)
–
(30)
Equity dividends paid (note 12) – – –
(84,827) (84,827)
–
(84,827)
Movement in equity – – 478 62,208 62,686 – 62,686
At 31 May 2014
18 206,758 85,468 277,430 569,674 – 569,674
 The notes on pages 110 to 151 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
| Financial Statements Statements of Financial Position 108 109 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2014
Share 
capital  
(note 27)
Share premi-
um account  
(note 27)
Other 
reserves
(note 29)
Retained 
earnings
Total 
equity
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 June 2012 18 206,291 23,596 316,396 546,301
Profit for the year and total comprehensive income – – – 124,337 124,337
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 
(note 30) – – 4,309 – 4,309
Issuance of shares – 467 – – 467
Purchase of own shares – –
(441)
–
(441)
Exercise of US share-incentive plans – –
(20)
–
(20)
Equity dividends paid (note 12) – – –
(81,615) (81,615)
Movement in equity – 467 3,848 42,722 47,037
At 31 May 2013 18 206,758 27,444 359,118 593,338
Profit for the year and total comprehensive income – – – 85,814 85,814
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 
(note 30) – – 6,556 – 6,556
Utilisation of own shares – – 348 – 348
Purchase of own shares – –
(30)
–
(30)
Exercise of US share-incentive plans – –
(3)
–
(3)
Equity dividends paid (note 12) – – –
(84,827) (84,827)
Movement in equity – – 6,871 987 7,858
At 31 May 2014 18 206,758 34,315 360,105 601,196
The notes on pages 110 to 151 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2014
Group Company
Note
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
Cash generated from operations 20 176,465 66,402 85,773 82,347
Income taxes paid (47,761) (53,247) – –
Interest received on segregated client funds 5,996 9,013 – –
Interest paid on segregated client funds (301) (289) – –
Net cash flow from operating activities 134,399 21,879 85,773 82,347
Investing activities
Interest received 1,462 2,155 – –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (3,428) (4,813) – –
Payments to acquire intangible assets (8,076) (11,949) – –
Purchase of a non-controlling interest –
(1,319)
– –
Proceeds from maturity of financial investments 59,380 – – –
Purchase of financial investments
(91,294) (50,486)
– –
Net cash flow used in investing activities (41,956) (66,412) – –
Financing activities
Interest paid
(1,988) (3,175) (1,158) (641)
Equity dividends paid to owners of the parent 12
(84,827) (81,615) (84,827) (81,615)
Proceeds from drawdown of committed  
banking facility 19(c) 80,000 – – –
Repayment of committed banking facility 19(c)
(80,000)
– – –
Purchase of own shares
(30) (461) (30) (461)
Proceeds from the issuance of shares – 467 – 467
Payment of redeemable preference share dividends (3) (3) (3) (3)
Net cash flow used in financing activities (86,848) (84,787) (86,018) (82,253)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash and  
cash equivalents 5,595 (129,320) (245) 94
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of  
the year 98,345 228,156 245 151
Exchange loss on cash and cash equivalents
(2,453) (491)
– –
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
18 101,487 98,345 – 245
For the purposes of the Cash Flow Statements, cash and cash equivalents is stated gross of the drawdown of the committed 
banking facility (31 May 2014 and 31 May 2013: £nil). Please refer to note 18.
The notes on pages 110 to 151 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.  
| Financial Statements Statement of Changes in Equity 110 111 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
INDEX TO NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE PAGE
1. Presentation, critical accounting estimates and judgments 111
2. Net trading revenue 112
3. Other operating income 112
4. Segment information 113
5. Operating profit 114
6. Auditors’ remuneration 114
7. Staff costs 115
8. Finance income 115
9. Finance costs 115
10. Taxation 116
11. Earnings per ordinary share 117
12. Dividends 118
13. Property, plant and equipment 118
14. Intangible assets 119
15. Investment in subsidiaries 120
16. Impairment of goodwill 121
17. Trade receivables 122
18. Cash and cash equivalents 122
19. Liquidity analysis and risk management 123
20. Cash generated from operations 126
21. Financial investments 126
22. Trade payables 126
23. Other payables 127
24. Provisions 127
25. Litigation 127
26. Redeemable preference shares 127
27. Share capital 128
28. Own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts 128
29. Other reserves 129
30. Employee share plans 130
31. Capital commitments 133
32. Obligations under leases 133
33. Transactions with Directors 133
34. Related-party transactions 134
35. Financial instruments 134
36. Financial risk management 138
37. Capital management and resources 143
38. Subsequent events 144
39. Authorisation of Financial Statements and statement of compliance with IFRS 144
40. Accounting policies 144
1. PRESENTATION, CRITICAL  
ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND 
JUDGMENTS 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES  
AND JUDGMENTS
The preparation of Financial Statements requires the Group to 
make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported for 
assets and liabilities as at the year-end and the amounts reported 
for revenues and expenses during the year. The nature of estimates 
means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
In the Directors’ opinion, the accounting estimates or judgments 
that have the most significant impact on the measurement of items 
recorded in the Financial Statements remain the impairment of 
goodwill (refer to note 16); the useful economic life applied to 
the intangible assets and the calculation of the Group’s current 
corporation tax charge (refer to note 10(b)). 
The judgments in relation to the assessment of goodwill for 
impairment largely relate to the assumptions underlying the 
calculation of the value-in-use of the US cash-generating unit 
(CGU). The US CGU comprises both the Nadex exchange and 
the associated market-making business (the ‘Nadex exchange 
business’) as well as the wider commercial use of the exchange 
technology within the Group. While the Nadex exchange business 
remains loss-making, the wider commercial use of the technology 
by the Group provides other significant economic benefits, which 
taken alone, support the carrying value of the goodwill. For this 
reason the Directors consider that a reasonably possible change 
in a key assumption would not cause the unit’s carrying amount to 
exceed its recoverable amount. In the event of the Nadex exchange 
business failing to generate sufficient profits, the deferred tax asset 
of £1.7 million held in relation to carry-forward tax losses might 
suffer impairment. 
The assessment of the useful economic life of the Group’s internally 
developed and acquired software-, licence-, domain name- and 
generic top level domain-based intangible assets is judgmental 
and can change due to obsolescence as a result of unforeseen 
technological developments. The useful life for licences represents 
management’s view of the expected term over which the Group 
will receive benefits from the software, and does not exceed the 
licence term. For internally developed and acquired software and 
domain assets, the life is based on historical experience with similar 
products as well as anticipation of future events which may impact 
their useful economic life.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The calculation of the Group’s current corporation tax charge 
involves a degree of estimation and judgment with respect to 
certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined 
until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority. 
The Group holds tax provisions in respect of the potential tax 
liability that may arise on these unresolved items; however, the 
amount ultimately payable may be materially lower than the amount 
accrued, and could therefore improve the overall profitability and 
cash flows of the Group in future periods. 
The measurement of the Group’s net trading revenue is 
predominately based on quoted market prices (please refer to 
note 35 for the financial instrument valuation hierarchy disclosures) 
and accordingly involves little judgment. However, the calculation 
of the segmental net trading revenue, as the Group manages risk 
and hedges on a group-wide portfolio basis, involves the use of 
an allocation methodology. This allocation methodology does not 
impact on the overall Group net trading revenue disclosed. 
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 112 113 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
2. NET TRADING REVENUE
Net trading revenue represents trading revenue from financial instruments carried at fair value through profit or loss net of introducing-
partner commission. This is consistent with the management information received by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (refer to note 4). 
Revenue from external customers includes interest income on segregated client funds and is analysed as follows:
2014 2013
£000 £000
Net trading revenue
Contracts for difference 210,768 210,992
Spread betting 132,860 129,881
Binaries 26,780 20,984
Total net trading revenue 370,408 361,857
Interest income on segregated client funds 5,817 8,477
Revenue from external customers 376,225 370,334
In addition to the above, finance income is disclosed in note 8. The Group does not derive more than 10% of external revenue from any one 
single customer. 
3. OTHER OPERATING INCOME
2014 2013
£000 £000
Revenue-share arrangement
(1)
1,421 1,333
Inactivity fees
(2)
711 484
Settlement income
(3)
– 1,250
2,132 3,067
(1)  The Group receives income under a revenue-share agreement with Spreadex Limited in relation to the client list of the former Sport business, calculated by reference to the 
revenue that Spreadex Limited generates from clients on the list. This arrangement ended on 23 June 2014.
(2) The Group charges inactivity fees for those accounts on which clients have not traded for two years.
(3)  In the year ended 31 May 2013, the Group received one-off income in relation to settlement of an insurance claim made regarding the fit-out of the London headquarters.
4. SEGMENT INFORMATION
The segment information is presented as follows:
• Segment net trading revenue has been disclosed net of introducing-partner commissions, as this is consistent with the management 
information received by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), being the Executive Directors
• Net trading revenue is reported by the location of the office that manages the underlying client relationship and aggregated into the 
disclosable segments of UK, Australia, Europe and Rest of World. The Rest of World segment comprises the Group’s operations in Japan, 
South Africa, Singapore and the United States
• The UK segment comprises the Group’s operations in the UK and Ireland
• The Europe segment comprises the Group’s operations in France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden 
and Switzerland
• Segment contribution, being segment trading revenue less directly incurred costs, as the measure of segment profit and loss reported to 
the CODM
The UK segment derives its revenue from financial spread bets, contracts for difference (CFDs) and binary options. The Australian and 
European segments derive their revenue from CFDs and binary options. The businesses reported within Rest of World derive revenue from 
the operation of a regulated futures and options exchange as well as CFDs and binary options.
The Group employs a centralised operating model whereby market risk is managed principally in the UK, switching to Australia outside of UK 
hours. The costs associated with these operations are included in the Central segment, together with central costs of senior management, 
middle office, IT development, marketing and other support functions. As the Group manages risk and hedges on a Group-wide portfolio 
basis, the following segmental revenue analysis involves the use of an allocation methodology. Interest income and expense on segregated 
client funds is managed and reported to the CODM centrally, and thus has been reported in the Central segment. In the following analysis, 
the Central segment costs have been further allocated to the other reportable segments based on a number of cost-allocation assumptions 
and segment net trading revenue.
Japan’s trading revenue and operating profit after allocations have both fallen below the 10% of Group threshold required by IFRS 8 for 
disclosure as a reportable segment, and accordingly have been included within the Rest of World segment. 
UK Australia Europe
Rest of 
World Central Total
Year ended 31 May 2014 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Segment net trading revenue 192,693 52,169 82,142 43,404 – 370,408
Interest income on segregated client funds – – – – 5,817 5,817
Revenue from external customers 192,693 52,169 82,142 43,404 5,817 376,225
Interest expense on segregated client funds – – – – (317) (317)
Other operating income – – – – 2,132 2,132
Betting duty and financial transaction taxes (3,519) (56) (298) – – (3,873)
Net operating income 189,174 52,113 81,844 43,404 7,632 374,167
Segment contribution 160,552 43,707 51,631 25,162 (76,100) 204,952
Allocation of central income and costs (38,030) (11,096) (17,648) (9,326) 76,100 –
Depreciation and amortisation (5,004) (1,262) (2,113) (1,318) – (9,697)
Operating profit 117,518 31,349 31,870 14,518 – 195,255
Net finance costs (532)
Profit before taxation 194,723
UK Australia Europe
Rest of 
World Central Total
Year ended 31 May 2013 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Segment net trading revenue 186,450 56,251 71,047 48,109 – 361,857
Interest income on segregated client funds – – – – 8,477 8,477
Revenue from external customers 186,450 56,251 71,047 48,109 8,477 370,334
Interest expense on segregated client funds – – – – (289) (289)
Other operating income – – – – 3,067 3,067
Betting duty and financial transaction taxes (5,204) – – – – (5,204)
Net operating income 181,246 56,251 71,047 48,109 11,255 367,908
Segment contribution 151,337 49,297 43,870 31,288 (71,698) 204,094
Allocation of central income and costs (35,251) (11,165) (15,074) (10,208) 71,698 –
Depreciation and amortisation (5,888) (1,544) (2,170) (2,564) – (12,166)
Operating profit 110,198 36,588 26,626 18,516 – 191,928
Net finance income 280
Profit before taxation 192,208
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 114 115 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
5. OPERATING PROFIT 
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
This is stated after charging / (crediting):
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 4,656 6,050
Amortisation of intangible assets 5,041 6,116
Advertising and marketing 31,660 32,558
Net charge / (recovery) of impaired trade receivables 1,614 (348)
Operating lease rentals for land and buildings 4,352 4,375
Foreign exchange gains
(1)
(356) (399)
Legal and professional fees
(2)
4,266 4,772
(1)  All of the above except foreign exchange differences are included in administrative expenses within the Income Statement. Foreign exchange gains and losses are included 
in revenue.
(2)  Legal and professional fees include costs of £nil (2013: £3.4 million) incurred in defence of claims made in relation to the insolvency of Echelon Wealth Management Limited. 
Following the closure of this claim against the Group, the claimants have paid a £nil (2013: £2.8 million) contribution to the Group’s legal costs. This contribution was 
recorded within legal and professional fees. 
6. AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION 
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
Audit and audit-related fees
(1)
Fe es payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Parent Company  
and consolidated Financial Statements 297 195
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– Statutory and regulatory audit of subsidiaries and branches of the Company 234 192
– Audit-related assurance services:
– Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 144 115
– Statutory audit fees of subsidiary entities in relation to prior-year audits – 55
– Other audit-related assurance services 75 100
Total audit and audit-related fees 750 657
Non-audit fees 
Other services relating to taxation
– Tax compliance services
(2)
248 351
– Tax advisory services
(3)
162 214
Services relating to regulatory advice
(4)
12 109
All other services 35 136
Total other fees 457 810
(1)  Includes the Group’s audit fee as well as services that are specifically required of the Group’s auditors through legislative or contractual requirements, controls assurance 
engagements required of the auditors by the regulatory authorities in whose jurisdiction the Group operates and other audit related assurance services.
(2)  Includes corporate and other tax compliance and filing services which are closely related to the audit process and are therefore efficiently provided by the auditors due to 
their existing knowledge of the business.
(3)  Includes advice relating to the Group’s transfer pricing policies of £22,000 (2013: £18,000) and sales taxes of £63,000 (2013: £196,000), with the balance made up of general 
tax advice.
(4) Prior year costs included services provided in the review of regulatory filings and other regulatory advice.
An overview of the Audit Committee’s review of auditors’ remuneration and non-audit fee policy can be found in the Corporate  
Governance Report.
7. STAFF COSTS
The staff costs for the year, including Directors, were as follows:
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
Wages and salaries
(1)
75,374 73,189
Social security costs 8,671 8,016
Other pension costs (in relation to defined contribution schemes) 5,210 5,071
89,255 86,276
(1)  Includes redundancy programme costs of £nil (2013: £1.3 million).
Staff costs, including Directors, include the following amounts in respect of performance-related bonuses, inclusive of National Insurance and 
share-based payments charged to the Income Statement:
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
Performance-related bonuses 17,191 17,304
Equity-settled share-based payment schemes 7,077 4,414
24,268 21,718
The Directors’ emoluments for the years ended 31 May 2014 and 31 May 2013, including amounts in relation to compensation for loss of 
office, can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The average monthly number of employees, including Directors, was made up as follows: 
Group
2014 2013
Number Number
IT development 395 341
IT support 71 65
Sales, marketing and client support 397 415
Dealing 38 35
Management and administrative 169 149
1,070 1,005
8. FINANCE INCOME
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
Bank interest receivable 594 983
Interest receivable from brokers 576 991
Other finance income – 42
Interest accretion on financial investments 286 20
1,456 2,036
9. FINANCE COSTS
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
Liquidity facility arrangement and non-utilisation fees 1,638 1,473
Interest payable to clients 36 73
Interest payable to brokers 41 128
Bank interest payable 263 3
Dividend on redeemable preference shares 3 3
Other charges 7 76
1,988 1,756
Interest payable to clients relates to interest paid or accrued to clients in relation to title transfer funds (refer to note 18). 
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 116 117 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
10. TAXATION
10(A)  TAX ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES
Tax charged in the Income Statement:
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
Current income tax:
UK corporation tax 42,419 43,680
Foreign tax 3,575 4,197
Adjustment in respect of prior years (1,808) 174
Total current income tax 44,186 48,051
Deferred income tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 526 2,409
Adjustment in respect of prior years 2,301 –
Impact of change in tax rates on deferred tax 675 –
Total deferred income tax (note 10(d)) 3,502 2,409
Tax expense in the income statement (note 10(b))
47,688 50,460
10(B) RECONCILIATION OF THE TOTAL TAX CHARGE 
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 23% to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014. Accordingly, the effective corporation 
tax is calculated at 22.67% (2013: 23.83%) of the estimated assessable profit in the UK. Taxation outside the UK is calculated at the rates 
prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. The tax expense in the Income Statement for the year can be reconciled to the Income Statement 
as set out below:
2014 2013
£000 £000
Profit before taxation 194,723 192,208
Profit multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 22.67% (2013: 23.83%) 44,144 45,803
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 73 1,892
Impact of timing differences not recognised 1,275 1,428
Higher taxes on overseas earnings 1,028 1,163
Adjustment in respect of prior years 493 174
Impact of change in tax rates on deferred tax 675 –
Total tax expense reported in the Income Statement 47,688 50,460
The effective tax rate is 24.5% (2013: 26.3%).
10(C) DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS 
The deferred income tax assets included in the Statement of Financial Position are as follows: 
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
Decelerated capital allowances 397 727
Tax losses available for offset against future tax 1,656 1,767
Share-based payments 986 2,062
Other timing differences 2,672 4,914
5,711 9,470
The tax losses available for offset against future tax relate to operating losses arising in the US consolidated tax group, the recoverability 
of which is dependent on sufficient future operating profits in those entities. A deferred tax asset is recognised where it is considered to be 
probable that future operating profits will exceed the losses that have arisen to date. Where it is not anticipated that future operating profits 
will exceed the losses that have arisen to date, a deferred tax asset is not recognised. 
Share-based payment awards have been charged to the Income Statement but are not allowable as a tax deduction until the awards vest. 
The excess of tax relief in future years over the amount charged to the Income Statement is recognised as a credit directly to equity. The 
movement in the deferred income tax assets included in the Statement of Financial Position is as follows:
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
At the beginning of the year 9,470 11,915
Income Statement charge (note 10(d)) (3,502) (2,409)
Tax credited directly to equity – 13
Foreign currency adjustment (257) (49)
At the end of the year 5,711 9,470
10(D) DEFERRED INCOME TAX – INCOME STATEMENT CREDIT
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
The deferred income tax charge included in the Income Statement is made up as follows:
Decelerated capital allowances (330) (1,292)
Share-based payments (1,075) (1,360)
Other timing differences (2,097) 243
Income Statement charge (3,502) (2,409)
The deferred tax credited to equity during the year is as follows:
Share-based payments – 13
Closing deferred tax on UK temporary differences has been calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 20% (2013: 23%). The effect  
of the change in UK corporation tax to 20% from 1 April 2015 on the deferred tax assets is a deferred income tax charge of £675,000  
(2013: £275,000), which is included in the movements above.
10(E) FACTORS AFFECTING THE TAX CHARGE IN FUTURE YEARS
Factors that may affect the Group’s future tax charge include the geographic location of the Group’s earnings, the transfer pricing policies, 
the tax rates in those locations, changes in tax legislation, future planning opportunities, the use of brought-forward tax losses and the 
resolution of open tax issues. The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge involves a degree of estimation and judgment with respect 
to the recognition of deferred tax assets (refer to note 10(d)) and of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until 
resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority. The Group holds tax provisions in respect of the potential tax liability that may 
arise on these unresolved items, however, the amount ultimately payable may be materially lower than the amount accrued and could 
therefore improve the overall profitability and cash flows of the Group in future periods. 
On 1 April 2013 the main rate of corporation tax reduced from 24% to 23%. Further reductions to 21% on 1 April 2014 and 20% on  
1 April 2015 became enacted through the 2013 Finance Act on 17 July 2013. The Group will assess the impact of the reductions in line with 
its accounting policy in respect of deferred tax at each reporting date. 
11.  EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Company and held as own shares in 
Employee Benefit Trusts. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using the same profit figure as that used in basic earnings per share, and by 
adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive ordinary shares arising from share 
schemes. The following reflects the income and share data used in the earnings per share computation:
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
Profit for the year 147,035 141,748
Earnings attributable to non-controlling interests – (56)
Earnings attributable to owners of the Parent 147,035 141,692
Weighted average number of shares
Basic 364,710,756 363,172,810
Dilutive effect of share-based payments 1,213,527 2,016,025
Diluted 365,924,283 365,188,835
Group
2014 2013
Basic earnings per share 40.32p 39.02p
Diluted earnings per share 40.18p 38.80p
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 118 119 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
12. DIVIDENDS
Company and Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
Declared and paid during the year:
Final dividend for 2013 at 17.50p per share (2012: 16.75p) 63,834 60,769
Interim dividend for 2014 at 5.75p per share (2013: 5.75p) 20,993 20,846
84,827 81,615
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM:
Final dividend for 2014 at 22.40p per share (2013: 17.50p) 81,814 63,767
The final dividend for 2014 of 22.40 pence per share, amounting to £81,814,000, was proposed by the Board on 18 July 2014 and has not 
been included as a liability at 31 May 2014. This dividend will be paid on 18 November 2014, following approval at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting, to those members on the register at the close of business on 24 October 2014.  
13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Leasehold 
improvements
Office 
equipment, 
fixtures and 
fittings
Computer 
and other 
equipment Total
Group £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost:
At 1 June 2012 16,684 2,288 15,722 34,694
Foreign currency adjustment 340 99 (118) 321
Additions 1,616 333 2,483 4,432
Written off (1,188) (245) (116) (1,549)
At 31 May 2013 17,452 2,475 17,971 37,898
Foreign currency adjustment (217) (63) (295) (575)
Additions 714 201 2,527 3,442
Written off (101) (64) (5,038) (5,203)
At 31 May 2014 17,848 2,549 15,165 35,562
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 June 2012 5,970 1,331 11,838 19,139
Foreign currency adjustment (52) 22 (181) (211)
Provided during the year 2,321 443 3,286 6,050
Written off (1,188) (245) (116) (1,549)
At 31 May 2013 7,051 1,551 14,827 23,429
Foreign currency adjustment (85) (81) (192) (358)
Provided during the year 1,931 394 2,331 4,656
Written off (101) (64) (5,038) (5,203)
At 31 May 2014 8,796 1,800 11,928 22,524
Net book value – 31 May 2014 9,052 749 3,237 13,038
Net book value – 31 May 2013 10,401 924 3,144 14,469
Net book value – 1 June 2012 10,714 957 3,884 15,555
14. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
Client lists 
and customer 
reltaionships
Domain 
names
Development 
costs
Software 
and licences Total
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost:
At 1 June 2012 235,675 3,153 1,219 4,206 12,274 256,527
Foreign currency adjustment (162) (1,182) (227) (337) (103) (2,011)
Additions – – 3,966 3,386 3,909 11,261
Written off – – (963) – (147) (1,110)
At 31 May 2013 235,513 1,971 3,995 7,255 15,933 264,667
Foreign currency adjustment (645) (263) (1) – (120) (1,029)
Additions – – 1,805 4,763 1,307 7,875
Written off – – – (8) (395) (403)
At 31 May 2014 234,868 1,708 5,799 12,010 16,725 271,110
Accumulated amortisation:
At 1 June 2012 128,210 2,741 1,219 655 8,336 141,161
Foreign currency adjustment – (1,154) (222) (525) (78) (1,979)
Provided during the year – 369 97 1,765 3,885 6,116
Written off – – (963) – (147) (1,110)
At 31 May 2013 128,210 1,956 131 1,895 11,996 144,188
Foreign currency adjustment – (266) (2) 2 (120) (386)
Provided during the year – 18 417 1,685 2,921 5,041
Written off – – – (8) (395) (403)
At 31 May 2014 128,210 1,708 546 3,574 14,402 148,440
Net book value – 31 May 2014 106,658 – 5,253 8,436 2,323 122,670
Net book value – 31 May 2013 107,303 15 3,864 5,360 3,937 120,479
Net book value – 1 June 2012 107,465 412 – 3,551 3,938 115,366
Goodwill primarily relates to the purchase of IG Group plc by IG Group Holdings plc – detail is provided in note 16. The client list acquired 
with the business of Ideal CFDs has been amortised on a sum-of-digits basis over three years. 
Development costs relate to both internally generated intangible assets and third-party software acquired to further enhance the Group’s 
own proprietary software. 
Software and licences relate entirely to external purchases of off-the-shelf, commercially available software for internal consumption within 
the Group. 
Domain names include the cost of acquiring IG.com and a suite of complementary domains to support the Group’s global brand. As  
at 31 May 2014 this also includes an industry-specific generic top-level domain (gTLD). Additional gTLDs have been acquired for no  
capital outlay.
The expected useful lives of each class of intangible asset are set out in note 40, Accounting Policies.
Domain 
names
Company £000
Cost:
At 1 June 2012 and 31 May 2013 –
Additions 1,580
At 31 May 2014 1,580
Accumulated amortisation:
At 1 June 2012 and 31 May 2013 –
Provided during the year 26
At 31 May 2014 26
Net book value – 31 May 2014 1,554
Net book value – 1 June 2012 and 31 May 2013 –
Please refer to the Group Intangible Assets disclosure above regarding discussion of domain names.
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 120 121 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
15. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
PARENT COMPANY – INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
Company
2014 2013
At cost: £000 £000
At the beginning of the year 459,977 438,128
Additions
(1)
11,623 21,849
At the end of the year 471,600 459,977
(1)  Additions in the year ended 31 May 2014 comprise the investment relating to equity-settled share-based payments for subsidiary employees of £6,555,598 (2013: £4,309,000) 
and the purchase of shares in the Company’s immediate subsidiary, IG Group Limited, of £5,067,309 (2013: £17,540,000).
The following companies are all owned directly or indirectly by IG Group Holdings plc:
Name of company
Country of 
incorporation Holding Voting rights Nature of business
Subsidiary undertakings held directly:
IG Group Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Holding company
IG Jersey Cashbox Limited Jersey Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading
Subsidiary undertakings held indirectly:
IG Index Limited
UK Ordinary shares 100%
Spread betting and IT development
IG Markets Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading, foreign exchange  
and market risk management
IG Markets South Africa Limited UK Ordinary shares 100%
CFD trading
IG Australia Pty Limited Australia Ordinary shares 100% Sales and marketing office
IG Asia Pte Limited Singapore Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading and foreign exchange
North American Derivatives Exchange Inc USA Ordinary shares 100% Exchange
IG Securities Limited
(1)
Japan Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading and foreign exchange
IG Switzerland S.A. Switzerland Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading and foreign exchange
Market Data Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Data distribution
Market Risk Management Inc USA Ordinary shares 100% Market maker
IG Infotech (India) Private Limited India Ordinary shares 100% Software development
IG Nominees Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Nominee company
IG Knowhow Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Software development
extrabet Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading
Broker Connect Inc USA Ordinary shares 100% Software development
LLC IG Dev Belarus Ordinary shares 100% Software development
IG Finance UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance Two UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance Three UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance Four UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance 5 Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG  Forex Limited (previously called  
IG Finance 6 Limited)
UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG  Spread Betting Limited (previously  
called IG Finance 7 Limited)
UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance 8 Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance 9 Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
ITS Market Solutions Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading
Fox Sub Limited Gibraltar Ordinary shares 100% Financing
Fox Sub Two Limited Gibraltar Ordinary shares 100% Financing
Fox Japan Holdings
(1)
Gibraltar Ordinary shares 100% Holding company
IG US Holdings Inc USA Ordinary shares 100% Holding company
Market Data Japan KK Japan Ordinary shares 100% Holding company
FXOnline Japan Co., Limited Japan Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading
(1)  IG Securities Limited and Fox Japan Holdings have a year-end of 31 March due to local Japanese law.
Employee Benefit Trusts:
IG Group Holdings plc Inland Revenue Approved Share Incentive Plan (UK Trust) 
IG Group Limited Employee Benefit Trust (Jersey Trust) 
IG Group Employee Equity Plan Trust (Australian Trust)
The following UK entities, all of which are 100% owned by the Group, are not subject to an audit by virtue of s479A of the Companies Act 
2006 relating to subsidiary companies: IG Finance 5 Limited (06752558), IG Finance 9 Limited (07306407), and extrabet Limited (04560348).
The following UK entities, all of which are 100% owned by the Group, are exempt from the requirement to prepare individual accounts by 
virtue of s394A of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the individual accounts of dormant subsidiaries: IG Nominees Limited (04371444),  
IG Finance (05024562), IG Finance Two (05137194), IG Finance Three (05297886), IG Finance Four (05312015), IG Forex Limited (06808361),  
IG Spread Betting Limited (06806588), IG Finance 8 Limited (06807656) and ITS Market Solutions Limited (04768327).
16. IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL
ANALYSIS OF GOODWILL
Goodwill has been allocated for impairment-testing purposes to the cash-generating units (CGUs), as follows:
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
UK 100,012 100,012
Australia 934 934
US 4,535 4,998
South Africa 1,177 1,359
106,658 107,303
UK goodwill arose on the purchase of IG Group plc by IG Group Holdings plc on 5 September 2003. Goodwill disclosed as Australia arose on 
the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in IG Australia Pty Limited in the year ended 31 May 2006. Goodwill arising on the acquisitions 
of Nadex (formerly HedgeStreet), and the associated exchange technology and licence, and Ideal CFD’s has been allocated to the separate 
US and South African CGUs respectively. 
IMPAIRMENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2014
There was no indication of an ‘impairment trigger’ existing on any of the CGUs (2013: £nil), nor any impairment recognised during the year 
ended 31 May 2014.
IMPAIRMENT-TESTING AT YEAR-END
The goodwill associated with each CGU has been subject to an impairment test at 31 May 2014, as set out in the following disclosures. For 
the purposes of impairment-testing of goodwill, the carrying amount of each CGU is compared to the recoverable amount of each CGU 
and any deficits are provided. The carrying amount of a CGU includes only those assets that can be attributed directly, or allocated on a 
reasonable and consistent basis.
The estimated recoverable amount for the UK CGU of £1.3 billion is based upon fair value less costs of disposal. This is £1.2 billion in excess 
of the carrying amount of the CGU.
The estimated recoverable amount of the US CGU, however, is based upon a value-in-use calculation due to the difficulty in determining a 
fair value for this CGU. For the US CGU this is calculated as the total of the present value of projected future cash flows and a terminal value.
SENSITIVITY TO CHANGES IN ASSUMPTIONS
The UK, Australian and South African CGU’s reported a segment operating profit, after the allocation of central costs, of £117.5 million, 
£31.3 million and £2.1 million respectively for the year ended 31 May 2014 (refer to note 4, Segment Information). Furthermore, the UK 
CGU represents 52% of the Group’s net trading revenue for the year ended 31 May 2014. The Board-approved budget for the financial 
year ending 31 May 2015 and longer-term strategic plans for the Group forecast at least a similar level of performance for these CGUs to 
continue. As a result, both the single-year operating profit and thus the recoverable amount of the UK, Australian and South African CGUs 
is significantly in excess of the carrying value. Accordingly, the outcome of the impairment review for the CGUs is not considered to be 
sensitive to the assumptions used.
The Directors have performed a sensitivity analysis around the assumptions used in the value-in-use calculation of the goodwill associated 
with the US CGU. The US CGU comprises both the Nadex exchange and associated market-making business (the ‘Nadex exchange 
business’) as well as the wider commercial use of the exchange technology within the Group. While the Nadex exchange business remains 
loss-making, the wider commercial use of the technology by the Group provides other significant economic benefits which, taken alone, 
support the carrying value of the goodwill. For this reason the Directors consider that a reasonably possible change in a key assumption 
would not cause the unit’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount. In the event of the Nadex exchange business failing to 
generate sufficient profits, the deferred tax asset of £1.7 million held in relation to carry forward tax losses might suffer impairment. 
KEY ASSUMPTIONS USED IN FAIR VALUE LESS COSTS OF DISPOSAL CALCULATIONS
The fair value less costs of disposal of the UK CGU has been calculated using an earnings multiple determined by reference to the 
Company’s quoted market capitalisation and the Group’s segmental operating profit. As the business model of this CGU is largely 
synonymous with that of the Group, this methodology is deemed to be appropriate.
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 122 123 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
16. IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL (CONTINUED)
KEY ASSUMPTIONS USED IN VALUE-IN-USE CALCULATIONS
Projected future cash flows for the US CGU were based upon the Board-approved budget for the financial year ending 31 May 2015. 
Forecasts to the year ending 31 May 2019 were then extrapolated from the budget using a range of client recruitment, client retention 
rates and average revenue per client assumptions. These were based upon actual amounts measured in prior periods which were projected 
forward in accordance with expected trends. This methodology is consistent with that used for the 31 May 2013 year-end impairment review. 
The revenue growth rates disclosed in the following table are consistent with the long-term growth rates of other  
Group businesses measured over a five-year period.
The calculation of value-in-use for the US CGU is most sensitive to the following assumptions:
• Client recruitment and retention rates
• Average revenue per client
• The discount rate
• The long-term growth rate used for the terminal value calculation
Cash flows were translated into sterling using year-end exchange rates.
The cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate as disclosed in the table below. This was derived using a region-specific, 
market-based cost of equity and debt assumption, in order to reflect both the financing cost and risk associated with the US CGU. The  
long-term growth rate (g) used in the terminal value calculation of the US CGU is also disclosed below, and is equivalent to, or lower than, 
the respective long-term growth rate for the US economy.
Discount rate Average years 1-5 growth rate g
Cash-generating unit 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
US 16.8% 14.9% 44.3% 40.5% 1.9% 1.9%
On the basis of the results of the above analysis, there was no impairment of goodwill during the year.
17. TRADE RECEIVABLES
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
Amounts due from brokers
(1)
303,861 283,940
Other amounts due to the Group
(2)
21,283 15,003
Amounts due from clients
(3)
2,334 1,693
327,478 300,636
(1)  Amounts due from brokers represent balances with brokers where the combination of cash held on account and the valuation of open financial-derivative positions results in 
an amount due to the Group. At 31 May 2014 the actual broker margin requirement was £285.1 million (2013: £245.7 million) with the balance being excess cash margin held 
at brokers.
(2)  Other amounts due to the Group include balances that will be transferred to the Group’s own cash from segregated client funds on the following working day, in accordance 
with the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) ‘CASS’ rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. This also includes amounts due 
from banking counterparties or held within segregated client funds in relation to monies transferred by clients to the Group that remain unsettled at the year-end. The 
Group is required to segregate these client funds at the point of client funding and not at cash settlement. 
(3)  Amounts due from clients arise when a client’s total funds deposited with the Group are insufficient to cover any trading losses incurred and are stated net of an allowance 
for impairment (refer to note 36).
18. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Group Company
2014 2013 2014 2013
£000 £000 £000 £000
Gross cash and cash equivalents
(1)
959,906 921,869 – 245
Less: segregated client funds
(2)
(858,419) (823,524) – –
Own cash and title transfer funds
(3)
101,487 98,345 – 245
(1)  Gross cash and cash equivalents include the Group’s own cash, proceeds from drawdown of the committed banking facility (2014 and 2013: £nil), as well as all client monies 
held including both segregated client and title transfer funds.
(2)  Segregated client funds comprise individual client funds held in segregated client money accounts established under the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) ‘CASS’ 
rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. Such monies are not included in the Group’s Statement of Financial Position.
(3)  Title transfer funds are held by the Group under a Title Transfer Collateral Arrangement (TTCA) by which a corporate client agrees that full ownership of such monies is 
unconditionally transferred to the Group (refer to note 22).
The Group’s total available liquidity including undrawn committed borrowing facilities is disclosed in note 19 to the Financial Statements.
19. LIQUIDITY ANALYSIS AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The following section provides an analysis of the Group’s available liquidity and the liquidity requirements that result from the Group’s 
business model, and sets out the key measures used by the Group to monitor and manage the level of liquidity available to the Group. 
The key measures used by the Group are explained below:
Liquid assets: These are total liquid assets that the Group can access. These include cash held at bank (both own cash and title transfer 
funds) as well as at brokers, the liquid assets buffer held by the Group and other cash amounts due to the Group. 
Own funds: These are liquid assets less title transfer funds. Title transfer funds are client monies held by the Group under a Title Transfer 
Collateral Arrangement (TTCA). 
Available liquid assets: Certain of the Group’s funds are not immediately available for the purposes of central market risk management 
as they are required to provide regulatory capital balances in regulated subsidiaries. Additionally, the Group’s overseas businesses 
require working capital balances to fund daily operations and to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to fund the local client segregation 
requirements. Available liquid assets are therefore liquid assets less both amounts held in overseas subsidiaries and amounts due from 
segregation – each of which are not considered immediately available to the Group. 
Net available liquidity: This is the remaining liquidity available to the Group after the funding of the broker margin requirement associated 
with market risk management. 
Total available liquidity: This measure is the total of the Group’s liquid assets and the Group’s undrawn committed banking facilities.
In order to mitigate liquidity risks, the Group regularly stress-tests its three-year liquidity forecast to validate the appropriate level of 
committed unsecured bank facilities held. On 15 July 2014 the Group completed the renewal negotiations of the liquidity facility with a 
syndicate of three banks. In doing so, the Group has maintained the size of the overall facility at £200.0 million. Of the total committed 
banking facility, £120.0 million is available for a period of one year and £80.0 million is available for three years respectively. The drawings 
made under the Group’s facility in the year ended 31 May 2014 are disclosed in note 19(c). 
Additionally, the Group’s Japanese business, IG Securities Limited, has a ¥300 million (£1.8 million) liquidity facility as at 31 May 2014  
(2013: ¥300 million (£2.0 million)).
The following notes have been provided to further explain the derivation of liquid assets, own funds, available liquid assets, net available 
liquidity and total available liquidity. The generation of own funds is disclosed in note 19(d).
19(A) LIQUID ASSETS AND OWN FUNDS
‘Liquid assets’, stated net of borrowings, and ‘own funds’ are the key measures the Group uses to monitor the overall level of liquidity 
available to the Group. The derivation of both liquid assets and own funds are shown in the following table:
2014 2013
Note £000 £000
Cash held, including title transfer funds
(1)
18 101,487 98,345
Amounts due from brokers
(2)
17 303,861 283,940
Financial investments – liquid assets buffer
(3)
21 82,457 50,468
Other amounts due to the Group
(4)
17, 22 20,450 15,003
Liquid assets 508,255 447,756
Less:
  Drawdown of committed banking facility – –
  Title transfer funds 22 (20,974) (18,465)
Own funds 487,281 429,291
(1) Own cash and title transfer funds represent cash held on demand with financial institutions (please refer to note 18). 
(2) Amounts due from brokers represent balances with brokers where the combination of cash held on account and the valuation of financial derivative open positions results in 
an amount due to the Group. These positions are held to hedge client market exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk management policy.
(3)  Financial investments represent UK government securities held in accordance with the BIPRU 12 liquidity standards and the Group’s regulatory oversight by the UK’s 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This is the Group’s ‘liquid assets buffer’. 
(4)  Other amounts due to the Group include balances that will be transferred to the Group’s own cash from segregated client funds on the following working day in accordance 
with the FCA ‘CASS’ rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. This also includes amounts due from banking counterparties or 
held within segregated client funds in relation to monies transferred by clients to the Group that remain unsettled at the year-end. The Group is required to segregate these 
client funds at the point of client funding and not at cash settlement.
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 124 125 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
19.  LIQUIDITY ANALYSIS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
19(B) THE GROUP’S LIQUIDITY REQUIREMENTS
The Group requires day-to-day liquidity for each of: the full segregation of client monies; the funding of regulatory and working capital in 
overseas businesses; the funding of margin requirements at brokers to hedge the underlying client positions under both normal and stressed 
conditions; the funding of a liquid asset buffer and amounts associated with general working capital.
The available liquid assets measure excludes cash amounts tied up in both the requirement to segregate client funds and in the regulatory 
and working capital of overseas businesses, as they are not considered to be available for the purposes of central market and liquidity  
risk management.
These requirements are analysed in the following table:
2014 2013
Note £000 £000
Liquid assets
19(a) 508,255 447,756
Less amounts required to ensure appropriate client money segregation 17, 22 (20,450) (15,003)
Less amounts required for regulatory and working capital of overseas businesses
(1)
(28,666) (32,542)
Available liquid assets 459,139 400,211
Less broker margin requirement
(2)
17 (285,102) (245,689)
Net available liquidity 174,037 154,522
Of which:
  Held as a liquid assets buffer
(3)
21 82,457 50,468
  Drawdown of committed banking facility
(4)
– –
(1)  The Group’s regulated subsidiaries in Singapore, Japan, South Africa and the US all have minimum cash holding requirements associated with their respective regulatory 
capital requirements. Additionally the Group’s regulated business or subsidiaries in Australia, Singapore, Japan, South Africa and the US are required to segregate individual 
client funds in segregated client money bank accounts. This daily segregation requirement occurs prior to the release of funds from the UK (note: market risk management 
is performed centrally for the Group in the UK) in relation to the associated hedging positions held at external brokers. Accordingly cash balances are held in each of the 
overseas businesses in order to ensure client money segregation obligations are met. These regulatory or working capital cash balances are not available to the Group 
for the purposes of market risk management. It is anticipated that following the granting of a regulatory license in Switzerland the overseas regulatory and working capital 
balances will increase.
(2)  Positions are held with external brokers in order to hedge client market risk exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk management policies. 
(3)  The liquid assets buffer is not available to the Group in the ordinary course of business, however utilisation is allowed in times of liquidity stress and therefore it is considered 
as available for the purposes of overall liquidity planning.
(4)  The short-term banking facility was undrawn at 31 May 2014 and 31 May 2013. 
 
19(C) LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT AND LIQUIDITY RISK
Liquidity risk is managed centrally and on a Group-wide basis. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure it will have sufficient 
liquidity to meet its broker margin requirements and other financial liabilities when due, under both normal circumstances and stressed 
conditions. The Group has carried out an Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment (ILAA) during the year, and while this applies specifically 
to the Group’s FCA regulated entities, it provides the context in which liquidity is managed on a continuous basis for the whole Group.
The Group does not have any material liquidity mismatches with regard to liquidity maturity profiles due to the very short-term nature of its 
financial assets and liabilities. Liquidity risk can, however, arise as all individual client funds are required to be placed in segregated client 
money accounts. A result of this policy is that short-term (less than one week) liquidity ‘gaps’ can potentially arise in periods of very high 
client activity or significant increases or falls in global financial market levels. 
During periods of significant market falls the Group will be required to fund margin payments to brokers prior to the release of funds from 
segregation, and in periods of significant market increases or increased client activity, the Group will be potentially required to fund higher 
margin requirements at brokers to hedge increased underlying client positions. These additional requirements are funded from the Group’s 
available liquid assets while these individual client positions are open, as individual client funds remain in segregated client money  
bank accounts.
In order to mitigate this and other liquidity risks, the Group regularly stress-tests its three-year liquidity forecast to validate the appropriate 
level of committed unsecured bank facilities held.
These facilities were drawn to a maximum of £50.0 million for a period of 30 days, but partially repaid down to £25.0 million for a further  
32 days in October to December 2013, and to £30.0 million for 28 days during February and March 2014 following the reduction in available 
liquidity after payment of dividends and at a time of relatively high levels of broker margin. In the year ended 31 May 2013 the facilities were 
drawn down to a maximum of £25.0 million for a period of 22 days in April 2013, when the broker margin requirement reached a level of 
£294.7 million and the Group held a liquid assets buffer of £50.5 million. 
As well as the three-year liquidity forecast, the Group also produces more detailed short-term liquidity forecasts and detailed stress tests 
such that appropriate management actions or liquidity facility drawdown can occur prior to a period of expected liquidity requirements.
Additionally the Group’s Japanese business, IG Securities Limited has a ¥300 million (£1.8 million) liquidity facility as at 31 May 2014  
(2013: ¥300 million (£2.0 million)).
A number of measures are used by the Group for managing liquidity risk, one of which is the level of total available liquidity. For this purpose 
total liquidity is calculated as set out in the following table inclusive of the undrawn committed facility.
2014 2013
£000 £000
Liquid assets 508,255 447,756
Undrawn committed banking facility
(1)
200,000 180,000
Total liquidity (including facilities)
(2)
708,255 627,756
(1)  Drawdown of the committed banking facility is capped at 80% of the actual broker margin requirement on the drawdown date. The maximum available drawdown was 
£200.0 million at 31 May 2014 (2013: £180.0 million) based on the broker margin requirements on those dates, of which £nil was drawn down as at 31 May 2014  
(31 May 2013: £nil).
(2)  Stated inclusive of the liquid assets buffer of £82.5 million (2013: £50.5 million) that is held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset buffer’ 
against potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12. Utilisation of the liquid assets buffer is allowed in times of liquidity stress, and therefore it is considered as available for the 
purposes of overall liquidity planning.
The Group’s total liquidity enables the funding of large broker margin requirements when required – the total available liquidity that can 
be utilised for market risk management at 31 May 2014 should be considered in light of the intra-period-high broker margin requirement 
of £290.3 million (2013: £297.5 million), the requirement to hold a liquid assets buffer, the continued growth of the business (both for client 
trading and geographic expansion), the Group’s commitment to segregation of individual clients money and the declared final dividend for 
the year ending 31 May 2014, all of which draw upon the Group’s liquidity. 
19(D) OWN FUNDS GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
The following Cash Flow Statement summarises the Group’s generation of own funds during the year and excludes all cash flows in relation 
to monies held on behalf of clients. Additionally, both amounts due from brokers and the liquid assets buffer have been treated as ‘cash 
equivalents’ and included within ‘own funds’ in order to provide a clear presentation of the Group’s cash resources. The derivation of own 
funds is explained in note 19(a), and is stated net of amounts drawn on the Group’s committed banking facility. A narrative explanation of the 
key cash flows disclosed in the following Cash Flow Statement is provided within the Operating and Financial Review.
2014 2013
£000 £000
Operating activities
Profit before tax 194,723 192,208
Depreciation and amortisation 9,697 12,166
Other non-cash adjustments
(1) 
3,897 3,204
Income taxes paid (47,761) (53,247)
Own funds generated from operations 160,556 154,331
Movement in working capital
(1)
(3,298) (12,038)
(Outflow) / inflow from investing activities
Interest received 1,537 2,172
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (11,504) (16,762)
Purchase of non-controlling interests – (1,319)
Outflow from financing activities
Interest paid (1,988) (3,175)
Equity dividends paid to owners of the parent (84,827) (81,615)
Other outflow from financing activities (33) (33)
Total outflow from investing and financing activities (96,815) (100,732)
Increase in own funds 60,443 41,561
Own funds at 1 June 429,291 388,221
Exchange losses on own funds (2,453) (491)
Own funds at 31 May
 
487,281 429,291
(1) For the comparative year 31 May 2013 £1,043,000 has been reclassified in order to include the recovery or impairment of trade receivables within working capital rather  
than other non-cash adjustments, reducing ‘other non-cash adjustments’ from £4,247,000 to £3,204,000 and reducing the ‘movement in working capital’ from £13,081,000  
to £12,038,000.
19(E) SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
The Group has on 15 July 2014 completed the renegotiation of the £200.0 million liquidity facility with a syndicate of three banks. In doing 
so the Group has renewed the £120.0 million element of the facility available for a period of one year (with an option to extend for a further 
year) and renegotiated the £80.0 million element of the facility to be available for a further three years respectively from 31 July 2014. Please 
refer to note 38. 
A final dividend of 22.40 pence per share, amounting to £81,814,000, was proposed by the Board on 18 July 2014. 
In the Directors’ opinion the Group has sufficient liquidity available to meet operational requirements under both normal and stressed 
conditions. Liquidity management is also dependent on credit risk management, subsequently described in note 36(ii). 
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 126 127 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
20.  CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
Group Company
2014 2013 2014 2013
Operating activities Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Operating profit / (loss) 195,255 191,928 (2,282) (3,122)
Ad justments to reconcile operating profit to net cash flow from 
operating activities:
Net interest income on segregated client funds (5,500) (8,188) – –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 4,656 6,050 – –
Amortisation of intangible assets 14 5,041 6,116 – –
Non-cash foreign exchange losses / (gains) in operating profit 8,572 (2,399) – –
Share-based payments 6,556 4,309 6,556 4,309
(Increase) / decrease in trade and other receivables
(1)
 (40,934) (78,372) 80,492 84,801
Increase / (decrease) in trade and other payables 2,819 (52,228) 1,007 (3,641)
Decrease in provisions – (202) – –
Other non-cash items – (612) – –
Cash generated from operations 176,465 66,402 85,773 82,347
(1)  For the comparative year of 31 May 2013 £1,043,000 relating to ‘recovery of trade receivables’ has been reclassified into ‘increase in trade and other receivables’ reducing 
‘increase in trade and other receivables’ from £79,415,000 to £78,372,000.
21. FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS 
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
UK government securities:
At 1 June 50,468 –
Purchase of securities 91,294 50,486
Maturity of securities and coupon receipts (59,598) –
Accrued interest 234 20
Net gains / (losses) transferred to equity 59 (38)
At 31 May 82,457 50,468
Less non-current portion (32,150) –
Current portion 50,307 50,468
The UK government securities are held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset buffer’ against potential 
liquidity stress under BIPRU 12.
The effective interest rates of securities held at the year-end range from 0.41% to 0.66%.
Financial investments are shown as current assets when they have a maturity less than one year and are held as ‘available-for-sale’. The fair 
value of securities held is based on closing market prices at the year-end as published by the UK Debt Management Office. Please refer to 
note 36(i)(c) for a maturity profile.
22. TRADE PAYABLES 
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
Amounts due to title transfer clients 20,974 18,465
Amounts due to clients
(1)
833 –
Other trade payables 95 582
21,902 19,047
(1)  Amounts due to clients represent balances that will be transferred from the Group’s own cash into segregated client funds on the immediately following working day in 
accordance with the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) ‘CASS’ rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates.
23. OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
2014 2013 2014 2013
£000 £000 £000 £000
Accruals 50,506 51,534 7,155 6,164
Other taxes and social security 2,825 2,244 – –
Amounts due to Group companies (note 34(b)) – – 544 26,293
Dividends on redeemable preference shares 3 3 3 3
53,334 53,781 7,702 32,460
Included within accruals are amounts in relation to employee bonuses. 
24. PROVISIONS
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
At the beginning of the year – 1,353
Utilised in the year – (1,353)
At the end of the year – –
25. LITIGATION
On the 27 March 2013, the High Court dismissed the claim against IG Markets Limited, which dated from late 2010, in relation to the 
insolvency of Echelon Wealth Management Limited, a former client of IG Markets Limited. No provision had been made in the Group 
Statement of Financial Position as at 31 May 2012.
Subsequently the claimants chose not to appeal and have paid a substantial contribution to the legal costs incurred by the Group as 
disclosed in note 5.
26.  REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES
Company and Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
40,000 preference shares of £1 each 40 40
The preference shares are entitled to a fixed non-cumulative dividend of 8% paid in preference to any other dividend. Redemption is only 
permissible in accordance with capital distribution rules or on the winding up of the Company where the holders are entitled to £1 per share 
plus, if the Company has sufficient distributable reserves, any accrued or unpaid dividends. The preference shares have no voting rights, 
except that they are entitled to vote should the Company fail to pay any amount due on redemption of the shares. The effective interest rate 
on these shares is 8% (2013: 8%).
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 128 129 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
27. SHARE CAPITAL
COMPANY AND GROUP
Share capital Share premium account
Number of shares £000 £000
Allotted and fully paid:
(i) Ordinary shares (0.005p)
At 1 June 2012 363,315,023 18 206,291
Issued during the year 1,579,901 – 467
At 31 May 2013 364,894,924 18 206,758
Issued during the year 859,707 – –
At 31 May 2014 365,754,631 18 206,758
(ii) B shares (0.001p)
At 31 May 2013 and 31 May 2014 65,000 – –
During the year to 31 May 2014, 859,707 (2013: 1,579,901) ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of £43 (2013: £79) were issued 
following the exercise of long-term incentive and value-sharing plan awards for a consideration of £43 (2013: £467,000). 
Except as the ordinary shareholders have agreed or may otherwise agree, on a winding up of the Company, the balance of assets available 
for distribution after the payment of all of the Company’s creditors and subject to any special rights attaching to other classes of shares are 
distributed among the shareholders according to the amounts paid up on shares by them.
B shares
The B shares carry no entitlement to dividends and no voting rights. To the extent not already received by them the B shareholders shall, 
on a winding up of the Company, be entitled to receive, from the trustee, a consideration equal to the amount realised by the sale by the 
trustee of approximately 122 ordinary shares for every B share held. 
28.  OWN SHARES HELD IN EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUSTS
The movements in own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts in respect of employee share plans during the year were as follows:
Company and Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
At the beginning of the year:
1,223,411 (2013: 1,207,619) ordinary shares of 0.005p each 1,456 1,508
Purchased during the year:
4,968 (2013: 97,075) ordinary shares of 0.005p each 30 441
Exercised/re-allocated during the year:
181,652 (2013: 81,283) ordinary shares of 0.005p each (397) (493)
At the end of the year:
1,046,727 (2013: 1,223,411) ordinary shares of 0.005p each
1,089 1,456
The Group has a UK-resident Employee Benefit Trust in order to hold shares in the Company in respect of awards under the Group’s HM 
Revenue and Customs-approved share-incentive plan (SIP). At 31 May 2014, 389,725 ordinary shares (2013: 559,762) were held in the trust and 
at the year-end have reduced shareholders’ equity by £2,344,196 (2013: £3,241,022). These include 151,711 ordinary shares (2013: 252,580) 
which were not allocated to employees and are available for future SIP awards. The market value of the shares held conditionally at the  
year-end was £912,542 (2013: £1,462,438).
The Group has a Jersey-resident Employee Benefit Trust which holds shares in the Company. At the 31 May 2014, the trust held 512,075 
(2013: 512,075) ordinary shares which are available to satisfy awards under the long-term share plans and Directors’ deferred bonus award. 
The shares held at the year-end have reduced shareholders’ equity by £26 (2013: £26). The market value of the shares held conditionally at 
the year-end was £3,080,131 (2013: £2,964,914).
The Group has an Australian-resident Employee Equity Plan Trust in order to hold shares in the Company in respect of awards under a SIP . 
At 31 May 2014, 9,790 ordinary shares (2013: 12,412) were held in the trust and at the year-end have reduced shareholders’ equity by £58,887 
(2013: £71,865). These include nil ordinary shares (2013: nil) which were not allocated to employees and are available for future SIP awards. 
The market value of the shares held conditionally at the year-end was nil (2013: nil).
Upon flotation of the Company on 4 May 2005, 5,861,497 ordinary shares and cash of £2.4 million were transferred to the Jersey Employee 
Benefit Trust by institutional shareholders in order to satisfy their obligations to holders of 48,059 B shares and 16,941 B shares respectively. 
During the year ended 31 May 2014, 33 (2013: 237) B shares were sold by B shareholders to the Trust. The Trust sold 4,025 (2013: 28,905) 
ordinary shares in order to realise the funds necessary to purchase these B shares. The Trust unconditionally held 63,892 (2013: 63,859)  
B shares at the year-end. The Trust also held 1,108 (2013: 1,141) B shares and 135,137 (2013: 139,162) ordinary shares which it may sell in order 
to satisfy its obligations to B shareholders, all of whom are current or former employees.
 
29. OTHER RESERVES
The share-based payment reserve relates to the estimated cost of equity-settled employee share plans based on a straight-line basis over 
the vesting period and the associated taxation. The foreign currency translation reserve includes amounts in relation to the translation of 
overseas subsidiaries. The available-for-sale reserve includes unrealised gains or losses in respect of financial investments. 
Share-
based 
payments 
(note 30)
Foreign
currency
translation
Own shares held 
in Employee
Benefit Trusts 
(note 28)
Transactions 
with non-
controlling 
interests
Available-
for-sale
reserve
Total
other
reserves
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 June 2012 29,477 59,876 (1,508) (2,302) – 85,543
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 4,309 – – – – 4,309
Ex cess of tax deduction benefit on share-based 
payments recognised directly in equity (note 10) 13 – – – – 13
Foreign currency translation on overseas subsidiaries – (4,575) – – – (4,575)
Exercise of Australian share-incentive plans (5) – 5 – – –
Exercise of US share-incentive plans (20) – – – – (20)
Exercise of UK share-incentive plans (488) – 488 – – –
Purchase of own shares – – (441) – – (441)
Acquisition of non-controlling interest – – – 199 – 199
Loss on financial investments – – – – (38) (38)
At 31 May 2013 33,286 55,301 (1,456) (2,103) (38) 84,990
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 6,556 – – – – 6,556
Foreign currency translation on overseas subsidiaries – (6,452) – – – (6,452)
Exercise of Australian share-incentive plans (17) – 17 – – –
Exercise of US share-incentive plans (3) – – – – (3)
Exercise of UK share-incentive plans (178) – 178 – – –
Utilisation of own shares 146 – 202 – – 348
Purchase of own shares – – (30) – – (30)
Gain on financial investments – – – – 59 59
At 31 May 2014 39,790 48,849 (1,089) (2,103) 21 85,468
Share-
based
payments 
(note 30)
Own shares held 
in Employee
Benefit Trusts 
(note 28)
Total
other
reserves
Company £000 £000 £000
At 1 June 2012 25,104 (1,508) 23,596
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 4,309 – 4,309
Exercise of Australian share-incentive plans (5) 5 –
Exercise of US share-incentive plans (20) – (20)
Exercise of UK share-incentive plans (488) 488 –
Purchase of own shares – (441) (441)
At 31 May 2013 28,900 (1,456) 27,444
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 6,556 – 6,556
Exercise of Australian share-incentive plans (17) 17 –
Exercise of US share-incentive plans (3) – (3)
Exercise of UK share-incentive plans (178) 178 –
Utilisation of own shares 146 202 348
Purchase of own shares – (30) (30)
At 31 May 2014 35,404 (1,089) 34,315
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 130 131 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
30. EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS
The Company operates four employee share plans; a sustained performance plan (SPP), a long-term incentive plan (LTIP), a value-sharing 
plan (VSP) and a share-incentive plan (SIP), all of which are equity-settled. The SPP and a new LTIP have been awarded in the current year in 
place of the VSP . The expense recognised in the Income Statement in respect of share-based payments (including associated social security 
costs) was £7,077,000 (2013: £4,414,000).
30(A) CURRENT SCHEMES
Sustained performance plan (SPP) 
Following a review of executive remuneration, and shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in October 2013, the SPP 
award was introduced in the current year to replace the VSP award for the Group’s Executive Directors and other selected senior employees. 
The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for agreeing any awards under the plan and for setting the policy for the operation of the 
plan, including agreeing performance targets and which employees should be invited to participate. 
The legal grant of awards under the SPP is post the relevant performance period. At the outset of the financial year the Remuneration 
Committee approves, and communicates to the participants, performance conditions and a pre-defined maximum monetary award in terms 
of multiple of salary. The grant of awards, in the form of equity settled par-value options, is based upon three performance conditions: Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR), diluted earnings per share and operational non-financial performance. Awards subsequently vest in tranches over 
the long term (up to seven years), so the participant retains an ongoing substantial stake in the share price performance of the Company.
As a ‘shared understanding’ under IFRS2 is established between the Company and participants at the scheme outset, the costs associated 
with the SPP are accounted for as share-based payments from this time.
Further information on the Company’s SPP awards is given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. 
Awards under the SPP will be granted post year-end following the approval of actual performance against targets set by the Remuneration 
Committee. A ten-day share-price averaging period that will commence after the Company’s closed period is utilised to convert notional 
salary awarded into a number of options.
The weighted average exercise price of all SPP awards is 0.005p.
Long-term incentive plan (LTIP) 
In the current year a new LTIP award has been made available to senior management that are not invited to participate in the SPP , in order to 
replace the legacy VSP .
LTIP awards allow the award of nominal cost options which vest when specific performance targets are achieved, conditional upon continued 
employment at the vesting date. For each award, a minimum performance target has to be achieved before any shares vest, and the awards 
vest fully once the maximum performance target is achieved. 
The LTIP awarded in the current year vests after three years with a predefined number of shares allocated pro-rata, based on achieving 
diluted earnings per share growth of between zero and 9%, with straight-line vesting in between.
The maximum number of LTIP awards that can be exercised are:
Award date
Share price  
at award
Expected  
vesting date
At the start  
of the year 
(number)
Awarded  
during the year 
(number)
Lapsed  
during the year 
(number)
Exercised  
during the year 
(number)
At the end  
of the year 
(number)
28 Nov 2013 584.00p 28 Nov 2016 – 446,001 (8,268) – 437,733
Total – 446,001 (8,268) – 437,733
The weighted average exercise price of all LTIP awards is 0.005p.
Share-incentive plan (SIP) 
SIP awards are made available to all UK, Australian and US employees. The Executive Directors have responsibility for setting the terms of 
the award, which are then approved by the Remuneration Committee.
The UK and Australian awards invite all employees to subscribe for up to £1,500 / A$3,000 (2013: £1,500 / A$3,000) of partnership shares, 
with the Company typically matching on a one-for-one basis. All matching shares vest after three years, as long as the employee remains 
employed with the Group for the term of the award. Shares awarded under the scheme are held in trust in accordance with local tax authority 
rules. Employees are entitled to receive dividends on the shares held in trust for as long as they remain employees. 
The US award invites employees to invest a maximum of 5% of their salary bi-annually to the award. The award runs for a six-month period, 
and at the end of this period the employees are invited to purchase shares in IG Group Holdings plc at a discount of 15% to the scheme 
price, being the lower of the opening share price and the closing share price for the period.
The maximum number of SIP shares that can vest based on the awards made are:
Country  
of award Award date
Share price  
at award
Expected  
vesting date
At the start  
of the year 
(number)
Awarded  
during the year 
(number)
Lapsed  
during the year 
(number)
Exercised  
during the year 
(number)
At the end  
of the year 
(number)
UK 21 Jul 10 483.85p 21 Jul 13 42,716 – – (42,716) –
Australia 05 Aug 10 489.90p 05 Aug 13 3,043 – – (3,043) –
UK 28 Jul 11 443.74p 28 Jul 14 51,344 – (3,041) (676) 47,627
Australia 01 Aug 11 444.77p 01 Aug 14 4,059 – (902) (451) 2,706
UK 27 Jul 12 456.00p 27 Jul 15 81,526 – (7,715) (658) 73,153
Australia 22 Aug 12 432.02p 22 Aug 15 5,664 – (1,416) (944) 3,304
UK 26 Jul 13 580.00p 26 Jul 16 – 59,990 (3,533) – 56,457
Australia 15 Jul 13 572.50p 15 Jul 16 – 4,968 (540) (648) 3,780
Total 188,352 64,958 (17,147) (49,136) 187,027
Of the above SIP awards exercised during the year ending 31 May 2014, the average weighted share price at exercise was:
Country of award Award date
UK 28 Jul 11 578.00p
Australia 01 Aug 11 559.00p
UK 27 Jul 12 579.25p
Australia 22 Aug 12 556.25p
UK 26 Jul 13 599.25p
The weighted average exercise price of all SIP awards is £5.737.
30(B) FAIR VALUE OF EQUITY-SETTLED AWARDS
The fair value of the equity-settled share-based payments to employees is determined at the date at which a shared understanding of the 
terms and conditions of the arrangement is reached between the Company and the participants. The weighted average fair value of the 
equity-settled awards granted or deemed as such under IFRS2 during the year was £11,212,802 (2013: £18,365,223). 
For SIP awards, the fair value is determined to be the share price at the grant date without making an adjustment for expected dividends, as 
awardees are entitled to dividends over the vesting period. 
For LTIP awards, the fair value at grant date is determined by taking the share price at grant date. An adjustment for the present value of 
future dividends is not required, as dividend equivalents are awarded on options granted under the LTIP .
For potential SPP awards made under the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) criteria, fair value is calculated using an option-pricing model 
prepared by advisers. For the SPP awards made under the earnings-per-share and non-financial operational measures, the fair value is 
determined by taking the share price at deemed grant date less the present value of future dividends for the duration of the performance 
period. Dividend equivalents accrue under the SPP on awarded but unvested options post the performance period. Post vesting (minimum 
holding period) dividend equivalents cease to accrue on unexercised options. 
The inputs below were used to determine the fair value of the TSR element of the SPP award issued on 28 November 2013:
Date of deemed grant 28 November 2013
Share price at grant date (pence) 584p
Expected life of awards (years) 1
Risk-free sterling interest rate (%)
(1)
 –
IG’s expected volatility (%)
(2)
 20.86%
Benchmark index correlation (%) 19.1%
Interim dividend estimate
(3)
 5.75p
(1) Due to minimal exercise price the risk-free rate has no impact on the fair value calculation.
(2)   Based on historical TSR volatility of IG Group Holdings plc measured daily over a period prior to the date of grant and commensurate with the remaining  
performance period.
(3)  The dividend paid in the period from the deemed grant date to the end of the performance period, from which date dividend equivalents accrue on awarded but  
unvested options.
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 132 133 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
30. EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS (CONTINUED)
30(B) FAIR VALUE OF EQUITY-SETTLED AWARDS (CONTINUED)
The weighted average fair values per award granted are as follows:
At the beginning  
of the year
Awarded  
during the year
Lapsed  
during the year
Exercised  
during the year
At the end  
of the year
Year ended 31 May 2014 267.13p 583.42p 305.11p 254.55p 241.10p
Year ended 31 May 2013 279.09p 238.61p 290.50p 192.01p 267.13p
30(C) LEGACY SCHEMES
Value-sharing plan (VSP) 
The VSP award was an annual award introduced during the year ended 31 May 2011. In the current year, however, the VSP awards have 
been replaced by the SPP for executives and selected senior management and LTIP awards for other senior management. VSP awards were 
conditional awards made available to Executive Directors and other senior staff. Participants do not pay to receive awards or to exercise 
options. The VSP performance period is over three years, with a pre-defined number of shares allocated for each £10 million of surplus 
shareholder value created over the three-year period above a hurdle. Half of the shares vest after three years and can be exercised at that 
date, with the remaining half being deferred for a further year, conditional upon continued employment at the vesting date. The VSP is based 
upon two performance conditions, Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and profit before taxation.
The maximum number of VSP shares that can vest based on the awards made are:
Award date
Share price  
at award
Expected  
vesting date
At the start  
of the year 
(number)
Awarded  
during the year 
(number)
Lapsed  
during the year 
(number)
Exercised  
during the year 
(number)
At the end  
of the year 
(number)
29 Oct 10 528.50p 29 Oct 13 1,831,999 – (1,679,797) (135,145) 17,057
29 Oct 10 528.50p 29 Oct 14 1,808,440 – (1,686,547) – 121,893
20 Jul 11 450.00p 31 Jul 14 3,064,441 – (2,927,582) (36,645) 100,214
20 Jul 11 450.00p 31 Jul 15 3,040,752 – (2,941,888) – 98,864
01 Aug 12 449.70p 31 Jul 15 3,763,606 – (271,614) – 3,491,992
01 Aug 12 449.70p 31 Jul 16 3,763,641 – (281,452) – 3,482,189
Total 17,272,879 – (9,788,880) (171,790) 7,312,209
Of the above VSP exercised during the year ending 31 May 2014, the average share price at exercise was:
Award date Average share price at exercise
29 October 2010 609.13p
20 July 2011 553.50p
Exercise of awards in relation to the July 2011 grant results from the departure of A R MacKay. These awards vested early at the discretion of 
the Remuneration Committee, as disclosed in the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 May 2013.
The weighted average exercise price of all VSP awards is 0.005p.
Historic long-term incentive plan (LTIP) 
The historic LTIP awards were made available to Executive Directors and other senior staff in the years ended 31 May 2005 to 31 May 2010, 
and were then replaced by the VSP award. 
These historic LTIP awards allowed the award of nil cost or nominal cost shares, which were legally classified as options and vested when 
specific performance targets were achieved, conditional upon continued employment at the vesting date. For each award a minimum 
performance target had to be achieved before any options vested, and the awards vested fully once the maximum performance target  
was achieved. 
The maximum number of LTIP awards that can be exercised are:
Award date
Share price  
at award
Expected  
vesting date
At the start  
of the year
Awarded  
during the year 
(number)
Lapsed  
during the year 
(number)
Exercised  
during the year 
(number)
At the end  
of the year 
(number)
04 Oct 06 261.75p 04 Oct 09 32,639 – – (32,639) –
23 Jul 07 312.25p 23 Jul 10 197,588 – – (181,636) 15,952
14 Aug 07 311.00p 14 Aug 10 14,700 – – (14,700) –
30 Sep 08 313.75p 30 Sep 11 80,538 – – (80,538) –
25 Sep 09 318.80p 25 Sep 12 378,402 – – (378,402) –
Total 703,867 – – (687,915) 15,952
Of the above LTIP exercised during the year ending 31 May 2014, the average share price at exercise was:
Award date Average share price at exercise
04 June 2006 599.50p
23 July 2007 572.79p
14 August 2007 613.00p
30 September 2008 589.14p
25 September 2009 582.89p
The weighted average exercise price of all LTIP awards is 0.005p.
31. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Capital expenditure contracted for at the year-end but not yet incurred is as follows:
Group
2014 2013
£000 £000
Property, plant and equipment 870 189
Intangible assets – 162
870 351
32. OBLIGATIONS UNDER LEASES 
OPERATING LEASE AGREEMENTS 
The Group and Company have entered into commercial leases on certain properties. Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable 
operating leases are as follows:
2014 2013
Group £000 £000
Future minimum payments due:
Not later than one year 4,921 4,419
After one year but not more than five years 16,417 15,547
After more than five years 17,868 19,626
39,206 39,592
2014 2013
Company £000 £000
Future minimum payments due:
Not later than one year 2,290 2,242
After one year but not more than five years 9,617 9,472
After more than five years 15,316 16,033
27,223 27,747
The Group’s main leases on its UK headquarters and several of its smaller offices include annual inflationary rent increase clauses.
33. TRANSACTIONS WITH DIRECTORS
The Group had no transactions with its Directors other than those disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 134 135 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
34. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS
34(A) GROUP
The Directors and other members of management classified as ‘persons discharging management responsibility’ in accordance with the 
Financial Services and Markets Act are considered to be the key management personnel of the Group in accordance with IAS 24. The 
Directors’ Remuneration Report discloses all benefits and share-based payments made during the year and the preceding year to the 
Directors. The total compensation for key management personnel together with their connected parties was as follows:
2014 2013
£000 £000
Short-term employee benefits 2,708 2,558
(1)
Post-employment benefits 253 175
(1)
Share-based payments 4,048 1,346
7,009 4,079
(1) Includes £nil for loss of office for A R MacKay (2013: £140,000 and £21,000 respectively). For further information refer to the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
34(B) COMPANY
The Company pays for certain expenses incurred by subsidiaries and received preference dividends from IG Group Limited of £nil  
(2013: £41.2 million). In the year ending 31 May 2013, post the receipt of the dividend the preference shares held in IG Group Limited were 
redesignated as ordinary shares. 
The Company had the following amounts outstanding with subsidiaries at the year-end:
2014 2013
£000 £000
Loans to related parties 132,987 163,576
Loans from related parties 544 26,293
All amounts remain outstanding at the year-end and are repayable on demand. A number of intercompany amounts were subject to offset 
arrangements during the year.
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
ACCOUNTING CLASSIFICATIONS AND FAIR VALUES - GROUP
The table opposite sets out the classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values (excluding accrued interest). 
The Group considers the carrying value of all financial assets and liabilities to be a reasonable approximation of fair value and represents the 
Group’s maximum credit exposure without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements.
‘Trade receivables – due from brokers’ represent balances with brokers where the combination of cash held on account (disclosed as loans 
and receivables) and the valuation of financial derivative open positions (disclosed as held for trading) results in an amount due to the Group. 
These positions are held to hedge client market exposures and hence are considered to be held for trading and are accordingly accounted 
for at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL). These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard 
margin-trading activities and are reported net in the Group Statement of Financial Position, as the Group has both the legal right and 
intention to settle on a net basis.
‘Trade payables – due to clients’ represent balances where the combination of client cash held on account and the valuation of financial 
derivative open positions results in an amount payable by the Group. ‘Trade payables – due to clients’ are reported net in the Group 
Statement of Financial Position, as the Group adjusts the gross amount payable to clients (ie monies held on behalf of clients) for profits or 
losses incurred on a daily basis consistent with the legal right and intention to settle on a net basis.
The Group’s financial instruments are classified as follows: 
FVTPL – 
held for 
trading
Loans and 
receivables
Other 
amortised 
cost
Available- 
for-sale
Total 
carrying 
amount Fair value
Group Note £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 31 May 2014
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 18 – 101,487 – – 101,487 101,487
Financial investments 21 – – – 82,457 82,457 82,457
Trade receivables – due from brokers
    Non-exchange-traded instruments 12,302 175,916 – – 188,218 188,218
    Exchange-traded instruments (35,666) 151,309 – – 115,643 115,643
Total trade receivables – due from brokers
(23,364)
327,225 – – 303,861 303,861
Trade receivables – due from clients 17 – 2,334 – – 2,334 2,334
Trade receivables – other amounts due from clients 17 – 21,283 – – 21,283 21,283
(23,364) 452,329 – 82,457 511,422 511,422
Financial liabilities
Trade payables – due to title transfer clients 22 – – 20,974 – 20,974 20,974
Trade payables – due to clients 22 – 833 – – 833 833
Redeemable preference shares 26 – – 40 – 40 40
– 833 21,014 – 21,847 21,847
FVTPL – 
Held for 
trading
Loans and 
receivables
Other 
amortised 
cost
Available- 
for-sale
Total 
carrying 
amount Fair value
Group Note £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 31 May 2013
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 18 – 98,345 – – 98,345 98,345
Financial investments available-for-sale 21 – – – 50,468 50,468 50,468
Trade receivables – due from brokers
    Non-exchange-traded instruments 16,784 179,475 – – 196,259 196,259
    Exchange-traded instruments (20,858) 108,539 – – 87,681 87,681
Total trade receivables – due from brokers
(4,074)
288,014 – – 283,940 283,940
Trade receivables – due from clients 17 – 1,693 – – 1,693 1,693
Trade receivables – other amounts due to the Group 17 – 15,003 – – 15,003 15,003
(4,074) 403,055 – 50,468 449,449 449,449
Financial liabilities
Trade payables – due to title transfer clients 22 – – 18,465 – 18,465 18,465
Redeemable preference shares 26 – – 40 – 40 40
– – 18,505 – 18,505 18,505
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT VALUATION HIERARCHY  
The hierarchy of the Group’s financial instruments carried at fair value is as follows:
Level 1
(1)
Level 2
(2)
Level 3
(3)
Total fair 
value
Group £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 31 May 2014
Financial assets
Trade receivables – due (to) / from brokers (35,666) 12,302 – (23,364)
Financial investments 82,457 – – 82,457
(1) Valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments. This category includes the Group’s exchange-traded open hedging positions.
(2)  Valued using techniques where a price is derived based significantly on observable market data. For example, where an active market for an identical financial instrument to 
the product offered by the Group to its clients or used by the Group to hedge its market risk does not exist.
(3) Valued using techniques that incorporate information other than observable market data that is significant to the overall valuation.
There have been no changes in the valuation techniques for any of the Group’s financial instruments held at fair value in the year  
(2013: none). During the year ended 31 May 2014, there were no transfers (2013: none) between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, 
and no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair value measurements (2013: none).
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 136 137 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Total fair 
value
Group £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 31 May 2013
Financial assets
Trade receivables – due from brokers (20,858) 16,784 – (4,074)
Financial investments 50,468 – – 50,468
RECONCILIATION OF THE MOVEMENT IN LEVEL 3 OF THE VALUATION HIERARCHY
At 1 June 
2013
Gains or 
losses in 
revenue
(1)
Cash-
settled 
positions
(2)
Transfers
At 31 May 
2014
(3)
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Financial liabilities
Trade receivables – due to clients
– 26,780 (26,780) – –
(1) Disclosed in trading revenue in the Income Statement. This represents client positions that have closed in the year as well those open at year-end.
(2) Value of client positions that have cash settled in the year. 
(3) Value of open, unsettled client positions at year-end disclosed in trading revenue in the Income Statement. 
At 1 June 
2012
Gains or 
losses in 
revenue
Cash- 
settled 
positions Transfers
At 31 May 
2013
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Financial liabilities
Trade receivables – due to clients
– 20,984 (20,984) – –
The impact of a reasonably possible alternative valuation assumption on the valuation of trade payables – due to clients reported within 
Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy is not significant.
ACCOUNTING CLASSIFICATIONS AND FAIR VALUES - COMPANY
FVTPL – 
held for 
trading
Loans and 
receivables
Other 
amortised 
cost
Available-
for-sale
Total 
carrying 
amount Fair value
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 31 May 2014
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents – – – – – –
Amounts due from Group companies (note 34(b)) – 132,987 – – 132,987 132,987
– 132,987 – – 132,987 132,987
Financial liabilities
Amounts due to Group companies (note 34(b)) – – 544 – 544 544
Redeemable preference shares – – 3 – 3 3
– – 547 – 547 547
FVTPL – 
held for 
trading
Loans and 
receivables
Other 
amortised 
cost
Available-
for-sale
Total 
carrying 
amount Fair value
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 31 May 2013
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents – 245 – – 245 245
Amounts due from Group companies (note 34(b)) – 163,576 – – 163,576 163,576
– 163,821 – – 163,821 163,821
Financial liabilities
Amounts due to Group companies (note 34(b)) – – 26,293 – 26,293 26,293
Redeemable preference shares – – 3 – 3 3
– – 26,296 – 26,296 26,296
ITEMS OF INCOME, EXPENSE, GAINS OR LOSSES - GROUP
Gains and losses arising from financial assets and liabilities classified as fair value through the profit and loss, held for trading amounted to 
net gains of £370,408,000 (2013: £361,857,000).
Finance income (refer to note 8) totalled £1,456,000 (2013: £2,036,000). An amount of £1,456,000 (2013: £1,994,000) represents interest income 
on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss and includes interest receivable in respect of non-segregated client balances, part of 
which is held with broker and interest receivable calculated using the Effective Interest Rate methodology financial investments. 
Finance costs (refer to note 9) totalled £1,988,000 (2013: £1,756,000). An amount of £382,000 represents interest expense on financial 
liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss (2013: £283,000). The remainder, £1,606,000 (2013: £1,473,000) represents fee expense arising 
from maintaining the Group’s committed bank facilities. 
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS SUBJECT TO OFFSETTING, ENFORCEABLE MASTER NETTING AGREEMENTS AND 
SIMILAR ARRANGEMENTS
Within the Group’s terms and conditions with individual clients and brokers are standard netting-agreement clauses. The effect of these 
netting arrangements, including rights of set-off associated within the Group’s recognised financial assets and financial liabilities is as follows: 
Gross amounts  
before offsetting
Amounts set off in  
the balance sheet
Net amounts 
presented in the 
balance sheet
Group Note £000 £000 £000
As at 31 May 2014
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
(1)
18 959,906 (858,419) 101,487
Financial investments available-for-sale 21 82,457 – 82,457
Trade receivables – due from brokers
(2)
17 379,501 (75,640) 303,861
Trade receivables – due from all clients
(3)
17 282,055 (279,721) 2,334
Trade receivables – other amounts due to the Group 17 21,283 – 21,283
1,725,202 (1,213,780) 511,422
Financial liabilities
Trade payables – due to brokers
(2)
75,640 (75,640) –
Trade payables – due to all clients
(1)(3)
22 1,159,947 (1,138,140) 21,807
Redeemable preference shares 26 40 – 40
1,235,627 (1,213,780) 21,847
(1)  ‘Cash and cash equivalents’ has been grossed up for segregated client funds which comprise individual client funds held in segregated client money accounts established 
under the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) ‘CASS’ rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. Such monies are not included in 
the Group’s Statement of Financial Position. 
(2)  ‘Trade receivables – due from brokers’ represent balances with brokers where the combination of cash held on account (disclosed as loans and receivables) and the net 
valuation of financial derivative open positions (disclosed as held for trading) results in an amount due to the Group. The net financial derivative open positions have been 
presented gross according to whether individual positions held at brokers are in a profit or loss position.
(3)   ‘Trade payables – due to clients’ represent balances where the combination of client cash held on account and the valuation of financial derivative open positions results 
in an amount payable by the Group. Trade payables – due to clients are reported net in the Group Statement of Financial Position as the Group adjusts the gross amount 
payable to clients (ie monies held on behalf of clients) for profits or losses incurred on a daily basis consistent with the legal right and intention to settle on a net basis. 
Therefore, as well as being presented gross of segregated client money discussed in (1) above, client open positions have been presented gross according to whether 
individual client positions are in a profit or loss position.
Gross amounts  
before offsetting
Amounts set off in  
the balance sheet
Net amounts 
presented in the 
balance sheet
Group Note £000 £000 £000
As at 31 May 2013
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 18 921,869 (823,524) 98,345
Financial investments available-for-sale 21 50,468 – 50,468
Trade receivables – due from brokers 17 385,179 (101,239) 283,940
Trade receivables – due from clients 17 286,349 (284,656) 1,693
Trade receivables – other amounts due to the Group 17 15,003 – 15,003
1,658,868 (1,209,419) 449,449
Financial liabilities
Trade payables – due to brokers 101,239 (101,239) –
Trade payables – due to all clients 22 1,126,645 (1,108,180) 18,465
Redeemable preference shares 26 40 – 40
1,227,924 (1,209,419) 18,505
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 138 139 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Responsibility for risk management, including financial risks, resides 
at all levels within the Group, starting with the Board of Directors. Our 
Corporate Governance structure, including details of how the Board 
delegates responsibility for internal control and risk management 
to our Audit and Risk Committees, is described in detail in the 
Corporate Governance Report section of the Annual Report.
The Group’s Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process 
(ICAAP) and Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment (ILAA), 
while applying specifically to the Group’s FCA entities, provide an 
ongoing assessment of the risks the Group considers to have the 
potential to have a significant detrimental impact on its financial 
performance and future prospects and describe how the Group 
mitigates these risks subject to the Group’s risk appetite.
Financial risks arising from financial instruments are analysed into 
market, credit, concentration and liquidity risks, and these are 
discussed below. 
(I) MARKET RISK
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices will affect  
the Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial 
instruments. This is analysed into market price, currency and  
interest rate risk components.
The Group’s market risk is managed under the ‘Market Risk Policy’ 
on a group-wide basis, and exposure to market risk at any point in 
time depends primarily on short-term market conditions and the 
levels of client activity. The Group utilises market position limits 
for ‘operational efficiency’ and does not take proprietary positions 
based on an expectation of market movements. As a result not 
all net client exposures are hedged and the Group may have a 
residual net position in any of the financial markets in which it offers 
products up to the market risk limit. 
The Group’s Market Risk Policy incorporates a methodology for 
setting market position limits, consistent with the Group’s risk 
appetite, for each financial market in which the Group’s clients 
can trade, as well as certain markets which the Board considers to 
be correlated. These limits are determined with reference to the 
liquidity and volatility of the underlying financial product or asset 
class and represent the maximum long and short client exposure 
that the Group will hold without hedging the net client exposure.
The Group’s real-time market-position-monitoring system allows it 
to monitor its market exposure against these limits continuously. If 
exposures exceed these limits, the policy requires that hedging is 
undertaken to bring the exposure back within the defined limit.
There is a significant level of ‘natural’ hedging arising from the 
Group’s global client base pursuing varying trading strategies, 
which results in a significant portfolio hedging effect. This reduces 
the Group’s net market exposure prior to the Group hedging any 
residual net client exposures. 
Where the Group has residual positions in markets for which it has 
not been possible or cost-effective to hedge, the Executive Risk 
Committee determines the appropriate action and reviews these 
exposures regularly, subject to the risk management framework 
approved by the Board.
Binary bets and options are typically difficult or not cost-effective 
to hedge, and there is often no direct underlying market which 
can be utilised in setting the price which the Group quotes. The 
Group normally undertakes no hedging for these markets, but can 
hedge specific positions if considered necessary. The Group aims 
to reduce the volatility of revenue from these markets by offering 
a large number of different betting opportunities, the results of 
which should, to some extent, offset each other irrespective of the 
underlying market outcome. The overwhelmingly short-term nature 
of these contracts means that risk on these markets at any point in 
time is not considered to be significant.
(a) Market-price risk
This is the risk that the fair value of a financial instrument fluctuates 
as a result of changes in market prices other than due to the effect 
of currency or interest rate risks.
Equity-market-price risk
The most significant market risk faced by the Group is on equity 
positions, including shares and indices, which are highly correlated 
and managed on a portfolio basis. 
The equity exposure at the year-end was £2,726,000  
(2013: £16,459,000), against an exposure limit of £20,000,000  
(2013: £16,500,000) and an average equity exposure limit for the year 
of £18,250,000 (2013: £16,500,000). As noted earlier in this section 
the Group’s Market Risk Policy requires that when the exposure 
exceeds the exposure limit hedging is undertaken to bring the 
exposure back within that limit as soon as practical. 
The Group has no significant concentration of market risk. 
No sensitivity analysis is presented for equity market price risk as the 
impact of reasonably possible market movements on the Group’s 
net trading revenue and equity are not significant, being less 
than the Group’s average daily net trading revenue from financial 
instruments. Changes in market risk variables have no direct impact 
on the Group’s equity as the Group has no financial instruments 
designated in hedging relationships.
Other market-price risk
The Group also has market-price risk as result of its trading activities 
(offering bets and contracts for difference (CFDs) on interest-
rate derivatives and commodities) which is hedged as part of the 
overall market risk management. The exposure is monitored on a 
Group-wide basis and is hedged using exchange-traded futures and 
options. Exposure limits are set by the Executive Risk Committee for 
each product, and also for groups of products where it is considered 
that their price movements are likely to be positively correlated.
The exposure to interest rate derivatives and commodities at the 
year-end are as follows:
2014 2013
£000 £000
Interest-rate derivatives 11,153 (2,492)
Commodities 4,721 (6,177)
No sensitivity analysis is presented for other market-price risk as the 
impact of reasonably possible market movements on the Group’s 
net trading revenue are not significant. Changes in risk variables 
have no direct impact on the Group’s equity as the Group has no 
financial instruments designated in hedging relationships. 
(b) Foreign-currency risk
The Group is exposed to two sources of foreign-currency risk.
(i) Translational foreign-currency risk
Translation exposures arise from financial and non-financial items 
held by an entity with a functional currency different from the 
Group’s presentation currency. The functional currency of each 
company in the Group is that denominated by the country of 
incorporation as disclosed in note 15. The Group does not hedge 
translational exposures as they do not have a significant impact on 
the Group’s capital resources. 
(ii) Transactional foreign-currency risk
Transactional foreign-currency exposures represent financial assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency 
of the transacting entity. Transaction exposures arise in the normal course of business and the management of this risk forms part of the risk 
policies outlined opposite. Limits on the exposures which the Group will accept in each currency are set by the Executive Risk Committee 
and the Group hedges its exposures as necessary with market counterparties. Foreign currency risk is managed on a Group-wide basis, while 
the Company’s exposure to foreign-currency risk is not considered by the Directors to be significant.
The Group monitors transactional foreign-currency risks including currency statement of financial position exposures, equity, commodity, 
interest and other positions denominated in foreign currencies and bets and trades on foreign currencies. The Group’s net exposure to 
foreign-exchange risk based on notional amounts at each year-end was as follows:
2014 2013
£000 £000
US dollar (2,436) 577
Euro (1,834) 3,026
Australian dollar 949 (1,799)
Yen (8,829) 231
Other 3,598 (6,290)
No sensitivity analysis is presented for foreign-exchange risk as the impact of reasonably possible market movements on the Group’s net 
trading revenue are not significant. Changes in risk variables have no direct impact on the Group’s equity as the Group has no financial 
instruments designated in hedging relationships.
(c) Non-trading interest-rate risk
The Group also has interest-rate risk relating to financial instruments not held at fair value through profit or loss. These exposures are  
not hedged.
The interest-rate risk profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities as at each year-end was as follows:
Within one year
Between two  
and five years More than five years Total
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Fixed rate
Re deemable preference shares (8%) – – – – (40) (40) (40) (40)
Fi nancial investments available-for-sale 50,307 50,468 32,150 – – – 82,457 50,468
Floating rate
Cash and cash equivalents 101,487 98,345 – – – – 101,487 98,345
Tr ade receivables – due from brokers 303,861 283,940 – – – – 303,861 283,940
Tr ade payables – amounts due to clients (20,974) (18,465) – – – – (20,974) (18,465)
434,681 414,288 32,150 – (40) (40) 466,791 414,248
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument. Please refer to note 21 for effective 
interest rates received.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year. Trade receivables and payables 
include client and broker balances upon which interest is paid or received based upon market rates. 
Interest-rate risk sensitivity analysis
A non-traded interest rate risk sensitivity analysis has been performed on net interest income on segregated client funds, based on the value 
of client funds held at the year-end, on the basis of a 0.25% (2013: 0.25%) per annum fall and a 0.5% (2013: 0.5%) rise in interest rates, at the 
beginning of the year, as these are considered ‘reasonably possible’. The impact of such a fall in interest rates would reduce net interest 
income on segregated client funds by approximately £1.6 million (2013: £2.4 million) per annum. The impact of such a rise in interest rates 
would increase net interest income on segregated client funds by approximately £3.3 million (2013: £4.2 million) per annum. Changes in risk 
variables have no direct impact on the Group’s equity as the Group has no financial instruments designated in hedging relationships.
(II) CREDIT RISK
Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for the other party by failing to discharge an obligation. 
The Group’s credit risk is managed on a Group-wide basis.
The Group’s principal sources of credit risk are financial institution and client credit risk.
(a) Financial-institution credit risk
Financial-institution credit risk is managed in accordance with the Group’s Counterparty Credit Management Policy. 
Financial institutional counterparties are subject to a credit review when a new relationship is entered into, and this is updated semi-annually 
(or more frequently as required, eg on a change in the financial institution’s corporate structure). Proposed maximum exposure limits for 
these financial institutions are then reviewed and approved by the Executive Risk Committee.
As part of its management of concentration risk, the Group is also committed to maintaining multiple brokers for each asset class. Where 
possible, the Group negotiates for its funds to receive client money protection which can reduce direct credit exposure. 
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 140 141 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
(CONTINUED)
(II) CREDIT RISK (CONTINUED)
(a) Financial-institution credit risk (continued)
In respect of financial-institution credit risk, the following key metrics 
are monitored on a daily basis:
• Balances held with each counterparty group, against limits 
approved by the Executive Risk Committee
• Any change in short- and long-term credit rating
The Group is responsible under various regulatory regimes for the 
stewardship of client monies. These responsibilities are defined in 
the Group’s Counterparty Credit Management Policy and include 
the appointment and periodic review of institutions with which 
client money is deposited. The Group’s general policy is that all 
financial institutional counterparties holding client money accounts 
must have minimum short- and long-term ratings of A-2 and 
A- respectively, although in some operating jurisdictions where 
accounts are maintained to provide local banking facilities for clients 
it can be problematic to find a banking counterparty satisfying these 
minimum ratings requirements. In such cases the Group will seek 
to use a locally systemically important institution. These criteria 
also apply for the Group’s own bank accounts held with financial 
institutions. The Group also actively manages the credit exposure to 
each of its broking counterparties, settling or recalling balances at 
each broker on a daily basis in line with the collateral requirements. 
In addition, the majority of deposits are made on an overnight 
or breakable-term basis, which enables the Group to react 
immediately to any deterioration in credit quality, and deposits of an 
unbreakable nature or requiring notice are only held with a subset 
of counterparties which have been approved by the Executive Risk 
Committee. At 31 May 2014 there were no deposits held on an 
unbreakable basis (2013: £nil).
(b) Client credit risk
The Group operates a real-time mark-to-market trading platform, 
with client profits and losses being constantly updated on each 
client’s account.
Client credit risk principally arises when a client’s total funds 
deposited with the Group are insufficient to cover any trading  
losses incurred. In addition, a small number of clients are granted 
credit limits to cover open losses and margin requirements as 
described below.
In particular, client credit risk can arise where there are significant, 
sudden movements in the market, ie due to high general market 
volatility or specific volatility relating to an individual financial 
instrument in which the client has an open position. Credit risk is 
mitigated in part through increased margin requirements on larger 
positions and our client suitability criteria, and is supported by 
an extensive training program which aims to educate clients in all 
aspects of trading and risk management, which encourages them to 
collateralise their accounts at an appropriate level in excess of the 
minimum requirement.
The principal types of client credit risk exposure are managed under 
the Group’s Client Credit Management Policy and depend on the 
type of account and any credit offered to clients as follows: 
Clients subject to the Group’s ‘close-out monitor’
The Group’s management of client credit risk is supported by an 
automated liquidation process, the ‘close-out monitor’ (COM), 
whereby accounts which have broken the liquidation threshold are 
automatically identified. If the margin of a client which is subject to 
the COM liquidation process is eroded, the client is requested to 
deposit additional funds up to at least the required margin level 
and will also be restricted from increasing their market positions. If, 
subsequently, the client’s intra-day losses increase such that their 
total equity falls below the specified liquidation level, positions will 
be liquidated immediately, resulting in reduced credit-risk exposure 
for the Group.
In addition a subset of clients have what are known as ‘limited 
risk’ accounts. For such accounts a level is set in advance (the 
‘guaranteed stop’ level) at which the deal will be closed, meaning 
a maximum client loss can be calculated at the opening of the 
trade. Clients placing trades with guaranteed stop levels pay a 
small premium on each transaction. The maximum loss is then 
the amount the client is required to deposit to open the trade, 
meaning that in most circumstances the client can never lose more 
than their initial margin deposit. Although it is no longer offered to 
new clients, the Group still has a significant number of clients with 
this type of account. This type of account results in the transfer of 
an element of market risk to the Group, which is managed under 
the Group’s Market Risk Policy, and only a subset of more liquid 
products are available to trade. Clients with any type of account 
may still choose to use guaranteed stops (where available and on 
payment of the premium).
The majority of client positions are monitored on the Group’s 
real-time COM system or are limited-risk accounts with guaranteed 
stops. As at 31 May 2014, 99.81% (2013: 98.83%) of financial client 
accounts are subject to the automatic COM procedure or are 
‘limited risk’ accounts. 
Credit accounts
Clients holding other types of accounts are permitted to deal 
in circumstances where they may be capable of suffering losses 
greater than the funds they have deposited on their account, or in 
limited circumstances are allowed credit. The Group has a formal 
credit policy which determines the financial and experience criteria 
which a client must satisfy before being given an account which 
exposes the Group to credit risk, including trading limits for each 
client and strict margining rules. 
The Group may offer credit limits, with the result any ‘open loss’ can 
be paid subject to agreed credit terms. These accounts typically 
only create a credit exposure when the client’s loss exceeds their 
initial margin deposit. 
In addition to the waiver of payment of open losses on a trade, the 
Group may also offer clients credit in respect of their initial margin. 
This is a permanent waiving of initial margin requirements while the 
limit is active on the account, subject to the credit limit.
Credit limits are only granted following provision by the client of 
evidence of their available financial resources, and credit accounts 
limits are continuously reviewed by the Group’s Credit Department. 
Each client with a credit limit is also assigned a liquidation level, 
breach of which will result in closure of positions. Credit accounts 
are small in number, are not actively promoted and in general they 
are not made available to new clients.
Risk-based tiered margins
The Group applies a tiered-margin requirement for equities 
and other instruments with risk-adjusted margin requirements 
dependent on several factors including the volatility and liquidity of 
the underlying instrument. 
This has resulted in potential margin requirement of up to 90% of 
the value of the notional client position for large client positions, 
but a reduced margin requirement for smaller client positions.
These tiered margins, in addition to the COM discussed earlier, contribute to the further mitigation of the Group’s client counterparty  
credit-risk exposure.
The analysis of neither past due nor impaired credit exposures in the following table excludes individual client funds held in segregated 
client money accounts or money market facilities established under the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) ‘CASS’ rules and similar rules 
of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. Under these rules, client money funds held with trust status are protected in the 
event of the insolvency of the Group.
Cash and cash 
equivalents 
(note 18)
Trade receivables – due 
from brokers
(note 17)
Trade receivables – due 
from clients
(note 17)
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Individually impaired
Gross exposure – – – – 11,485 11,247
Allowance for impairment – – – – (10,644) (10,836)
– – – – 841 411
Past due but not impaired
Ageing profile:
0-3 months – – – – 346 410
> 6 months – – – – – –
– – – – 346 410
Neither past due nor impaired
Credit rating:
AA+ and above – – – – – –
AA to AA- 9,118 11,905 55,109 61,103 – –
A+ to A- 86,708 81,015 247,355 219,795 – –
BBB+ to BBB- 5,079 5,009 72 6 – –
BB+ to B 116 7 – – – –
CCC – – – – – –
Unrated
(1)
466 409 1,325 3,036 1,147 872
101,487 98,345 303,861 283,940 1,147 872
Total carrying amount 101,487 98,345 303,861 283,940 2,334 1,693
(1)  Amounts due from brokers are primarily related to the Group’s operations in South Africa. Unrated amounts due from clients relate to open positions. Prepayments and 
other receivables are all unrated (2013: all unrated). 
The financial investments are UK Government securities held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset 
buffer’ against potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12. As such they are rated as AA+.
Impairment of trade receivables due from clients
The Group records specific impairments of trade receivables due from clients in a separate allowance account. Impairments are recorded 
where the Group determines that it is probable that it will be unable to collect all amounts owing according to the contractual terms of the 
agreement. There are no collective impairments taken, and no other assets are considered impaired. Below is a reconciliation of changes in 
the separate allowance account during the year:
2014 2013
Group £000 £000
Balance at 1 June 10,836 17,202
Impairment loss for the year
– gross charge for the year 2,926 955
– recoveries (1,319) (1,389)
Write-offs (1,461) (6,228)
Foreign exchange (338) 296
Balance at 31 May 10,644 10,836
Credit risk – Company
Held within prepayments and other receivables in the Statement of Financial Position of the Company are amounts payable to the Company 
from related parties that are unrated. Refer to note 34(b). The Company is not otherwise exposed to material amounts of credit risk. 
(III) CONCENTRATION RISK
Concentration risk is defined as all risk exposures with a loss potential which is large enough to threaten the solvency or the financial 
position of the Group. In respect of financial risk, such exposures may be caused by credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk or a combination or 
interaction of those risks.
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 142 143 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) 
(III) CONCENTRATION RISK (CONTINUED)
The following table analyses the Group’s credit exposures, at their carrying amounts, by geographical region and excludes individual client 
funds held in segregated client money accounts established under the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) ‘CASS’ rules and similar rules 
of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. 
Analysis of credit exposures at carrying amount by geographical segment:
UK Europe Australia
Rest of 
World Total
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 31 May 2014
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 74,334 1,178 6,464 19,511 101,487
Financial investments 82,457 – – – 82,457
Trade receivables – due from brokers 92,540 51,800 52,228 107,293 303,861
Trade receivables – due from clients 1,942 242 77 73 2,334
Other amounts due to the Group 14,235 – 1,619 5,429 21,283
Total financial assets 265,508 53,220 60,388 132,306 511,422
UK Europe Australia
Rest of 
World Total
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
As at 31 May 2013
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 66,964 2,658 6,028 22,695 98,345
Financial investments 50,468 – – – 50,468
Trade receivables – due from brokers 96,175 80,092 53,029 54,644 283,940
Trade receivables – due from clients 1,242 156 78 217 1,693
Other amounts due to the Group 9,489 – 214 5,300 15,003 
Total financial assets 224,338 82,906 59,349 82,856 449,449
The comparative disclosure has been restated in order to include Japan with the Rest of the World, consistent with the Group’s  
segmental disclosures.
The Group’s largest credit exposure to any one individual broker at 31 May 2014 was £79,038,000 (A- rated) (2013: £61,103,500, AA- rated). 
Included in cash and cash equivalents, the Group’s largest credit exposure to any bank at 31 May 2014 was £61,480,000 (AA+ rated)  
(2013: £60,773,000, A rated). The Group has no significant exposure to any one particular client or group of connected clients. 
All of the Company’s credit exposures arise in the UK at both 31 May 2014 and 31 May 2013. 
(IV) LIQUIDITY RISK 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations arising from its financial liabilities that are settled by 
delivering cash or other financial assets. For further details refer to note 19.
Derivative and non-derivative cash flows by remaining contractual maturity – Group
The following tables present the undiscounted cash flows receivable and payable (excluding interest payments) by the Group under 
derivative and non-derivative financial assets and liabilities allocated to the earliest period in which the Group can be required to pay 
although the remaining contractual maturities may be longer. 
Amounts payable on demand
Derivative Non-derivative Total
As at 31 May 2014 £000 £000 £000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents – 101,487 101,487
Financial investments – 82,457 82,457
Trade receivables – due (to) / from brokers (23,364) 327,225 303,861
Trade receivables – due from clients – 2,334 2,334
Trade receivables – other amounts due to the Group – 21,283 21,283
(23,364) 534,786 511,422
Financial liabilities
Trade payables – due to clients – (20,974) (20,974)
(23,364) 513,812 490,448
Derivative trade receivables disclosed in the table at the bottom of page 142 represent the Group’s open positions with brokers.  
Non-derivative trade receivables and payables disclosed in this table represent cash margin held at brokers, UK Government securities 
and client debtors. Derivative and non-derivative cash flows are presented alongside each other in this table as they result from the same 
underlying trading relationship and as the Group has both the legal right and intention to settle on a net basis.
Trade receivables are disclosed as repayable on demand, as when client positions are closed the corresponding positions relating to the 
hedged position are closed with brokers. Accordingly the Group releases cash margin, which is repaid by brokers to the Group on demand. 
Trade payables are disclosed in the table at the bottom of page 142 as repayable on demand, as positions can be closed at any time by 
clients and can also be closed by the Group, in accordance with the Group’s margining rules. If after closing a position a client is in surplus, 
then the amount owing is repayable on demand by the Group. 
Amounts payable on demand
Derivative Non-derivative Total
As at 31 May 2013 £000 £000 £000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents – 98,345 98,345
Financial investments available-for-sale – 50,468 50,468
Trade receivables – due (to) / from brokers (4,074) 288,014 283,940
Trade receivables – due from clients – 1,693 1,693
Trade receivables – other amounts due to the Group – 15,003 15,003
(4,074) 453,523 449,449
Financial liabilities
Trade payables – due to clients – (18,465) (18,465)
(4,074) 435,058 430,984
Amounts payable over five years
The Group has non-derivative cash flows payable over five years in relation to the redeemable preference shares at 31 May 2014 and 2013, as 
disclosed in note 26.
Derivative and non-derivative cash flows by remaining contractual maturity – Company
There were no Company derivative cash flows as at 31 May 2014 (2013: £nil).
At 31 May 2014 the Company held cash and cash equivalents of £194 (2013: £245,000) available on demand and redeemable preference 
shares of £40,000 (2013: £40,000) the terms of which are disclosed in note 26.
37.  CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND RESOURCES
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group is supervised on a consolidated basis by the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The Group’s operations in Australia, Japan, 
Singapore, South Africa and the United States are also regulated. Individual capital requirements in these jurisdictions are taken into account 
when managing the Group’s capital resources.
The Group’s regulatory capital resources management objective is to ensure that the Group complies with the regulatory capital resources 
requirement set by the FCA and other global regulators in jurisdictions in which the Group’s entities operate.
The Group’s capital management policy aims to maximise returns on equity while maintaining a strong capital position to enable the Group 
to take advantage of growth opportunities, whether organic or by acquisition. The Group does not seek to generate higher returns on equity 
by introducing leverage through, for example, the use of long-term debt finance.
The Group’s 2013 Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) was approved by the Board in December 2013. There have been 
no capital requirement breaches during the financial year. The Group also regularly undertakes three-year stress-testing and scenario-testing 
of its main financial and operational risks to project its future capital and liquidity adequacy requirements. 
The disclosures required of the Group under the Capital Requirements Regulation (Pillar III) will be made on the Group’s corporate website 
iggroup.com. These will provide additional information which will allow market participants to assess key pieces of information on a firms 
capital, risk exposures, risk assessment process and hence the capital adequacy of the firm. 
RETURN ON ASSETS
In accordance with the Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV) and the IFPRU prudential regulations the Group is required to disclose a 
return-on-assets metric. This has been calculated as ‘profit for the year’ divided by ‘shareholders’equity’:
2014 2013
Return on assets 25.8% 27.9%
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 144 145 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
37. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND RESOURCES (CONTINUED)
CAPITAL RESOURCES
The Group had significant surplus regulatory capital resources over the Pillar 1 regulatory capital resources requirement throughout the  
year. An analysis of the Group’s consolidated capital resources and capital resources requirement is provided in the Operating and  
Financial Reviews.
The following table summarises the Group’s capital adequacy on a consolidated basis. 
£m 2014 2013
Total Tier 1 capital 570.8 508.4
Less: intangible assets (122.7) (120.5)
Less: investment in own shares (1.1) (1.5)
Less: deferred tax asset
(1)
(5.7) –
Total capital resources (CR) 441.3 386.4
Capital resources requirement (CRR) – Pillar 1 (115.4) (115.1)
Surplus 325.9 271.3
(1) The new CRD IV requirements which came into force on 1 January 2014 require deferred tax assets relating to future profitability to be deducted from Tier 1 Capital in the 
determination of capital resources for the Group.
38. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
The Group has on 15 July 2014 completed the renegotiation of the £200.0 million liquidity facility with a syndicate of three banks. In doing 
so the Group has renewed the £120.0 million element of the facility available for a period of one year (with an option to extend for a further 
year) and renegotiated the £80.0 million element of the facility to be available for a further three years respectively from 31 July 2014. 
39.  AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE 
WITH IFRS
The Financial Statements of IG Group Holdings plc (the Company) and its subsidiaries (together the Group) for the year ended 31 May 2014 
were authorised for issue by the Board of the Directors on 22 July 2014 and the Statements of Financial Position signed on the Board’s behalf 
by Tim Howkins and Christopher Hill. IG Group Holdings plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. 
The Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group and Company Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as 
adopted by the European Union (EU) and IFRIC interpretations as they apply to the Financial Statements of the Group and of the Company 
for the year ended 31 May 2014 and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The Group and Company 
Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial 
assets and financial assets and liabilities (including derivatives) at fair value through profit or loss.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and the Company are set out in note 40.
40. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
40.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION
The accounting policies which follow have been applied in preparing the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 May 2014.
As permitted by Section 408(1)(b), (4) of the Companies Act 2006, the individual income statement of IG Group Holdings plc (the Company) 
has not been presented in these Financial Statements. The amount of profit for the year dealt with in the Financial Statements of IG Group 
Holdings plc is £85,814,000 (2013: £124,337,000). A statement of comprehensive income for IG Group Holdings plc has also not been 
presented in these Financial Statements. No items of other comprehensive income arose in the year (2013: £nil).
The Group and Company Financial Statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£000), 
except where otherwise indicated.
40.1.1 GOING CONCERN
The Directors have prepared the Financial Statements on a going-concern basis, which requires the Directors to have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
40.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION 
(a) Subsidiaries
The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial Statements of IG Group Holdings plc and the entities it controls (its subsidiaries) 
made up to the reporting date as listed in note 15.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be 
consolidated until the date that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the 
investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities, and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; currently exercisable 
or convertible potential voting rights or by way of contractual agreement. The results, cash flows and final positions of the subsidiaries used 
in the preparation of the consolidated Financial Statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company and are based 
on consistent accounting policies. All inter-company balances and 
transactions between Group entities, including unrealised profits 
arising from them, are eliminated on consolidation.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of 
acquisition. The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value 
of consideration paid including an estimate of any contingent or 
deferred consideration. Contingent or deferred consideration is  
re-measured at each Statement of Financial Position date with 
periodic changes to the estimated liability recognised in the 
Consolidated Income Statement. Acquisition-related costs are 
expensed as incurred. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over 
the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised 
as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair 
values of the identifiable net assets acquired (discount on acquisition) 
is credited to the Income Statement in the period of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the 
year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the 
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, 
as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the Financial Statements 
of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with 
those used by other members of the Group. 
(b) Non-controlling interests
Where the Group and a non-controlling shareholder enter into a 
forward contract (symmetrical put and call options) under which 
the Group is required to purchase the non-controlling interest 
for its fair value (formulae-based valuation), at the forward date, 
the Group continues to recognise the non-controlling interest at 
the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets, 
until expiry of the arrangement. The forward liability is also 
recognised for management’s best estimate of the present value 
of the redemption amount with a corresponding entry in equity. 
The accretion of the discount on the liability is recognised as a 
finance charge in the Consolidated Income Statement. The liability 
is re-measured to the final redemption amount with any periodic 
changes to the estimated liability recognised in the Consolidated 
Income Statement. On expiry of the forward, the liability is 
eliminated as paid and any difference in the value of the  
non-controlling interest to the exercise price deducted from equity. 
On an acquisition by acquisition basis non-controlling interests 
are measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest 
proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. 
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as 
transactions with equity owners of the Group. For purchases from 
non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration 
paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of the 
non-controlling interest is recorded in equity. 
Losses applicable to the non-controlling shareholder in a 
consolidated subsidiary’s equity may exceed the non-controlling 
interest in the subsidiary’s equity. The excess and any further 
losses applicable to the non-controlling shareholder, are allocated 
against the majority interest, except to the extent that the non-
controlling shareholder has a binding obligation and is able to 
make an additional investment to cover the losses. If the subsidiary 
subsequently reports profits, such profits are allocated to the 
majority interests until the non-controlling shareholder‘s share of 
losses previously absorbed by the majority has been recovered.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss 
and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is 
presented within equity in the Consolidated Statement of Financial 
Position, separately from parent shareholders’ equity. 
40.3 FOREIGN CURRENCIES
The functional currency of each company in the Group is that of 
the country of incorporation (as disclosed in note 15) as this is 
consistent with the primary economic environment in which the entity 
operates. The Group’s most significant functional currency is sterling. 
Transactions in other currencies are initially recorded in the functional 
currency by applying spot exchange rates prevailing on the dates 
of the transactions. At each Statement of Financial Position date, 
monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange prevailing 
on the same date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair 
value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the 
rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Gains 
and losses arising on translation are taken to the Income Statement, 
except for exchange differences arising on monetary assets and 
liabilities that form part of the Group’s net investment in a foreign 
operation. These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the 
net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas 
operations are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing 
on the Statement of Financial Position date. Income and expense 
items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period. 
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and 
taken directly to a translation reserve. Such translation differences 
are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which 
the operation is disposed of. Goodwill and fair value adjustments 
arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets 
and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
40.4 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises 
the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other 
consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly 
attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment at 
rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value 
based upon estimated useful lives. Estimated residual value and 
useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis and residual values are 
based on prices prevailing at the Statement of Financial Position 
date. Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis over the 
expected useful lives as follows:
Leasehold improvements – over the lease term 
of up to 15 years
Office equipment, fixtures and fittings – over five years
Computer and other equipment – over two, three or 
five years
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed 
for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate 
the carrying value may not be recoverable, and are written down 
immediately to their recoverable amount. 
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon 
disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise 
from the continued use of the asset. The gain or loss arising on 
derecognition of an asset is determined as the difference between 
the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is 
included in the Income Statement in the period of derecognition.
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 146 147 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
40. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
40.5 GOODWILL
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of 
the cost of acquisition (fair value of consideration paid) over 
the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities of a business at the date of 
acquisition. Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is allocated to 
cash-generating units for purposes of impairment testing. Cash-
generating units represent the smallest identifiable group of assets 
that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash 
inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase 
method. Any excess of the cost of the business combination over 
the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the Statement 
of Financial Position as goodwill and is not amortised. To the 
extent that the net fair value of the acquired entity’s identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost 
of the investment, a gain is recognised immediately in the Income 
Statement. Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity 
accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being 
reviewed for impairment, at least annually and whenever events  
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may  
be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to 
the related cash-generating units monitored by management. 
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less 
than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is 
recognised in the Income Statement.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit 
is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal 
of the unit, or of an operation within it. 
40.6 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried 
initially at cost. An intangible asset acquired as part of a business 
combination such as a trade name or customer relationship is 
recognised at fair value outside goodwill if the asset is separable 
or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value 
can be measured reliably. Expenditure on internally developed 
intangible assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the 
Income Statement in the year in which it is incurred. Development 
expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after all the 
following criteria are met:
• The project’s technical feasibility and commercial viability can  
be demonstrated
• The availability of adequate technical and financial resources and 
an intention to complete the project have been confirmed 
• The correlation between development costs and future revenue 
has been established
Following initial recognition, the historic cost model is applied, 
with intangible assets being carried at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised over their expected 
useful lives, as follows:
Development costs – straight-line basis over three years
Software and licences – straight-line basis over the contract 
term of up to five years
Trade names – sum-of-digits method over two years
Client lists and 
customer relationships
– sum-of-digits method over  
three years
Domain names  
and generic top-level 
domains
– straight-line basis over ten years
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment 
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying 
value may not be recoverable. In addition, the carrying value of 
capitalised development expenditure is reviewed for impairment 
annually before being brought into use.
40.7  IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
At least annually, or when impairment-testing is required, the 
Directors review the carrying amounts of the Group’s property, plant 
and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether there is 
any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. 
If any such indication exists (or at least annually for goodwill), the 
recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine 
the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not 
generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the 
Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating 
unit to which the asset belongs. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling costs 
and value-in-use. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future 
cash flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax 
discount rate. This rate reflects current market assessments of the 
time value of money as well as the risks specific to the asset for 
which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than 
its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced 
to its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised as an 
expense immediately. 
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there 
is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may 
no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, 
the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised 
impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in 
the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount 
since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case, 
the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable 
amount. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount 
that would have been determined, had no impairment loss been 
recognised for the asset in prior years. A reversal of an impairment 
loss is recognised as income immediately, although impairment 
losses relating to goodwill may not be reversed.
40.8 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less accumulated 
impairment losses.
40.9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
40.9.1 CLASSIFICATION, RECOGNITION  
AND MEASUREMENT 
The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments 
at initial recognition in accordance with the categories outlined 
below and re-evaluates this designation at each financial year-
end. When financial instruments are recognised initially, they are 
measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case 
of financial assets and financial liabilities not at fair value through 
profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs. Financial 
instruments are disclosed in note 35 to the Financial Statements. 
(a)  Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value 
through profit or loss
Financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for  
trading, or designated as such on inception, are included in  
this category and relate to the financial derivative open positions 
included in trade receivables – due from brokers and trade  
payables – due to clients as shown in the Statement of Financial 
Position and related notes. Financial instruments are classified as 
held for trading if they are expected to settle in the short-term. 
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, in order to hedge 
derivative exposures arising from open client positions, which are 
also classified as held for trading.
All financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are 
carried in the Statement of Financial Position at fair value with  
gains or losses recognised in revenue in the Consolidated  
Income Statement.
Determination of fair value
Financial instruments arising from open client positions and the 
Group’s hedging positions are stated at fair value and disclosed 
according to the valuation hierarchy required by IFRS 7. Fair values 
are predominantly determined by reference to third-party market 
values (bid prices for long positions and offer prices for short 
positions) as detailed below:
Level 1: valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for 
identical financial instruments.
Level 2: valued using techniques where a price is derived based 
significantly on observable market data. For example, where an 
active market for an identical financial instrument to the product 
offered by the Group to its clients or used by the Group to hedge its 
market risk does not exist.
Level 3: valued using techniques that incorporate information  
other than observable market data that is significant to the  
overall valuation.
(b) Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed 
or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater 
than 12 months after the end of the reporting period. These are 
classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables 
comprise ‘trade receivables’, ‘cash and cash equivalents’ and trade 
payable ‘amounts due to title transfer clients’.
(c) Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either 
designated in this category or not classified in any other categories. 
They are included in non-current assets unless the investment 
matures or management intend to dispose of it within 12 months 
of the end of the reporting period. The Group’s available-for-sale 
assets comprise ‘financial investments’.
40.9.2  DERECOGNITION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS  
AND LIABILITIES
A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the 
contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires. 
(a) Financial assets
A financial asset is derecognised where the rights to receive cash 
flows from the asset have expired; the Group retains the right to 
receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation 
to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a 
‘pass-through’ arrangement or the Group has transferred its rights 
to receive cash flows from the asset and either (a) has transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) has neither 
transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of 
the asset, but has transferred control of the asset. Where the Group 
has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset and 
has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and 
rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, the asset 
is recognised to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement 
in the asset. Continuing involvement that takes the form of a 
guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the 
original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of 
consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
(b) Financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the 
liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. Where an existing 
financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on 
substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are 
substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated 
as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of 
a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying 
amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in 
profit or loss.
40.10  TRADE RECEIVABLES AND TRADE PAYABLES
Assets or liabilities resulting from profit or losses on open positions 
are carried at fair value. Amounts due from or to clients and 
brokers are netted against other assets and liabilities with the same 
counterparty where a legally enforceable netting agreement is in 
place and where it is anticipated that assets and liabilities will be 
netted on settlement.
Trade receivables represent balances with counterparties and  
clients where the combination of cash held on account and the 
valuation of financial derivative open positions result in an amount 
due to the Group. A provision for impairment is established where 
there is objective evidence of non-collectability. Reference is 
made to an aged profile of debt and the provision is subject to 
management review.
Trade payables represent balances with counterparties and clients 
where the combination of cash held on account and the valuation of 
financial derivative open positions results in an amount payable by 
the Group.
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 148 149 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
40. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
40.11  PREPAYMENTS AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Prepayments and other receivables are non-derivative financial 
assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not 
been designated as fair value through profit or loss. Such assets are 
carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the 
time value of money is significant. Gains and losses are recognised 
in income when the receivables are derecognised or impaired, and 
when economic benefit is consumed. A provision for impairment 
is established where there is objective evidence of non-collectability.
40.12 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits which may be 
accessed without penalty. Cash equivalents comprise short-term 
highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known 
amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of 
changes in value. For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement, net cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash 
equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
The Group holds money on behalf of clients in accordance with the 
client money rules of the UK Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
other regulatory bodies. Such monies are classified as either ‘cash 
and cash equivalents’ or ‘segregated client funds’ in accordance 
with the relevant regulatory requirements. Segregated client funds 
comprise individual client funds held in segregated client money 
accounts or money market facilities. Segregated client money 
accounts hold statutory trust status restricting the Group’s ability to 
control the monies and accordingly such amounts and are not held 
on the Group’s Statement of Financial Position. 
The amount of segregated client funds held at year-end is  
disclosed in note 18 to the Financial Statements. The return 
received on managing segregated client funds is included within 
net operating income.
Title transfer funds are held by the Group under a Title Transfer 
Collateral Arrangement (TTCA) by which a client agrees that full 
ownership of such monies is unconditionally transferred to the 
Group. Title transfer funds are accordingly held on the Group’s 
Statement of Financial Position with a corresponding liability to 
clients within trade payables.
40.13 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS
Financial investments are held as available-for-sale and are 
non-derivative financial assets that are not classified as held for 
trading, designated at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and 
receivables. Financial investments are recognised on a trade date 
basis. They are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related 
transactions costs. They are subsequently carried at fair value. Fair 
value is the quoted market price of the specific investments held.
Financial investments available-for-sale are carried at fair value. 
Unrealised gains or losses are reported in equity (in the available-
for-sale reserve) and in other comprehensive income, until such 
investments are sold, collected or otherwise disposed of, or until 
any such investment is determined to be impaired. On disposal of 
an investment, the accumulated unrealised gain or loss included 
in equity is recycled to the Income Statement for the period 
and reported in other income. Gains and losses on disposal are 
determined using the average cost method.
Interest on financial investments are included is included in interest 
using the Effective Interest Rate (EIR) method.
The EIR is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash 
payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial 
instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period to the net 
carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability. When 
calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates cash 
flows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument 
(eg prepayment, call and similar options) but shall not consider 
future credit losses. The calculation includes all fees and points paid 
or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part 
of the effective interest rate (see IAS 18 Revenue), transaction costs, 
and all other premiums or discounts.
At the year-end date the Group considers whether there is 
objective evidence that a financial investment is impaired. In case 
of such evidence, it is considered impaired if its cost exceeds 
the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount for a quoted 
financial investment is determined by reference to the market price. 
A quoted financial investment is considered impaired if objective 
evidence indicates that the decline in market price has reached 
such a level that recovery of the cost value cannot be reasonably 
expected within the foreseeable future.
If a financial investment is determined to be impaired, the 
cumulative unrealised loss previously recognised in equity is 
recycled to profit for the period. 
40.14 OTHER PAYABLES
Non-trading financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value 
and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate 
method if the time value of money is significant. 
40.15 PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that 
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and 
when the amount can be reliably estimated.
40.16 BORROWINGS
Borrowings are recognised initially at their issue proceeds less 
transaction costs incurred. Subsequently, taking into consideration 
the term of the borrowings, an assessment is made whether to  
state at amortised cost, with any difference between net proceeds 
and the redemption value being recognised in the Income 
Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective 
interest rate method.
All borrowing costs are expensed as they are incurred.
40.17 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
(a) Pension obligations
The Group operates defined contribution schemes. Contributions 
are charged to the income statement as and when they become 
payable according to the rules of the schemes. Once the 
contributions have been paid the Group has no legal or constructive 
obligations to pay further contributions.
(b) Bonus schemes
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses based 
on formulae that take into consideration the revenue or earnings 
attributable to the Group’s shareholders after certain adjustments 
and also based on operational non-financial measures. 
(c) Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when an employment contract 
is terminated by the Group. The Group recognises termination 
benefits when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of  
those benefits.
40.18 TAXATION
The income tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable 
and movements in deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. 
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income 
Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are 
taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items 
that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current 
tax is calculated using tax rates in the respective jurisdictions that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Statement of 
Financial Position date.
Deferred tax is accounted for on all temporary differences 
between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the 
Financial Statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the 
computation of taxable profit. In principle, deferred tax liabilities 
are recognised for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets 
are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits 
will be available, against which deductible temporary differences 
may be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the 
temporary difference arises from goodwill (or negative goodwill) or 
from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of 
other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax 
profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, 
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the 
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
Statement of Financial Position date and reduced to the extent 
that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be 
available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted 
basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related 
asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws 
enacted or substantively enacted at the Statement of Financial 
Position date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income 
Statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged 
directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with  
in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to 
income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group 
intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
40.19 SHARE CAPITAL
(a) Classification of shares as debt or equity
When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial 
liability of the Group is presented as a liability in the Statement of 
Financial Position, measured initially at fair value net of transaction 
costs and thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished on 
conversion or redemption. The corresponding dividends relating 
to the liability component are charged as interest expense in the 
Income Statement. 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the 
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Equity instruments 
are classified according to the substance of the contractual 
arrangements entered into. An equity instrument is any contract 
that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after 
deducting all of its liabilities.
(b) Own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts
Shares held in trust by the Company for the purposes of employee 
share schemes are classified as a deduction from shareholders’ 
equity and are recognised at cost. Consideration received for the 
sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference 
between the proceeds from the sale and the original cost being 
taken to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in the 
Income Statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of 
equity shares.
(c) Share-based payments
The Company operates three employee share plans: a share-
incentive plan, a sustained performance plan and a long-term 
incentive plan. Previously the Group operated a value-sharing plan, 
all of which are all equity-settled. 
For market-based vesting conditions, the cost of these awards is 
measured at fair value calculated using option pricing models (refer 
to the share based payment note for additional detail of the models 
and assumptions used for the various award schemes) and are 
recognised as an expense in the Income Statement on a straight-
line basis over the vesting period based on the Company’s estimate 
of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
For non-market-based vesting conditions, at each Statement of 
Financial Position date before vesting, the cumulative expense 
is calculated representing the extent to which the vesting period 
has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement 
or otherwise of non-market conditions determining the number 
of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The movement in 
cumulative expense since the previous Statement of Financial 
Position date is recognised in the Income Statement as part of 
administrative expenses, with a corresponding entry in equity.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to 
employees of the subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated 
as a capital contribution. The fair value of the employee services 
received is recognised over the vesting period as an increase in the 
investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit 
to equity. 
40.20 REVENUE RECOGNITION
Trading revenue represents gains and losses arising on client trading 
activity, primarily in financial spread betting, contracts for difference 
or binary bets, and the transactions undertaken to hedge the risk 
associated with client trading activity. Open client and hedging 
positions are carried at fair market value and gains and losses 
arising on this valuation are recognised in revenue as well as gains 
and losses realised on positions that have closed. The policies and 
methodologies associated with the determination of fair value have 
been discussed previously under Financial Instruments. Trading 
revenue also includes spread, commission and funding charges 
made to clients in respect of the opening, holding and closing of 
financial spread bets, contracts for difference or binary bets.
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits 
associated with the transaction will flow to the Group and the 
revenue can be reliably measured.
Trading revenue also includes member fees charged by the Group’s 
regulated futures and options exchange.
Trading revenue is reported gross of introductory partner 
commission as these amounts are directly linked to trading revenue. 
Introductory partner commission, along with betting duties and 
financial transaction taxes paid, is disclosed as an expense in 
arriving at net operating income. 
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 150 151 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
40. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
40.20 REVENUE RECOGNITION (CONTINUED)
Finance revenue and interest income on segregated client funds is 
accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding 
and at the effective interest rate applicable. The effective interest 
rate is the rate which exactly discounts estimated future cash 
receipts over the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s 
net carrying amount. Interest income on segregated client funds is 
disclosed within revenue and therefore operating profit, as this is 
consistent with the nature of the Group’s operations. 
Net trading revenue, disclosed on the face of the Consolidated 
Income Statement and in the Notes to the Financial Statements, 
represents trading revenue from financial instruments carried at 
fair value through profit or loss and has been disclosed net of 
introductory partner commission as this is consistent with the 
management information received by the Chief Operating  
Decision Maker. 
Dividends receivable are recognised when the shareholder’s right to 
receive the payment is established.
40.21 OPERATING PROFIT
Operating profit is the sum of the results of the principal activities 
of the Group after charging depreciation of property, plant and 
equipment, amortisation of intangible assets, operating lease 
rentals on land and buildings, foreign exchange differences, 
profit or loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and other 
administrative expenses. 
40.22 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Exceptional items are those items of income and expense that the 
Group considers are material and/or of such a nature that they merit 
separate presentation in order to aid a reader’s understanding of 
the Group’s financial performance. 
40.23  FINANCE COSTS AND INTEREST EXPENSE ON 
SEGREGATED CLIENT FUNDS
Finance costs and interest expense on segregated client funds 
are accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal amount 
charged at the effective interest rate applicable. The effective 
interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the future expected 
cash flows to the carrying amount of the liability. Issue costs are 
included in the determination of the effective interest rates.
Interest expense on segregated client funds is disclosed within 
operating profit as this is consistent with the nature of the  
Group’s operations.
40.24 DIVIDENDS
Dividend distribution to the company’s shareholders is recognised 
as a liability in the Group’s Financial Statements in the period in 
which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
40.25 OPERATING LEASES
Leases are classified as operating leases where the lessor retains 
substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset.
Lease payments under an operating lease are recognised as an 
expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless another 
systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern of the 
user’s benefit.
40.26 SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Group’s segmental information is disclosed in a manner 
consistent with the basis of internal reports regarding components 
of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker (CODM), who for the Group is the Executive 
Directors, in order to assess the performance and to allocate 
resources to those ‘operating segments’. The Group has therefore 
determined its operating segments based on the management 
information received on a regular basis by the Executive Directors 
of the IG Group Holdings plc Board, as they are considered to be 
the CODM. Operating segments that do not meet the quantitative 
thresholds required by IFRS 8 are aggregated.
The Group envisages that the reportable segments may change as 
overseas businesses move towards operational maturity, breaking 
through the quantitative thresholds of IFRS 8. The segments are 
therefore subject to annual review and the comparatives restated to 
reflect any reclassifications within the segmental reporting. 
40.27 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Financial 
Statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of 
the Group’s Annual Report for the year ended 31 May 2013.
NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS ADOPTED BY  
THE GROUP 
The following new standards and interpretations are effective for 
accounting periods beginning 1 June 2013 but have not had a 
material impact on the presentation of, nor the results or financial 
position of the Group:
• Amendment to IAS 12, ’Income Taxes’ on deferred tax  
(effective 1 January 2012) (endorsed 1 January 2013)
• Amendment to IAS 1, ’Presentation of Financial Statements’  
on OCI (effective 1 July 2012)
• IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ (effective 1 January 2013)
• IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’  
(effective 1 January 2013)
• IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ (effective 1 January 2013)
• IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’  
(effective 1 January 2013)
• IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee Benefits’  
(effective 1 January 2013) 
• Amendment to IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ 
(effective 1 July 2013)
• IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’  
(effective 1 January 2014) 
• Amendment to IAS 28 ‘Investment in Associates and Joint 
Ventures’ (effective 1 January 2013)
• Amendments to IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments:  
Disclosures’, on financial asset and financial liability offsetting 
(effective 1 January 2013)
• Amendment to IAS 27 ‘Separate Financial Statements’  
(effective 1 January 2013)
• Amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’  
(effective 1 January 2013)
• Annual improvements 2011 (effective 1 January 2013)
Other new standards, amendments and interpretations, including 
those listed below, have been issued but are not effective for 
accounting periods beginning 1 June 2013 and have not been  
early-adopted by the Group: 
• Amendment to IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation’  
on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities  
(effective 1 January 2014)
• Amendments to IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ 
(effective 1 January 2014)
• Amendments to IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’  
(effective 1 January 2014)
• Amendments to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement’ on novation of derivatives and hedge accounting 
(effective 1 January 2014)
• Amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ (effective 1 July 2014)
• Annual improvements 2012 (effective 1 July 2014)
• Annual improvements 2013 (effective 1 July 2014)
• IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ – classification and measurement 
(effective 1 January 2018)
• Amendments to IFRS 9 ‘ Financial Instruments’ regarding general 
hedge accounting (effective 1 January 2018)
• IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’ (effective 1 January 2014)
The new standards and amendments above are not expected  
to have a material impact on the Group or Company apart 
from IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. This will impact the accounting for the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) levy for the year 
commencing 1 June 2014. FSCS levies are raised in respect of the 
financial year of the FSCS which runs from 1 April to the following  
31 March. The levy is payable in its entirety if the Group is in 
operation under its FCA license on 1 April, being the obligating 
event, and is levied relating to revenues of the Group’s prior year. 
IFRIC 21 requires the levy to be recognised in full in the Income 
Statement on 1 April 2015. The existence of relevant activity in the 
previous period is necessary, but not sufficient, to create a present 
obligation, neither does the future operation of the business after 
1 April result in the charge being spread over the FSCS financial 
year, this being the previous accounting treatment adopted by 
the Group. Therefore, in the next financial year the levy will be 
expensed to the Income Statement in full on 1 April 2015 with 
no charge in the first half of the year. Prior year comparatives will 
be restated under the IFRIC with an equity reserves adjustment 
recognised for the FSCS levy as at 1 April 2013. 
| Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 152 153 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
GROUP INCOME STATEMENT 
For the year ended 31 May
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2012
(1)
 
£000
2011
(1)
 
£000
2010 
£000
Net trading revenue 370,408 361,857 366,812 312,721 298,551
Other net operating income 3,759 6,051 2,358 5,875 1,172
Net operating income 374,167 367,908 369,170 318,596 299,723
Administrative expenses (169,215) (163,804) (172,897) (145,075) (133,782)
Depreciation, amortisation and amounts 
written off property, plant and equipment (9,697) (12,176) (10,760) (10,308) (8,654)
Operating profit 195,255 191,928 185,513 163,213 157,287
Finance income 1,456 2,036 2,487 2,401 2,664
Finance costs (1,988) (1,756) (2,283) (2,411) (2,312)
Profit before taxation 194,723 192,208 185,717 163,203 157,639
Amortisation and impairment of intangibles 
arising on consolidation
(2)
– – – (150,703) (17,298)
Profit before taxation from continuing 
operations 194,723 192,208 185,717 12,500 140,341
Tax expense (47,688) (50,460) (48,583) (32,792) (38,855)
Loss from discontinued operations – – (374) (5,002) –
Profit / (loss) for the year 147,035 141,748 136,760 (25,294) 101,486
(1) The 2012 and 2011 numbers have been restated to remove the discontinued Sport business and present as a discontinued operation.
(2)  In 2010 and 2011, the Group presented adjusted administrative expenses and adjusted profit before taxation to adjust for the amortisation or impairment 
of intangible assets associated with the Group’s Japanese or Sport business. In the year ending 31 May 2014, the adjusted and unadjusted administrative 
expenses and profit before taxation are equivalent.
GROUP STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
As at 31 May
2014 
£000
2013 
£000
2012 
£000
2011 
£000
2010 
£000
Assets
Non-current assets 
Property, plant and equipment 13,038 14,469 15,555 16,761 9,632
Intangible assets 122,670 120,479 115,366 117,202 265,328
Financial investments 32,150 – – – –
Deferred tax assets 5,711 9,470 11,915 11,264 14,264
173,569 144,418 142,836 145,227 289,224
Current assets 
Trade receivables 327,478 300,636 222,342 270,104 206,243
Prepayments and other receivables 12,287 10,278 9,745 8,199 7,084
Cash and cash equivalents 101,487 98,345 228,156 124,528 128,097
Financial investments 50,307 50,468 – – –
491,559 459,727 460,243 402,831 341,424
TOTAL ASSETS 
665,128 604,145 603,079 548,058 630,648
Liabilities
Current liabilities 
Trade payables 21,902 19,047 61,076 83,490 57,673
Other payables 53,334 53,781 64,815 45,149 44,825
Provisions – – 1,353 1,427 1,377
Income tax payable 20,178 24,289 28,652 37,060 38,863
95,414 97,117 155,896 167,126 142,738
Non-current liabilities 
Deferred tax liabilities – – – – 11,463
Provisions – – – 1,991 1,779
Redeemable preference shares 40 40 40 40 40
40 40 40 2,031 13,282
Total liabilities 95,454 97,157 155,936 169,157 156,020
Capital and reserves
Total shareholders’ equity 569,674 506,988 446,997 378,700 471,449
Non-controlling interests – – 146 201 3,179
Total equity 569,674 506,988 447,143 378,901 474,628
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 
665,128 604,145 603,079 548,058 630,648
Each of the Statements of Financial Position presented above has been restated in order to be prepared consistently with the accounting policies disclosed in the 
Financial Statements for the year ended May 2014.
FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY
| Investor Resources Five-Year Summary 154 155 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY (CONTINUED)
OTHER METRICS 
Year ended 31 May 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Own funds generated from operations £160.6m £154.3m £140.7m £137.7m £114.4m
Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic earnings per share 40.32p 39.02p 37.90p
(1)
32.86p
(1)
30.98p
Diluted earnings per share 40.18p 38.80p 37.54p
(1)
32.57p
(1)
30.77p
Dividend per share
Interim dividend per share 5.75p 5.75p 5.75p 5.25p 5.00p
Final dividend per share 22.40p 17.50p 16.75p 14.75p 13.50p
Total dividend per share 28.15p 23.25p 22.50p 20.00p 18.50p
Dividend payout ratio (against diluted EPS) 70.06% 59.92% 59.94% 61.41% 60.12%
Profit margin 
Profit before taxation margin
(2)
 52.57% 53.10% 50.60% 52.20% 52.80%
(1) EPS presented for the continuing business. Adjusted and unadjusted EPS measures are equivalent.
(2) Calculated as profit before tax divided by net trading revenue.
CLIENT METRICS 
Year ended 31 May 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Average revenue per client £2,937 £2,659 £2,560 £2,341 £2,425
Number of active clients 126,108 136,063 143,304 133,580 120,689
Number of clients opened 54,957 55,889 67,593 71,344 81,155
Number of clients trading for the first time 33,709 37,914 48,029 49,246 55,674
| Investor Resources Five-Year Summary 156 157 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
EXAMPLES
BUYING A SPREAD BET
In this example, you decide to buy A plc (assumed to be a FTSE 100 company) at £100 per point, as you expect that A plc’s 
share price will rise. This is known as ‘going long’. Later in the day the share price has indeed risen and you decide to close 
your position by selling A plc at our then current bid price. 
Your profit is the difference between the buying and selling prices, plus or minus any funding charges or other costs 
(discussed in Steps 3 and 5). 
As long as your bet is open, your account will show any ‘running’ profit or loss on your open position (not illustrated below). 
You must have deposited sufficient funds to cover any running losses. 
You cannot place a bet without having any money in your account. In this example, we assume you have £1,000. It is 
important to note that you can make losses in excess of your initial deposit, if the market moves against you.
 
(1)  This simple example assumes IG is 100% hedged on the client trade and makes an equal and opposite gain on our broker position to the amount paid to the 
client. The cost of our hedging with the broker has been ignored for simplicity. Therefore our net profit is £40.00, which is recorded in trading revenue and is 
equivalent to the spread included in our quoted prices.
STEP 2
When you open the position, you are required to have 
the initial £723 deposit requirement in your account. The 
available funds in your account will therefore fall from £1,000 
to £277 (ie £1,000-£723). The available funds remaining 
in your account need to be enough to cover any running 
losses you may incur, or you run the risk of being closed out 
of the bet. It is important to note that the £723 is held as 
a deposit against the risk of the open position and will be 
released on the closing of the position: it is still your money 
but is not available for withdrawal from the account while 
the position is open.
At this stage you may choose to add a stop to your position.  
If you choose a guaranteed stop (only available for certain 
products), we guarantee that your position will be closed at 
this level and your maximum loss is therefore fixed. There is 
a small charge for a guaranteed stop, which will be added 
to the transaction cost. You may also choose to add a non-
guaranteed stop, which will trigger a closing order when this 
level is breached. Non-guaranteed stops are free, but you 
may not be closed at this level, particularly if the market gaps.
STEP 3
In this example we have kept things simple and assumed 
no corporate actions occur. However, we will also reflect 
the impact of any corporate action on the underlying share, 
such as a dividend or a rights issue, on your positions. For 
more details, please see our website, IG.com.
STEP 4 - CLOSING THE POSITION
Later that day, the A plc share price has indeed risen and you decide to close the position, realising your profit on the bet. 
At this point A plc is trading in the market at 148.6p/148.8p and our daily quote is 148.4p/149.0p.
Of course, had the market moved in the opposite direction, you would have made a loss of £100 for every penny the share price fell, 
which may have exceeded your initial deposit. 
 
STEP 5 - CALCULATING THE PROFIT OR LOSS
For many markets (eg index futures), we build funding charges into the quote price. For share daily funded bets we make funding 
adjustments each day at 10pm. We apply funding at the rate of one-month LIBOR +/- a spread (generally 2.5%). 
STEP 1 - OPENING THE POSITION
A plc is trading in the market at 144.5p/144.7p and our quote for A plc on a daily funded bet is 144.3p/144.9p. You decide
to buy £100 per point at 144.9p, our offer price. In this example one point represents a 1p movement in the underlying share
price, so your £100 per point bet is equivalent to buying 10,000 shares in A plc.
ITEM CLIENT IG
(1)
Buying spread (Step 1) (£20.00) £20.00
Selling spread (Step 4) (£20.00) £20.00
Gross profit (Step 4) £390.00 (£390.00)
IG hedging gain
(1)
 N/A £390.00
Net gain £350.00 £40.00
In the example above, if the bet had 
remained open at 10pm, and assuming 
one-month LIBOR of 0.49%, a funding 
charge of £1.23 would have been applied 
against the client account and recorded 
as revenue for IG (calculated as (£100 
x 150.0p [assumed end-of-day price] x 
2.99%) / 365 = £1.23).
(1)  The deposit factor (and therefore deposit requirement) depends on your account type and other factors such as the volatility and liquidity of the underlying share.
(2)  Our dealing spread varies depending on the market and asset class traded and can be variable, especially in volatile market conditions. For examples please 
see our website, IG.com.
Expecting the market will 
rise, you open the bet at the 
OFFER PRICE
GOING LONG
BET 
DETAILS
SIZE (£ PER POINT)
£100.00
OFFER PRICE
144.9p INITIAL DEPOSIT REQUIREMENT
 (1) 
£723.00
£100.00 (bet size) x 144.6p (the mid-price) x 5% (the deposit factor)
SPREAD
(2) 
£20.00
Difference between the market price and our quote 
(144.9p-144.7p) x £100.00 per point
A plc  
144.5p /144.7p 144.9p 144.3p IG OFFER 
PRICE
UNDERLYING 
SHARE PRICE
IG BID 
PRICE
A plc  
148.6p /148.8p 149.0p 148.4p BET 
DETAILS
SIZE (£ PER POINT) 
£100.00
BID PRICE
148.4p GROSS PROFIT
£390.00
Calculated as the market price movement of the share 
(148.6p-144.7p) x £100.00 per point)
Calculated at 148.6p-148.4p x £100.00 per point
SPREAD
£20.00
The market has risen –  
you sell at the IG BID PRICE
CLOSING POSITION
IG OFFER 
PRICE
UNDERLYING 
SHARE PRICE
IG BID 
PRICE
| Investor Resources Examples 158 159 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
EXAMPLES (CONTINUED)
STEP 5 - DAY TWO - CLOSING THE POSITION
On day two, the share price has fallen and you decide to close the position.
STEP 6 - CALCULATING THE PROFIT OR LOSS
SELLING A CFD
In this example, on day one you decide to sell a CFD for 20,000 shares in B plc (assumed to be a FTSE 100 company) as 
you expect B plc’s share price to fall. This is known as ‘going short’. On day two the share price has indeed fallen, and you 
decide to close your position.
As long as your contract is open, your account will show any ‘running’ profit or loss on your open CFD position (not 
illustrated below). You must have deposited sufficient funds to cover any running losses.
You cannot place a trade without having any money in your account. In this example, we assume you have £1,000. It is 
important to note that you can make losses in excess of your initial deposit requirement (referred to as ‘margin requirement’ 
in CFD trading), if the market moves against you.
(1) Commissions are variable, but for UK FTSE 100 CFDs (as assumed for B plc), this was 0.10% on 30 May 2014. 
(2)  This simple example assumes IG is 100% hedged on the client trade and makes an equal and opposite gain on our broker position to the amount paid to the 
client. The cost of our hedging with the broker has been ignored for simplicity. Thus our net profit is £32.61, which is recorded in trading revenue and consists 
of the commission and financing charges levied on the client.
STEP 2
When you open the position, you are 
required to have enough funds in your 
account to cover the initial margin 
plus commission on the trade. In this 
example the margin requirement is 
£803.00 and the commission is £16.05, 
so the available funds in your account 
will fall from £1,000.00 to £180.95 
(ie £1,000.00-£803.00-£16.05). It is 
important to note that the £803.00 is 
held as a margin requirement against 
the risk of the open position and will 
be released on the closing of the 
position: it is still your money but is 
not available for withdrawal from the 
account while the position is open.
STEP 3
Traditionally, clients who held long 
positions overnight would need to 
pay a funding charge, while clients 
with short positions would receive 
interest if held overnight. This charge 
or interest is calculated as the one-
month sterling LIBOR rate +/- a 
spread. However, with current market 
interest rates lower than the spread, 
clients with short positions also incur 
a charge. As at 30 May 2014, the 
current LIBOR rate was 0.49%, while 
the spread was 2.50%, resulting in a 
net financing charge of 2.01% for short 
CFD positions held overnight (which 
for UK CFDs means those open at 
10pm UK time). A corresponding long 
CFD position would incur a charge of 
2.99%. This is re-calculated daily.
STEP 4
In this example we have kept things 
simple and assumed no corporate 
actions occur. However, we will also 
reflect the impact of any corporate 
action on the underlying share, such 
as a dividend or a rights issue, on your 
positions. For more details, please see 
our website, IG.com.
STEP 1 - DAY ONE - OPENING THE POSITION
The quoted bid/offer price for B plc is 80.25p/80.35p.
Expecting the market will 
fall, you sell at the
BID PRICE
GOING SHORT
TRADE 
DETAILS
SIZE (SHARES) 
20,000
BID PRICE
80.25p INITIAL MARGIN REQUIREMENT
 (1) 
£803.00
20,000 (number of shares) x 80.30p (the mid-price) 
x 5% (the margin percentage)
COMMISSION
(2) 
£16.05
20,000  (number of shares) x 80.25p (the bid price) 
x 0.10% (commission)
B plc  
80.30p 80.35p 80.25p OFFER 
PRICE
MID-
 PRICE
BID  
PRICE
ITEM CLIENT IG
(2)
Selling commission (Step 1) (£16.05) £16.05
Financing charge (Step 3) (£0.89) £0.89
Buying commission (Step 5) (£15.67) £15.67
Gross profit (Step 5) £380.00 (£380.00)
IG hedging gain
(2)
N/A £380.00
Net gain £347.39 £32.61
(1)  The margin percentage (and therefore margin requirement) depends on the size of your CFD position and other factors such as the volatility and liquidity of the 
underlying share. In this example we have used a margin requirement of 5%.
(2) Commissions are variable, but for UK FTSE 100 CFDs (as assumed for B plc), this was 0.10% on 30 May 2014.
80.75p END-OF-DAY 
PRICE 
(DAY ONE)
DAILY INTEREST CHARGED
£0.89
20,000 x 80.75p x 2.01%/365 days
Of course, had the market moved in the opposite direction, you 
would have made a loss of £100 for every penny the share price 
gained, which may have exceeded your initial margin outlay.
When you open your position you may 
choose to add a stop. If you choose 
a guaranteed stop (only available for 
certain products), we guarantee that your 
position will be closed at this level and 
your maximum loss is therefore fixed.  
There is a small charge for a guaranteed 
stop, which will be added to the 
transaction cost. You may also choose to 
add a non-guaranteed stop, which will 
trigger a closing order when this level 
is breached. Non-guaranteed stops are 
free, but you may not be closed at this 
level, particularly if the market gaps.
B plc   
78.30p 78.35p 78.25p OFFER 
PRICE
MID-
 PRICE
BID  
PRICE
The market has fallen – you 
buy at the IG OFFER PRICE
CLOSING POSITION
TRADE 
DETAILS
SIZE (SHARES) 
20,000
OFFER PRICE
78.35p COMMISSION
(1) 
£15.67
20,000 x 78.35p x 0.10%
PROFIT PER SHARE
1.9p
Difference between opening bid and closing offer prices
(80.25p-78.35p)
GROSS PROFIT ON TRADE
£380.00
20,000 x 1.9p
| Investor Resources Examples 160 161 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Term Notes
ABI Association of British Insurers
AGM Annual General Meeting 
Basel III The comprehensive set of reform measures designed to strengthen regulation, supervision and 
risk management in the banking sector
Binary bet A special form of spread bet with only two outcomes at expiry: if a specified result is achieved, 
the bet is closed at a level of 100. If the result is not achieved, the bet closes at 0
CFTC The US Commodities Futures Trading Commission
Close-out monitor 
(COM)
The Group’s automatic real-time position-closing system (see the Managing Our Business Risk 
section in the Strategic Report and note 36 to the Financial Statements)
Contract for 
difference (CFD)
A CFD is a contract to exchange the difference in the price of an asset between the time the 
contract is opened and the time it is closed. An example is shown on page 158
CSR Corporate social responsibility
Direct market access 
(DMA)  
DMA enables clients to interact directly with the market, including participating in the order book 
of a stock exchange
DTRs The FCA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules
EBA European Banking Authority
EPS Earnings per share
ESMA  European Securities and Markets Authority
Exposure monitor Our real-time technology solution which constantly measures our financial exposure to all  
traded instruments
FCA Financial Conduct Authority (UK regulator)
FINMA The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority
FRC Financial Reporting Council
FSB Financial Services Board (South Africa)  
FSCS Financial Services Compensation Scheme
FTT Financial Transaction Tax
Fugitive emissions Greenhouse gas emissions caused by intentional or unintentional releases, eg equipment leaks 
or hydrofluorocarbon emissions from the use of refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment
GHG emissions Greenhouse gas emissions
Goodwill An intangible asset representing the additional value that arises as a result of the acquisition of 
the acquired company by another at a value greater than that of the target company’s assets
GTLDs Generic top-level domains –  represented by the characters following the dot at the end of an 
internet domain name, eg .com, .net
IAS International Accounting Standard
ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process. The ICAAP is an internal document which 
identifies the controls we use to mitigate risks to the Group’s capital and assesses and quantifies 
our capital requirements 
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
IIA Institute of Internal Auditors
ILAA Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment. The ILAA is an internal document which identifies the 
controls we use to mitigate liquidity risks and assesses and quantifies our liquidity requirements
IOSCO   International Organization of Securities Commissions
ISA International Standards on Auditing
ISS Institutional Shareholder Services Inc
JFSA Japanese Financial Services Agency   
Term Notes
KPIs Key Performance Indicators
KRIs Key Risk Indicators
LIBOR London inter-bank offered rate – a benchmark interest rate published by leading London banks
LTIP Long-term incentive plan
MAS  The Monetary Authority of Singapore
MiFID Markets in Financial Instruments Directive – EU law covering financial regulation in all  
member states
Multilateral trading 
facility (MTF)
A non-exchange financial-trading venue providing an alternative to traditional stock exchanges
Nadex The North American Derivatives Exchange, our US-based retail derivatives exchange business
Net Promoter Score 
(NPS)
NPS is calculated by asking respondents how likely they are to recommend a company to a 
friend or colleague. Respondents reply on a 0-10 scale, with the final NPS calculated as the 
percentage of promoters (those answering 9 or 10) minus the percentage of detractors (those 
answering 0-6)
OTC ‘Over the counter’ refers to non-exchange-traded financial instruments
PRIPs Packaged Retail Investment Products
Regulatory capital 
resources 
The total capital available to the Group, as calculated under the EU Capital Requirements 
Regulation and the Financial Conduct Authority’s IFPRU 3 rules
Rest of World One of our four reporting segments, consisting of our operations in Japan, Singapore,  
South Africa and the US
RREV Research Recommendations Electronic Voting
Scope 1/2/3 
emissions
The three classifications of emissions required to be considered under the mandatory  
GHG reporting
SIP Share-incentive plan
SPP Sustained performance plan
Spread bet A bet on whether a financial market (the underlying market) will rise or fall. We offer two prices 
on every market, and the difference is known as the bid/offer spread. If you think a market is set 
to rise you ‘buy’ at the higher (offer) price, and if you think it will fall you ‘sell’ at the lower (bid) 
price. Your subsequent gain or loss on the bet will be determined by the direction and degree 
of any movement in the underlying market. An example is shown on page 156   
Tiered margins We use a system of margin tiers that reflect the degree of risk involved in client trades. 
Generally, the riskier the traded instrument or the larger the trade size, the higher the level of 
margin required, up to 100%
Title Transfer 
Collateral 
Arrangement (TTCA)
A financial agreement to transfer money to cover obligations, such that that money will not be 
regarded as client money, which must be segregated, although IG retains the liability to repay 
the client
TSR Total Shareholder Return
UK Corporate 
Governance Code 
(the Code)
The Code sets out standards of good practice in board leadership and effectiveness, 
remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders. Provision B7.1 states that all 
directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders
Up/down binary bet A specific type of binary bet where the outcome is expressed as being above or below the 
current market value (ie the market has moved up or the market has moved down)
Volatility-based 
binary bet
A category of binary bet where the achievement of a specific outcome is directly related to the 
volatility of the underlying market
VSP Value-sharing plan
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
| Investor Resources Glossary of Terms 162 163 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
LONDON 
(HEADQUARTERS)
IG (IG Index Limited and  
IG Markets Limited) 
Cannon Bridge House 
25 Dowgate Hill 
London
EC4R 2YA 
UNITED KINGDOM
+44 (0)20 7896 0011
helpdesk.uk@ig.com
IG.com
EUROPE (EXCLUDING UK)
AMSTERDAM
IG Markets Limited
World Trade Center Amsterdam
Toren G – 3e verdieping
Strawinskylaan 387
1077 XX Amsterdam 
NETHERLANDS
+31 (0)20 794 6610
info.nl@ig.com 
IG.com/nl
 
DUBLIN
IG (IG Index Limited and  
IG Markets Limited)
72 Charlemont Street
Dublin 2
REPUBLIC OF IRELAND
+1 800 995 362
dublinoffice@ig.com
IG.com/ie
DÜSSELDORF
IG Markets Limited
Berliner Allee 10 
40212 Düsseldorf
GERMANY
+49 (0)211 882 370 00
info.de@ig.com
IG.com/de
LUXEMBOURG
IG Markets Limited 
15 rue du fort Bourbon 
L1249 
LUXEMBOURG
+352 24 87 11 17
info.lu@ig.com
IG.com/lu
MADRID
IG Markets Limited 
Paseo de la Castellana 13 
Planta 1a Derecha 
28046 Madrid
SPAIN
+34 91 787 61 61
info.es@ig.com 
IG.com/es
MILAN
IG Markets Limited 
Via Paolo da Cannobio, 33 
7° Piano
20122 Milano 
ITALY
+39 02 0069 5595
italiandesk@ig.com
IG.com/it
OSLO
IG Markets Limited 
Akersgata 20 
0158 Oslo
NORWAY
+47 22 400 200
info.no@ig.com 
IG.com/no
PARIS
IG Markets Limited 
17 Avenue George V 
75008 Paris 
FRANCE
+33 (0)1 70 98 18 18
info.fr@ig.com
IG.com/fr
STOCKHOLM
IG Markets Limited 
Stureplan 2 
114 35 Stockholm 
SWEDEN
+46 (0)8 505 15 000
info.se@ig.com 
IG.com/se
ASIA PACIFIC
MELBOURNE
IG Australia Pty Limited
Level 15
55 Collins Street
Melbourne VIC 3000
AUSTRALIA
+61 (0)3 9860 1799
helpdesk.au@ig.com
IG.com/au
SINGAPORE
IG Asia Pte Limited
9 Battery Road
#01-02 Straits Trading Building
SINGAPORE 049910
+(65) 6390 5133
helpdesk@ig.com.sg
IG.com.sg
TOKYO
IG Securities Limited 
Shiodome City Center 10F
1-5-2 Higashi-shinbashi
Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-7110
JAPAN
+81 (0)3 6704 8500
info.jp@ig.com
IG.com/jp
NORTH AMERICA
CHICAGO
North American  
Derivatives Exchange, Inc
311 South Wacker Drive
Suite 2675
Chicago, IL 60606
US
+1 312 884 0100
customerservice@nadex.com
nadex.com
SOUTH AFRICA
JOHANNESBURG
IG Markets South Africa Limited
The Place
1 Sandton Drive
Sandton, Gauteng
2196 Johannesburg
SOUTH AFRICA
+27 (0)10 344 0051
helpdesk.za@ig.com
IG.com/za
GLOBAL OFFICES
| Investor Resources Global Offices 165 2014 Annual Report 164 IG Group Holdings Plc 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
RECEIVING SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION BY EMAIL 
You can opt to receive shareholder information from us by 
email rather than by post. We will then email you whenever we 
add shareholder communications to the Company website. T o 
set this up, please visit www.investorcentre.co.uk/ecomms and 
register for electronic communications (e-comms).
If you subsequently wish to change this instruction or revert 
to receiving documents or information by post, you can do 
so by contacting the Company’s registrars at the address 
shown in the Company Information opposite.
You can also contact them by telephone on 0871 495 2032. 
Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT 
landline. Other telephone providers’ costs may vary. These 
prices are for indication purposes only; if in doubt, please 
check the cost of calling this number with your phone 
line provider. Lines are open 8.30am – 5.30pm, Mon-Fri 
excluding bank holidays.
SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES
If you have any queries relating to your shareholding, 
dividend payments or lost share certificates, or if any of your 
details change, please contact Computershare by visiting 
www.investorcentre.co.uk or by using the contact  
details above. 
AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (ADRS)
The company has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary 
Receipt (ADR) programme, with Citibank N.A. acting as the 
depositary bank, which enables US investors to invest in IG 
shares though an ADR, denominated in US dollars. IG’s ADR 
programme trades in the US over-the-counter (OTC) market, 
under the symbol IGGHY. Each ADR currently represents 
one ordinary share.
E: citiadr@citi.com W: www.citi.com/dr 
T: UK +44 (20) 7508 2708 US +1 (212) 723 5435
DIVIDEND DATES
(1)
 
Ex-dividend date 23 October 2014 
Record date 24 October 2014 
Last day to elect for dividend  
reinvestment plan  4 November 2014  
Annual General Meeting  16 October 2014  
Final dividend payment date 18 November 2014 
2015 interim dividend   February 2015
ANNUAL SHAREHOLDER CALENDAR
(1)
 
Company reporting 
Final results announced 22 July 2014 
Annual Report published 16 September 2014 
Annual General Meeting 16 October 2014
INTERIM REPORT 
As part of our e-comms programme, we have decided not 
to produce a printed copy of our Interim Report. We will 
instead publish the report on our website, where it will be 
available around mid-January each year. 
(1) Please note that these dates are provisional and subject to change.
COMPANY 
INFORMATION
DIRECTORS 
Executive Directors 
T A Howkins (Chief 
Executive)  
P G Hetherington  
C F Hill 
Non-Executive Directors 
J R Davie (Chairman)  
S G Hill 
D M Jackson  
J A Newman 
S J Tymms 
R P Yates (Senior 
Independent Director) 
COMPANY SECRETARY
B E Messer 
INDEPENDENT 
AUDITORS
PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP
Chartered Accountants  
and Statutory Auditors 
7 More London Riverside 
London 
SE1 2RT
BANKERS 
Lloyds Banking Group plc  
10 Gresham Street  
London  
EC2V 7AE 
Royal Bank of Scotland 
Group plc  
280 Bishopsgate  
London  
EC2M 4RB 
HSBC Bank plc 
8 Canada Square 
London  
E14 5HQ 
SOLICITORS 
Linklaters  
1 Silk Street  
London  
EC2Y 8HQ 
 
REGISTRARS 
Computershare Investor 
Services plc 
The Pavilions 
Bridgwater Road 
Bristol  
BS99 6ZZ
BROKERS
UBS Limited  
1 Finsbury Avenue  
London  
EC2M 2PP 
Numis Securities Limited  
10 Paternoster Square  
London  
EC4M 7LT 
REGISTERED OFFICE 
Cannon Bridge House  
25 Dowgate Hill  
London  
EC4R 2YA 
REGISTERED NUMBER
04677092 
SHAREHOLDER AND COMPANY INFORMATION
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT 
Certain statements included in our 2014 Annual Report, or 
incorporated by reference to it, may constitute ‘forward-
looking statements’ in respect of the Group’s operations, 
performance, prospects and/or financial condition. 
By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve 
uncertainties because they relate to events, and depend 
on circumstances, that will or may occur in the future. If 
the assumptions on which the Group bases its forward-
looking statements change, actual results may differ from 
those expressed in such statements. The forward-looking 
statements contained herein reflect knowledge and 
information available at the date of this Annual Report 
and the Group undertakes no obligation to update these 
forward-looking statements except as required by law.
This report does not constitute or form part of any offer or 
invitation to sell, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase 
any shares or other securities in the Company and nothing 
in this report should be construed as a profit forecast. 
MARKET SHARE
Market share data has been provided by Investment Trends 
Pty Limited (website: www.investmenttrends.co.uk). Contact: 
Pawel Rokicki (email: pawel@investmenttrends.co.uk).  
Unless stated, market share data is sourced from the 
following current reports:
• Investment Trends August 2013 Australia CFD Report 
• Investment Trends December 2013 Australia Online 
Broking Report
• Investment Trends February 2013 Australia FX Report 
• Investment Trends April 2014 France CFD/FX Report 
• Investment Trends May 2014 Germany CFD/FX Report 
• Investment Trends November 2013  Singapore  
CFD/FX Report 
• Investment Trends December 2013 UK Leveraged  
Trading Report
INDEX 
Accounting policies 144
Active clients 24
Amortisation 119
Assets and liabilities 106
Audit Committee 88
Auditors’ remuneration 114, 91
Auditors’ report 100
Binaries 15
Board of Directors 50
Broker margin 124
Capital expenditure 118, 119
Cash flow 109
Charitable donations 28
Client money 30, 122, 123
Contracts for difference (CFDs) 13, 158
Depreciation 118
Diluted earnings per share 24, 117
Dividend 6, 25
Dividend – key dates 164
Employees 26
Financial calendar 164
Five-year summary 152
Key Performance Indicators 24
Liquidity 123
Nadex 15, v
Net Promoter Score (NPS) 25
Nomination Committee 58
Offices 162
Operating costs 36
Political donations 97
Regulatory risk 46
Remuneration 60
Revenue per client 24
Risk 42, 138
Shareholder information 164
Shareholders – major interests 98
Spread betting 14, 156
Strategic objectives 9, 16, 18
Subsequent events 98
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 87
Trading revenue 24, 112
165 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
| Investor Resources Shareholder and Company Information 166 IG Group Holdings Plc 
IG Group Holdings plc
Cannon Bridge House
25 Dowgate Hill
London
EC4R 2YA
T: +44 (0)20 7896 0011 
F: +44 (0)20 7896 0010
W: iggroup.com
