 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT 2015
GROUP This report is fully accessible online at: 
iggroup.com/ar2015
COMPANY OVERVIEW
Our Vision  3
At a Glance 5
Our Business 6
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 8
STRATEGIC REPORT  
Chief Executive Officer’s Review  10
What We Do 14
Our Clients 17
Our Strategic Objectives  20
Our Business Model 21
Our Strategy  22
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 28
Our People and Communities  30
Chief Financial Officer’s Review  38
Managing Our Business Risk  48
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 
Chairman’s Introduction to Corporate Governance 54
Corporate Governance Statement  55
The Board  56
Nomination Committee 66 
Remuneration Committee 68
Directors’ Remuneration Report  70
Audit Committee  94
Board Risk Committee  100
Directors’ Report  102
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 105 
Independent Auditors’ Report  106
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Group Income Statement  110 
Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 111
Statements of Financial Position 112
Statement of Changes in Equity 113
Cash Flow Statements 115
Notes to the Financial Statements 117
INVESTOR RESOURCES
Five-Year Summary  178
Examples 180
Glossary of Terms 186
Global Offices 188
Shareholder Information  190
Company Information 192
| 2 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 2 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 2 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 OUR PEOPLE
OUR CLIENTS
OUR SHAREHOLDERS
STRATEGY
Strengthen global presence
Achieve, maintain or extend market leadership
Address the needs of active retail traders
Deliver quality service to our clients
Sustain our technology leadership
VALUES
Hallmark quality
Passion for progress
Transparency in dealing
Meritocratic opportunity
VISION
To become the 
default choice for 
active traders globally
OUR VISION,  
STRATEGY AND VALUES
3 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 3 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 |
COMPANY 
OVERVIEW ‘With strong values and 
innovative people, we aim 
to deliver a great trading 
experience for our customers 
and sustainable growth for 
our shareholders.’
Andy Green 
Chairman
| 4 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 0.2%
AT A GLANCE
‘2015 was another year of solid 
underlying financial performance, 
with underlying revenue reaching 
£400 million
(2)
 for the first time. We took 
an important strategic step with the 
launch of execution-only stockbroking, 
based upon our leading-edge 
technology, and also increased our 
global reach with offices in Switzerland 
and Dubai.’
Tim Howkins 
Chief Executive Officer
(1) 
 Throughout this report Revenue refers 
to statutory net trading revenue, 
which is statutory trading revenue 
excluding interest on segregated 
client funds and is net of introducing 
partner commissions.
(2) 
For FY15 two metrics are disclosed. 
The unadjusted statutory and also the 
higher underlying performance that is 
stated excluding the losses associated 
with the Swiss franc event. 
(3) 
FY14 has been restated following the 
adoption of IFRIC 21. Please refer to 
note 38 to the financial statements.
(4) 
The profit before tax and diluted 
earnings per share figures for FY11 
exclude both the amortisation and 
impairment of goodwill and customer 
relationships associated with our 
Japanese business, IG Securities 
(formerly FXOnline), and of the Group’s 
Sport Business.
(5) 
Calculated with reference to the 
statutory figures.
  The lighter shaded area indicates the 
underlying performance.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
(2)(3)(4)
FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15
FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15
FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15
REVENUE
(1)(2)
 OWN FUNDS GENERATED 
FROM OPERATIONS
(2)
DILUTED EARNINGS  
PER SHARE
(2)(3)(4)
TOTAL DIVIDEND  
PER SHARE
REVENUE
(1)(2)
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
(2)(3)(4)
OWN FUNDS GENERATED  
FROM OPERATIONS
(2)
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
(2)(3)(4)
TOTAL DIVIDEND PER SHARE
FOUR-YEAR COMPOUND 
ANNUAL GROWTH RATE
(5)
5.6%
1.0%
8.9%
2.5%
£312.7m
£366.8m
£361.9m
£370.4m
£400.2m
£388.4m
32.57p
37.54p
38.80p
40.22p
41.07p
35.99p
20.00p
22.50p
23.25p
28.15p
28.15p
£163.2m
£185.7m
£192.2m
£194.9m
£193.2m
£169.5m
£137.7m
£140.7m
£154.3m
£160.6m
£159.2m
£136.8m
5 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | IG is a global leader in online trading, providing active traders 
with fast and flexible access to the world’s financial markets 
through our award-winning dealing platforms. Since our 
inception in 1974 we have opened sales offices in a further 16 
countries across Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Australia, 
Asia and the US, and serve clients in 164 countries. We are 
the No.1 provider of CFDs and spread betting worldwide
(1)
 
and in the last year we also launched our execution-only 
stockbroking service in the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands. 
For more information on our products please see the 
What We Do section of this report, on page 14.
Our industry and our products are highly regulated – we 
are regulated by the FCA in the UK and Europe and by the 
equivalent local regulators in other jurisdictions where we 
have a physical presence. We set out to develop strong and 
constructive relationships with regulators and engage with 
them and policymakers as much as possible – both where we 
have a licence and in countries where we see the potential for 
future expansion.
Two years ago we established the clear global brand of IG, 
with the exception of Nadex, our binaries exchange in the US. 
As part of this process we acquired the IG.com domain name 
and consolidated our global web traffic through this route. 
Online leadership is increasingly important in our industry, 
from a perspective of acquiring, educating and providing a 
high level of service to clients.
The global nature of our business, coupled with the 
consistent brand, provides us with several advantages. Over 
the past year this enabled us to launch a global advertising 
campaign – Live Every Trade – based on the more emotional 
side of trading and the factors that can influence success. 
The campaign included a major television advert, and in the 
past we would have had to recut such an advert to suit local 
markets. Our centralised operating model has also made it 
easier for us to expand into additional countries, with a well-
practised approach to launching an office and the associated 
marketing that accompanies it.
Technology is key to our client acquisition and retention. More 
sophisticated clients have greater expectations when it comes 
to a trading platform. As a result, we invest significantly in 
ensuring our dealing platforms are not just robust and secure 
but also available via both web-based and downloadable 
platforms as well as via a full range of tailored apps for mobile 
and tablet devices. We also invest in providing a range of 
advanced trading and education tools to support our clients’ 
trading needs. 
In 2014 we celebrated our 40th anniversary. Through the last 
40 years our operating model and risk management strategy 
have been thoroughly tested and have proved highly resilient. 
Our long history of profitability has produced the financial 
strength which is visible today and provides the capital and 
liquidity we need in our regulated environment as well as 
supporting our future growth. Our business has continually 
adapted to a changing world and the technological and 
economic backdrop, and we will continue to innovate as we 
look to the next phase of our growth.
OUR 
BUSINESS
Back in 1974 we invented a new way 
for people to trade gold. Since then 
IG has grown to become a global 
leader in online trading and the 
world’s No.1 provider of CFDs.
(1)
 
In 2002 we opened our Melbourne 
office and we are now located in 
20 countries.
47% REVENUE 
OUTSIDE THE UK
136,100 ACTIVE 
CLIENTS 
WORLDWIDE
136,100
IG RETAIL 
BRANDS
47%
(1) 
No.1 CFD and spread betting provider: for CFDs, based on revenue excluding 
FX, published financial statements, July 2015; for spread betting, number of 
active UK financial spread betting accounts (Investment Trends UK Leveraged 
Trading Report, July 2014). 
| 6 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 WHERE WE OPERATE
UK
• Introduced the first financial spread betting product in 1974
• Offices located in the City of London and Dublin (Republic 
of Ireland)
• Annual revenue of £206.0 million in the 2015 financial year, 
with 60,400 active clients trading
• Accounts for 53% of Group revenue
AUSTRALIA
• Entered the market in 2002
• Office located in Melbourne
• Annual revenue of £58.1 million in the 2015 financial year, 
with 18,700 active clients trading
• Accounts for 15% of Group revenue 
EUROPE
• Entered the market in Germany in 2006, with rapid 
expansion across Europe from 2007
• Offices located in France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, 
Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland
• Annual revenue of £76.9 million in the 2015 financial year, 
with 29,800 active clients trading
• Accounts for 20% of Group revenue 
REST OF WORLD
• Began expansion in 2006
• Offices located in Dubai, Japan, Singapore, South Africa 
and the US
• Annual revenue of £47.4 million in the 2015 financial year, 
with 27,200 active clients trading
• Accounts for 12% of Group revenue
-
DUBAI
MELBOURNE
DÜSSELDORF
JOHANNESBURG
SINGAPORE
MILAN
AMSTERDAM
LUXEMBOURG
PARIS
MADRID
LONDON
GENEVA
DUBLIN
OSLO
STOCKHOLM
CHICAGO
TOKYO
7 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | CHAIRMAN’S  
STATEMENT
This is my first opportunity to 
address shareholders directly 
since I was elected chairman of IG 
in October 2014. I am delighted 
to present the results for the 2015 
financial year.
It was another record year for revenue, with net trading revenue 
ahead by 4.9% at £388.4 million (2014: £370.4 million). This was 
after the impact of the extreme event involving the Swiss franc 
in January, which I discuss in more detail below; excluding this 
incident, on an underlying basis, revenue was ahead by 8.0% at 
£400.2 million. Underlying profit before tax was down slightly 
on the prior year as a result of ongoing investment, as set out 
in the Chief Executive’s statement. Diluted earnings per share 
was down by 10.5% at 35.99 pence (2014: 40.22 pence); on an 
underlying basis it was ahead by 2.1% at 41.07 pence.
In January the Swiss National Bank announced, without notice, 
that it was ceasing intervention in the franc exchange rate. 
This caused an unprecedented appreciation in the value of 
the franc, creating turmoil in the foreign exchange markets 
and drastically reducing global liquidity in this G10 currency. 
This was a salutary reminder, for both industry providers and 
existing clients, of the potential risks and rewards of trading 
in the financial markets. At IG we take very seriously our 
regulatory and consumer responsibilities on appropriateness 
tests for prospective clients. This incident underlines the need 
for regulators to ensure that regulatory standards are applied 
robustly and consistently across the industry. 
The Swiss franc event provided a sudden real-world stress 
test for our technology, our risk management procedures and 
our balance sheet capacity. Although the resultant negative 
impact of £27 million, net of recoveries, was significant and 
disappointing, IG clearly demonstrated its ability to manage 
through such a so-called ‘Black Swan’ event while maintaining 
a robust business that delivers strong cash flows. Following 
this, we have reviewed our robust risk management system and 
learned lessons that we are applying to provide even greater 
protection for our business and our clients. 
Over the past few years IG has set out a clear vision of what 
it wants to achieve. Our aim is to become the default choice 
for active traders globally. We constantly engage with our 
clients and carefully consider competitive and regulatory 
developments. We continue to see the opportunity to innovate 
and take an increasing share of a growing global market. To 
achieve this, we are building on our award-winning technology 
suite, broadening the range of products we offer to appeal 
to sophisticated investors, expanding into further geographic 
regions and fundamentally improving our mobile and online 
marketing capability. 
This year we achieved a major milestone in IG’s development 
with the launch of an execution-only stockbroking service in 
the UK. Towards the end of the year, we launched this service 
in the Netherlands as the first step in the international roll-out. 
Stockbroking, and its link to IG’s existing products, has the 
potential to underpin the future growth of our business. We 
will use technology to bring a revolution to a very traditional 
market through real-time tradeable prices, direct market 
access, market-leading foreign shares commission rates 
and a full suite of mobile trading platforms. This will allow 
IG to appeal to a much bigger global audience, providing 
an attractive business opportunity in its own right as well 
as broadening the understanding and take-up of our core 
leveraged trading products.
| 8 THE RETIREMENT OF TIM HOWKINS
After a long and extremely successful career at IG, as both CFO 
and CEO, Tim Howkins has informed the Board of his intention 
to retire. Tim’s career at IG has spanned 16 years and he has 
been part of and led extremely dedicated teams which have 
built IG from a single office in London to the global leader 
it is today. Although I have only had the pleasure of working 
with Tim for the last year, I would like to express my personal 
gratitude and I’m sure I speak for all the employees at IG, past 
and present, in wishing him every success in the future. The 
Board is disappointed to lose somebody with Tim’s proven 
leadership skills but fully understands his decision.
The Board has commenced a thorough search and selection 
process for a successor. Tim will step down as CEO and as 
a director at the AGM in October and Peter Hetherington, 
currently Chief Operating Officer, will assume the role of 
Interim Chief Executive, subject to regulatory approval. Peter 
has been a Board member since 2002 and has been integral to 
the successful development of the company. I am pleased to 
report that Peter has confirmed that he would like to enter the 
selection process for the permanent CEO role.
DIVIDEND
IG remains highly cash-generative and we have sought to 
reflect this in the direct cash returns to shareholders. Last 
year your Board raised the Ordinary dividend payout ratio to 
approximately 70%. Although statutory earnings this year are 
behind due to the impact of the Swiss franc incident, both our 
business and the market opportunity remain strong. In line 
with our progressive dividend policy, the Board made clear 
at the time of the first half results in January our intention to 
hold the full-year dividend flat on 2014 at 28.15 pence, and so 
the Board is recommending a final dividend of 19.70 pence.
BOARD 
There have been a number of changes to the Board this year. 
I was delighted to be elected to lead your Board as Chairman 
of IG in October 2014. My arrival was of course accompanied 
by the departure of Jonathan Davie, who had been Chairman 
of the Board since before the public listing of IG in 2005. 
Although I didn’t work alongside Jonathan for very long, his 
record speaks for itself. His guidance over the years assisted 
the Executive team to grow IG into the global leadership 
position it holds today. I would like to express the gratitude of 
the Board and the broader IG community for his wise counsel 
over the years and wish him every success in the future.
Last year’s AGM also saw the departure of Martin Jackson. 
Jonathan addressed Martin’s contribution very eloquently in 
his statement last year. Martin was replaced as Chairman of 
the Audit Committee by Jim Newman.
During 2014 Roger Yates, our Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee, confirmed his intention to stand down from the 
Board after nine years. We are currently carrying out a search 
process for his successor, with the intention of conducting 
a smooth handover before Roger departs at the AGM in 
October. We are also seeking an additional Non-Executive 
Director with digital experience. 
Following these changes, your Board continues to comply 
with provision B.1.2 of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance 
Code (‘the Code’).
Your Board is committed to continually reviewing its 
performance and effectiveness and to ensuring its governance 
remains of the very highest standards. To enable a substantially 
refreshed Board to take a thorough view of our performance 
and any changes that may be required, we have embarked 
on a multi-year external Board evaluation process. This year 
we conducted a questionnaire-based analysis which will be 
followed up with face-to-face interviews with Board members 
next year. The results were reviewed by the Board, along with 
the actions from last year’s internal review. The introduction of 
the Board Risk Committee has allowed the Board to increase 
the time spent on strategic and operational matters. 
The intention again this year is to put every Board Director, with 
the exception of Roger and Tim, up for re-election at the AGM, 
in compliance with paragraph B.7.1 of the Code.
REMUNERATION 
The Remuneration Committee has continued to operate well 
this year. The simplified remuneration scheme introduced 
in 2013 has proved effective. Salary increases for executive 
directors are in line with those of our people generally. 
IG’S PEOPLE
I want to express the Board’s great appreciation for the efforts 
this year of our entire employee base. In my first year with IG, 
I have been struck by the dedication, talent and hard work 
I have witnessed from IG people. Our people remain our 
greatest asset and I want to thank them for their commitment.
LOOKING FORWARD
We have broadened our horizons to bring our offering to a 
much wider audience through both product and geographic 
expansion. Our new offices in Switzerland and Dubai are in the 
very early stages of growth but I am encouraged by the initial 
signs. Importantly, they both provide clear evidence of the 
ability of the IG team to deliver in challenging environments 
and demonstrate our adaptability and desire to continue 
growing the business. We have commenced the international 
rollout of our stockbroking offering and over the next year I 
expect us to expand this into more of our current markets. 
We are investing significant time and effort into improving a 
number of our business processes, particularly in the sales, 
marketing and client-onboarding areas. This includes work on 
our mobile app strategy and driving value from our investment 
in generic top-level domains (gTLDs). We recognise the need 
to evolve rapidly in response to the increasing importance of 
the internet and mobile devices as the key client interfaces.
In summary, 2015 was a solid year, both financially and 
strategically, but we are not resting on our laurels. We are 
clear about our agenda and the team is energised to deliver 
growth and profitability for the future. 
Andy Green 
Chairman 
21 July 2015
9 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S REVIEW
‘2015 was another year 
of good progress on our 
strategic initiatives, coupled 
with a solid underlying set of 
financial results.’
Tim Howkins 
Chief Executive Officer
Underlying revenue, before the impact of the Swiss franc 
event in January – the detail of which I discuss later – was 
£400.2 million, up 8.0% from £370.4 million in the prior 
year. Underlying profit before tax was down by 0.9% at 
£193.2 million, with operating costs increasing to support the 
future growth of the business. Underlying diluted earnings 
per share was up by 2.1% to 41.07 pence, benefiting from 
a fall in the Group’s effective tax rate. On a statutory basis, 
profit before tax was down by 13% and earnings per share 
was down by 10.5%. The Group continues to invest to drive 
future growth. This year, this is reflected in the £27.3 million 
increase in underlying administrative expenses which 
includes the infrastructure and additional marketing to 
support the core business and various initiatives, including 
the expansion into Switzerland and Dubai, the roll-out of 
execution-only stockbroking and investments in mobile and 
web-based technology.
TRADING PERFORMANCE
 We achieved double-digit underlying 
revenue growth in the UK, Australia 
and Rest of World, which together 
comprise 80% of our revenues. 
This growth was driven by the combination of higher active 
client numbers and higher average revenue per client in 
the UK and Australia, and strong client growth in Rest of 
World. However, this was partially offset by a 1.5% fall in 
European revenue.
While Europe continues to see good growth in active client 
numbers, which were up 14.3%, this was more than offset 
by a fall in revenue per client and as a result revenue was 
slightly down. A number of factors have contributed to the 
fall in revenue per client: just over a third of this movement 
was caused by the weakness in the exchange rate of the 
euro against sterling; overnight funding revenue has fallen 
as clients have held fewer positions overnight; although the 
number of trades per client increased significantly, this was 
more than offset by a drop in the overall average trade size, 
reflecting a movement towards smaller size contracts; and 
through the second half, we also saw a widening of spreads in 
the underlying DAX futures contract, which increased the cost 
of hedging in what is the most popular traded product across 
our European business.
We saw notable growth in our US business, Nadex, which 
accelerated as the year progressed. Revenue was up 68% 
year-on-year and growth was strongest in the final quarter 
of the year, when revenue was more than double the same 
quarter of the prior year.
This growth was driven by a number of factors including the 
introduction of a second market maker a little over a year 
ago, on-going improvements to our marketing efficiency 
and various other operational enhancements, including the 
relocation of our IT infrastructure. Following this marked 
| 10 improvement in the growth rate of Nadex, in the final months 
of the year we increased our US marketing expenditure to 
take advantage of the improving return on investment that it 
was yielding. 
IMPACT OF THE SWISS FRANC EVENT
All of the above revenue figures and growth rates are stated 
before the impact of the Swiss franc de-peg on 15 January, 
which reduced revenue by £12 million and increased the 
bad debt charge by £15 million (net of recoveries). This was 
a market event of unprecedented proportions, with a major 
currency moving over 30% in a matter of minutes. We have 
spent considerable time reflecting on the lessons we can learn 
from this, and will continue to do so. Our first change is to 
introduce more extreme scenarios into our stress-testing and 
scenario planning and we are considering carefully the risk/
reward ratio on all aspects of our business. 
Of the 342 clients who initially owed us money as a result of 
the Swiss franc move, less than 100 remain outstanding. We 
recognise that the scale of the move was beyond anyone’s 
expectations and we are being sympathetic to debtors’ ability 
to pay, accepting less than the full amount of the debt where 
this is justified by the financial circumstances of the individual. 
Unfortunately a few clients, whom we believe to be financially 
sophisticated, with the means to pay their debts, have used 
social and more traditional media to generate adverse 
publicity for IG in an attempt, we believe, to avoid taking 
responsibility for their debts. We continue to encourage 
any remaining affected clients to make contact so that their 
individual circumstances can be taken into account in settling 
their account balance. We have provided a full reconciliation 
between the statutory numbers and those on an underlying 
basis, adjusting for the impact of this extreme event, in note 
2(a) to the financial statements.
The Swiss franc event had an immediate impact on some 
providers in our industry around the globe, which either 
went into insolvency or had to refinance to rebuild their 
balance sheets. 
At least one major hedging counterparty has withdrawn from 
the market, and we believe others are re-assessing who they 
want to do business with in future. I think it inevitable that the 
smaller players in our industry will find hedging relationships 
become harder and more expensive to secure. This may result 
in some consolidation across the industry or more industry 
players adopting a model that involves little or no hedging. 
The latter is unlikely to result in good consumer outcomes in 
the long run.
GEOGRAPHIC EXPANSION
In October we opened our office in Switzerland, having 
obtained a Swiss Banking licence that was necessary for us 
to do business there. This operation is performing according 
to our expectations and in line with the early growth rates we 
have seen in other European markets. Shortly after the year 
end we received our licence from the Dubai Financial Services 
Authority (DFSA) and opened for business in the Dubai 
International Financial Centre. To maximise effectiveness, 
the full marketing and PR launch of this business is planned 
for September, once the summer is over. Our licence from 
the DFSA is one of the first it has issued that enables the 
licence-holder to deal with retail clients; this opens up the 
market for IG to a much broader pool of potential clients than 
has previously been possible in Dubai.
 The challenges in obtaining the types 
of licence which we have been granted 
in both Switzerland and Dubai are 
considerable and we were subject to 
detailed and prolonged scrutiny by 
both regulators. I am delighted that 
we have been able to obtain these 
licences. This is testament to our 
ongoing investment in people, systems 
and processes to ensure that we 
remain fully compliant with the ever-
increasing regulatory burdens, both 
within our industry and on all financial 
businesses globally.
Subsequent to the year-end we obtained a representative 
office licence from the China Securities Regulatory 
Commission. This allows us to establish a small office in 
Shanghai, which will facilitate discussions with potential 
partners in China, but does not give us any right or ability 
to transact business in China. As I indicated in January this 
year, we continue to view China as an interesting future 
market for us, but one in which we anticipate that matters will 
develop slowly. 
PRODUCT DIVERSIFICATION
In September we launched our stockbroking service in the 
UK, and have been pleased with the progress to date. We 
continue to see good recruitment of new clients – roughly 
65% of all funded stockbroking accounts are clients new to 
IG. Even more encouragingly, although the numbers will 
take some time to settle down, around 20% of those are 
going on to trade with our existing leveraged products. Early 
indications are that the clients who start with stockbroking 
and move on to our other products are, on average, at least 
as valuable as those clients who do not start via stockbroking. 
In March we began our international roll-out of this service 
with the launch in the Netherlands. While this is one of our 
smaller offices, we were able to complete the development 
work necessary to launch here quickly because the tax regime 
there made this less complex. In July 2015, we launched 
stockbroking in Germany – with the offering also available to 
Austrian clients. We will continue with a targeted international 
roll-out and expect to launch in most of our current countries 
over the coming years. 
11 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | As well as extending our stockbroking offering internationally, 
as we continue our diversification strategy to appeal to a 
broader set of clients, we will also be seeking to increase 
its scope with the addition of innovative new products 
and services which we believe will extend the reach of 
our offering.
 To this end, IG recently entered into 
an agreement with BlackRock, the 
largest ETF provider globally, which 
will facilitate IG constructing a range 
of ETF-based investment portfolios for 
our clients. 
The details of this new service are still being worked through 
and we do not expect it to be fully operational until 2016. 
However, it fits with IG’s strategy of broadening our offering 
to cater for sophisticated investors as well as active traders. 
At IG we believe that portfolios composed of passive 
instruments such as ETFs have the potential to disrupt the 
investment management industry, as passive investing and 
ETFs become an integral part of investors’ portfolios. The 
new service will be delivered digitally and will leverage the 
capabilities of our existing stockbroking platform. We believe 
that this partnership with BlackRock can significantly broaden 
our reach beyond our existing client base and we consider it 
to be an exciting long-term opportunity.
RISK MANAGEMENT OPTIMISATION
Over the last decade our hedging has become progressively 
more cautious relative to the scale of IG, as risk limits have 
remained relatively stable while client numbers, trading 
volumes and Group revenue have grown significantly. 
Following further development of our back-end risk 
management systems, we commenced an extremely detailed 
analysis of our indices risk limits market-by-market. Our 
initial conclusions led to us increasing certain of our risk 
limits but, more importantly, during the period we made 
our main regional and global equity limits dynamic. This 
involves increasing the risk limit for a market when it is open, 
most liquid or when we are seeing most client activity in that 
market, and reducing the limit approaching market closing, 
or when liquidity or activity levels are reduced. We expect 
this approach will enable us to reduce our hedging costs 
and thus on average increase the revenue that we make per 
unit of volume. We do not expect this approach to materially 
impact the very high correlation that our revenue has to client 
volume, which we recognise as an important element of the 
IG investment case.
GROWING OUR ACTIVE CLIENT BASE
Over the long term we expect that growth in our business will 
be driven primarily by increasing the number of active clients 
and that this in turn will be driven mainly by the rate of client 
recruitment. We have a number of initiatives in progress which 
we envisage will lead to improvements in the rate of client 
recruitment across all of our businesses globally.
Over the last year we have made significant improvements 
to our data-driven digital marketing capability, both in terms 
of personnel and technology. As we have done so, we have 
been progressively optimising how and where we spend on 
digital marketing. We have greater confidence in our ability 
to track our marketing spend, to measure its effectiveness 
and to switch the focus rapidly to respond to opportunities. 
There is more work to be done to further optimise spending, 
but the initial results are encouraging and this contributed 
to the strong account opening we achieved throughout the 
second half of the year. The payback from digital marketing 
is good – on average a new trading client generates enough 
revenue to cover their marketing recruitment cost within their 
first three months. It therefore makes sense for us to continue 
to increase our marketing spend progressively, until we reach 
a point of diminishing returns from the incremental spending.
We are making ongoing incremental improvements to our 
‘conversion funnel’ – the journey which a client goes through 
from starting to complete our application form to funding 
their account and trading for the first time. These changes 
include implementing electronic ID verification in a number of 
additional countries and simplifying the process of capturing 
and uploading images of identity documents. 
 By eliminating manual steps from the 
conversion funnel and making the 
process as streamlined as possible, 
we expect to reduce the proportion of 
potential clients who drop out part-
way through the application process. 
In making these changes, we will 
not in any way compromise the high 
regulatory standards we apply during 
the account opening process.
We continue to develop multiple mobile applications to 
address different stages in the client journey. We will shortly 
be releasing a new educational app, IG Academy on iPhone. 
CHIEF  
EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S 
REVIEW 
(CONTINUED)
| 12 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 In the following sections, we will:
• Outline the products and services we provide for 
our retail and institutional clients
• Show how we are set up to provide support for our 
clients and meet their needs as they evolve over 
time, and the critical importance of our people and 
the values we live by to our success
• Summarise the rationale, the progress made in 
2014, the priorities for 2015, and the link to our 
business model for each of our strategic objectives
• Lastly then work through some examples of our 
strategy in action and our focus for 2015
The initial content of IG Academy comprises educational 
materials for prospective and new clients and it will act as a 
feeder into our suite of trading apps. Over time we intend to 
build the content of IG Academy to address the educational 
needs of clients with the full range of experience, everyone 
from newcomers to sophisticated traders wanting to learn 
advanced techniques. 
CAPITALISING ON TOP-LEVEL DOMAINS
As I have mentioned before we were successful in our 
application for seven generic top-level domains (gTLDs) 
that are directly relevant to our business. We made this 
investment to position our business for changes to the 
structure and usage of the internet and the drivers of search 
engine rankings, which we envisage will result from the recent 
significant expansion in the number of top-level domains. 
As a first step in exploiting these gTLDs we intend to build a 
significant number of specialised websites over the coming 
year. Some of these will be IG branded and be devoted to 
one aspect of our product set or service; for example, IG.forex 
will be devoted to our extensive forex offering. Others will 
be more generic and concentrate on one segment of our 
audience or one aspect of consumer need; for example, 
whatis.spreadbetting will provide generic education on 
financial spread betting. Each of these websites will have a 
tightly defined audience, subject matter and purpose as well 
as a highly relevant domain name. As a result, we expect that 
they will rank highly on search engines for topics relevant to 
the success of IG.
Alongside this, we will be encouraging third parties to buy 
licences for domain names on our gTLDs with the view that 
over time these gTLDs should become recognised as marks 
of authority and relevance and become synonymous with 
the products they represent. We have already made some 
early sales of domain name licences for .markets, the first of 
our gTLDs to go live. We do not view this as a business in its 
own right, but rather as a source of income which will partially 
offset the cost of developing our own websites using our 
gTLDs, aimed at increasing the level of client recruitment for 
our business. We currently expect the remaining gTLDs to go 
live during the first half of the current financial year. 
 We believe that all of the above 
initiatives, together with the ongoing 
development of our product offering, 
will help to drive the recruitment, 
conversion and long-term retention of 
good-quality clients.
By successfully expanding our client base globally we can 
ensure the next phase of growth for IG.
MY RETIREMENT
After 16 years at IG, seven as CFO and almost nine as CEO, 
I have informed the Board of my intention to retire.
Firstly and mainly, I would like to thank all of IG’s employees, 
past and present, for their hard work and dedication and 
for helping to make the last 16 years such an enjoyable 
and rewarding experience. I would also like to express my 
gratitude to the clients who have put their trust in IG over the 
years. I also want to thank the loyal shareholders who put their 
faith in IG and supported it with their investment. 
During my time at IG I have seen our business transform, as 
we have grown revenues from £12 million to an underlying 
£400 million. In my time as CEO, we have grown earnings per 
share from 10.88 pence to an underlying 41.07 pence, and 
have gone from less than 10% of our revenue coming from 
outside the UK to now almost 50%. Our group now has offices 
in 20 countries and includes a US regulated exchange and 
a Swiss Bank. This has been a great team effort. I have been 
surrounded by an extremely talented senior management 
team, a number of whom have been with me throughout my 
tenure as CEO, and I have every confidence that this team will 
continue to drive the business forward with the same degree 
of success. I very much look forward to seeing the more 
recent initiatives we have started together come to fruition 
over the coming years.
Tim Howkins 
Chief Executive Officer 
21 July 2015
13 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | The vast majority of our clients engage directly with us, and we aim to build a long-term relationship with them by anticipating 
and responding to their changing needs through technological and service innovation. Most of our global revenue comes 
from CFDs and financial spread betting (in the UK and Ireland), with an increasing proportion arising from binaries trading, 
including our US retail derivatives exchange, Nadex. This year we introduced execution-only stockbroking in the UK and Ireland 
and began our international roll-out of this product in the Netherlands in March. Worked examples of our major products are 
shown below. 
CONTRACTS FOR DIFFERENCE (CFDs)
CFDs are derivatives contracts that enable clients to take advantage of changes in an asset’s price, without owning the 
asset itself. 
• We are the world’s No.1 CFD provider
(1)
• We offer global CFD trading, including direct market access (DMA) to shares and forex markets 
The diagram below shows, in simplified form, how a CFD can be used to ‘sell’ a market when you expect it to fall. This is known 
as ‘going short’. In this scenario, a subsequent fall in the market price results in a profit for the client while a rise would have 
resulted in a loss. The diagram below should be viewed in conjunction with our more detailed example of a CFD trade on 
page 180.
WHAT WE DO 
We offer our clients fast and 
flexible trading on a range of 
instruments including indices, 
shares, forex and commodities on 
award-winning platforms. We also 
offer trading opportunities on 
interest rates, government bonds, 
exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and 
a number of other markets.
(1) 
Based on revenue excluding FX, published financial statements, July 2015.
320p 350p 370p 270p 290p CLOSING 
PRICE
MARKET  
PRICE 
CLOSING 
PRICE
MARKET 
RISE 
MARKET 
FALL
THE TRADE
You open a trade for 500 contracts  
at the market price of 320p
SIZE (SHARES)
500
MARKET PRICE RISES
CLOSING PRICE
350p LOSS
£150.00
MARKET PRICE FALLS
CLOSING PRICE
290p PROFIT
£150.00
MARKET PRICE
320p The market moves by 30p
COMMISSION
£10.00
If you expect the market  
to fall, you ‘sell’ at the  
MARKET PRICE
GOING SHORT
| 14 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 SPREAD BETTING
Financial spread betting in the UK and Ireland is a tax-free
(1)
 way to trade by betting on the price movement of an asset. Like a 
CFD, a client takes advantage of changes in an asset’s price, without owning the asset itself, and the size of a client’s win or loss 
depends on the magnitude and direction of the price movement. 
• We are the UK’s largest and longest-running spread betting provider
(2) 
• We hold 40% of the UK financial spread betting market
(3)
The diagram below shows, in simplified form, how a spread bet can be used to ‘buy’ a market when you expect it to rise. 
This is known as ‘going long’. In this scenario, a subsequent rise in the market price results in a profit for the client while a fall 
would result in a loss. The diagram below should be viewed in conjunction with our more detailed example of a spread bet on 
page 182.
(1) 
Tax laws are subject to change and depend on individual circumstances. 
(2) 
No.1 spread betting provider: based on number of active UK financial spread 
betting accounts (Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, July 2014).
(3) 
By number of active primary accounts. All market share data presented in 
this report is provided by Investment Trends Pty Limited (please refer to the 
Investor Resources section on page 190 for further details).
MARKET 
RISE 
1000
1001
1002
0998
0999
If you expect the market  
to rise, you ‘buy’ at the  
OFFER PRICE
GOING LONG
THE
SPREAD
IG BUY/OFFER 
PRICE
MARKET 
FALL
UNDERLYING 
MARKET VALUE
IG SELL/BID 
PRICE
SIZE (£ PER POINT)
£10.00
THE DEAL
You open a position for £10.00 per point  
at the offer price of 1001
BUY/OFFER PRICE
1001
MARKET PRICE RISES
MARKET PRICE FALLS
SELL/BID PRICE
1007
PROFIT
£60.00
SELL/BID PRICE
0991
LOSS
£100.00
The market moves by eight points
STOCKBROKING
Our stockbroking service, which launched in the UK in the 
second quarter of the year, is powered by our existing 
market-leading technology and provides clients with access 
to live streaming prices and a transparent execution process, 
as well as a cost-effective way to trade international equities. 
At the end of November we enhanced the offering by giving 
clients the ability to use their share portfolio as collateral 
to support their shorter-term trading with CFDs or spread 
betting. Clients can benefit from lower charges if they have 
executed at least ten stockbroking transactions or placed at 
least one spread bet or CFD trade in the previous month. 
For a detailed stockbroking example please see page 184.
15 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | WHAT  
WE DO
(CONTINUED)
BINARIES
Our pioneering binary contracts are based on a single 
question: ‘Will the underlying market behave in a specific way 
before the contract expires?’. Clients use their knowledge of 
the financial markets to decide whether the answer will be yes 
or no. We also offer ‘sprint markets’ – high-speed, fixed-risk 
trades. Our binary contracts give clients the opportunity to 
trade in even the flattest markets.
The main attributes of binary contracts are that they enable 
clients to trade with limited risk and are unrestricted by 
low volatility, therefore remaining attractive to clients when 
markets are relatively stable.
NORTH AMERICAN DERIVATIVES 
EXCHANGE (NADEX)
Nadex is our US derivatives exchange, enabling US and 
overseas investors to trade options on global financial 
markets in retail-sized contracts. 
• Nadex is the first and largest US-based 
retail-oriented exchange 
• We provide a flexible way for our clients to trade with 
limited risk 
• The main product on Nadex is the binary option 
HOW WE GENERATE REVENUE
Our principal revenue sources on our core leveraged products 
are the dealing spreads or commission charges we apply 
to each transaction, according to the asset and product 
type being traded. As clients are trading on margin, we also 
levy a financing charge for positions held overnight. Our 
stockbroking offer charges a flat fee commission per trade in 
UK shares. 
We derive our earnings from the volume of our clients’ 
dealing transactions, which is influenced by the level 
of activity in the underlying financial markets. Since our 
clients can choose to ‘buy’ or ‘sell’, dealing volumes can be 
maintained, and we are able to profit, irrespective of the 
direction in which markets are moving. 
Our centralised operating model enables us to consolidate 
the market risk associated with client trades from around 
the globe, which lessens our requirement to hedge due to 
the net impact of clients buying and selling the same asset, 
and so reduces risk and cost. This model also enables us to 
maintain lower-cost and capital-efficient processes, while 
robust risk-management procedures help us monitor and 
control the impact of market and credit risk on the company 
and our clients.
Our exposure to market risk at any point in time depends 
primarily on short-term market conditions and the levels of 
client activity. We utilise market position limits for ‘operational 
efficiency’ and do not take proprietary positions based on 
an expectation of market movements. As a result, not all 
net client exposures are hedged and we are likely to have 
a residual net position in any of the financial markets in 
which we offer products up to the market risk limit. The 
costs associated with the hedging of market risk as well as 
any gains or losses incurred on the unhedged residual net 
position are reported within revenue, along with the charges 
levied on our clients. 
| 16 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 OUR 
CLIENTS
In the year, we had 136,100 active clients around the globe. 
The majority of our customers engage directly with us and our 
aim is to build a long-term mutually beneficial relationship 
with them by anticipating and responding to their changing 
needs throughout their time with us.
We offer them a portfolio of instruments to trade including 
indices, shares, forex and commodities on award-winning 
platforms. In addition, we offer trading opportunities on 
interest rates, government bonds, exchange-traded funds 
(ETFs) and a number of other markets. We aim to make our 
platform execution consistently fast and flexible. 
We also provide our products through a number of third-party 
institutional providers that are chosen carefully to ensure they 
maintain our strict standards of regulatory compliance as well 
as fitting our risk profile. Of our active clients, approximately 
10% were introduced by our partners in the financial year 
ended 31 May 2015.
The basis of these partnerships varies from straight referral, 
where an institution refers the client directly to IG, through to 
full ‘white-labelling’ of our dealing and back-office systems, 
where we provide a dealing solution in the branding of the 
institution. This allows our partners to generate new revenue 
streams using their marketing and sales capabilities while 
relying on our award-winning dealing platforms, and our 
expertise in dealing, risk management and client services.
Clients introduced to us through partner institutions are able 
to trade our full product suite over the counter, or if they 
prefer can trade directly on the underlying exchange via our 
direct market access products.
Our platform offering encompasses our regular web and 
mobile platforms, as well as a downloadable proprietary 
platform specifically designed for institutional users. We also 
have web and direct API (Application Programming Interface) 
connectivity for those clients who wish to fully integrate their 
trading strategies to the IG infrastructure via their own front 
end or any number of third-party solutions.
Our partner relationships are designed to be mutually 
beneficial, with generous rebates for successful partners, 
which resulted in £33.7 million of payments being made to 
partners in the year.
17 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | BRAND STRENGTH PRODUCT SUITE
OUR CLIENTS AND US 
We aim to be responsive to 
the needs of our clients as 
they evolve, with the suite 
of products and services we 
offer. By achieving this we will 
attract and retain the most 
active traders.
Ongoing investment in 
Customer Relationship Management
Expanding product suite:
Stockbroking – NEW IN 2015 
Spread betting
CFDs
Binaries
Our unrivalled global brand 
and reputation for integrity and 
transparency are key reasons why 
new clients choose IG as their 
trading provider.
We provide clients with an 
extremely broad product set, 
both in terms of markets to 
trade and platform functionality, 
to enable them to manage 
their risk.
NO.1 
GLOBAL 
PROVIDER 
OF CFDS AND 
FINANCIAL
SPREAD BETTING 
| 18 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 EDUCATION TECHNOLOGY ONLINE
Industry-leading investment in core 
platform to remain at the forefront of 
the industry.
News flow provision including economic 
calendar, alerts and market insight.
IG TV with more than 20 educational videos 
in multiple languages launched in 2015
Innovative 
products including:
Major Markets App
Apple Watch App
API introduction 
IG is recognised as a technology 
leader in the industry, with 
a track record of innovation. 
We constantly engage with our 
clients to understand what they 
require of a trading platform.
Resources such as an economic 
calendar, current news, market 
insight and educational videos are 
designed to assist clients to trade 
and to deepen the relationship we 
have with them.
19 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | OUR STRATEGIC 
OBJECTIVES
PROGRESS IN 2015 PRIORITIES FOR 2016
ADDRESS THE NEEDS 
OF ACTIVE TRADERS
We seek to attract and retain 
the most active traders. Active 
traders are both demanding 
and valuable because they trade 
frequently or place large trades. 
We aim to be responsive to 
their needs as they evolve over 
time with the suite of products 
we offer.
• Launched our technologically advanced 
execution-only stockbroking service
• Launched new IG Major Markets app for the iPad in 
the UK in December
• Successful first year for IG TV in educating new and 
prospective clients 
• 23 new localised websites launched, focused on 
onboarding new clients
• First major provider to introduce Sunday trading
• Continue the successful roll-out 
of stockbroking to further 
regions and add the ability for 
clients to participate in IPOs
• Broaden the product 
set to include a wealth 
management platform
• Launch further apps for new 
and prospective clients, 
including educational apps to 
suit all levels of experience
ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN 
OR EXTEND MARKET 
LEADERSHIP 
Market leadership is a reflection 
of great customer service 
combined with a strong product 
and platform offering. Having 
scale is important for profitability 
and the long-term success of 
our business.
• Maintained our UK market leadership position in the 
UK for CFDs and financial spread betting
• Maintained leadership position in Australia and 
increased lead in France
• Successful launch of IG TV and the IG video app
• Various improvements to client onboarding process 
showing positive results
• Launched our first gTLD (.markets) to assist 
online marketing
• Continue to increase client 
numbers and revenue in 
stockbroking as well as the 
level of cross-selling
• Further enhance the account 
application to trading 
process to increase new 
client numbers
• Launch the remaining gTLDs 
and leverage marketing and 
SEO benefits 
STRENGTHEN GLOBAL 
PRESENCE
Opening offices in new countries 
provides us with the opportunity 
to recruit new clients and grow 
the business. Our single global 
identity and standard platform 
helps us to grow the global 
footprint of our business in a 
cost-effective manner.
• Opened for business in Switzerland with a full 
banking licence
• Received regulatory approval and opened in Dubai 
in June
• Achieved rapid growth in Nadex in the US
• Single brand of IG enabled first global brand 
campaign across 13 countries in 2015
• Fully establish and grow the 
office in Dubai
• Establish relationships in 
China which may enable us to 
build a future business there
• Roll out stockbroking 
offering to at least three 
more countries
• Continue to deliver growth 
in Nadex
DELIVER QUALITY 
SERVICE TO CLIENTS
By maintaining absolute 
integrity, delivering excellent 
customer service and fast 
and reliable execution with 
transparent pricing we strive 
to make our clients feel secure 
and confident in trading with 
us, resulting in a longer, more 
profitable relationship.
• Continued focus on delivering industry-leading 
customer service
• Livechat introduced in all our sites with an average of 
3,700 conversations per month
• Expanded charting technical support team
• Training introduced to move team from transactional 
to relationship management 
• Introduction of new contact 
centre management tool to 
improve proactive contact 
with clients and focus on 
active traders
• Introduce peer-to-peer support
• Introduce ‘My IG’ on the 
trading platform to allow 
clients to self-serve
SUSTAIN TECHNOLOGY 
LEADERSHIP
The strength and market-leading 
functionality of our platform and 
its proven resilience are essential 
to maintaining client satisfaction, 
and enhance client acquisition 
and retention.
• Extended availability of full version of IG.com to all 
mobile platforms
• Delivered fully dynamic versions of all IG websites
• Developed and supported new stockbroking product
• Launched the first global trading app for the 
Apple Watch
• Launched web API allowing automated trading 
for clients
• Co-located trading infrastructure in Nadex to reduce 
pricing and execution latency
• Economic calendar rolled out to mobile apps, with 
push message alerts on economic figures
• Established mobile app team to increase rate of 
client sign-ups – delivered Major Markets App
• Revamp of our core online 
trading platform to ensure 
we remain at the forefront of 
retail trading platforms
• Development of suite of 
educational apps for existing 
and prospective clients
• Invest in technology 
to support our 
onboarding processes 
• Improve the users’ application 
process experience 
• Provide trading through 
charts functionality on 
mobile devices
| 20 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 We have developed a business model that 
harnesses the demand from active traders 
for fast, flexible and secure online trading.
• Our international network of offices, through 
local seminars and public-relations exercises
• Our multi-channel brand and targeted 
advertising campaigns
• Our optimised online and  
app-store presence
• Our worldwide network of  
high-quality partners
Our clients can trade across a wide variety of markets, geographies and asset classes.
OUR CLIENTS
FINANCIAL MARKETS
OUR TECHNOLOGY
OUR PRODUCTS
HIGH-CALIBRE STAFF
STRENGTH AND STABILITY
AUTHORITY AND EXPERTISE 
CLIENT FOCUS
Indices Shares Forex Commodities
Other markets: Interest rates, bonds, ETFs.
FX
OUR 
BUSINESS 
MODEL
KPIs  
(SEE PAGE 28)
REVENUE
REVENUE PER 
CLIENT
ACTIVE CLIENTS
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
DILUTED EARNINGS 
PER SHARE
CASH GENERATION
DIVIDEND PER 
SHARE
PLATFORM UPTIME
NET PROMOTER 
SCORE
KEY RISKS  
(SEE PAGE 51) 
CREDIT
MARKET
LIQUIDITY
OPERATIONAL
REGULATORY
CONDUCT
TECHNOLOGY
We attract clients globally via a number of channels, including:
21 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF ACTIVE TRADERS
The most valuable traders are those that trade most frequently or in the largest deal size. We aim to service 
the needs of these traders as they evolve over time with the suite of products and platform functionality 
that we offer. Our platforms, products and service levels are therefore designed with these clients in mind, 
while we remain conscious of the importance of delivering an excellent trading experience for all. 
ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN OR EXTEND MARKET LEADERSHIP
Market leadership is a result of an award-winning platform and product offering, combined with a service 
ethos with the client at its centre; by delivering this we can ensure the long-term success of our business. 
We are a global leader in online trading, with the aim to become the default choice for active traders. 
We are currently the No.1
(1)
 global provider of CFDs and financial spread betting and a recognised 
authority on financial trading. We have achieved this position through a focus on what traders need: 
technology, platform functionality, education and research, services, product breadth, all supported 
by the excellent customer service provided by our people. We will remain focused on achieving, 
maintaining, or extending market leadership in each of the markets and regions in which we operate.
STRENGTHEN GLOBAL PRESENCE
We began our expansion outside the UK in 2002, with the opening of an office in Australia. We now 
have sales offices in 17 countries, serving clients in the vast majority of the countries of the world. 
We have used a consistent and purposeful approach in growing our client base, both in established 
and new regions. Our single global brand – IG – is helping us to develop our reach, increase our 
market penetration and target additional countries, from the offices where we already operate, using 
lighter versions of the IG website. These sites are fully responsive, and aim to remove the barriers 
to converting clients to IG by catering for additional currencies, offering faster identity checks and 
facilitating the uploading of application paperwork. 
DELIVER QUALITY SERVICE TO CLIENTS
Our vision is to deliver an industry-leading and world-class service to our clients, and for the quality of 
our customer service to be viewed as a competitive advantage. Through fast and reliable execution, 
transparent pricing, investment in education and market insight resources and full segregation of 
client funds, we aim to make our clients feel secure and confident in trading with us. Backing this up 
with the best online support, helpdesk and service levels will position us very well to attract and retain 
valuable active clients. 
SUSTAIN TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP
This is a virtuous circle. Our original concentration on delivering technological excellence assisted 
us in building a highly profitable business. Our financial strength now enables us to maintain a high 
level of investment in IT development and infrastructure to remain at the forefront of the industry, 
with a superior platform, technology, tools and resources. The strength of our platform and its proven 
resilience over a long period of time are essential in acquiring and retaining clients and maximising 
the length and value of a client relationship.
OUR STRATEGY  
In this section we outline our 
strategic objectives and work 
through examples of our strategy 
in action and our focus in the 
year ahead.
See page 24
See page 27
See page 25
See page 26
See page 23
(1) 
No.1 CFD and spread betting provider: for CFDs, based on revenue excluding FX, published financial statements, July 2015; for 
spread betting, number of active UK financial spread betting accounts (Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, July 2014).
| 22 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 STOCKBROKING SERVICE 
In September 2014 we successfully launched our execution-
only stockbroking business in the UK and Ireland – our first 
significant diversification from leveraged trading and a key 
milestone on our journey to become the default choice for 
active traders. 
Prior to developing the service, a survey of our clients 
concluded that 60% of them also traded cash equities, and 
65% of those said that they would consider moving their 
business to IG if we offered this service. In addition, our 
research indicated that the trading life of a cash equity client 
was longer than that of our existing client base, that many 
of them were wealthy and that there was a constituency 
among them that traded very actively. This presents several 
opportunities: it gives us a new and much broader sales and 
marketing opportunity; it allows us to deepen the relationship 
we have with our clients and to manage a greater proportion 
of their trading and investment activity. Stockbroking should 
extend the duration of a client relationship as their risk 
appetite changes and it enables a cross-sell from more active 
stockbroking customers into the leveraged product set. 
We strive to deliver unparalleled service to our clients and 
therefore we have undertaken a number of initiatives to 
address their needs and differentiate ourselves from the 
competition. We offer our customers the opportunity to 
transfer their existing shareholdings to us, free from IG 
charges. Once the portfolio has been transferred, the client 
has access to the full range of features on IG’s platform. This 
includes access to our range of over 8,000 shares, which 
are offered in their local denomination, regardless of the 
currency on the client’s account. This means our customers 
know exactly what they are paying, with our fee to convert 
to their base currency being one of the most competitive in 
the market. 
Unlike most traditional stockbrokers, we charge our clients 
only when they trade and not for holding an active account 
with us, while our superior technology supports both ‘at 
quote’ and ‘on exchange’ trading, ensuring clients have 
access to the best possible price. We allow traders to interact 
directly with the order book and our systems search for 
liquidity and price improvements across multiple venues. This 
means they have more options when looking for the best 
execution as well as live visibility of the market and access to 
full market depth.
In addition, at the end of November we enhanced the 
offering by giving clients the ability to use their share portfolio 
as collateral to support their shorter-term trading with CFDs 
or spread betting, with over 900 clients already signed up for 
this service. In March we extended the stockbroking service to 
the Netherlands and in July we rolled it out in Germany – the 
largest of our continental European countries by revenue.
We anticipated that initial take up of the stockbroking 
service would be slow but steady. However, we have been 
encouraged by the number of early sign-ups and pleased with 
the proportion of these that has come from new clients. After 
nine months, we have over 4,000 clients who have opened 
and funded a stockbroking account, with roughly 65% of 
these being clients new to IG. Although it is very early in the 
life of this product, we have seen evidence already that a 
proportion of clients who start as stockbroking clients do then 
move on to also trade with our other products. There isn’t 
sufficient data to be clear about the size of this opportunity 
but the early evidence suggests that around 20% of those 
new clients who began with stockbroking go on to trade with 
a leveraged product.
FOCUS ON MOBILE 
With the use of mobile apps continuing to grow, an increasing 
number of our clients use this as their primary method for 
interacting with IG and the financial markets. As a response 
to the needs of our experienced clients, our core apps 
are extremely feature-rich and provide powerful tools. 
However, they may not be appealing to less sophisticated 
traders, discouraging them from opening an account with 
us. Therefore, towards the end of our last financial year 
we established an operation in Eastern Europe in order to 
develop apps that better suit the needs of prospective and 
new clients, with the vision to recruit, educate and support 
their journey to high-value customers. In tandem with this 
we are actively building the necessary marketing skills and 
support to encourage app downloads and then convert the 
interest shown into active clients. In December we launched 
the IG Major Markets app for iPad in the UK aimed at 
improving acquisition rates. The app aims to be less daunting, 
offering a simpler experience, access to a smaller suite of 
markets as well as being highly customisable. Since then we 
have added versions for different platforms and rolled it out 
to most of our geographic locations. 
ADDRESS  
THE NEEDS  
OF ACTIVE  
TRADERS
23 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | Market leadership is a result of delivering the products and 
services that our clients require. Our strategies for achieving, 
maintaining and extending market share have consistent 
themes but have also been localised to suit each market. We 
are currently the No.1
(1)
 global provider of CFDs and financial 
spread betting and acknowledged as a recognised authority 
on financial trading. 
Presented here is the background and current performance of 
our three largest individual markets.
UK
IG Index was founded in 1974, becoming the UK’s first 
financial spread betting company. CFDs were then introduced 
in 2000 under the IG Markets brand. We now offer a full suite 
of assets under the IG brand. Our UK business is based in the 
City of London and accounted for just over half our Group 
revenue in 2015.
Last year over 60,300 active clients traded with us in the UK 
and Ireland, and in the UK market we are the market leader 
in spread betting by 32 percentage points
 
and in CFDs by 
13 percentage points.
(2)
AUSTRALIA
Our Australian business was established in 2002 and is 
based in Melbourne. Although not first to market, we rapidly 
overhauled the market leader to become the largest CFD 
provider in Australia. In 2014 we had a 33% market share, 
16 percentage points ahead of the second-placed provider.
(2)
 
Australia represented 15% of Group revenue in 2015.
The total CFD market has grown strongly over the last six years 
from 32,000 to 42,000 traders
(3)
, as the product has become 
better understood and displaced the retail warrants market, 
a previously popular leveraged trading product in Australia. 
SINGAPORE
We opened our office in Singapore in 2006. Although quite 
small, Singapore has a highly concentrated and financially 
sophisticated population. IG has grown its market share 
consistently to overtake most other providers. We are now 
the second-largest CFD provider in Singapore, with a market 
share of 17% and the second largest retail forex trading 
provider with a market share of 15%. Adapting to local cultural 
preferences, in 2013 we opened up our first shop front office 
in the centre of Singapore and this has increased the flow 
of current and new clients to the office. In 2015 Singapore 
accounted for 6% of Group revenue and was the third-largest 
revenue country within the Group.
ACHIEVE,  
MAINTAIN  
OR EXTEND 
MARKET 
LEADERSHIP
OUR  
STRATEGY
(CONTINUED)
(1) 
No.1 CFD and spread betting provider: for CFDs, based on revenue excluding 
FX, published financial statements, July 2015; for spread betting, number of 
active UK financial spread betting accounts (Investment Trends UK Leveraged 
Trading Report, July 2014).
(2) 
By number of active primary accounts. All market share data presented in 
this report is provided by Investment Trends Pty Limited (please refer to the 
Investor Resources section on page 190 for further details).
(3) 
By number of active Australian CFD traders (Investment Trends Australia CFD 
Report, 2014).
| 24 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 With the opening of our office in Dubai in June we made further progress in expanding our worldwide presence to markets 
where regulation allows and where the potential financial returns to IG are attractive.
Dubai is the financial centre of the Middle East region and an obvious location for our expansion. There are a significant number 
of financially sophisticated and high net worth individuals in the region and our investment in producing an Arabic language 
website could ultimately prove popular to potential clients across the broader UAE. We recruited a 17-strong team, giving us 
full local language customer service capabilities, and, following approval of our licence by the Dubai Financial Services Authority 
(DFSA), we opened our office in June. The launch coincided with Ramadan and so we delayed our first major marketing 
and media push until the end of the summer. Dubai provided some of our greatest challenges to date, due to the increased 
requirement to localise the offering, but the team rose to these challenges and we are delighted to be now serving this 
region locally. 
Switzerland was another example of a more complex setup process, requiring a flexible but disciplined approach to the 
licensing process. We were granted our licence by Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA) in September 2014 
and opened for business in Geneva in October 2014. The application process was extremely rigorous, requiring us to apply for 
a full banking licence in order to be able to offer our full product set to clients there. In order to comply with local requirements, 
we also had to clearly establish a process by which clients could opt to ring-fence their personal data within Switzerland and 
be able to operate in four languages. The granting of this licence is a powerful testament to the quality of our people and 
our growing credibility and reputation internationally. It will take time for us to establish ourselves in this market but the early 
progress is encouraging and we are excited by its potential in the long term. 
Looking forward, we continue to have dialogue with other regulators and potential partners to explore ways to further extend 
our geographic reach. 
It will not always be viable for us to open offices everywhere where we believe clients would benefit from our products. In light 
of this in the last year we have launched slimmed-down websites for European countries without offices. These sites are fully 
responsive but aim to remove the barriers to converting clients to IG by catering for additional currencies, and offering faster 
identity checking and uploading of application paperwork.
STRENGTHEN 
GLOBAL 
PRESENCE
 Dubai is the financial centre 
of the Middle East region and 
an obvious location for our 
expansion there. There are a 
significant number of financially 
sophisticated and high net worth 
individuals in the region and 
our investment in producing 
an Arabic language website 
could ultimately prove popular 
to potential clients across the 
broader UAE.
25 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | Our vision is to deliver an industry-leading and world-class 
service to our clients, and for the quality of our customer 
service to be viewed as a competitive advantage. Through 
fast and reliable execution, transparent pricing, investment in 
education and market insight resources and full segregation 
of client funds, we aim to make our clients feel secure and 
confident in trading with us. Backing this up with the best 
online support, helpdesk and service levels will position us 
very well to attract and retain valuable active clients. 
Our 110-strong trading services team supports our clients 
across the world, 24 hours a day. They are located in 8 offices 
around the world, speak 12 languages and deal with around 
80,000 client communications per month. 
We continually seek to improve our service to our clients; 
for example in the last year: 
• We introduced livechat for prospective clients in all our 
sites and to date this has already been used for over 83,000 
conversations. The service is now offered globally to answer 
queries efficiently, to provide reassurance and to speed 
up the client application process. Livechat is also very 
popular with our existing clients because it provides a more 
immediate and personal answer than email – especially 
when speed is of the essence – and is more discreet 
than using the phone. Our teams are trained to deal with 
client queries as quickly and comprehensively as possible. 
Looking ahead, we are working to increase the functionality 
of our livechat tools to enable clients and the client service 
team to share screenshots to help resolve queries; we are 
also exploring the potential for video chat. 
• We have commissioned a new contact centre management 
tool. This tool will manage engagement with clients 
across all channels, including social media and livechat, 
and facilitate more regular proactive contact with higher 
value clients.
• We have designed a peer-to-peer support service, which 
will go live in the first half of next year, with the aim being 
to build a forum where clients can engage with and support 
one another on elements of trading such as charts, mobile 
apps, market events and technical analysis. We envisage 
this ‘IG Community’ being a closed group for the first six 
to nine months to allow us to trial and perfect the offer 
and the technology. In time we expect clients to be able to 
move seamlessly between trading on the platform and peer 
support, and to integrate the service into our mobile apps.
• We have developed and will soon offer ‘My IG’, where a 
client will be able to access all products and add-ons in one 
place using a single login. In addition, we plan to introduce 
a major markets moves’ service that will identify significant 
moves in the market which a client trades and alert them 
with relevant information in a timely fashion; they will then 
be able to link straight through seamlessly to place a trade.
We consistently monitor both our response times and the 
quality of our answers to ensure our customer service remains 
industry-leading in both aspects. This year: 
• Percentage of calls dropped or missed decreased, while 
call volumes increased 
• Over 90% of emails were answered within 24 hours 
• We developed a dedicated social media response strategy, 
with our followers increasing by 46% over the year and daily 
mentions increasing by approximately 75% 
We were also ranked first in an IPSOS mystery-shopper 
exercise involving UK spread betting providers, with the 
survey also providing very useful insights into the areas 
where we have further room for improvement. Meanwhile, 
our service was rated as ‘good’ or ‘very good’ by 89% of 
spread bettors and 81% of CFD traders who responded to an 
independently conducted satisfaction survey.
(1)
In order to measure our progress we have also put in place a 
series of more stretching targets for next year. These include 
answering all dealing calls within ten seconds, answering all 
customer service calls within 15 seconds, responding to client 
emails within two hours and responding to a livechat request 
within 20 seconds.
OUR  
STRATEGY
(CONTINUED)
DELIVER 
QUALITY 
SERVICE  
TO CLIENTS
(1) 
Survey provided by Investment Trends Pty Limited (Investment Trends UK 
Leveraged Trading Report, July 2014).
| 26 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Our original concentration on delivering technological 
excellence assisted us in building a highly profitable business. 
Our financial strength now enables us to maintain a high 
level of investment in IT development and infrastructure 
to keep at the forefront of the industry, with a superior 
platform, technology, tools and resources. In the last year 
this has resulted in 99.29% of deals being executed in under 
0.1 seconds
(1)
 and a core platform uptime of 99.95%.
(2)
We appreciate the importance of technology in underpinning 
the trading experience of our clients. Consequently, in the 
last year we have introduced various enhancements to 
improve the client experience, for example: a more flexible 
layout which allows panels to be tabbed together; enabling 
markets to be dragged and dropped on to charts and into 
watchlists; and the ability to rebase markets on charts to 
improve comparability.
We have also sought to support more valuable active 
traders who want to deal in larger quantities by improving 
our execution of large orders and allowing clients to submit 
partial orders to us. For clients who are new to our products, 
we now allow permanent demo accounts, and we are allowing 
clients with live trading accounts to also have an additional 
demo account where they can test automated and new 
trading strategies.
We have also built our stockbroking offer to integrate 
seamlessly with all our platforms and it is currently being 
rolled out into selected markets around the globe. We believe 
it is the most advanced offering in the market as, distinct from 
other providers, it provides a straightforward choice between 
a quote-based order or going directly to the exchange. As 
well as providing greater price transparency in the UK, it 
allows clients to trade in US shares in all sessions, thereby 
enabling extended hours trading. We also permit clients to 
use their shares as collateral for their leveraged trading. 
Our IT team remains focused on innovating to provide our 
clients with the latest in cutting-edge technology to help 
them trade international markets. For example, on 10 April 
2015, the day the Apple Watch was available for pre-order, 
we announced that we were one of the first online trading 
providers to build an Apple Watch app that automatically 
installs itself on to a client’s watch if they have the IG app on 
their iPhone. Via a one-tap login, clients are able to buy and 
sell stocks, trade CFDs and spread bet across a number of 
asset classes; monitor their existing positions; receive push 
notifications and view upcoming market events. Available in 
12 languages and fully localised, this is our first move into 
wearable technology and offers a new, light-touch and more 
instantaneous way to trade and monitor the financial markets.
In addition to this activity:
• We launched a web API for our more sophisticated traders, 
allowing clients to automate their trading by building their 
own software to create trading strategies
• We rolled out the economic calendar to our mobile 
apps, with push message alerts on the release of 
economic figures
• We also implemented changes to our mobile charts, with 
improved data quality, speed and usability 
Going forward, the strength of our platform and its proven 
resilience across web, mobile and tablet devices is essential 
to maintaining client satisfaction, retention and acquisition 
and keeps us at the forefront of the industry. We will therefore 
continue to invest to maintain our competitive advantage.
SUSTAIN  
TECHNOLOGY 
LEADERSHIP
(1) 
99.29% of trades executed in 0.1 seconds: IG globally (12 months to 31 May 2015).
(2) 
99.95% core platform uptime: IG globally (12 months to 31 May 2015).
27 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | KEY PERFORMANCE 
INDICATORS (KPIs)
We use nine key financial and 
operational performance metrics 
to measure our performance 
and our progress against the 
short-term and long-term goals of 
the business.
REVENUE
(1)
Revenue performance demonstrates business growth in terms of global 
reach, range of products offered to clients, active clients and revenue per 
client, and is also a driver of the staff bonus pool. Statutory revenue grew 
by 4.9% in the year, impacted by the extreme event involving the Swiss 
franc. Excluding this, underlying revenue was up by 8.0%, driven by strong 
performance in UK and Australia, which resulted in another record year for 
the Group.
4.9%
FY14
FY15
£370.4m
£400.2m
£388.4m
ACTIVE CLIENTS
Active clients are those clients who have opened at least one trade in the 
period. Active clients increased by 7.9% in the year, as a result of strategic 
initiatives, the launch of our stockbroking offering and strong customer 
acquisition performance by Nadex.
7.9%
FY14
FY15
126,100
136,100
REVENUE PER CLIENT
(1)
Revenue per client is calculated as total revenue divided by the number of 
active clients in the period, and is a measure of client activity and quality. 
The Swiss franc event resulted in a drop of 2.8% in the headlined revenue 
per client, however underlying revenue per client marginally increased 
by 0.1%. 
2.8%
FY14
FY15
£2,937
£2,941
£2,854
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (DEPS)
(1)
DEPS includes all components of the Group’s performance based on 
profitability and capital structure. DEPS is a key measure in the award or 
vesting of our Executive Director and senior staff share plans is partially with 
reference to DEPS. Statutory DEPS decreased by 10.5%, while underlying 
DEPS increased by 2.1% over the prior year, reflecting growth in underlying 
after-tax profitability.
10.5%
FY14
FY15
40.22p
41.07p
35.99p
PROFIT BEFORE TAX (PBT)
(1)
Statutory PBT was down by 13.0% as a result of the Swiss franc event, with 
underlying PBT marginally decreasing by 0.9%. A detailed commentary on 
our PBT performance is provided in the Operating and Financial Reviews.
13.0%
FY14
FY15
£193.2m
£169.5m
£194.9m
| 28 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 NET PROMOTER SCORE (NPS)
(2)
To better understand how well we deliver quality service to our clients, we use NPS, as well as other measures of satisfaction, to 
assess the extent of client recommendations. Over the last year we have seen improvements in Germany and France and, while 
our absolute score has fallen across other markets, we have maintained our ranking and compare very favourably against the 
industry average. This measure is one of a suite of non-financial indicators used to determine share-plan and bonus awards – 
an assessment is provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
(1) 
For FY15 two metrics are disclosed. The unadjusted statutory and also the higher underlying performance that is stated excluding the losses associated with the 
Swiss franc event.  
(2) 
All NPS data presented in this report is provided by Investment Trends Pty Limited (please refer to the Investor Resources section on page 190 for further details). 
NPS is calculated by asking respondents: ‘How likely are you to recommend this company to a friend or colleague?’ Respondents reply on a 0-10 scale, with the final 
NPS calculated as the percentage of promoters (those answering 9 or 10) minus the percentage of detractors (those answering 0-6).
  The shaded area indicates the underlying performance.
UK SPREADBETTING
AUSTRALIA 
UK CFDs 
GERMANY
SINGAPORE  
 
FRANCE
IG’s 
most  recent 
NPS
Industry
average
17%
-5%
IG’s 
most  recent 
NPS
Industry
average
-7%
-9%
IG’s 
most  recent 
NPS
Industry
average
-13%
-19%
IG’s 
most  recent 
NPS
Industry
average
16%
-3%
IG’s 
most  recent 
NPS
Industry
average
27%
4%
IG’s 
most  recent 
NPS
Industry
average
31%
1%
OWN FUNDS GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
(1)
High profit-to-cash conversion gives us strong liquidity and supports our 
robust risk-management strategy and our dividend payment. Maintaining 
a high level of cash generation, after the required investment, is key to 
delivering strong shareholder returns. A detailed commentary is provided in 
the Operating and Financial Reviews.
14.8%
£160.6m
£159.2m
£136.8m
FY14
FY15
PLATFORM UPTIME
The availability of the dealing platform is key to our clients’ confidence in 
trading with IG. Reliability has remained strong in the current year, however 
we narrowly missed our internal availability targets following an outage 
in April. This measure is one of a suite of non-financial indicators used to 
determine share-plan and bonus awards – an assessment is provided in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
99.97%
99.95%
0.02%
FY14
FY15
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
Shareholder returns are central to our strategy and reflect the strength of our 
business, our capital position and our expectations of future performance. 
Therefore and despite the unexpected Swiss franc event and its impact in 
statutory results, we have maintained our total dividend at the same level 
as in the prior year. This reflects a dividend payout policy of 78%, with our 
intention always remaining to grow the dividend in absolute terms in years 
when earnings are ahead.
FY14
FY15
28.15p
28.15p
0.0%
29 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | OUR PEOPLE  
AND COMMUNITIES
After 40 years in business we 
understand that sustainable 
long-term returns stem from good 
conduct.  We seek to act with 
integrity towards our staff, our 
clients, our regulators and the 
markets, maintaining a reputation 
for quality and transparency.
As a global employer with people in 20 countries, our 
commitment to our people is both an important part of 
delivering our strategy and a cornerstone of our success.
We are committed to providing a rewarding career for each 
one of our almost 1,400 employees. We recognise that having 
a long-term strategy which develops our people is crucial to 
our success, as well as being a factor that contributes strongly 
to our reputation within the financial services industry.
SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS
Our conduct as a business is driven by our values of 
hallmark quality, passion for progress, transparency in 
dealing and meritocratic opportunity. These values have 
been fundamental in the historic growth and success of IG. 
However, with growth comes the challenge of maintaining 
that culture and with it appropriate conduct. For that reason, 
we decided to define the values set out above to support 
us in realising the Group’s overall vision and strategy. 
This has enabled us to embed sound corporate conduct 
in the culture of the business, so it is not simply a risk or 
regulatory requirement.
However, conduct undoubtedly represents a real risk to 
all firms within the financial industry. Consequently we 
have actively engaged in the agenda and developed a risk 
management strategy, entrenching various quantitative 
and qualitative measures to identify, measure, manage 
and monitor Conduct Risk. Demonstrable elements to 
this strategy include among others the production and 
appropriate escalation of monthly conduct risk Key Risk 
Indicators (KRIs) and dashboards, a rolling plan of thematic 
conduct risk reviews, and formalised conduct consideration 
prior to project signoff.
In this way we ensure effective communication of the 
tone from the top throughout the organisation. We apply 
high standards across our businesses, and specifically in 
our corporate governance – as set out in the Corporate 
Governance Report and the Directors’ Report in compliance 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code. The following areas 
demonstrate how we do this.
COMMITMENT TO OUR CUSTOMERS
We aim to put our customers at the heart of everything we 
do, and we strive to ensure that we understand our clients’ 
needs and consistently deliver fair outcomes and positive 
experiences. We have a very low tolerance for poor consumer 
outcomes, and we are committed to investing in process, 
training and culture to prevent unsatisfactory customer 
experiences and to address root causes where any practice 
falls short. We maintain this policy even when it may have a 
negative impact on our own revenue or costs. 
 We ensure that commitment to our 
customers is embedded in our culture 
and strategic initiatives, and we 
regularly seek and review feedback 
from our clients. This enables us to 
develop our products and services 
specifically to meet the needs of active 
traders globally.
Central to our commitment to our customers is the quality of 
our order execution. We offer near-instantaneous execution, 
with around 99.3% of client orders accepted automatically. We 
never requote prices and, outside our set margin of tolerance, 
our innovative price-improvement technology enables 
customers to receive a better price if one becomes available 
as a trade is executed.
CLIENT SUPPORT AND EDUCATION
We offer extensive educational resources for clients, including 
an introduction programme for new clients that promotes 
responsible trading, and a wide range of client seminars and 
webinars. We continually look to keep this content engaging 
and targeted towards our clients’ needs.
For example, in recognition of the feedback received from 
clients and following the launch of our in-house TV studio in 
2014, we have continued to increase the amount of original 
video content we supply. This ensures our clients have instant 
| 30 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 access to educational resources covering everything from 
fundamental trading concepts to risk mitigation across all 
their devices and in the medium they want.
We also provide an extensive range of trading tools, such as 
regular free news, commentary and analysis on IG TV and via 
the Market Insight section of our website. We offer charting 
packages and various technical analysis tools that enable our 
clients to screen markets for trading opportunities and to 
receive alerts when trading signals appear.
CLIENT APPROPRIATENESS
Our products are not appropriate for everyone, and we 
recognise that our conduct is particularly vital in relation to 
marketing and client onboarding, in order to prevent poor 
consumer outcomes arising from them. Accordingly, we 
have a number of procedures that ensure our advertising 
reaches the right audience, and that our clients appreciate 
the risks involved with our products and understand how our 
services work.
 We follow strict guidelines to ensure 
that we only promote our products to 
a target audience within appropriate 
sectors and demographic groups. We 
also conduct rigorous checks to ensure 
that all promotions are clear, fair and 
not misleading, and that risks are not 
downplayed compared to the benefits 
of our products. 
Before we allow a prospective client to open an account, 
we undertake an assessment to determine whether our 
products are appropriate for them. At account opening we 
actively question and must be satisfied that clients have 
the necessary knowledge or experience to understand the 
risks involved. To further assess whether our products could 
produce poor outcomes, we ask clients for details of their 
income and savings, both at account opening and in rolling 
reviews. Based on the results of these assessments, we may 
choose to provide an applicant with a clear warning about the 
appropriateness of the product. We may also decline to open 
an account for them, or indeed close their account if it has 
already been opened.
LIMITING CLIENT LOSSES
We have a number of services designed to help clients limit 
their losses. 
Our clients can choose to attach guaranteed stops to their 
positions, so that they know their maximum possible loss at 
the outset of the trade.
Our close-out monitor (COM), which automatically liquidates 
clients’ positions when their margin has been significantly 
eroded, also aims to restrict our clients’ potential losses. At 
31 May 2015, 99.4% of all client accounts were subject to the 
automatic COM procedure. Further details are set out in note 
36 to the Financial Statements.
PROTECTING OUR CLIENTS’ DATA AND FUNDS
We prioritise the security of our clients’ information and 
have achieved the ISO 27001:2005 certificate for information 
security management. 
We fully segregate funds for retail individuals, in compliance 
with the regulations, and we hold segregated client money 
entirely separately from our own money across a diverse 
range of banks. This ensures that, in the event of our default, 
client funds would be returned to the clients rather than being 
treated as a recoverable asset by our general creditors. 
We continue to engage PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to 
conduct ongoing independent reviews of our controls and 
procedures for client money calculation and segregation 
(ISAE 3000). In committing to this review process, we have 
taken an additional step, over and above standard audit 
checks and our regulators’ reporting requirements. This 
reflects our dedication to keeping our clients’ funds secure 
and delivering beneficial outcomes for customers. 
31 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | OUR PEOPLE 
The Group provides a dynamic and friendly working 
environment for almost 1,400 employees, located around 
the world. We believe that our people should take pride in 
what we achieve together, should have a powerful sense 
of belonging to IG Group, and should know that we fully 
recognise the crucial role that the quality of our employees 
plays in our success.
In order to attract and retain the right people, we offer a 
competitive reward package to recognise past performance 
and encourage our key talent to be part of our future. We 
believe that working together as a team is key to our global 
success and so to complement our market-related salary 
structure, we also include over 90% of our employees in 
a group bonus scheme which is completely linked to the 
financial success and ongoing stability of IG. This bonus is 
then distributed on an individual performance related basis 
(identified through an annual performance-appraisal system). 
We also reward our high potential employees through 
long-term incentive plans. The remainder of our employees 
have specific sales-related bonus schemes.
Linked to our belief in our employees investing in IG, we are 
happy to offer employees tax-advantaged share purchase 
schemes in the UK, Australia and the US. An average of 33% 
of eligible employees took part in our share plans in 2014.
To complement these direct financial rewards, we also 
provide a full range of appropriate benefits, including 
pension contributions. In the UK, we contribute up to 10% 
of an employee’s basic salary to their pension, provided 
the employee contributes 5% of their salary. If they choose 
to contribute less than 5%, we will contribute double the 
individual rate. We are ‘auto-enrolment’ compliant, having 
met our planned staging date in November 2013, as part 
of the government’s workplace pensions reform, and 
continue to have over 85% participation in our UK Group 
pension schemes.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
We believe that understanding our employees’ motivations, 
concerns and feedback in general is crucial in allowing us 
to decide what employee engagement initiatives we take 
forward each year. It is for this reason that we have again 
partnered with IBM to deliver our employee engagement 
survey and were delighted to have an 85% response rate 
this year. 
In terms of highlights, we are pleased to report that over 
90% of our employees feel that there is a strong sense of 
teamwork and cooperation within IG. Similar numbers feel 
a strong sense of belonging and involvement and over 90% 
feel that there is a clear future vision and trust the senior 
leadership of IG. 
This year, 98% of employees who completed our engagement 
survey agreed that IG has an outstanding future and just 
over 90% have trust in senior leadership to deliver against 
the vision. Both these questions scored above external 
global benchmarks.
In terms of work in progress, we still have work to do in clearly 
setting out career and reward structures and are working with 
our management team to help them explain and develop 
performance management processes. 
In summary, this data continues to provide invaluable insight 
to what our employees feel about working for us around the 
globe. Working with a world leader like IBM means that we 
continue to be able to benchmark our results against global 
high-performing organisations and the finance sector. 
OUR  
PEOPLE AND  
COMMUNITIES
(CONTINUED)
| 32 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 In terms of gender, our workforce is made up as follows:
BOARD
MALE 7
FEMALE 1
PERCENTAGE 
FEMALE: 13%
STRATEGIC 
MANAGEMENT TEAM
(1)
 
MALE 10
FEMALE 3
PERCENTAGE 
FEMALE: 23%
SENIOR 
MANAGEMENT TEAM
(2)
MALE 41
FEMALE 9
PERCENTAGE 
FEMALE: 18%
TEAM MEMBERS
MALE 919
FEMALE 357
PERCENTAGE 
FEMALE: 28%
TOTAL
MALE 977
FEMALE 370
PERCENTAGE 
FEMALE: 28%
(1) 
The strategic management team is defined as the employees responsible for 
planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
(2) 
The senior management team is defined as the strategic management team 
plus the Directors of the subsidiary companies included in the consolidated 
Financial Statements.
DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY
We are committed to maintaining a diverse workforce at all 
levels of the Group. We believe that diversity is a broad issue, 
encompassing variations in an individual’s experience, skills, 
age and background, as well as more traditional diversity 
factors such as ethnic origin and gender. Our total employee 
gender breakdown is shown to the right. 
Commercially and for every other best practice reason, we 
are an equal opportunities employer. We strongly believe 
that to succeed as a global business, we need to make the 
most of the potential workforce in every country that we work 
within. As such, we have extensive human resource policies 
in place to ensure that we attract the right people and that 
once working with us, our people can expect to develop in an 
environment free from discrimination and harassment.
For this reason, we continuously reinforce the need to treat 
all employees fairly. We are committed to creating a work 
environment free from bullying, where everyone is treated 
with dignity and respect, irrespective of position or grade 
within the organisation. 
We give full consideration to applications for employment 
from disabled persons, where the candidate’s aptitudes and 
abilities are consistent with meeting the requirements of the 
job. Where existing employees become disabled, whether 
on a temporary or permanent basis, it is our policy to provide 
continuing employment wherever practicable in the same or 
an alternative position, and to provide appropriate training 
and/or graduated back-to-work programmes, in conjunction 
with the occupational health professionals to achieve this aim.
LEADERSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
With our strategic management team having been with us for 
over nine years on average and therefore having developed 
their careers within the Group, we recognise the strength of 
having a stable and long-serving workforce. This is especially 
true within the decision-making core, and as such we 
continue to invest in developing our employees worldwide 
while improving the quality of learning opportunities. 
We have recently implemented an online learning and 
policy-management system, which is accessible by all of 
our employees wherever they are located in the world. We 
are making every effort to enhance the system’s content 
as well using this system as a means to record our policy 
based training. 
Our new recording studio is enhancing our internal 
communications and allowing our senior team to reach out to 
all of our offices with our popular ’Views from the Bridge‘ – a 
series of videos featuring members of the senior management 
team which aim to ensure that our key leadership messages 
reach all of our people around the globe. 
33 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | We support our staff in their continuing personal and 
professional training and development, and encourage 
attendance at external and industry-recognised training 
courses, sponsoring our people to undertake formal 
education programmes and achieve professional 
qualifications. We also offer internal secondments, both 
in terms of pure training of newer employees and more 
strategic, longer-term appointments, which allow individuals 
to work in our smaller offices and provides an opportunity for 
growth and expanding skill-sets.
We have made further progress this year (as measured by our 
annual employee engagement survey) in terms of the senior 
team articulating our vision and strategy for the future. Our 
next goal is to allow our future generation of leaders to carry 
on with this important leadership skill, as well as ensuring that 
we are building a strong group of managers equipped with 
the competences and behaviours to take IG forward. 
Last year we agreed a new set of leadership behaviours for 
our managers, and during the 2015/2016 appraisal cycle, 
we will actively measure performance against these metrics. 
There are four core principles: communicating with others, 
leading by example, developing people and being passionate 
about results.
We continue to support our managers in their ongoing 
training with our Inspirational Development programme 
which focuses on the outcomes of 360° feedback and the 
behaviours associated with generating high performance. 
All of our strategic and senior management team have 
attended at least one structured programme over the past 
18 months and our more junior managers attend a Transition 
to Leadership programme, which specifically targets the 
process of developing from a technical specialist to a leader 
of people. 
TALENT MANAGEMENT 
Retention of talent can be challenging in companies with 
relatively flat organisational structures, and we recognise 
the importance of encouraging people to grow and stretch 
themselves in roles that have limited scope for vertical 
movement. We also acknowledge that it is important to 
employees to understand where they are in their career and 
salary progression and it is with this in mind, and in answer 
to feedback from our employee engagement survey, that we 
launched our salary grading communication this summer. It is 
one of our core values to be transparent in dealing with our 
employees in all areas, but particularly with regard to career 
and salary aspirations.
We have had career pathways and associated competency 
frameworks in place for key areas of the business for a 
number of years now and we continue to build on these. 
The frameworks describe what is needed for exceptional 
performance in each role and provide space for individuals to 
strengthen their performance in readiness for future horizontal 
or vertical moves. We continue to expand our mentoring 
programmes with the aim of not only motivating and 
developing the careers of employees with high potential, but 
also providing advancement opportunities for our mentors.
To attract new, high-calibre staff, we offer three graduate 
schemes, in IT, operations and finance. Graduates joining the 
IT and operations schemes follow a 12-month training plan 
before we assign them to a permanent position. The finance 
scheme is longer term, aiming to train graduates as qualified 
accountants within the team. Graduates joining IG benefit 
from the support of a business mentor, access to cross-
business placements, structured training plans and reviews, 
which fast-track their development to first-role competence in 
their chosen area. 
OUR  
PEOPLE AND  
COMMUNITIES
(CONTINUED)
| 34 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
We take pride in being an open, non-hierarchical 
organisation, with direct and open access among all teams 
and at all levels. The Chief Executive Officer addresses all 
employees every six months, at the half-year and full-year 
points, and presents the Group’s financial results, business 
updates and plans for the future. He and other members 
of senior management maintain a schedule of overseas 
office visits and take these opportunities to address each 
local employee audience, while we also make full use of our 
in-house TV studio to record interviews with key members 
of the business, including the CEO, to ensure a consistent 
message is sent out to all our offices.
TOP EMPLOYER
Our positive workplace culture continues to be recognised as 
IG celebrates being named as one of Britain’s Top Employers 
for the eighth year running in 2015. 
The Top Employer certification is awarded only to 
organisations that meet the highest standards in human 
resource management, and we are very proud to be a long-
standing recipient. The award, by the Corporate Research 
Foundation, is based on a strong performance in each 
of the audited categories: pay and benefits, training and 
development, corporate culture and career development. 
SOCIETY AND EMPLOYEE SPONSORSHIP
We are keen to encourage our people to engage in activities 
that both help their own development and support local 
communities, so we are proud to support a wide variety 
of different charities that are close to our employees’ 
hearts. We match any funds our employees have raised for 
sponsored events. 
To make the most of charitable donations, we continue 
to work with the Charities Aid Foundation, allowing our 
employees to operate a charity fund and make contributions 
to selected charities from gross earnings, directly from their 
monthly pay.
Not only do we support charities with gifts of money, but also 
by providing time and resources. Our absence-management 
policy offers the opportunity for our people to take up 
voluntary work, for which we grant additional leave on a 
like-for-like basis up to a maximum of five matched days per 
annual leave year.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
We believe that our employees are one of our most valuable 
assets, and we are committed to providing each employee 
with a safe and healthy working environment. 
Health and safety is an integral part of our business, and by 
providing key members of staff with the relevant external 
training, and all other staff with appropriate in-house training, 
we ensure that we comply with all statutory health and 
safety requirements.
WELLBEING
We are fully committed to our employees’ health and 
wellbeing, and the benefits we provide to all employees 
include private medical cover, permanent health insurance and 
life assurance. 
To help our people enjoy healthy lifestyles, we reimburse 
50% of the costs of employees’ annual gym subscriptions, 
up to a specified amount, on a global basis. We also support 
cycling, and we offer our staff savings on bicycles under 
the government-backed cycle-to-work initiative, as well as 
providing free-of-charge bicycle parking at our London office.
We support our employees’ wellbeing by providing a 
confidential employee assistance programme that offers a 
24/7 telephone counselling service to all our Head Office 
employees and their immediate families. 
Our people can use this service for impartial advice on all 
matters, from housing to personal finance.
35 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
As a business which conducts nearly all of its client trades 
online and undertakes no industrial activities, we do not see 
ourselves as a significant emitter of environmentally harmful 
substances. However, we understand that we need to take 
any necessary actions to ensure that we mitigate the impact 
of our operations on the surrounding environment.
 Running and maintaining our IT 
infrastructure comprises the main 
source of our environmental impact. 
This supports our award-winning 
platform and ensures we are able to 
consistently maintain our high level of 
platform uptime. 
Powering and cooling our datacentres results in the majority 
of our power usage – as well as our energy costs. As such, 
we update our hardware and software as appropriate to save 
money and energy.
This year we continued replacing a number of our rack servers 
with new blade technology. This has allowed us to integrate 
power and cooling technologies across the server estate 
and provides a considerable saving in energy and costs. 
We recycled the legacy hardware in accordance with our 
internal recycling policy, ensuring that any data was securely 
destroyed before recycling the remaining components.
Our global offices follow our datacentres as the second 
largest consumer of energy. A number of energy-saving 
processes is in place and we are committed to a far-reaching 
recycling policy. This encompasses not only a proportion of 
our daily office waste, but also extends to our IT equipment 
when we replace hardware, while trying to ensure that we use 
any desktop equipment for its maximum useful life. Our head 
office building, where more than half of our employees are 
based, is also ISO 14001 certified, and we complement this 
environmental-management system with our own sensor-
lighting to reduce our energy use. In addition, we have 
used PIR technology in both of our newly opened offices in 
Dubai and Geneva and we invested in the most modern and 
energy-efficient personal computers and peripherals, in line 
with our commitments.
The global nature of our business, with employees located 
in 20 countries, results in the need for our people to travel 
around the globe to provide local support for staff and clients. 
We have taken further steps to minimise these journeys by 
installing state-of-the-art video-conferencing equipment in 
two more of our global locations, taking the tally of offices 
offering this facility up to nine.
We provide emissions data in respect of the financial year 
ending 31 May 2015 in the Mandatory Greenhouse Gas 
Emissions Report and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity 
Ratio tables to the right. In the tables, Scope 1 emissions are 
those incurred in air conditioning our offices and running 
back-up generators for our servers, while Scope 2 emissions 
are purchased energy such as electricity. For the most 
significant sources of energy consumption discussed above, 
we purchase electricity via our landlords. 
BASIS OF PREPARATION
Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated on the basis of 
financial control, with the emissions data included for the 
companies consolidated in the Financial Statements, noting 
the Statement of Exclusions given below:
• We have based our methodology on the principles of the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
• We have reported on all the measured emissions sources 
required under The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic 
Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013, except 
where stated.
• This includes emissions under Scope 1 and 2, except where 
stated, but excludes any emissions from Scope 3.
Conversion factors for electricity, gas and other emissions are 
those published by the Department for Environment, Food 
and Rural Affairs for 2014-2015. 
STATEMENT OF EXCLUSIONS
Global diesel use (for vehicles) has been excluded from 
the report on the basis that it is not material to our 
carbon footprint.
The scope of reporting for our fugitive emissions has been 
restricted to the United Kingdom. Other regions have been 
excluded due to lack of data or immateriality.
OUR  
PEOPLE AND  
COMMUNITIES
(CONTINUED)
| 36 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 EMISSION CATEGORY
 Operation of facility
 Purchased energy
 Combustion
 Electricity
 F-gas
 Diesel
 Gas
 Vehicles*
EMISSION SOURCE
Emission type
Tonnes of carbon dioxide 
equivalent (tCO
2
e)
Scope 1: operation of facilities 161.77
Scope 1: combustion 34.93
Total Scope 1 emissions 196.7
Scope 2: purchased energy 4,007.64
Total Scope 2 emissions 4,007.64
Total emissions 4,204.34
MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS  
EMISSIONS REPORT
Total footprint 
(Scope 1 and Scope 2) – tCO 2e 4,204.34
Turnover (£m) 388.4
Intensity ratio (tCO
2
e/£m)
10.82
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INTENSITY RATIO
* Global diesel use (for vehicles) has been excluded from the report on the 
basis that it is not material to our carbon footprint.
37 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | CHIEF FINANCIAL 
OFFICER’S REVIEW
‘2015 once again highlighted the 
strength of IG’s financial position 
and business model that allows 
it to invest in future growth while 
maintaining our ordinary dividend at 
approximately 70% of earnings.’
Christopher Hill 
Chief Financial Officer
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
The Swiss franc de-pegging event in January, which has 
been discussed at length in this document, means that we 
address here both underlying numbers, excluding the impact 
of this event, and the statutory financial results. We consider 
the underlying results to give a clearer indication of the 
performance of the business through the period.
IG delivered record underlying
(1)
 revenue
(2)
 in the period of 
£400.2 million, 8.0% up on the prior year (2014: £370.4 million). 
Underlying profit before tax was £193.2 million, 0.9% behind 
the prior year (2014: £194.9 million) and underlying profit after 
tax was up by 2.4% at £150.7 million (2014: £147.2 million), 
with the prior year having been restated slightly upwards for 
an industry-wide change in the accounting treatment of the 
FSCS levy. Underlying diluted earnings per share was 41.07 
pence, 2.1% ahead of the prior year (2014: 40.22 pence).
On a statutory basis, Group revenue was £388.4 million, 4.9% 
ahead of the prior year, with profit before tax of £169.5 million 
and profit after tax of £131.9 million. The Group effective tax 
rate reduced to 22.2% from 24.5% in the prior year, as the fall 
in the UK corporation tax rate continued to feed through. 
Statutory diluted earnings per share was 35.99 pence, down 
10.5% from the prior year (2014: 40.22 pence).
Overall, active client numbers for the year were ahead of 
the prior period by 7.9% at just over 136,000, while average 
revenue per client was flat at £2,937. Underlying revenue 
in the second half of the year was slightly ahead of the first 
half, with the first half marked by the difference between the 
two quarters; the first quarter was very subdued, while the 
second quarter was a record for the Group and contained 
the record month of October, when increased newsflow 
and a significant sell-off in financial markets produced more 
trading opportunities for clients. Revenue from forex trading 
increased through the year, returning to more normal levels, 
with evidence of more volatility in this asset type after a very 
quiet spell in 2014.
IG remains highly cash-generative and we have sought to 
reflect this in the direct cash returns to shareholders. Last 
year the Board raised the Ordinary dividend payout ratio to 
approximately 70%. Although statutory earnings this year are 
behind due to the impact of the Swiss franc incident, both the 
business and the market opportunity remain strong. In line 
with our progressive dividend policy, the Board made clear at 
the time of the first half results in January its intention to hold 
the full-year dividend flat on 2014 at 28.15 pence, and so the 
Board is recommending a final dividend of 19.70 pence.
| 38 All following references to revenue are with respect to the underlying
(1)
 revenue
(2)
.
Underlying
(1)
 revenue
(2)
FY15 FY14
% change in 
revenue per client 
from FY14
(3)
Revenue 
£m
Clients 
000s
Revenue 
£m
Clients 
000s
UK 211.9 60.4 192.7 59.3 8.0%
Europe 80.9 29.7 82.1 26.0 (14%)
Australia 59.2 18.7 52.2 18.0 9.3%
Rest of World 48.2 27.3 43.4 22.8 (7.3%)
Total 400.2 136.1 370.4 126.1 0.1%
Statutory revenue
FY15 FY14
% change in 
revenue per client 
from FY14
(3)
Revenue 
£m
Clients 
000s
Revenue 
£m
Clients 
000s
UK 206.0 60.4 192.7 59.3 5.0%
Europe 76.9 29.7 82.1 26.0 (18%)
Australia 58.1 18.7 52.2 18.0 7.2%
Rest of World 47.4 27.3 43.4 22.8 (8.8%)
Total 388.4 136.1 370.4 126.1 (2.8)%
(1) 
The term ‘underlying’ reflects the results before the impact of the Swiss franc event (refer to note 2 of the financial statements). 
(2) 
All references to ‘revenue’ in this statement are made with regards to net trading revenue. Net trading revenue is trading revenue excluding interest on segregated 
client funds and is presented net of introducing partner commissions.
(3) 
The financial tables above contain numbers which have been rounded, while all year-on-year percentages are calculated off underlying unrounded numbers.
UNITED KINGDOM
The UK segment comprised the offices in London and 
Dublin. Revenue in the UK was 10% ahead of the prior year 
at £211.9 million (2014: £192.7 million). First half revenue 
(£106.8 million) was slightly ahead of the second half 
(£105.1 million), with the UK benefiting from a very strong 
performance in the second quarter, as clients in this region 
responded more immediately to increases in market volatility. 
Active client numbers were 1.9% ahead of the prior year at 
just over 60,000. Active client numbers in the second half 
of the year were around 2% ahead of the first half. Revenue 
per client for the year was 8.0% ahead of the prior year, at 
around £3,500, with particular strength in the second quarter, 
driven by the very active October. The UK segment accounted 
for 53% of Group revenue in the period, against 52% in the 
prior year.
An annual study of the UK’s retail leveraged-trading industry, 
released towards the end of 2014, showed that IG’s market 
share of spread bettors had fallen slightly from 41% to 40% 
and our share of CFD traders had fallen from 34% to 26%; 
IG remained the clear market leader in both categories. The 
study also showed a decline in the overall size of the market 
for these trading instruments, from 93,000 to 89,000 retail 
traders. Drawing precise quantitative conclusions from these 
results is increasingly difficult. The measurement is based 
purely on the number of primary accounts and makes no 
allowance for the value of individual client value, and does 
not reflect IG’s focus on active retail traders, who generate a 
disproportionate percentage of the total industry revenue.
The launch of the stockbroking offering in the UK and Ireland 
took place in September 2014. The proposition was then 
strengthened in November with the launch of the collateral 
service, which allows clients to use their equity portfolio as 
margin for their leveraged trading. By the end of May there 
were over 4,000 funded stockbroking accounts, 65% of which 
are new to IG, and of which around 3,300 had traded. There 
is also early evidence that a proportion of clients who began 
as stockbroking clients are going on to use the leveraged 
trading products.
39 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | AUSTRALIA
The Australia segment comprised the Melbourne office and 
also includes revenue from New Zealand and other countries 
in the Asia Pacific region. In Australia, revenue for the year 
was up by 13.4% to £59.2 million (2014: £52.2 million). As 
with the broader Group, Australia revenue was stronger in 
the second half of the year, delivering £30.5 million against 
£28.7 million for the first half. The first half was held back by 
the particularly quiet first quarter. As with the UK, the second 
quarter was a record for this region and was followed by a 
more consistent second half. Here we experienced good 
growth in active client numbers, up 3.9% against the prior 
year. Active client numbers in the second half of the year 
were 8% up on those in the first half. In line with the UK, as 
one of the more mature regions, average revenue per client 
was ahead of the prior year by 9.3%. The Australia segment 
accounted for 14.8% of Group revenue in the year, against 
14.1% in the prior year.
During the year, an annual market research study concluded 
that IG’s market share of the retail CFD industry had fallen by 
five percentage points to 33%, although it remains the clear 
industry leader. As for the UK, this simple measure is based 
on number of primary accounts. Internal analysis suggests 
that any loss of share was concentrated towards the lower end 
of client activity and value. Encouragingly, in the same time 
period, the market size increased from 41,000 participants 
to 42,000.
EUROPE
The Europe segment comprised the German, French, 
Italian, Spanish, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Luxembourg 
and Swiss offices. Overall, revenue performance in Europe 
in the period was disappointing. Revenue fell by 1.5% to 
£80.9 million (2014: £82.1 million). Revenue was equally split 
between the two halves of the year, although in line with the 
UK and Australia, the second quarter was a record period 
for Europe. The growth in client numbers accelerated, up by 
14.3% on the prior year, with growth across all countries in the 
region. However, this was more than offset by a fall in average 
revenue per client, which fell to £2,720 (2014: £3,156), due 
to a number of factors including currency conversion, lower 
overnight funding revenue, clients trading in smaller size and 
increased hedging costs in relation to German 30 contracts. 
The European segment accounted for 20.2% of Group 
revenue in the year, against 22.2% in the prior year.
During the second half of the year, annual market research 
studies were published for Germany and France. They 
concluded that IG’s market share of the retail CFD industry 
in Germany had fallen by three percentage points to 10%, 
and in France it had risen by six percentage points to 28%. 
Drawing precise quantitative conclusions from these results 
is increasingly difficult, given the measurement is based 
purely on the number of primary accounts and makes no 
allowance for the value of individual client value. In the 
same time period, the market size in France stayed flat at 
19,500 participants and increased in Germany from 45,000 
participants to 47,000.
REST OF WORLD
The Rest of World segment comprised the offices in Singapore, 
Japan and South Africa and our retail exchange, Nadex, in 
the US. Revenue for the period in the Rest of World region 
was ahead of the prior year by 11.1%, at £48.2 million (2014: 
£43.4 million). All countries in the Rest of World segment 
experienced growth, with particularly strong results in 
South Africa (up 27% to £6.5 million) and the US (up 68% to 
£5.3 million), but also good contributions to the growth from 
Singapore (up 3.5% to £23.8 million) and Japan (up 3.3% to 
£12.6 million). Overall revenue per client was down due to the 
mix effect of the particularly strong growth in the US, where 
average revenue per client is structurally lower due to the 
nature of the product set. As a result of the US acceleration 
through the year, revenue was weighted towards the second 
half, which delivered 55% of the revenue. The recovery in 
trading in forex over the prior year was also significant, as 
Singapore and Japan are particularly heavily weighted towards 
this asset class. The Rest of World segment accounted for 
12.0% of Group revenue in the period, against 11.7% in the 
prior year.
As reported in the half-year results, an annual market research 
study concluded that IG’s market share of the retail CFD 
industry in Singapore had fallen by one percentage point to 
17%, with the overall market size remaining stable at 17,000, 
following two years of shrinkage.
FACTORS IMPACTING REVENUE
The tight distribution of our daily revenue during the year is 
illustrated in the chart to the right. The single loss-making day 
highlighted by the chart is that for 15 January when the Swiss 
National Bank ceased intervention in the franc exchange rate. 
The absence of proprietary trading by IG and the hedged nature 
of the business model – i.e. hedging with third parties to cover 
the residual risk above preset limits – tends to deliver a more 
stable revenue stream, irrespective of the direction of underlying 
market movements. During the year we have undertaken an 
extremely detailed analysis for certain of our risk limits – more 
detail is provided in the Chief Executive’ s Statement.
CHIEF  
FINANCIAL  
OFFICER’S  
REVIEW
(CONTINUED)
| 40 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 DISTRIBUTION OF DAILY REVENUE
30
27
24
21
18
15
12
9
6
3
0
-11.5 4.0 3.0 2.0 1.0
Count of days
Revenue (£m)
ASSET MIX
IG has consistently benefited from the broad range of asset 
classes it enables clients to trade, resulting in a more stable 
revenue stream in different market conditions. This year we 
derived 48% of our underlying revenue from clients trading 
indices (2014: 47%) and had another strong year in shares 
trading, delivering 17% of Group revenue (2014: 20%). Client 
forex trading delivered 19% of Group revenue, down from 
20% in the prior year, but marginally up at an absolute level. 
The remaining 16% of revenue came from clients trading 
binaries and commodities (2014: 13%).
60
50
40
30
20
10
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
FY14 FY15
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Revenue (£m)
Indices Commodities Forex Binaries Shares
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Summary Group Income Statement
Year ended  
31 May 2015 
Underlying 
£m
Year ended  
31 May 2015 
Statutory 
£m
Restated* 
Year ended  
31 May 2014 
£m
Net trading 
revenue
(1)
400.2 388.4 370.4
Net interest on 
segregated client 
funds 4.5 4.5 5.5
Betting duty 
and financial 
transaction taxes (5.9) (6.3) (3.8)
Other operating 
income 0.6 0.6 2.1
Net operating 
income 399.4 387.2 374.2
Administrative 
expenses (206.1) (217.6) (178.8)
Operating profit 193.3 169.6 195.4
Net finance 
expense (0.1) (0.1) (0.5)
Profit before tax 193.2 169.5 194.9
Tax expense (42.5) (37.6) (47.7)
Profit for the year 150.7 131.9 147.2
Diluted earnings 
per share 41.07p 35.99p 40.22p 
Total dividend 
per share 28.15p 28.15p 28.15p
(1) 
Net trading revenue is trading revenue excluding interest on segregated 
client funds and is net of introductory partner commissions.
* Comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of 
recognition of the FSCS levy in accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. 
41 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | NET OPERATING INCOME
Statutory net trading revenue, although negatively impacted 
by the Swiss franc event, increased by 4.9% to £388.4 million 
(2014: £370.4 million).
Underlying net trading revenue is 8.0% ahead of the prior year 
at £400.2 million (2014: £370.4 million).
Net interest income on segregated client funds decreased by 
£1.0 million to £4.5 million (2014: £5.5 million). This was driven 
by depreciation in the Australian base interest rate and low 
margins received on sterling and euro money deposits from 
the banks throughout the year following their response to 
Basel III changes in 2014.
Betting duties paid by the Group, in relation to losses for 
spread betting clients, increased by £2.4 million to £5.8 million 
(2014: £3.4 million) including a £0.4 million negative impact 
due to the Swiss franc event. The Italian Financial Transaction 
Tax incurred by the Group marginally increased to £0.5 million 
from £0.4 million last year. 
Other operating income for the year ending 31 May 2014 
includes income of £1.4 million in relation to a revenue share 
arrangement with Spreadex Limited, following the sale of 
the Group's Sport business client list in 2012. The agreement 
ended on the 23 June 2014 and therefore the income in 
the current financial year is just under £0.1 million. Other 
operating income also includes inactivity fees, introduced in 
February 2013 and are applied to any account that has not 
traded for more than two years and has a positive account 
balance. As expected, the charge reduced to £0.5 million 
(2014: £0.7 million). 
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
Statutory administrative expenses increased by 21.7% to 
£217.6 million (2014: £178.8 million), following the impact 
of the Swiss franc event and the additional operating costs 
associated with the Group’s strategic development. 
Underlying administrative expenses increased by 15.3% 
to £206.1 million (2014: £178.8 million). This includes 
the infrastructure and additional marketing to support 
the core business and various initiatives, including the 
expansion into Switzerland and Dubai, the roll-out of 
execution-only stockbroking and investments in mobile and 
web-based technology.
As a result, each of employee remuneration costs, advertising 
and marketing and legal and professional fees are higher than 
in the prior year.
Year ended  
31 May 2015 
Statutory 
£m
Restated* 
Year ended  
31 May 2014 
£m
Employee remuneration costs 94.3 89.3
Advertising and marketing 37.8 31.7
Premises-related costs 11.1 10.0
IT, market data and 
communications 16.4 13.8
Legal and professional 5.9 4.3
Regulatory fees 7.1 5.4
Net charge for impaired trade 
receivables 16.2 1.6
Other costs 18.1 13.0
Depreciation & amortisation 10.7 9.7
Statutory administrative 
expenses 217.6 178.8
Swiss franc event:
Employee remuneration costs 3.6 –
Bad and doubtful debt (15.1) –
Underlying administrative 
expenses 206.1 178.8
* Comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of 
recognition of the FSCS levy in accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’.
 
In the year ending 31 May 2016, the Group will continue to 
invest in its growth strategy. The Group anticipates a further 
increase in administrative expenses at a level similar to that 
seen on an underlying basis for this year.
CHIEF  
FINANCIAL  
OFFICER’S  
REVIEW
(CONTINUED)
| 42 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION COSTS
Employee remuneration costs increased by 5.6% to 
£94.3 million (2014: £89.3 million) in the year. 
The average headcount increased by 20.3% year-on-year, 
however, due to the change in the staff mix, which reduced 
the average salary by 8.4%, total salary costs increased by 
9.6%. Inclusive of national insurance and pension costs, 
employee remuneration costs comprise:
Year ended  
31 May 2015 
Statutory 
£m
Restated* 
Year ended  
31 May 2014 
£m
Total salaries 74.0 65.0
Performance-related bonuses 
and commissions 14.0 17.2
Share schemes 6.3 7.1
Statutory employee 
remuneration costs 94.3 89.3
Swiss franc event:
Performance-related bonuses 
and commissions 3.1 –
Share schemes 0.5 –
Underlying employee 
remuneration costs 97.9 89.3
Average headcount 1,287 1,070
Year-end headcount 1,400 1,153
 * Comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of 
recognition of the FSCS levy in accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’.
 
The £3.2 million reduction in statutory performance-related 
bonuses and share-based payment schemes charges reflects 
the Group's financial and non-financial performance measures 
which were heavily impacted by the Swiss franc event. The 
impact of the Swiss franc event itself on the staff bonus pool 
and share scheme vesting and therefore charges, is estimated 
as £3.6 million. 
Headcount across most departments was higher year-on-
year. Overseas IT and marketing development teams, in 
particular, have grown further to facilitate the development of 
a broader range of mobile apps alongside ongoing platform 
improvements projects. As at 31 May 2015, IT headcount 
was 603 (2014: 497), an increase of 21.3% compared to the 
previous year.
ADVERTISING AND MARKETING COSTS
Advertising and marketing costs increased by £6.1 million to 
£37.8 million (2014: £31.7 million).
This year saw a change in focus between online and offline 
advertising, with online spend increasing as we continue to 
optimise and support our digital marketing approach. The 
Group’s geographical expansion, with increased marketing 
spends in Switzerland and later in the year in Nadex, has also 
added to the increase.
The main marketing campaigns run in the year focused on 
IG’s 40th birthday, ‘Live Every Trade’ TV campaign and the 
new stockbroking offering launched during the year.
The Group is now in the second year of the three-year 
partnership with Harlequins Rugby Club and is one of three 
principal partners of the club. The partnership is consistent 
with the Group’s strategic approach to increase visibility of the 
IG brand and value proposition.
OTHER EXPENSES
Premises-related costs were higher at £11.1 million (2014: 
£10.0 million). The increase in costs reflects the full-year effect 
of the offices opened during the latter part of the last financial 
year in Switzerland and Eastern Europe and also the costs 
incurred in relation to the Dubai office opened in 2015.
IT, market data and communication costs include the cost 
of IT maintenance and short-term licence arrangements as 
well as market data fees from exchanges. The increase of 
costs from £13.8 million in the prior year to £16.4 million is 
due to a change in software agreements from perpetual 
licences to cloud software. This has resulted in more items 
being expensed, rather than capitalised, and ultimately 
amortised. This change is also reflected in the reduction of 
software amortisation. 
Legal and professional fees, which include audit, taxation, 
legal and other professional fees, increased by £1.6 million 
to £5.9 million (2013: £4.3 million). The increase was primarily 
driven by professional fees incurred in relation to the generic 
top-level domain operation.
Regulatory fees increased by 31.5% to £7.1 million (2014: 
£5.4 million). The level of FSCS levy paid by the Group 
remains dependent on investment intermediary firms' 
failures and the eventual compensation paid. Accordingly, 
this charge is outside of Group's control and is hard to 
accurately forecast.
During the year the Group changed its accounting policy 
for recognising the costs of the FSCS levy to reflect 
guidance provided in the IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’ standard. The 
standard requires the Group to recognise in full an estimate 
of the FSCS levy for the applicable year on 1 April each 
year. A full explanation is provided in the Group’s interim 
consolidated financial statements for the six months ended 
30 November 2014.
43 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | The Group also pays other regulatory fees to the FCA in the 
UK, as well as regulatory bodies in other jurisdictions where 
it operates. 
The net charge for impaired trade receivables was significantly 
higher compared to the previous year, increasing to 
£16.2 million (2014: £1.6 million). The increase was largely due 
to £15.1 million charge relating to the Swiss franc event which 
resulted from an original debt amount of £18.4 million. Out of 
this debt total, £2.8 million has been recovered to date. 
Other costs include bank charges, training, travel, recruitment 
and irrecoverable sales taxes. The increase is primarily 
attributable to higher recruitment fees driven by the increase 
in headcount, and higher irrecoverable sales taxes following 
the increase in advertising and marketing spend.
Depreciation and amortisation increased by £1.0 million 
to £10.7 million (2014: £9.7 million), partly due to the 
amortisation of IT development costs.
OPERATING PROFIT MARGINS
The Group uses operating profit margin, which includes 
an allocation of central costs, as an indicator of regional 
performance (refer to note 4 of the financial statements: 
Segment Information. 
Statutory operating profit decreased 13.2% to £169.6 million 
(2014: £195.4 million). Underlying operating profit, which 
excludes the impact of the Swiss franc event, decreased by 
1.1%. The Group statutory operating profit margin (operating 
profit expressed as a percentage of net trading revenue) 
decreased to 43.7% (2014: 52.8%). 
The following table summarises operating profit margin 
by region:
Operating profit 
margin by region
Year ended  
31 May 
2015 
Underlying
Year ended  
31 May 
2015 
Statutory
Restated* 
Year ended  
31 May 
2014
UK 57.2% 52.1% 61.1%
Australia 60.3% 59.2% 60.1%
Europe 27.6% 18.1% 38.9%
Rest of World 30.2% 29.5% 33.3%
Group 48.3% 43.7% 52.8%
* Comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of 
recognition of the FSCS levy in accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. 
Underlying operating profit margin fell to 48.3% (2014: 52.8%) 
driven by lower margins in UK, Europe and Rest of World. 
This reduction reflects the ongoing investment in strategic 
development. For Europe the reduction in underlying profit 
margin is particularly marked and driven by a combination of 
a fall in underlying revenue and the direct costs associated 
with the newly established operation in Switzerland. The Rest 
of World region includes the new office in Dubai that did not 
contribute to revenues during the year ended 31 May 2015. 
PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION
Statutory profit before taxation reduced by 13.0% to 
£169.5 million (2014: £194.9 million). Profit before tax margin, 
calculated with reference to net trading revenue, decreased 
to 43.6% (2014: 52.6%). 
Underlying profit before taxation reduced by 0.9% to 
£193.2 million (2014: £194.9 million).
TAXATION EXPENSE
The effective rate of taxation for the year ended 31 May 2015 
decreased to 22.2% compared to a rate of 24.5% for the prior 
year. The effective rate for the current year has benefited 
from the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 20.0%. 
The Group’s effective tax rate is dependent on the mix of 
geographic revenue and profitability as well as the tax rates 
levied in those geographies.
The calculation of the Group’s tax charge involves a degree of 
estimation and judgement, in particular with respect to certain 
items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until 
agreement has been reached with the relevant tax authority 
(refer to note 10 of the financial statements). 
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
Statutory diluted earnings per share decreased to 
35.99 pence from 40.22 pence in the year ended 31 May 2015 
(refer to note 11 of the financial statements). 
Underlying diluted earnings per share increased 2.1% to 
41.07 pence (2014: 40.22 pence).
Diluted earnings per share is used as a primary measure 
of underlying profitability and as a financial measure in 
relation to the Executive Director and senior management 
share plans.
DIVIDEND POLICY
IG remains highly cash-generative and we have sought to 
reflect this in the direct cash returns to shareholders. Last 
year the Board raised the Ordinary dividend payout ratio to 
approximately 70%. Although statutory earnings this year are 
behind due to the impact of the Swiss franc incident, both the 
business and the market opportunity remain strong. In line 
with IG’s progressive dividend policy, the Board made clear at 
the time of the first half results in January its intention to hold 
the full-year dividend flat on 2014 at 28.15 pence, and so the 
Board is recommending a final dividend of 19.70 pence.
CHIEF  
FINANCIAL  
OFFICER’S  
REVIEW
(CONTINUED)
| 44 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 SUMMARY GROUP CASH FLOW 
The following cash flow statement summarises the Group’s 
cash generation during the year and excludes all cash flows 
in relation to monies held on behalf of clients. In order to 
provide a clear presentation of the Group’s liquid assets both 
amounts due from brokers and financial investments have 
been treated as ‘cash equivalents’ and included within ‘own 
funds’. A more detailed version of the cash flow presented 
below and the derivation of own funds are provided in note 
19 to the financial statements.
Operating profit 
margin by region
Year ended  
31 May 
2015 
Underlying
Year ended  
31 May 
2015 
Statutory
Restated* 
Year ended  
31 May 
2014
Operating activities
Profit before tax 193.2 169.5 194.9
Depreciation & 
amortisation 10.7 10.7 9.7
Other non-cash 
adjustments 3.1 (0.5) 3.8
Income taxes 
paid (47.8) (42.9) (47.8)
Own funds 
generated from 
operations 159.2 136.8 160.6
Movement in 
working capital n/a 7.9 (3.3)
Outflow from 
investing and 
financing 
activities n/a (126.3) (96.8)
Increase in own 
funds n/a 18.4 60.5
Own funds at 
start of period n/a 487.3 429.3
Exchange profits/ 
(losses) on own 
funds n/a 1.4 (2.5)
Own funds at 
end of period n/a 507.1 487.3
 * Comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of 
recognition of the FSCS levy in accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. 
Cash generation remains strong with statutory own 
funds generated from operations of £136.8 million 
(2014: £160.6 million). 
Underlying own funds generation was broadly flat at 
£159.2 million (2014: £160.6 million). The underlying cash 
conversion rate, calculated as own funds generated from 
operations divided by profit before tax, has remained strong 
at 82.4% (2014: 82.4%). 
‘Own funds’ increased by £18.4 million (2014: £60.5 million) 
after adjustments for movements in working capital balances 
and significant outflows in relation to investing and financing 
activities. The outflow from investing and financing activities 
includes £12.4 million in relation to capital expenditure 
(2014: £11.5 million) and £112.8 million (2014: £84.8 million) 
in relation to the final 2014 and interim 2015 dividend 
payments. The Group made investments of £6.4 million on 
a combination of IT development and software assets (2014: 
£8.1 million). Cash investment in tangible fixed assets total 
£6.0 million (2014: £3.4 million) and comprise £5.0 million 
on IT hardware and £1.0 million on the fit out of the newly 
leased offices. 
LIQUIDITY
The Group’s liquid assets comprise cash balances available 
to the Group for its own purposes and exclude all monies 
held in segregated client money accounts. The Group’s 
businesses are also entitled to use ‘title transfer funds’ in the 
UK and customer deposits held by the banking subsidiary in 
Switzerland in normal business operations. Therefore these 
are included in the statement of financial position and the 
Group’s liquid assets. 
An element of the Group’s liquidity is not available for the 
purposes of the centrally performed market risk management 
as it is held in overseas businesses for the purposes of local 
regulatory and working capital requirements or is currently 
held within segregated client money bank accounts to 
ensure the Group’s segregation obligations are met. At 31 
May 2015 the unavailable cash increased by £37.2 million 
from that unavailable in the prior year to £86.4 million (2014: 
£49.2 million) primarily as a result of additional capital 
requirements in each of Switzerland and Dubai.
Available liquid assets enable the funding of large broker 
margin requirements when required and should be 
considered in the context of the intra-year high broker 
margin requirement of £293.7 million (2014: £290.3 million), 
the requirement to hold a liquid assets buffer, the continued 
growth of the business, the Group’s commitment to 
segregation of individual clients’ money as well the final 
proposed dividend for the year ended 31 May 2015, all of 
which draw upon the Group’s liquidity.
Net available liquidity is disclosed in the table below and 
represents the Group’s available liquidity inclusive of the 
liquid assets buffer and after the payment of broker margin. 
45 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 31 May 2015 
£m
Restated* 
31 May 2014 
£m
Own funds 507.1 487.3
Client funds held on balance 
sheet 16.9 21.0
Total liquid assets 524.0 508.3
Less amounts required to 
ensure appropriate client 
money segregation – other 
amounts due to the group (27.6) (20.4)
Less amounts required for 
regulatory and working capital 
of overseas businesses (58.8) (28.8)
Available liquid assets 437.6 459.1
Less broker margin requirement (204.8) (285.1)
Net available liquidity 232.8 174.0
Of which held as a liquid assets 
buffer 83.1 82.5
* Comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of 
recognition of the FSCS levy in accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. 
In order to mitigate liquidity risks, the Group regularly 
stress tests its three-year liquidity forecast to validate the 
appropriate level of committed unsecured bank facilities 
held. During the year the facility was drawn on a number of 
occasions during periods of high broker margin requirements 
or when there was a perception of higher volatility and risk in 
the financial markets. Subsequent to the year-end, the Group 
undertook a review of its contingent liquidity requirements 
and, upon approval from the Executive Risk Committee, 
concluded to reduce its facilities to £160.0 million (refer to 
note 39 of the financial statements).
A detailed analysis of the Group’ s liquidity and the management 
of liquidity risk are provided in note 19 to the financial statements.
REGULATORY CAPITAL RESOURCES
Throughout the year, the Group maintained a significant 
excess over the capital resources requirement, both on a 
consolidated and individual regulated entity basis. 
The Group considers there are significant benefits to being 
well capitalised at a time of continuing global economic 
uncertainty. The Group is well placed in respect of any 
regulatory changes which may increase our capital or liquidity 
requirements, and high levels of liquidity are important in 
the event of significant market volatility. The Group’s liquidity 
requirements have historically been, and remain, significantly 
in excess of its regulatory capital requirements. The total 
regulatory capital requirement remains significantly below the 
necessary liquidity levels. 
The new CRD IV requirements that came into force on 
1 January 2014 require deferred tax assets relating to future 
profitability to be deducted from Tier 1 Capital in the 
determination of capital resources for the Group. 
The following table summarises the Group’s Pillar 1 capital 
adequacy on a consolidated basis:
31 May 2015 
£m
Restated* 
31 May 2014 
£m
Shareholders’ equity 591.4 565.9
Investment in own shares 1.2 1.1
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital 592.6 567.0
Less: 
 Intangible assets (124.0) (122.7)
 Investment in own shares (1.2) (1.1)
 Deferred tax assets
(1)
(7.1) (7.1)
Total capital resources (CR) (a) 460.3 436.1
Capital resources requirement – 
Pillar 1 (CRR) (b) (111.3) (115.4)
(a-b) 349.0 320.7
* Comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of 
recognition of the FSCS levy in accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’.
 
(1) 
The new CRD IV requirements which came into force on 1 January 2014 
require deferred tax assets relating to future profitability to be deducted from 
Tier 1 Capital to determine capital resources for the Group.
CHIEF  
FINANCIAL  
OFFICER’S  
REVIEW
(CONTINUED)
| 46 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 SUMMARY GROUP STATEMENT OF 
FINANCIAL POSITION
31 May 2015 
£m
Restated*  
31 May 2014 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 13.3 13.0
Intangible assets 124.0 122.7
Financial investments 75.5 32.2
Deferred tax assets 7.1 7.1
Non-current assets 219.9 175.0
Trade and other receivables 281.8 339.7
Cash and cash equivalents 148.8 101.5
Financial investments 32.9 50.3
Current assets 463.5 491.5
Total assets 683.4 666.5
Trade and other payables 78.9 80.3
Income tax payable 13.1 20.3
Current liabilities 92.0 100.6
Redeemable preference shares – –
Non-current liabilities – –
Total liabilities 92.0 100.6
Total equity 591.4 565.9
Total equity and liabilities 683.4 666.5
 * Comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of 
recognition of the FSCS levy in accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. 
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
As discussed in the Chief Executive’s Statement, the Group 
continues to invest in technology both to enhance client 
experience and to improve the capacity and resilience of 
dealing platforms, each of which is critical to the success of 
the business. 
Intangible assets purchased during the year include £1.5 million 
(2014: £1.8 million), for a suite of country-code and generic top-
level domains that are directly relevant to our business. 
Intangible assets also include goodwill of £107.1 million 
(2014: £106.7 million), primarily arising on the acquisition 
of IG Group Plc and its subsidiaries in 2003, the goodwill 
associated with the acquisition of Nadex of £5.0 million (2014: 
£4.6 million) and the goodwill arising on the acquisition of 
our South African business of £1.2 million (2014: £1.2 million) 
(refer to note 16 of the financial statements). 
Capitalised investment in relation to development costs 
and software and licences amounted to £4.4 million (2014: 
£6.0 million) largely relating to the development of the 
share trading platform. During the year the Group also 
invested £5.9 million in property, plant and equipment (2014: 
£3.4 million). This included £4.6 million (2013: £2.5 million) in 
relation to IT equipment. 
CURRENT ASSETS
Trade and other receivables include amounts due from 
brokers, amounts due to be received from segregated 
client money accounts and prepayments. Amounts due 
from brokers represent cash placed with counterparties in 
order to provide initial and variation margin in relation to the 
Group’s market risk management. Amounts due from brokers 
have decreased to £239.2 million (2014: £303.9 million) 
resulting from lower broker margins than at the prior year-
end driven by the Group's hedging of clients' futures and 
shares positions. 
CLIENT MONEY AND ASSETS
Total monies held on behalf of clients at year-end was 
£930.5 million (2014: £879.4 million) of which £913.6 million 
(2014: £858.4 million) is segregated in trust bank accounts 
and treated as ‘segregated client money’ and therefore 
excluded from the Group Statement of Financial Position. 
Of the remaining monies, £11.6 million (2014: £21.0 million) 
represents ‘title transfer funds’ where the client agrees, under 
a Title Transfer Collateral Arrangement (TTCA), that full 
ownership of such monies is unconditionally transferred to the 
Group, while the remaining £5.3 million (2014: £nil) relates to 
customer deposits with our banking operation in Switzerland. 
Although the levels of client money can vary depending on 
the overall mix of financial products being traded by clients, 
the long-term increase in the level of client money placed by 
clients with the Group is a positive indicator of future client 
propensity to trade.
FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS
During the year the Group increased the holding of UK 
Government Securities from £82.5 million as at 31 May 2014 
to £108.4 million at 31 May 2015. The additional security is 
held at broker as collateral to support the hedging of client 
market exposures in accordance with the Group’s market 
risk management policy. The value of securities held against 
potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12 is broadly flat on the 
prior year.
LIABILITIES
Trade and other payables include amounts due to clients in 
relation to both title transfer funds and customer deposits 
with the Group’s Swiss banking subsidiary as well as accruals 
and other payables. 
Trade payables have decreased by £4.2 million from 31 May 
2014 due to the decrease in the number of title transfer clients 
from £21.0 million as at 31 May 2014 to £11.6 million as at 31 
May 2015 partially offset by an increase in amounts due to 
clients of £5.3 million in relation to the customer deposits with 
the banking operation in Switzerland (2014: £nil).
Income tax payable has fallen to £13.1 million at year end 
(2014: £20.3 million) reflecting the lower corporation tax 
charge for the current financial year following both lower 
statutory profitability and a lower overall effective tax rate.
47 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | In this section we explain how we manage risk in accordance 
with our Risk Appetite Statement (RAS) and Risk Management 
Framework. We also explain in detail the key risks we face, our 
governance structure for risk, and the reporting cycle that we 
use to monitor and report on risk. 
RISK APPETITE STATEMENT (RAS)
The RAS is at the heart of our risk management framework. 
It defines the amount of risk that the Board is prepared to 
accept, both on an individual risk and aggregate basis, in 
pursuit of its business objectives and strategic goals. The RAS 
provides parameters within which the business can operate, 
and is reviewed by the Board. We have identified three main 
types of risk affecting our business, and we explain these in 
more detail later in this section. 
1. BUSINESS MODEL RISKS 
These are risks we actively manage and are able to measure, 
control and assign limits and parameters to: 
• Credit risk – see page 51
• Market risk – see page 51 
• Liquidity risk – see page 51
2. INDUSTRY RISKS 
These are risks we accept as arising from operating in 
the financial services sector. For these risks we set a risk 
tolerance rather than a risk appetite. They include (but are not 
limited to): 
• Financial institution credit risk – see page 51
• Operational risk – see page 52
• Regulatory risk – see page 52
• Conduct risk – see page 53
• Technology (IT) risk – see Operational Risk, page 52 
3. ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS 
These are risks over which we have minimal control. 
They include (but are not limited to): 
• Natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes and 
disease epidemics 
• Strikes and civil unrest 
The RAS contains a set of statements and Key Risk Indicators 
(KRIs). These balance quantitative and qualitative measures to 
provide an indication of increasing or declining risk levels over 
an appropriate timescale.
They are designed to alert our Board and management that a 
risk is approaching, or has exceeded, an acceptable level, and 
we monitor them on an ongoing basis. The Board receives 
regular reports on our performance against the KRIs, and the 
Board reviews the KRIs in conjunction with the RAS annually.
OUR RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK 
In order to establish effective governance over risk according to 
our RAS, we have developed a Risk Management Framework 
to identify, measure, manage and monitor the risks faced by the 
business. Our Risk Management Framework provides the Board 
with assurance that we have understood and managed our risks 
as far as possible, within appropriate boundaries. It comprises 
our Risk Governance Framework and Risk Reporting Cycle.
OUR RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK 
The diagram opposite sets out the framework for the Board 
and executive committees, independent control functions 
and ongoing business operations that exercise governance 
over risk. 
Responsibilities of the Board 
The responsibilities of the Board in relation to risk 
management are to:
• Set and review the RAS and the KRIs 
• Review and challenge updates from the Board 
Risk Committee 
• Review and challenge the system of internal control and 
risk management 
• Review and challenge capital and liquidity stress-testing 
• Approve the Corporate Governance Report in the 
Annual Report
Board committees 
The Board is supported in its monitoring of the Risk 
Management Framework by the Board Risk, Audit and 
Remuneration Committees.
Last year, we formed the Board Risk Committee in recognition 
of the Board’s continued development of the Group’s focus 
on risk management. The committee provides the Board with 
a more in-depth level of understanding of, and governance 
over, the Group’s risk framework. This is becoming 
increasingly important as we expand our reach and extend 
our product range, at the same time as global regulators 
continue to strengthen their regimes. 
MANAGING OUR  
BUSINESS RISK
Our strategy depends on the effective 
management of our business risks. By 
identifying the nature and potential 
impact of these risks, we can design and 
operate processes that ensure that they 
are effectively controlled and mitigated. 
Over time, we have developed a robust 
and consistent Risk Management 
Framework that we continually seek 
to improve.
| 48 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 The Board Risk Committee’s responsibilities in relation to risk 
management are to:
• Consider, and recommend for approval by the Board, the 
RAS and KRIs for the current and future strategy 
• Monitor, review and challenge the Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and Internal 
Liquidity Adequacy Assessment (ILAA) 
• Ensure rigorous stress-testing and scenario-testing of 
the Group’s business and receive reports that explain the 
impact of identified risks and threats 
• Ensure that risk mitigation consistent with our risk appetite 
is in place
• Review the Group’s major risk exposures 
• Consider the adequacy and effectiveness of the technology 
infrastructure and supporting documentation in the Risk 
Management Framework 
• Provide input to the Remuneration Committee on the risk 
implications of the remuneration policy
The Audit Committee’s responsibilities in relation to 
risk management are to: 
• Receive an annual report from the Board Risk 
Committee on the Company’s internal controls and Risk 
Management Framework 
• Review an assessment of the control environment, via 
internal audit reports, and progress on implementing both 
internal and external audit recommendations 
• Monitor and review the internal audit function’s 
effectiveness in the overall context of the Group’s internal 
controls and risk management systems 
The Remuneration Committee’s responsibility in relation 
to risk management is to review the structure and level of 
remuneration throughout the business and assess the impact 
of remuneration on risk. 
An overview of all the Board Committees’ main duties and 
activity during the financial year is set out in the Corporate 
Governance Report, and the Chairman of each committee has 
provided a review of its activity for the year in the Corporate 
Governance Report. 
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES 
Executive Risk Committee 
The Executive Risk Committee is an executive committee 
chaired by the Chief Risk Officer. Its role is to oversee day-
to-day risk management activity across the Group. The 
committee generally meets weekly to ensure that it deals 
with issues as they arise, reflecting the senior management’s 
commitment to playing an active role in risk management 
decision-making. It also sets the tone across the Group that 
risk management is central to corporate culture. The Board 
receives copies of the Executive Risk Committee minutes. 
Client Money Committee 
The Client Money Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial 
Officer, who is responsible for overseeing our processes 
and controls over segregating client funds and the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA)’s client assets (CASS) operational 
oversight function. The committee meets monthly and 
receives reports from a number of control functions, enabling 
it to monitor the effectiveness of our global processes and 
controls for segregating client money.
ICAAP and ILAA Committee 
In addition to managing individual risks, we stress-test 
and scenario-test as part of the Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process (ICAAP) and the Individual Liquidity 
Adequacy Assessment (ILAA). These assessments test 
the potential impact on capital and liquidity of a series 
of combined risk events. The committee meets monthly 
and oversees the results of the ongoing stress-testing and 
scenario-testing process, ensuring that risks are continuously 
identified and assessed. 
Senior Accounting Officer Committee 
The Senior Accounting Officer (SAO) Committee is 
responsible for reviewing and challenging the processes 
and controls put in place to ensure we comply with HMRC 
requirements to certify that each of our UK subsidiaries ‘had 
appropriate tax arrangements throughout the financial year’. 
The committee reports to the Chief Financial Officer, who is 
the designated SAO. 
Control functions 
Additional levels of assurance are provided by control 
functions, which are independent of the business operations – 
namely finance, risk, compliance, legal and internal audit. The 
control functions provide periodic reporting to the Board and 
executive committees as appropriate.
Business operations 
In addition to the control functions, we have embedded risk 
management into our underlying business operations. Heads of 
departments are responsible for maintaining risk registers and, 
where necessary, taking action to mitigate risks and enhance 
the control environment. The risk and compliance control 
functions use these registers in coordinating the identification, 
measurement and monitoring of risk across the business. 
THE BOARD
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Audit 
Committee
Board Risk 
Committee
BOARD COMMITTEES
CONTROL FUNCTIONS
BUSINESS OPERATIONS
Finance Risk Compliance Legal
Executive Risk
Committee
ICAAP & ILAA 
Committee
Client Money 
Committee
Senior 
Accounting 
Officer 
Committee
Internal controls implemented by management
Review by 
internal 
audit of risk 
management 
and internal 
controls
49 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | BUSINESS OPERATIONS
REPORTS
OUR 
KEY RISKS
REGULATORY
CONDUCT
OPERATIONAL
MARKET
IT
CREDIT
LIQUIDITY
£ €
¥ $
AUDIT
COMMITTEE
BOARD REVIEW
BOARD AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES
CONTROL FUNCTIONS
Finance       |       Risk       |       Compliance       |       Legal  
Remuneration  |  Risk  |  Client Money |  ICAAP and ILAA |  
Senior Accounting Officer
• Periodic reporting
• Monthly risk reporting (including Key  
Risk Indicators)
• Internal audit
• Risk registers
• Most significant risks
• External audit control report
• ICAAP and ILAA
ACTIONS
Control 
actions
Monitored by 
internal audit
OUR RISK REPORTING CYCLE
The diagram below represents the flow of information and feedback that supports the Risk Governance Framework. 
MANAGING  
OUR BUSINESS  
RISK
(CONTINUED)
| 50 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 OUR KEY RISKS 
The following section describes the key risks that we face and 
the steps that we take in order to manage these risks. 
Credit risk 
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty fails to perform 
its obligations, resulting in financial loss. Our credit risk is 
managed on a Group-wide basis. The principal sources of 
credit risk to our business are from financial institutions and 
individual clients. 
Financial institution credit risk 
All financial institutions with which the Group has a 
relationship are subject to a credit review. Exposure limits are 
set and approved by the Executive Risk Committee. 
We monitor a number of key metrics on a daily basis in 
respect of financial institution credit risk. These include 
balances held, change in short-term and long-term credit 
rating and any change in credit default swap (CDS) price. 
The Group is responsible, under various regulatory regimes, 
for the stewardship of client monies. These responsibilities 
include appointing and periodically reviewing institutions 
where we deposit client money. Our aim is that all financial 
institutions holding client money and assets should have a 
minimum Standard & Poor’s short-term and long-term rating 
of A-2 and A- respectively. Where this is not possible, we 
set low exposure limits and seek to use the best available 
counterparty – preferably one that is considered locally 
systemic and therefore most likely to receive support. We also 
maintain multiple brokers for each asset class.
We monitor our exposure to financial institutions with whom 
the Group holds money through a daily review against 
financial limits and diversification criteria. 
Client credit risk 
Client credit risk principally arises when a client’s total 
deposited funds are insufficient to cover any trading losses 
incurred. In particular, client credit risk can arise where there 
are significant, sudden movements in the market, due to high 
general market volatility or specific volatility relating to an 
instrument in which the client has an open position.
We mitigate, but do not eliminate, client credit risk in a 
number of ways. We only accept clients that pass certain 
suitability criteria, and our training programme aims to 
educate clients in aspects of trading and risk management, as 
well as encouraging them to collateralise their accounts to an 
appropriate level. We also conduct a pre-deal credit check on 
every client order.
We offer a number of risk management tools that enable 
clients to manage their exposures, including: 
• Guaranteed and non-guaranteed stops 
• Limit orders
• Extended trading hours
• Trading via mobile platforms 
In addition, we manage our overall credit risk exposure 
through real-time monitoring of client positions via our ‘close-
out monitor’ (COM) and through the use of tiered margining. 
The COM is an automated process whereby accounts which 
have fallen below the liquidation threshold are automatically 
identified and closed. 
For a small number of generally long-standing clients, we 
grant credit against unrealised losses, with credit terms such 
that any losses arising are payable immediately on the closure 
of transactions. 
Both the close-out monitor and client-initiated stops result 
in the transfer of market risk to the Group. Market risk arises 
following the closure of the underlying client position as 
the Group (subject to the market risk limits, discussed in 
the following section), may hold a corresponding hedging 
position that will, assuming sufficient market liquidity, 
be unwound.
For more information refer to note 36 to the 
Financial Statements. 
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of financial assets 
and financial liabilities will change due to movements in 
market prices. 
We manage market risk on a real-time basis, monitoring all 
client positions against market risk limits set by the Executive 
Risk Committee for ‘operational efficiency’. The Group 
operates within these limits by hedging our residual market 
risk exposure. We do not take proprietary positions based 
on an expectation of market movements. As a result, not all 
net client exposures are hedged and the Group may have a 
residual net position in any of the financial markets in which it 
offers products up to the market risk limit.
Our technology enables us to monitor our market exposure 
constantly and in real time. If exposures exceed our pre-
agreed limits, our risk-management policy requires that we 
hedge the positions to bring the exposure back into line with 
these limits. 
For more information, including our risk limits and 
residual exposures at 31 May 2015, refer to note 36 to the 
Financial Statements. 
Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that we will be unable to meet 
payment obligations as they fall due. 
We manage liquidity risk by ensuring that we have sufficient 
liquidity to meet our broker margin requirements and other 
financial liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed 
conditions. We carried out an Individual Liquidity Adequacy 
Assessment during the year and, while this applies specifically 
to the Group’s FCA-regulated entities, it provides the context 
within which we manage liquidity throughout the business. 
Due to the very short-term nature of our financial assets and 
liabilities, we do not have any material mismatches in our 
liquidity maturity profiles. Short-term liquidity ‘gaps’ can arise, 
51 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | due to our commitment to segregate all individual client 
funds. If a significant market fall occurs, and assuming our 
client base holds a net long position which we have hedged, 
we are required to fund margin payments to brokers before 
releasing funds from segregation. During periods of very high 
client activity, or of significant directional movements in global 
markets, we may need to fund higher margin requirements with 
our brokers to hedge increased underlying client positions. We 
do this from our own available liquidity.
At 31 May 2015 we had total available liquidity, including 
committed unsecured facilities and after accounting for broker 
margin, of £724.0 million (2014: £708.3 million). This includes 
the liquid assets buffer, which consists of £83.1 million of UK 
government securities. We hold this, as required by the FCA, to 
provide a safeguard in times of stress. 
We monitor total available liquidity on a daily basis, including 
our committed unsecured facilities. We perform daily stress 
tests and regularly stress-test our three-year liquidity forecast to 
validate the level of committed unsecured bank facilities that we 
hold. At the year-end, these amounted to £200.0 million (2014: 
£200.0 million), with £120.0 million available for one year and 
£80.0 million available for three years. Our Japanese business, 
IG Markets Securities, has a ¥300.0 million liquidity facility as at 
31 May 2015 (2014: ¥300.0 million). 
For more information on how we calculate our total available 
liquidity, see note 19 to the Financial Statements.
Operational risk 
Operational risk is the risk of financial loss due to inadequate 
or failed internal processes and systems. It can also arise from 
human error or external events that we cannot influence. 
Our approach to managing operational risk is governed by the 
Risk Appetite Statement and Risk Management Framework. We 
have designed and implemented a system of internal controls to 
manage, rather than eliminate, operational risk. 
The reliability of our client trading platforms is key to delivering 
our strategy, and we invest significantly in the technology 
infrastructure to ensure that these platforms are operationally 
stable, with system access being centrally controlled. Our 
investment supports the resilience and reliability of the platform, 
ensuring low levels of latency, maintaining and testing system 
capability under significant load and conducting penetration 
testing. The Executive Risk Committee reviews our Key Risk 
Indicators on a monthly basis, a process which includes 
monitoring levels of core system uptime and deal latency. 
In order to ensure that we provide our clients with a consistent 
and uninterrupted level of service, we run a complete disaster- 
recovery solution. This involves a fully functional secondary 
site with real-time replication of all systems across the two 
locations and fully independent power supplies. We support 
these systems with ongoing business-continuity planning and 
regular testing. 
All our IT and data security systems conform to the ISO 
27001:2005 Information Security Management System standards. 
Cyber risk is a constant threat in the modern online environment. 
We have a dedicated team which has implemented a robust, 
multi-layered system, providing round-the-clock monitoring and 
intruder-prevention controls. 
Regulatory risk
We regard regulatory risk as one of our most significant risks. In 
short, we define regulatory risk as:
• Change risk: the risk that one of our regulators introduces 
new regulations or the regulatory environment itself changes, 
either making our business less profitable or our products 
more difficult or impossible to offer
• Expansion risk: the risk that policy and regulation in 
jurisdictions where we do not currently operate remain 
onerous and closed to our business model, limiting our 
geographic expansion opportunities
• Breach risk: the risk that we breach a regulation that applies to 
our business, leading to client or market detriment, sanctions, 
fines, reputational damage and, in extreme situations, loss 
of licence
We invest significant time and resources to manage and 
control our regulatory risk in parallel with the development of 
business strategy.
Change risk
The regulatory environment continues to evolve, and there 
are a number of events, policy initiatives and proposals in 
development that may impact or have already impacted our 
sector, as follows:
• Change to UK membership in the European Union: the Group 
business in continental Europe is offered pursuant to the 
EU passporting regime for financial services. Any change to 
the UK’ s membership status of the European Union could 
have an impact on how the Group is able to operate in the 
European Union
• French marketing restrictions: there are indications that French 
regulators may implement measures that would restrict the 
ability for firms like ourselves to advertise complex financial 
products to retail clients. The impact of these measures will 
depend on whether the measures are introduced and, if so, 
the form in which they are introduced. We have also seen 
other European regulators in markets where we operate 
introduce guidelines on the selling of complex products 
this year
• Swiss franc market dislocation: extreme market events such as 
was seen earlier in the year regarding the Swiss franc can result 
in increased regulatory scrutiny across our industry
• Financial Transactions T ax (FTT) in the European Union: the 
Enhanced Cooperation FTT effort, involving 11 of the 28 
member states, has continued this year. We have expended 
significant efforts throughout the year to maintain an accurate 
knowledge of the status of this tax initiative, to understand 
the many stakeholders’ interests and views and to ensure 
IG’ s voice is heard in the debate. It remains unclear what the 
ultimate outcome of the Enhanced Cooperation FTT will 
be, and although progress is extremely slow recent rhetoric 
suggests increased political will for the introduction of an 
Enhanced Cooperation FTT . The lack of detail makes the 
potential impact on our revenue from Europe very difficult to 
assess. We continue to monitor developments carefully
MANAGING  
OUR BUSINESS  
RISK
(CONTINUED)
| 52 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 • European Markets Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR): the 
main impact of this legislation on our business is increased 
reporting requirements to trade repositories. Potentially, 
we will also be impacted in the medium-to-longer term by 
the International Organization of Securities Commissions 
(IOSCO), European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) 
and European Banking Authority (EBA)’ s work on margin for 
over-the-counter trading, but the rules on this have not yet 
been settled
• Markets in Financial Instruments (MiFID) II: the MiFID II 
dossier has continued to develop this year. The MiFID II and 
Markets in Financial Investments Regulation (MiFIR) Level One 
texts were adopted last year and there has been significant 
work on the preparation of the detailed Level T wo texts. We 
remain of the view that MiFID II is unlikely to pose a threat to 
our UK and European businesses. We continue to monitor 
MiFID II carefully and to take part in industry consultation 
where appropriate
• Packaged Retail Investments Products Regulation (PRIPS): this 
will impose an obligation on us from May 2016 to provide our 
UK and European clients with information about our products 
in a standardised form. We do not anticipate this having a 
negative impact on our business 
• Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) regulatory framework 
for margined derivatives. As previously reported, in 2013 the 
MAS confirmed that it would push forward with its proposal to 
increase margin requirements for non-accredited investors on 
a forex trade from 2% to 5%, thereby reducing leverage from 
50 times to 20 times. Although these rules have not yet been 
introduced, we consider that there is a good possibility that 
they will be introduced in the future. If they are introduced, it 
is intended that the rules will not apply to accredited investors, 
defined by virtue of their wealth or income level. We believe 
that the majority of IG’ s revenue currently comes from clients 
who would qualify for accredited investor status. In addition, 
the use of guaranteed stops enables clients to further manage 
leverage levels
• Common Reporting Standard (CRS): this is being 
implemented in just under 100 countries (including the UK 
and all countries where IG has offices) to facilitate a global 
exchange of information on income and wealth of individuals 
and organisations as a measure to counter tax evasion. On-
boarding processes will need to be updated to identify and 
report information on clients resident in countries who have 
already signed up or will sign up to CRS.
• Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS): The Organisation 
for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) has 
developed a series of action plans to address perceived 
international tax avoidance by high-profile multinationals. 
None of the action plans are expected to significantly impact 
the Group’ s tax profile
• Foreign Account T ax Compliance Act (FATCA): reporting of 
accounts held outside the US by US persons, or in the Crown 
Dependencies and Overseas T erritories by UK residents.  
Onboarding processes have been updated to identify clients 
where we have a reporting obligation and the first round of 
reporting is in progress
• Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV) and Capital 
Requirements Regulation (CRR)
The European Union (EU) began implementation of Basel 
III in the European Union (EU) via the Capital Requirements 
Directive IV (CRD IV) and the Capital Requirements Regulation 
(CRR) on 1 January 2014.  The Regulation applies directly to all 
member states, while the directive required implementation 
by the national regulator, the FCA in our case
These measures have introduced many different requirements 
for us, both since implementation and over the coming years
The main areas of relevance include:
– changes to capital requirements
> new capital buffers in the capital conservation and 
countercyclical buffers (phased in approach to 2019)
> introduction of the leverage ratio (measure of 
exposures without risk weighting)
> removal of Tier 3 capital and re-use of deferred 
tax assets
– changes to liquidity requirements 
> introduction of liquidity coverage ratio (LCR)
> introduction of net stable funding ratio (NSFR)
– other changes, including
> new corporate governance and 
remuneration standards
> additional capital and liquidity reporting (COREP)
We have modelled the impact of the regulations as they 
currently are scheduled to be implemented and expect 
no significant changes to our corporate governance or 
remuneration structures, as well as no significant impact 
on our capital or liquidity position.
We seek to mitigate change risk by engaging with our 
regulators and policymakers as much as possible, as part of 
policy consultations and more generally, and also by investing 
in public relations programmes and ensuring we have access 
to up-to-date information on regulatory change. 
Expansion risk
Like change risk, we seek to mitigate expansion risk by 
engaging with regulators and policymakers in countries where 
we do not yet operate, but which are desirable targets for 
our future expansion. Of course, regulatory change can also 
represent an opportunity for our business, and we are in talks 
with certain regulators who are considering changing their 
regulations in order to allow retail derivatives trading. These 
discussions are still at an early stage.
Breach risk
Our compliance, legal and risk teams provide a robust 
line of defence to ensure that our processes and controls 
are effective in ensuring we comply with our regulatory 
obligations. During the year, the Group has successfully 
undergone a number of external reviews into key areas such 
as client money and information security, giving us assurance 
that we are managing and controlling breach risk well. As 
our business becomes more complex, this risk also grows, 
and we remain committed to increasing our investment in 
our framework to manage risk controls.
In summary, we work closely with our regulators to ensure 
that we operate to the highest regulatory standards and can 
adapt quickly to regulatory change. We are committed to 
engaging proactively with regulators and industry bodies, 
and will continue to support changes which promote 
protection for clients and greater clarity of the risks they 
face. However, we cannot provide certainty that future 
regulatory changes will not have an adverse impact on 
our business.
Conduct risk 
This is the risk that the Group’s conduct poses to the 
achievement of fair outcomes for consumers or to the 
sound, stable, resilient and transparent operation of the 
financial markets. Put another way, conduct risk is the risk 
that the manner in which we carry out our business causes 
poor outcomes for our clients or the markets. 
The Board has developed a conduct risk strategy that 
applies across the organisation putting consumer outcomes 
at the heart of the business. We have undertaken and 
continue to undertake training to fully embed this strategy 
into the current business practices and culture of the Group.
53 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | CHAIRMAN’S 
INTRODUCTION 
TO CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
This is my first report to you on 
corporate governance at IG. I was 
elected Chairman of the Board of 
IG in October 2014, succeeding 
Jonathan Davie, who retired at 
the AGM, having served ten years 
as Chairman.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the governance of the 
Company. We are committed to maintaining the highest standards 
in the way the Company is directed, governed and managed. We 
believe that good quality governance underpins IG’ s ability to 
deliver sustainable future growth and long-term value creation.
After a long and extremely successful career at IG, as both CFO 
and CEO, Tim Howkins has informed the Board of his intention 
to retire. He will step down from the Board as a director and 
CEO at the AGM in October. We have commenced a search and 
selection process for his successor. Peter Hetherington, currently 
Chief Operating Officer and an IG Board member since 2002, will 
assume the position of Interim CEO at the end of the AGM.
In 2014 we announced that, after nine years of service, Roger Yates 
will stand down from the Board as Senior Independent Director 
and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. We have begun 
a search for his successor to enable a smooth handover ahead of 
his departure at the AGM in October this year. More information 
is set out in my Nomination Committee report that can be found 
on pages 66 to 67. I would like to thank Roger, on behalf of the 
Board and the whole of IG, for his commitment and exceptional 
contribution and wish him well for the future.
T o ensure that the Board has the appropriate balance of relevant 
experience, knowledge and skills to discharge its responsibilities, 
we review its membership on a regular basis. Our latest review 
identified the need for greater digital experience and so we have 
begun a search for a Non-Executive Director with these skills.
Last year, we strengthened our governance framework by creating 
a Board Risk Committee to provide more focus on risk and risk 
management issues. There is continuous interaction between the 
Audit and Board Risk Committees. Stephen Hill and Jim Newman 
report on the activities of the Board Risk Committee and the Audit 
Committee respectively later in this report.
At the 2014 AGM, our shareholders approved our Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy. The Remuneration Committee has operated 
in accordance with the policy and its report can be found on pages 
68 to 93.
As Chairman, my primary role is to provide leadership for the 
Board and to ensure we have an effective and well-functioning 
Board. Each year, a formal evaluation of the effectiveness of the 
Board and its committees is conducted. This year, we undertook a 
questionnaire-based independent external evaluation of the Board 
and its committees. Next year, we will conduct externally facilitated 
face-to-face interviews. The results were reviewed by the Board 
along with the actions from the 2014 internal review. In summary, 
the review concluded that the Board and its committees continue 
to operate effectively. More information on the evaluation process 
and its findings can be found on pages 63 to 64. 
The Corporate Governance Report that follows details the Group’ s 
governance framework and its management practices and, 
together with the Directors’ remuneration report, addresses how 
the Company has applied the principles of the Code for the year 
ended 31 May 2015.
Andy Green 
Chairman 
21 July 2015
| 54 CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE 
STATEMENT
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE
The UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’) sets out 
the standards of good practice in relation to how a company 
should be directed and governed. As we have a Premium 
Listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Company reports 
in accordance with the Code published in 2012. The Code 
is published by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) and 
further information can be found on its website at frc.org.uk.
The Board has reviewed the Code and considers that the 
Company has been compliant with its provisions for the year 
ended 31 May 2015.
OVERVIEW OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK AS AT 31 MAY 2015
ICAAP and ILAA 
Committee
Executive Risk 
Committee
Senior Accounting 
Officer Committee
Client Money 
Committee
Senior  
management  
team
THE BOARD
SHAREHOLDERS
INDEPENDENT 
EXTERNAL 
AUDITORS
CHIEF E XE CUTIVE OFFICER AND E XE CUTIVE DIREC TORS
Four independent Non-Executive Directors (NEDs), three Executive Directors and Non-Executive Chairman
BOARD COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES
Elect the Board
Appoint the auditors
Board Risk 
Committee
(Four independent  
NEDs)
Nomination 
Committee
(Four independent  
NEDs and Non-
Executive Chairman)
Remuneration 
Committee
(Two independent  
NEDs and Non-
Executive Chairman)
Audit 
Committee
(Three independent  
NEDs)
55 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | THE BOARD
From left to right: Andy Green | Tim Howkins | Christopher Hill | Peter Hetherington | Roger Yates | Stephen Hill | Sam Tymms | Jim Newman
ANDY GREEN  |  NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN  |  AGE:  59 
Andy joined the Board as deputy chairman in June 2014 and became chairman of the Group in October 2014. He has in-depth Board 
experience and knowledge of major listed companies, having served as Group Chief Executive of Logica plc and having held board 
roles in BT Group including the role of CEO of Group Strategy and Operations. Andy’s other current roles, including Non-Executive 
Director of ARM Holdings plc, enable him to bring to the Board a wide perspective on technology and digital development. 
Other current appointments: Andy is a Non-Executive Director of Avanti Communications Group plc. He holds a number of other roles 
including chairing DockOn AG and Digital Catapult. He is a board member of the CBI, president of UK Space, co-chairman of the Space 
Leadership Council and a member of the Digital Economy Council.
Committee Membership: Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee. 
TIM HOWKINS  |  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  |  AGE:  52
Tim was appointed Chief Executive Officer of IG in 2006, having served as the Group’s Finance Director since joining the company in 
1999. Tim qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Young, and is a member of the Chartered Institute of Taxation. In 1990, 
he was one of a group of partners and staff who left Ernst & Young to form Rees Pollock, a firm of Chartered Accountants targeted at 
entrepreneurial, owner-managed businesses. He was a partner in Rees Pollock for seven years, and there developed a relationship with 
IG, taking responsibility for the Group’s audit. With a strong finance background and a considerable number of years in the business, in 
his role as our Chief Executive Tim continues to work with the Board and lead IG to develop and implement our strategy. Tim graduated 
from the University of Reading with a first-class degree in Mathematics and Computer Science. Tim will be stepping down from the 
Board at the AGM on 15 October 2015.
Other current appointments: Tim is a member of the Board and Executive Committee of FIA Europe, formerly known as the Futures and 
Options Association.
Committee Membership: None. 
CHRISTOPHER HILL  |  CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER  |  AGE:  44
Christopher joined the IG Board in April 2011 from Travelex, a group providing cross-border payment and foreign exchange services to 
corporate and retail customers, where he served as Chief Financial Officer. A Chartered Accountant, Christopher has extensive finance 
and accounting experience from a number of different business sectors. He has previously held roles at VWR International, a global 
laboratory-supply company (2005-2007), General Electric (2000-2005) and Arthur Andersen (1992-2000). Christopher graduated from 
Oxford University with a degree in Modern History and is an associate member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Other current appointments: None.
Committee Membership: None. 
PETER HETHERINGTON  |  CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER  |  AGE:  46
Peter was an officer in the Royal Navy prior to joining IG Group as a graduate trainee in 1994. In 1999, he became Head of Financial 
Dealing, and in 2003 he joined the Board following his appointment as Chief Operating Officer. Peter’s considerable experience, built 
over 20 years in the business, is invaluable in his role as Chief Operating Officer. Peter graduated from Nottingham University with a 
degree in Economics, and from the London Business School with a Masters in Finance. 
Other current appointments: None.
Committee Membership: None. 
| 56 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT 
STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE 
REPORT
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
INVESTOR 
RESOURCES
ROGER YATES  |  SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR  |  AGE:  58
Roger joined the Board as Senior Independent Director in February 2006. He has over 28 years’ experience in the fund management 
industry, both as an investment professional and a business manager. He brings a broad knowledge and understanding of investor 
issues and the financial services sector having previously served as Chief Investment Officer of Invesco Global, and holding senior 
roles at fund management firms LGT and Morgan Grenfell. He was Chief Executive of Henderson Group plc and previously served as a 
Non-Executive Director for F&C Asset Management plc. Roger will step down from the Board at the AGM on 15 October 2015.
Other current appointments: Roger is a Non-Executive Director of St James’s Place plc and JPMorgan Elect plc, as well as Chairman of 
Electra Private Equity plc and Pioneer Global Asset Management SpA.
Committee Membership: Audit Committee, Board Risk Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
STEPHEN HILL  |  NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR  |  AGE:  55
Stephen joined the Board in April 2011. He brings significant and extensive board experience having previously served as the CEO 
of Betfair plc and holding managerial roles at Pearson plc, including the role of CEO of the Financial Times Group. He was Chairman 
of Interactive Data Corporation in the US as well as a member of the boards of Royal Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc, Psion plc and 
Channel 4.
Other current appointments: Stephen is the Chairman and CEO of D’Aval, his family’s private investment company, and Trustee and 
Chairman of the Royal National Institute for Deaf People – Action on Hearing Loss. He is also a member of the Advisory Board of 
the Cambridge Judge Business School and a Non-Executive Director of Applerigg Limited and Aztec Limited, a fund administration 
business, and of Ofcom. 
Committee Membership: Board Risk Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
SAM TYMMS  |  NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR  |  AGE:  51 
Sam joined the Board in May 2013. She began her career at the London Stock Exchange’s Surveillance Division, which over time became 
the Securities and Futures Authority and eventually the Financial Services Authority. During that time, she held a range of supervisory 
roles and worked for two years in the Investigations and Enforcement Division. As a supervisor, she ran departments overseeing global 
investment firms, retail and investment banks and major insurance groups. Sam’s extensive experience in the regulatory field and her 
knowledge of compliance matters provide a valuable contribution to the Board.
Other current appointments: Sam is currently a Managing Director at Promontory Financial Group, a leading strategy, risk 
management and regulatory compliance consulting firm, where she advises financial services businesses on a wide range of risk and 
regulatory matters.
Committee Membership: Board Risk Committee, Audit Committee and Nomination Committee.
JIM NEWMAN  |  NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR  |  AGE:  50
Jim joined the Board in October 2013. A qualified Chartered Accountant, he was Finance Director for Resolution plc, having joined 
the company as Group Financial Controller. Jim spent ten years at Aviva, where he was Group Integration Director for the CGU/
Norwich Union merger and Finance Director of Norwich Union Life, Aviva’s UK life insurance business. He was formerly the Corporate 
Development Director for Friends Life Group, where his responsibilities included overseeing the final separation and integration of 
the UK life business acquired by Resolution plc, as well as the delivery of the overall group change portfolio and strategic corporate 
development. His in-depth knowledge and experience of the financial services sector, as well as his considerable experience both as a 
CFO and in the implementation of transformation programmes, is proving invaluable to the Board. 
Other current appointments: None.
Committee Membership: Board Risk Committee, Audit Committee and Nomination Committee.
57 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | LEADERSHIP
ROLE OF THE BOARD
The Board’s role is to provide guidance and entrepreneurial 
leadership of the Company by setting the strategic direction 
of the Group and overseeing management’s implementation 
of the strategy within a framework of prudent and effective 
risk controls. The Board is responsible for promoting and 
ensuring the long-term success of the Group through the 
creation and delivery of sustainable shareholder value. 
The Board seeks to ensure that, while the ultimate focus is on 
long-term growth, management also delivers on short-term 
objectives and achieves the right balance between immediate 
and future goals. When setting the Group’s strategy and 
monitoring its implementation, the Board considers the 
impact its decisions may have on various stakeholders, such 
as suppliers, investors, employees and the environment as a 
whole. It is accountable for ensuring that, as a collective body, 
it has the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to 
perform its role effectively.
The powers of the Board are set out in the Company’s articles 
of association, which are available on the Group’s website, 
iggroup.com. The Board may exercise all powers conferred 
on it by the articles and in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006 and other applicable legislation.
The Board maintains and periodically reviews a list of matters 
that are reserved to, and can only be approved by the Board. 
These include setting Group strategy; approval of major 
acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure; approval 
of annual budgets; approval of changes to the Group’s 
capital structure including reduction of capital; approval of 
expansion plans into new business or geographies; reviewing 
operational and financial performance; appointment and 
termination of the Directors and Company Secretary; approval 
of policies related to Directors’ remuneration and severance 
of Directors’ contracts; ensuring adequate succession 
planning for the Board and senior management; setting the 
risk appetite of the Group and approval of any changes to the 
Group’s risk management policy that materially increases the 
Group’s risk profile. 
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the 
Board’s decision can be found on the Group’s website.
The matters that have not been specifically reserved for the 
Board are delegated to the Executive Directors. These include 
the development, recommendation and implementation 
of the strategic plans for the Group; the development and 
implementation of the risk management systems, policies and 
procedure; the promotion of a good standard of corporate 
governance and shareholder engagement and monitoring the 
Group’s operating and financial results.
BOARD STRUCTURE
The Board is made up of the Chairman, Executive Directors, 
including the Chief Executive Officer, and independent 
Non-Executive Directors.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and 
the Chief Executive Officer is set out in writing and has been 
approved by the Board.
Chairman
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and 
creating the right conditions for its effective working 
and overall governance. He sets the Board’s agenda, in 
consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and Company 
Secretary, taking full account of Board members’ issues and 
concerns and the need to allow sufficient time for items on 
the agenda to be discussed. It is the Chairman’s responsibility 
to encourage and facilitate active engagement by Directors, 
drawing on their skills, knowledge and experience. The 
Chairman is also responsible for ensuring there is effective 
communication with shareholders and other stakeholders, 
and that Directors are aware and maintain an understanding 
of their views. The Chairman works closely with the Chief 
Executive Officer, Tim Howkins, to ensure that the strategies 
and actions agreed by the Board are effectively implemented.
Chief Executive Officer
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for recommending 
the Group’s strategy to the Board, implementing the agreed 
strategy and managing the day-to-day business of the Group. 
The Board has delegated this responsibility to him, and he is 
accountable to the Board. 
Executive Directors
The Executive Directors support the Chief Executive Officer 
in implementing the Group’s strategy and in the operational 
performance of the business.
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors are independent of 
management and are considered by the Board to be free 
from any business or other relationships, which could 
compromise their independence. Their role is to effectively 
advise and constructively challenge management, along 
with monitoring management’s success in delivering 
the agreed strategy within the risk appetite and control 
framework set by the Board. They are also responsible for 
determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the 
Executive Directors.
THE BOARD 
The Board is responsible 
for promoting and ensuring 
the long-term success of the 
Group through the creation 
and delivery of sustainable 
shareholder value.
| 58 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Senior Independent Director
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director’s role is 
to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and support 
him in the delivery of his objectives. He serves as a trusted 
intermediary for the other Directors when necessary. He 
maintains an understanding of the major issues and concerns 
of major shareholders and informs the Board of these 
issues. The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is 
also available to shareholders if they have concerns which 
communication via the normal channels of Chairman, Chief 
Executive Officer or other Executive Directors has failed to 
resolve, or when shareholders prefer to speak directly to 
him. He is responsible for evaluating the performance of the 
Chairman on behalf of the other directors.
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary, Bridget Messer, supports and works 
closely with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and 
the Board Committee Chairmen in setting agenda items for 
meetings of the Board and its committees. She ensures that 
accurate, timely and high-quality information flows within 
the Board, the Board Committees and between Directors 
and senior management. In addition, she supports the 
Chairman in the designing and delivery of Director induction 
programmes. The Company Secretary also advises the Board 
on corporate governance issues and Board procedures.
HOW THE BOARD OPERATES
The Board meets regularly at least five times a year – and 
attends an additional off-site strategy day to review strategic 
options open to the Group in the context of the economic 
and regulatory environment. There were seven scheduled 
Board meetings this year, including the annual strategy day. 
The Board also meets when necessary to discuss important 
ad-hoc emerging issues that require consideration between 
scheduled Board meetings. Two such meetings were held 
during the year. Each Director committed an appropriate 
amount of time to their duties during the financial year, and 
the Non-Executive Directors met the time commitment 
specified in their letters of appointment. Where Directors are 
unable to attend meetings, they are encouraged to give the 
Chairman their views on the matters to be discussed.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet formally in 
the absence of the Executive Directors at least twice a year. 
There were three such meetings during the year.
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS
The number of full Board meetings attended by each Director 
during the year, including the Board strategy day, is set 
out below:
MEETINGS 
ELIGIBLE TO 
ATTEND
MEETINGS 
ATTENDED
Chairman
Jonathan Davie
*
 2 2
Andy Green
**
9 9
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Martin Jackson
***
 2 2
Stephen Hill 9 8
Jim Newman 9 8
Sam Tymms 9 9
Roger Yates 9 9
Executive Directors
Tim Howkins 9 9
Peter Hetherington 9 9
Christopher Hill 9 9
*  Jonathan Davie retired as Chairman of the Company on 16 October 2014
**   Andy Green was appointed as the Deputy Chairman of the Company on 
 9 June 2014 and as Chairman from 16 October 2014
*** Martin Jackson retired from the Board on 16 October 2014
BOARD ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR
The Board meeting agendas during the year included 
business across the key areas of strategy, governance, risk and 
financial performance, as highlighted in the following chart. 
In addition to regular reviews of performance, the Board 
discussed risk appetite, capital and liquidity planning and 
talent management, including succession planning. 
BOARD ALLOCATION OF TIME
Quarterly forecast  
and budget
Strategy
Business, operational 
highlights and current 
trading
Risk and governance
Financial performance
Other
59 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | THE BOARD
(CONTINUED)
BOARD COMMITTEES
Certain governance responsibilities have been delegated 
by the Board to Board Committees to ensure that there 
is independent oversight of internal control and risk 
management and to assist the Board with carrying out 
its responsibilities. These Board committees comprise 
independent Non-Executive Directors and, in some cases, 
the Chairman. Each committee has agreed terms of reference 
approved by the Board, which are available on our corporate 
website, iggroup.com
A brief description of the roles of each Committee is set 
out below.
The Chairman of each Board committee reports to the 
Board on the matters discussed at committee meetings, 
and the minutes of each committee meeting are made 
available to all Directors. Reports from the Chairman of each 
Board committee, including information on the committee’s 
composition and activities in the year, can be found in the 
sections relating to each committee within this Annual Report.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Responsible for:
Integrity of the financial statements of the Group, 
including its annual and interim reports. 
Reviews and recommends to the Board:
The effectiveness of the Group’s Internal Audit 
function and risk management system, annual 
internal audit plan, appointment, 
re-appointment and removal of the 
external auditors.
BOARD RISK COMMITTEE
Responsible for:
Providing oversight and advice to the Board in relation 
to current and future risk exposures of the Group and 
promoting a risk awareness culture within the Group.
Reviews and recommends to the Board:
The design and implementation of risk management 
policy and measurement strategies 
across the Group, the Group’s risk 
profile, risk appetite and key risk 
indicators for the current and future 
strategy.
NOMINATION 
COMMITTEE 
Responsible for:
Reviewing the composition of the Board and Board 
Committees to ensure that they are appropriately 
balanced in terms of knowledge, skills and experience.
Reviews and recommends to the Board:
Appointments to the Board and to other senior 
management positions.
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
Responsible for:
Making recommendations to the Board on the Group’s 
senior executive remuneration policy.
Reviews and recommends to the Board:
The Group’s remuneration policy which is consistent 
with effective risk management, the framework for the 
remuneration of the Company’s Chairman and executive 
directors and all share-based awards under the Group’s 
Employee Incentive Scheme.
BOARD 
COMMITTEES
| 60 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 EFFECTIVENESS
BOARD COMPOSITION
The Board’s size and the skills and experience of its members, 
have a significant impact on its effectiveness. It aims to 
maintain a balance in terms of experience and skills of 
individual Board members. These factors are regularly 
reviewed to ensure that the Board has the right mix of skills 
and experience for constructive discussion and, ultimately, 
effective Board decisions.
INDUSTRY/BACKGROUND EXPERIENCE 
(1)
EXPERIENCE
NUMBER OF 
DIRECTORS 
(EXECUTIVE AND 
NON-EXECUTIVE) 
AND NON-EXECUTIVE 
CHAIRMAN
Financial services
Accountancy/Finance expert
Regulatory
Marketing
PR
IT
Current or recent 
Chief Executive Officer or 
Chairman
Prior plc experience
7
3
5
4
4
4
4
4
(1)  
Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories. 
There is an appropriate combination of Executive 
Directors and Non-Executive Directors such that no 
individual or small group of individuals can dominate the 
Board’s decision-making.
DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The Company is fully compliant with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, which requires that at least half of the 
Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-
Executive Directors who are determined by the Board to 
be independent.
The independence of the Non-Executive Directors is 
considered by the Board and reviewed on an annual basis, as 
part of the Board effectiveness. The Board considers factors 
such as length of tenure and relationships or circumstances, 
which are likely to affect or appear to affect the Director’s 
judgement in determining whether they remain independent. 
Following this year’s review, the Board concluded that all of 
the Non-Executive Directors continue to remain independent 
in character and judgement and are free from any business or 
other relationships, which could materially affect the exercise 
of their judgement.
COMPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE AND INDEPENDENT 
N0N-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON THE BOARD
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which 
they may have interests that conflict with those of the 
Company, unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board. 
Directors are required to disclose both the nature and extent 
of any potential or actual conflicts with the interests of 
the Company. 
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s 
articles of association allow the Board to authorise potential 
conflicts that may arise, and to impose such conditions or 
limitations as it sees fit. During the year, potential conflicts 
were considered and assessed by the Board and approved 
where appropriate. 
SUCCESSION PLANNING AND APPOINTMENTS TO 
THE BOARD 
The Board uses succession planning to ensure that Executives 
with the necessary skills, knowledge and expertise are in 
place to deliver our strategy, and that it has the right balance 
of individuals to be able to discharge its responsibilities. 
The Board regularly reviews its composition to keep it 
constantly refreshed. Any searches for Board candidates, 
and appointments made, are based on merit against 
objective criteria.
The Nomination Committee has specific responsibility for 
the appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors 
and it recommends new appointments to the Board. It 
regularly reviews the structure, size and composition required 
of the Board and makes recommendation to the Board as 
appropriate. More information on the work of the Committee 
can be found in the report of the Nomination Committee 
on pages 66 to 67. The Board as a whole is also involved 
in overseeing the development of management resources 
across the Group. 
LENGTH OF TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
0-3 years
3-6 years
6-9 years
3
1
1
Independent 
Non-Executive Chairman
Executive Directors
Independent  
Non-Executive Directors
1
3
4
61 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | INDUCTION 
On appointment, each new Director receives a full and 
formal bespoke induction to familiarise them with their 
duties and the Company’s business operations, risk and 
governance arrangements. The induction programme, 
which is coordinated by the Company Secretary, includes 
briefings on regulatory matters relating to the Company, as 
well as meetings with senior management in key areas of the 
business, such as compliance, legal, IT, human resources, 
finance, risk, marketing and investor relations. These are 
supplemented by induction materials such as recent Board 
papers and minutes, organisation structure charts, history 
of the Group, industry and regulatory reports and relevant 
company policies. Newly appointed Directors also meet 
the company’s external auditors and corporate brokers and 
attend a presentation led by Linklaters on the roles and 
responsibilities of a UK-listed company director. 
Inductions are tailored to each Director’s individual 
experience, background and areas of focus. 
Chairman’s induction
Andy Green’s induction programme took into account his 
later leadership role as Chairman and among other things, 
included the following:
His induction programme also included meetings with other 
Directors, Company heads and visit to global offices of the 
Group. He also attended meetings of all the committees of 
which he is not a member to assess the framework in which 
the committees operate and for a better understanding of the 
work of the Committees. 
ONGOING PROFESSIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT
Given the rapidly changing environment in which the 
Group operates, all Directors are given regular updates on 
changes and developments in the business. The Company 
Secretary on a regular basis updates the Board on any 
relevant legislative, regulatory and governance changes. A 
professional development programme is in place to enable 
Directors to fulfil their roles and personal development logs 
are maintained for each Non-Executive Director.
Training opportunities are provided through internal 
meetings, presentations and briefings by internal advisers, 
business heads as well as external advisers. During the year, 
the Directors attended briefing sessions on cyber security 
and risks, the Group’s mobile apps development business, 
generic top-level domains (gTLDs) and the newly launched 
stockbroking business. 
The Chairman ensures that the Directors continually update 
and refresh their skills and knowledge, and independent 
professional advice is provided when required, at the 
Company’s expense. 
INFORMATION PROVIDED TO THE BOARD
The board has full and timely access to all relevant 
information to enable it to perform its duties effectively. 
COMPANY STRUCTURE, HISTORY, STRATEGY AND BUSINESS
• Briefing on Group history, strategy, including opportunities and threats, strategy and business model analysis and 
strength, challenges and risks to the strategy and its implementation
•  Material business lines and markets, including international markets and future plans.
GOVERNANCE, REGULATORY AND RISK
• Board and Board Committees terms of reference, Board and Committee procedure, listing obligations and market abuse 
responsibilities
•  Regulatory framework and proposals impacting the business
•  Risk appetite, key risks and priorities, risk management and its effectiveness and Stress testing/Scenario planning
PRODUCTS, FINANCE, MARKETING AND SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
•  IG’s various products, markets in which clients can trade
•  Business plan, Standalone and consolidated balance sheets, budgeting process and financial projections
•  Meeting with top shareholders, analysts and brokers
THE BOARD
(CONTINUED)
| 62 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 The Company Secretary ensures appropriate and timely 
information flows within and to the Board and its committees, 
enabling the Board to exercise its judgement and make fully 
informed decisions when discharging its duties. All Directors 
have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring 
that Board procedures are followed and compliance with 
applicable rules and regulations is observed. The Company 
Secretary supports the Chairman in setting the Board 
agenda, and Board papers are distributed to all Directors in 
advance of Board meetings via a secure electronic system. 
The Company Secretary is also responsible for advising the 
Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate governance 
matters. Directors receive financial and risk information on the 
company on a monthly basis, and they receive briefings from 
the Chief Executive Officer in the periods between meetings.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that all 
directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to  
annual election by shareholders. Each Director and the Board 
as a whole underwent a performance evaluation during 
the course of the year. Following this, all Directors, with 
the exception of Roger Yates and Tim Howkins who will be 
stepping down at the Company’s Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) on 15 October 2015, will stand for re-election at 
the AGM. 
BOARD EVALUATION
Each year, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board 
is carried out to monitor and, where necessary, make 
improvements to the performance of the Board. In 2014, an 
internal evaluation was carried out and, in response to the 
findings, the following actions have been taken:
THEME ACTION TAKEN
THE NEED TO 
INCREASE 
THE LEVEL OF 
FOCUS ON THE 
LONG-TERM 
COMPOSITION 
OF THE BOARD.
Succession planning for executive 
and non-executive roles on the Board 
was a main focus of the Nomination 
Committee in the year. The Board 
skills matrix was reviewed to identify 
the skills and experience required 
to match the long-term strategy of 
the Company.
THE BOARD TO 
PLAY A MORE 
ACTIVE ROLE 
IN TALENT 
MANAGEMENT 
AND 
SUCCESSION 
PLANNING 
FOR SENIOR 
EXECUTIVES.
There has been a greater focus 
on succession planning with the 
Board receiving presentations from 
Executives on succession planning 
for senior management. In addition, 
further opportunities are being 
created for the Board to engage 
with senior management by way of 
pre-Board dinner presentations.
THE NEED 
TO REVIEW 
MANAGEMENT 
INFORMATION 
PRESENTED TO 
THE BOARD.
There has been continuous 
improvement on the quality and 
clarity of papers presented to the 
Board. Each paper is accompanied 
with a summary setting out the key 
issues for the Board.
 The UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial 
Reporting Council’s guidance on Board effectiveness 
recommend that the annual performance review of the Board 
should be externally facilitated every three years. To this end, 
in 2015, the Board engaged Lintstock Limited to assist with 
the evaluation of its own performance, that of its Committees 
and individual Directors. Lintstock has no other connection 
with the Company.
The first stage of the review involved Lintstock engaging with 
the Chairman and the Company Secretariat to set the context 
for the evaluation, and to tailor the surveys used to the 
specific circumstances of IG Group. All Board members were 
requested to complete a web-based survey addressing the 
performance of the Board and its Committees, the Chairman 
and individual Director performance. The review addressed 
the following core areas of Board performance:
• The composition of the Board was assessed, and the key 
changes that ought to be made over the next 12 - 24 
months, and over the next 3 - 5 years given the Group’s 
strategic goals in particular, were considered.
• The Non-Executive involvement in the affairs of the Group 
outside meetings was considered, and the relationships 
between the members of the Board, and between the 
Board and management, were reviewed.
• The time management at meetings was addressed, as was 
the quality of the presentations made by management 
to the Board. The quality of the Board packs provided in 
advance of meetings was also considered.
• The role of the Board in testing and developing strategy 
was assessed, as was the Board’s oversight of the strategic 
plan. The Directors’ views as to the top strategic issues 
facing the company were identified.
• The Board’s attitude towards risk was reviewed, as was the 
management of the main risks to the business.
• The structure of the Group at senior levels was considered, 
and the succession planning for Executive Directors, 
and the Board’s visibility of potential successors for key 
positions from within the business, were addressed.
Further to these core topics, the review also included a 
case study on the Board’s 2015 strategy day, addressing 
the management of time, the documentation provided in 
advance and the quality of the sessions during the day.
63 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | Lintstock subsequently produced a report of its findings 
that were discussed with the Chairman. Overall, the results 
indicate that the Board is operating effectively with a number 
of areas reviewed, rated positively. The top priorities for the 
Board in the coming year include:
• The need to continually manage succession 
planning processes;
• The need to consider the amount of time allocated to 
strategy and its implementation in the annual cycle of 
work; and
• Continuous improvement on the information provided to 
the Board ahead of meetings.
The outcome of the performance review will be discussed at a 
Board meeting with a view to developing actions to be taken 
on the recommendations. We will report on actions taken and 
progress made in next year’s Annual Report.
Led by Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Director, a 
review of the Chairman’s performance was carried out by 
the Board using a questionnaire completed by the Executive 
Directors and the Non-Executive Directors. The performance 
of the Chairman was discussed with the Board without the 
Chairman present. 
The evaluation of the performance and contribution of 
each Director was conducted by the Chairman in individual 
discussions referencing a self-performance review 
questionnaire completed by each Director.
The reviews concluded that each Director continues to 
perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to the role.
ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good 
communication with the Company’s shareholders, and we 
have a comprehensive programme to facilitate this each year.
Our Annual Report is an important medium for 
communicating with shareholders, setting out detailed 
reviews of the business and its future developments in the 
Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
and the Strategic Report.
In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop 
an understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is 
regular dialogue with institutional investors and shareholders, 
presentations by management and Investor Roadshows 
around the time of the Group’s year-end and half-year results 
announcements. These are coordinated by our Investor 
Relations team. We make these presentations available in 
real time on the Group’s website, which also provides a wide 
range of other information to shareholders and prospective 
shareholders. We also respond to ad hoc requests from 
shareholders on a very regular basis.
Meetings with the Company’s largest institutional 
shareholders and market analysts are held to discuss 
governance, business strategy and financial performance by 
the Chairman and the Executive Directors. Non-Executive 
Directors are also available to meet and hear the views of the 
institutional shareholders when required. 
THE BOARD
(CONTINUED)
| 64 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Following all investor presentations and meetings, feedback 
is passed to the Board on any opinions or concerns expressed 
by shareholders. The Directors receive regular updates on 
shareholder views, roadshow feedback as well as analysts’ 
reports on market perception of the Group’s performance and 
strategy, and are made aware of the financial expectations 
of the Group from the outside market. The Board also 
receives an Investor Perception study to identify shareholders’ 
concerns and actions undertaken for its resolution.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director are available to meet shareholders on request, 
and ensure that the Board is aware of shareholder concerns 
not resolved through other communication mechanisms. 
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director provide feedback to the Board on any views or 
concerns expressed to them by shareholders.
AGM
The AGM provides the Board with the opportunity to 
communicate with private and institutional investors and we 
welcome and encourage their participation at the meeting. 
The Chairman aims to ensure that all the Directors, including 
the Chairmen of the Board Committees, are available at 
the AGM to answer questions. We send the Annual Report 
and notice of the AGM to shareholders, or make them 
available on the Group’s website, at least 20 working days 
before the date of the meeting. The Notice of AGM sets 
out a clear explanation of each resolution to be proposed 
at the meeting. Shareholders have the opportunity to ask 
questions and, if they are unable to attend, can submit written 
queries in advance of the meeting. At the meeting, we will 
make available to shareholders full details of the proxy votes 
received on each resolution, and we will publish these on the 
Company’s website on the same day.
The 2014 AGM was a successful event attended by all the 
Directors. Jonathan Davie and Martin Jackson did not 
seek re-election and stepped down from the Board of the 
Company. All the proposed resolutions were passed with the 
percentage of votes in favour of each resolution ranging from 
94.35% to 99.90%. 
The 2015 AGM will be held on 15 October 2015. The Notice 
of the Meeting sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the 
meeting. A copy of the Notice is available on the Company’s 
website iggroup.com.
65 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
It essential that the Board is well balanced in terms of 
structure, skill, experience, diversity and knowledge to enable 
the Company to achieve its objectives and long-term strategy. 
The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying 
and recommending suitable candidates for appointment 
to the Board to ensure that its composition in this regard 
meets the Company’s needs. We maintain and implement 
an effective succession plan to ensure that the Board is 
progressively refreshed.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE
The committee consists of independent Non-Executive 
Directors and meets as necessary to discuss appointments to 
the Board. The Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman 
of the committee and the Company Secretary acts as the 
Secretary of the committee. The Chief Executive Officer 
also attends, but is not involved in decisions relating to his 
own succession.
During the year the committee met three times to consider 
Board composition and succession planning. 
ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE 
The role and responsibilities of the committee include:
• Reviewing the composition of the Board and Board 
Committees to ensure that they are appropriately balanced 
in terms of skills, knowledge diversity and experience
• Ensuring that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new Directors
• Identifying and nominating for approval by the Board, 
suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when 
they arise
• Ensuring that plans are in place for orderly succession, 
for appointments to the Board and to other senior 
management positions.
The Terms of Reference of the committee are available on the 
Group’s website, iggroup.com.
ACTIVITY DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
In October 2014, I succeeded Jonathan Davie as the 
Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee. 
We also announced that Roger Yates will be stepping down 
from the Board following the AGM in October. During the 
year, the committee’s main focus has been on the search for 
a candidate to replace Roger as Senior Independent Director 
(SID) and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
Zygos Partnership, an executive search firm which has no 
other connection with the Company, was engaged following 
a selection process to assist with the search for a suitable 
candidate. The committee prepared a candidate specification 
based on objective criteria setting out the knowledge, skill, 
experience and attributes required. 
NOMINATION  
COMMITTEE
Andy Green, Chairman of  
the Nomination Committee,  
gives his review of the 
committee’s activities during  
the financial year.
| 66 These include among others;
• Having served on the board of a listed company either as an 
executive or a Non-Executive Director, 
• Having knowledge and experience of UK governance 
requirements and a good understanding of the current 
regulatory environment;
• Having a deep insight around how the investor community 
operates; and
• Having the ability to be able to commit the time required for 
the role.
From the candidate specification, a longlist of potential 
candidates was drawn up from which a shortlist was compiled. 
Candidates on the shortlist were interviewed by me and the 
Chief Executive following which a proposal was made to 
the committee on the candidates. Briefing reports on the 
shortlisted candidates were reviewed by the committee and 
the candidates were interviewed by Executive members of the 
Board and by members of the committee. It is expected that 
an appointment will be made shortly.
In addition to the search for a replacement for Roger 
Yates, the committee also commenced the search for a 
Non-Executive Director with digital experience following a 
discussion around long-term Board composition prompted 
by the 2014 Board evaluation. Russell Reynolds Associates, an 
executive search firm which has no other connections with the 
Company, was engaged to assist with the search. As with the 
search for a replacement SID, a candidate specification was 
prepared, taking into account the desired skills, knowledge 
and experience required for the role. We also specified 
that candidates must be able to give the necessary time 
commitment. Russell Reynolds Associates prepared a longlist 
of potential candidates following which a shortlist of candidates 
was interviewed by me and the Chief Executive. It is expected 
that an appointment will be made shortly.
Following the announcement that Tim Howkins will be retiring 
from the Board as a director and Chief Executive Officer at 
the 2015 AGM in October, we have commenced a search and 
selection process for his successor. We will report fully on this 
process in next year’s annual report.
During the year, the committee reviewed membership of the 
Board Committees in light of the retirements of Jonathan 
Davie and Martin Jackson. Following the committee’s 
recommendation and with the Board’s approval, I joined the 
Remuneration Committee in September 2014. In addition, 
Sam Tymms, Stephen Hill and myself joined the Nomination 
Committee in September 2014.
COMMITTEE EVALUATION
In addition to overseeing appointments to the Board, an 
evaluation of the performance of the committee and its 
members was undertaken in line with the committee’s 
Terms of Reference. The evaluation process was externally 
facilitated by Lintstock Limited as part of the overall annual 
Board effectiveness review. The evaluation concluded that 
the committee operates effectively and its performance 
was positively rated overall. The committee, however, could 
improve its performance by operating with greater formality.
DIVERSITY STATEMENT
As a business, we are committed to maintaining a diverse 
workforce at all levels across the Company, and more 
information on how we do this can be found in the 
Our People section, on page 33.
The Directors understand the significant benefits that come 
with having a diverse Board. We recognise the importance 
of gender diversity on the Board, however, we believe that 
diversity is a wider issue and includes variations in experience, 
skills, personal attributes and background. Nonetheless, we 
aspire to achieve 25% female representation on the Board. 
We will continue to appoint on merit, based on the skills and 
experience required for membership of our Board, while 
giving consideration to gender diversity when the committee 
reviews the Board’s composition. For appointments to the 
Board, we use executive search firms who have signed up to 
the voluntary code of conduct setting out the key principles 
of best practice in the recruitment process. These principles 
include a recommendation that search firms should consider 
gender diversity and we insist on having both male and 
female candidates when drawing up longlists and shortlists 
of candidates.
Andy Green 
Chairman, Nomination Committee 
21 July 2015
SCHEDULED 
MEETINGS 
ELIGIBLE TO 
ATTEND
SCHEDULED 
MEETINGS 
ATTENDED
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Jonathan Davie* 1 1
Andy Green** 3 3
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Martin Jackson*** 1 1
Jim Newman 3 2
Roger Yates 3 3
Stephen Hill 3 3
Sam Tymms 3 3
* Jonathan Davie stepped down from the committee on 16 October 2014
** Andy Green became the Chairman of the committee on 16 October 2014
*** Martin Jackson stepped down from the committee on 16 October 2014
NOMINATION COMMITTEE  ALLOCATION OF TIME
 Board Composition
 Succession Planning
 Other
67 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 |    |  
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 May 2015. 
The overall structure of the executive remuneration package 
and the principles that underpin it have not changed and, 
therefore, we will continue to operate with the Directors’ 
remuneration policy that has been in place since June 2013 
and was approved in a binding vote by over 96% of our 
shareholders at the AGM in 2014. 
There will be a single advisory vote at this year’s AGM with 
regards to this annual statement and the Annual Report on 
Remuneration that details both amounts paid in respect of 
the year ending 31 May 2015 and the intended operation of 
the remuneration policy for the coming year. I hope you agree 
that how we have rewarded our executives is commensurate 
with the Company’s performance and that you will support 
this year’s resolution at the forthcoming AGM.
THE BUSINESS CONTEXT IN 2015
Over the last year, IG invested significantly in longer-term 
strategic projects, including the launch and roll-out of 
stockbroking in the UK and, internationally, expansion into 
Switzerland and Dubai and increased emphasis on mobile 
technology. Against this backdrop underlying revenue for 
2015 was £400.2 million, which represents an 8% increase 
on 2014, and underlying diluted earnings per share (DEPS) 
increased by 2% to 41.07 pence per share. Statutory diluted 
earnings per share of 35.99 pence are lower than the prior 
year primarily due to the impact of the unpegging of the 
Swiss franc in January. The Board made clear at the time of 
the first-half results in January its intention to hold the full-year 
dividend flat on the prior year at 28.15 pence per share. The 
Board’s recommendation of a final dividend of 19.70 pence 
per share demonstrates the confidence in the underlying cash 
generation of the business. 
REMUNERATION OUTCOMES FOR 2015
The year to 31 May 2015 is the second year of the executive’s 
variable remuneration being awarded under the Sustained 
Performance Plan (SPP). In respect of performance for the 
period ended 31 May 2015, the committee has awarded 41% 
of the maximum potential award under the SPP compared 
with 54% in the prior year. The overall SPP outcome is lower 
than last year primarily as a result of the negative impact on 
performance of the financial losses resulting from the Swiss 
franc event in January 2015 on both the earnings per share 
(EPS) and the non-financial performance measures. However, 
relative total shareholder return against the benchmark has 
been stronger than that for the prior year and performance 
against non-financial metrics has, overall, remained strong. 
We consider this award to be reflective of performance and 
the business context as set out above.
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
Roger Yates,  
Chairman of the  
Remuneration Committee,  
gives his review of the 
committee’s activities  
during the financial year.
| 68 The 2015 award under the SPP is driven by three metrics:
• EPS – 45% of the maximum potential award based on 2015 
annual performance. The diluted earnings per share target 
range for 2015 was set by the committee at 40.18 pence 
to 44.20 pence, with a linear relationship between. The 
unadjusted statutory DEPS has been used for the purposes 
of performance assessment for the SPP . While the Swiss 
franc event was exceptional in both size and nature and 
use of the underlying EPS would have resulted in a partial 
award, adjustment of the statutory earnings was not 
deemed to be appropriate. Accordingly, the statutory EPS 
of 35.99 pence was below the threshold and none of this 
element will be awarded. 
• TSR – 35% of the maximum potential award based on 
the two-year performance period ending 31 May 2015. 
The Company’s TSR over this period of 48.2% ranked the 
Company 98th out of 291 FTSE 350 companies (excluding 
Investment Trusts); as a result, 74.5% of this element will 
be awarded.
• Non-financial metrics – 20% of maximum potential award 
based on a suite of non-financial and delivery objectives 
relating to the 2015 financial year. The committee has 
considered the Company’s execution and delivery of 
key strategic initiatives and performance against key 
quantitative and qualitative non-financial metrics. A 
detailed explanation of the Company’s performance against 
the non-financial metrics is discussed at page 84. Overall, 
the committee has concluded that 76% of this element will 
be awarded.
We remind shareholders that, as was the case last year, the 
SPP is the Company’s only Executive Director incentive plan 
for 2015, replacing both the annual bonus and long-term 
incentive plans. 
2015 also marked the end of the performance period for the 
2012 awards made under the previous long-term plan, the 
Value Sharing Plan. None of this award vested, despite strong 
TSR over the three-year period of 88%, and as a result of the 
impact of the Swiss franc event on statutory PBT.
The committee considers that shareholders deserve thorough 
disclosure on remuneration. To this end, the Company has 
set out extensive explanation of the judgements it has made 
in granting the above awards. This disclosure is set out in the 
Annual Report on Remuneration at page 84. 
The committee is regularly informed of potential changes to 
remuneration regulations that could impact the current policy. 
In particular, we are mindful of the impact of the European 
Banking Authority’s current consultation on changes to its 
guidelines that would remove the proportionality exemptions 
for certain companies. The proposed changes to the 
proportionality principle are likely to require amendments 
to the Group’s Sustained Performance Plan and overall 
remuneration policy. With this in mind, the committee is 
conscious of the need to consult with shareholders at an early 
stage and we will do so in advance of any material change to 
the remuneration policy, if required.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE  ALLOCATION OF TIME
 Salary and Bonus 
Scheme Arrangements
 Incentive Awards
 Remuneration regulation
 Remuneration reporting
 Remuneration policy
 Other
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION 
POLICY FOR 2015
Finally, the committee has recommended a 3% base salary 
increase for the Executive Directors to take effect from 1 
June 2015. The general increase for employees across the 
group was approximately 4%. Over the last few years our 
Chief Operating Officer, Peter Hetherington, has received a 
reduced salary (at 80% of the annual equivalent) to reflect his 
flexible working arrangements. From this year, Peter will revert 
to normal working arrangements and therefore the reduced 
salary will no longer apply.
For 2016, the committee will use the same SPP metrics 
described above, with the same weightings. Accordingly, 
EPS will drive 45% of the maximum potential award, with 
relative TSR and non-financial metrics accounting for 35% and 
20% respectively.
In relation to the EPS targets, as with past years, the 
committee has used a set of internal and external reference 
points. The target range will be disclosed and explained in 
next year’s remuneration report.
I hope that you will support the advisory vote on the 
remuneration resolution at the AGM. If, in the meantime, you 
have any questions regarding our remuneration report then 
we will be pleased to consider them. 
Roger Yates  
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 
21 July 2015
SCHEDULED 
MEETINGS 
ELIGIBLE TO 
ATTEND
SCHEDULED 
MEETINGS 
ATTENDED
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Roger Yates 4 4
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Stephen Hill 4 3
Jonathan Davie
*
2 2
Martin Jackson
**
2 2
Andy Green
***
4 4
* Jonathan Davie stepped down from the committee on 16 October 2014
** Martin Jackson stepped down from the committee on 16 October 2014
*** Andy Green attended two meetings by invitation
69 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | PREPARATION OF THE DIRECTORS’  
REMUNERATION REPORT
Our Directors’ Remuneration Report covers the remuneration 
of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of IG Group 
Holdings plc. In line with the regulations governing the 
disclosure and approval of directors’ remuneration, the report 
is split into three sections: an annual statement from the 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy and an Annual Report on Remuneration. 
The disclosures required under Article 450 of the Capital 
Requirements Regulation are provided on the corporate 
website and accordingly are not detailed within the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
Unless otherwise stated, information and disclosures within 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report are unaudited. The 
regulations require the Company’s auditors to report on 
the audited information in the report and to state that this 
section has been properly prepared in accordance with these 
regulations. The audited sections, which fall within the Annual 
Report on Remuneration, have been clearly identified.
This following part of the Remuneration Report sets out the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders 
at the 2014 Annual General Meeting. Although not required 
by the reporting regulations, the substantive terms of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy are reproduced here for 
ease of reference. Any details, however, that were specific to 
2014 or earlier years (including, for example, any disclosures 
relating to particular Directors and the remuneration 
scenarios charts) have been updated, where applicable, to 
reflect the current position. There is no vote on the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy at the 2015 Annual General Meeting as it 
is unchanged. 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
The role of the Remuneration Committee
The committee is responsible for making recommendations 
to the Board on the Group’s senior executive remuneration 
policy. Operating within defined and agreed terms of 
reference, it determines an overall remuneration package 
for the Executive Directors in order to attract and retain 
high-quality Directors capable of achieving the Group’s 
objectives. The committee’s terms of reference can be found 
on our corporate website at iggroup.com.
The committee sets and agrees with the Board a competitive 
and transparent remuneration framework which is aligned 
to the Company strategy and is in the interests of both 
the Company and its shareholders. The committee 
determines the contractual terms, remuneration and other 
benefits for each of the Executive Directors, including 
performance-related incentive arrangements, pension rights, 
compensation payments and share-incentive awards. 
The committee’s other responsibilities are to:
• Determine and review the Group’s remuneration policy, 
ensuring it is consistent with effective risk management 
across the Group, and to consider the implications of this 
remuneration policy on risk
• Determine and agree the policy for the remuneration of the 
Board Chairman and the Executive Directors
• Review and note pay and employment conditions and the 
remuneration trends across the Group
• Approve all share-based awards under the Group’s 
employee incentive schemes, to determine each year 
whether awards will be made and, if awards are made, to 
monitor their operation, the size of such awards and the 
performance targets to be used 
• Establish the selection criteria, appoint and set the terms 
of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise 
the committee
DIRECTORS’  
REMUNERATION REPORT 
The Remuneration Committee’s 
objective is to ensure remuneration 
encourages, reinforces and rewards 
the delivery of shareholder value. 
As such, it has implemented a 
remuneration policy which provides 
a framework for making decisions, 
including those covering the 
remuneration of Executive Directors.
| 70 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 In line with new regulations governing the disclosure and
approval of directors’ remuneration, our Directors’ Remuneration 
Report is split into two sections:
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 70
Annual Report on Remuneration 82
• Monitor regulatory developments, including those affecting 
UK-listed companies and financial services firms, to ensure 
the Company’s remuneration policy is consistent with these
The Board determines the remuneration of 
Non-Executive Directors.
Objectives of the remuneration policy
The Remuneration Committee’s objective is to ensure 
remuneration encourages, reinforces and rewards the 
growth of shareholder value. As such, it has implemented a 
remuneration policy which provides a framework for making 
decisions, including those covering the remuneration of 
Executive Directors. The remuneration policy is set to ensure 
that remuneration has the ability to attract and retain senior 
executives of a high calibre, remains competitive and provides 
appropriate incentive for performance.
The committee has agreed that all matters relating to 
remuneration of Group employees should:
• Align with the best interests of the Company’s shareholders 
and other stakeholders
• Recognise and reward good and excellent performance of 
employees that helps drive sustainable growth of the Group
• Focus on retaining high-performing senior management
• Be consistent with regulatory and corporate 
governance requirements
• Be designed to achieve effective risk management
• Be straightforward, easy for employees to understand and 
easy for the Group to monitor
• Not be used to reward behaviour that inappropriately 
increases the Group’s exposure to risks
The committee considers that a successful remuneration 
policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of 
future changes in the Company’s business environment and 
in remuneration practice. There must be transparency and 
alignment to the delivery of strategic objectives at both a 
Company and an individual level. There must also be scope 
to reward for exceptional effort and achievement that delivers 
value both for the Company and the shareholders. Likewise, 
failure to achieve, individually or at Company level, will not 
be rewarded. 
The committee is also mindful of ensuring that there is an 
appropriate balance between the level of risk and reward 
for the individual, the Company and for our shareholders. 
When setting levels of variable remuneration, the degree 
of stretch in performance conditions and the balance of 
equity and cash within a package, consideration is given 
to obtaining the appropriate balance of each so as not to 
encourage unnecessary risk-taking. As well as financial risk, 
the committee also ensures that there is an appropriate focus 
on regulatory and governance matters.
The total remuneration package is structured so that a 
significant proportion is linked to performance conditions, 
and it is the Company’s policy to ensure that a high 
proportion of the potential remuneration package is provided 
via share-based instruments. This ensures that executives 
have a strong ongoing alignment with shareholders through 
the Company’s share price performance. 
The table on pages 72-77 summarises each element of the 
remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, explaining 
how each element operates and how each part links to the 
corporate strategy.
71 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS
RECOVERY OR 
WITHHOLDING
BASE SALARY
Provides a sound basis on which to recruit and retain 
key employees of appropriate calibre to deliver the 
strategic objectives of the Company.
Reflects the market value of the role and the post-
holder’s experience, competency and performance 
within the Company.
Salaries are normally reviewed by the committee annually, 
and are usually fixed for 12 months commencing 1 June. 
Any salary increase may be influenced by:
• Scale, scope and responsibility of the role
• Experience of the individual and his or her performance
• Average change in wider workforce pay
• Business performance and prevailing market conditions
• Commercial need
• Periodic benchmarking of similar roles at comparable 
companies selected on the basis of comparable size, 
complexity, geographic spread and business focus 
The general policy is to pay around 
mid-market levels, with annual increases 
typically in line with the wider workforce. 
Increases beyond the percentage 
increases granted to the wider 
workforce may be awarded in 
exceptional circumstances,  
such as: 
• Where there is a change in the 
individual’s responsibility
• Where the salary set at initial 
appointment was below the level 
expected once the individual gains 
further experience and a track record 
of performance in the role
An above-market positioning may be 
appropriate, in exceptional circumstances, 
to reflect the criticality of the role and the 
individual’ s experience and performance.
Base salary levels for the financial year 
ending 31 May 2016 are:
T A Howkins – £486,400
C F Hill – £340,400
P G Hetherington – £364,900
No performance metrics apply to base salary. No recovery or 
withholding applies to 
base salary.
BENEFITS
Competitive, cost-effective benefits to help recruit and 
retain Executive Directors and senior management.
Benefits may include, for example, private medical 
insurance, discounted health club membership and 
life assurance.
Cash alternatives may be provided for any or all of these 
benefits, depending on individual circumstances.
Relocation and related benefits may be offered where a 
Director is required to relocate.
The aim is to provide market-competitive 
benefits, and their value may vary from 
year to year, depending on the cost to 
the Company from third-party providers.
Benefits constitute a small percentage 
of total remuneration.
No performance metrics apply to benefits. No recovery or 
withholding applies 
to benefits.
PENSION
Market-competitive, cost-effective retirement benefits 
attract and retain executives.
The Group contributes to Executive Directors’ personal 
pension plans. Executives have the option to receive part, 
or all, of their pension contribution as a cash allowance in 
lieu of Company pension contributions.
The company may contribute up to 15% 
of base salary to pension, an equivalent 
cash allowance in lieu, or a mixture 
of both.
No performance metrics apply to 
retirement benefits.
No recovery or 
withholding applies to 
retirement benefits.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
(CONTINUED)
 
KEY ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION
| 72 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS
RECOVERY OR 
WITHHOLDING
BASE SALARY
Provides a sound basis on which to recruit and retain 
key employees of appropriate calibre to deliver the 
strategic objectives of the Company.
Reflects the market value of the role and the post-
holder’s experience, competency and performance 
within the Company.
Salaries are normally reviewed by the committee annually, 
and are usually fixed for 12 months commencing 1 June. 
Any salary increase may be influenced by:
• Scale, scope and responsibility of the role
• Experience of the individual and his or her performance
• Average change in wider workforce pay
• Business performance and prevailing market conditions
• Commercial need
• Periodic benchmarking of similar roles at comparable 
companies selected on the basis of comparable size, 
complexity, geographic spread and business focus 
The general policy is to pay around 
mid-market levels, with annual increases 
typically in line with the wider workforce. 
Increases beyond the percentage 
increases granted to the wider 
workforce may be awarded in 
exceptional circumstances,  
such as: 
• Where there is a change in the 
individual’s responsibility
• Where the salary set at initial 
appointment was below the level 
expected once the individual gains 
further experience and a track record 
of performance in the role
An above-market positioning may be 
appropriate, in exceptional circumstances, 
to reflect the criticality of the role and the 
individual’ s experience and performance.
Base salary levels for the financial year 
ending 31 May 2016 are:
T A Howkins – £486,400
C F Hill – £340,400
P G Hetherington – £364,900
No performance metrics apply to base salary. No recovery or 
withholding applies to 
base salary.
BENEFITS
Competitive, cost-effective benefits to help recruit and 
retain Executive Directors and senior management.
Benefits may include, for example, private medical 
insurance, discounted health club membership and 
life assurance.
Cash alternatives may be provided for any or all of these 
benefits, depending on individual circumstances.
Relocation and related benefits may be offered where a 
Director is required to relocate.
The aim is to provide market-competitive 
benefits, and their value may vary from 
year to year, depending on the cost to 
the Company from third-party providers.
Benefits constitute a small percentage 
of total remuneration.
No performance metrics apply to benefits. No recovery or 
withholding applies 
to benefits.
PENSION
Market-competitive, cost-effective retirement benefits 
attract and retain executives.
The Group contributes to Executive Directors’ personal 
pension plans. Executives have the option to receive part, 
or all, of their pension contribution as a cash allowance in 
lieu of Company pension contributions.
The company may contribute up to 15% 
of base salary to pension, an equivalent 
cash allowance in lieu, or a mixture 
of both.
No performance metrics apply to 
retirement benefits.
No recovery or 
withholding applies to 
retirement benefits.
73 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS
RECOVERY OR 
WITHHOLDING
SUSTAINED PERFORMANCE PLAN (SPP)
Approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, the 
SPP provides a single incentive plan for Executive 
Directors rather than having separate annual and 
long-term plans.
It provides a simple and competitive incentive 
mechanism that encourages and rewards both annual 
and sustained long-term performance, linked to the 
Company’s strategic objectives.
The SPP encapsulates traditional annual bonus and 
long-term incentive plans. It is entirely share-based, 
encouraging executives to build up a substantial 
stake in the Company, thereby aligning the interests 
of management with shareholders.
We are initially operating the SPP by reference to five 
consecutive ‘plan years’. The first plan year was the 
financial year ended 31 May 2014.
Awards of shares (either in the form of par value options, 
nil cost options or conditional awards), known as ‘plan 
contributions’, are made after the announcement of results 
relating to each plan year. 
Plan contributions are granted by reference to achievement 
against applicable performance targets and accumulate 
within a participant’s ‘plan account’.
Each year, a percentage of the accumulated balance in 
the plan account vests (ie options or awards are released 
to participants).
Therefore, a participant’s plan account will comprise the 
sum of the plan contribution (if any) being made in relation 
to the relevant plan year plus the accumulated awards 
registered in the plan account from previous plan years.
In the first five plan years, a participant’s plan account vests 
as follows:
Following Financial year 
ending
% of cumulative shares in  
plan account vesting
Plan year 1 31 May 2014 40.0%
Plan year 2 31 May 2015 40.0%
Plan year 3 31 May 2016 33.3%
Plan year 4 31 May 2017 33.3%
Plan year 5 31 May 2018 33.3%
After plan year 5, the committee may at such time (or at a 
later date during the life of the SPP) close the operation of 
the plan. 
If the SPP is closed following plan year 5, unvested awards 
remaining in the plan account will vest in tranches of 50%, 
25% and 25% on the first, second and third anniversaries of 
the SPP’s closure. The same principles will apply on a later 
termination of the plan.
Participants may receive a payment at the time of delivery 
of vested shares of an amount equivalent to the dividends 
that would have been paid on those shares while in the 
plan account (adopting a first-in, first-out basis). This 
amount may assume dividend reinvestment. Dividends will 
not accrue on vested but unexercised awards.
The maximum plan contribution in 
respect of a plan year is an award of 
shares with a market value of no more 
than 500% of an executive’s annual 
rate of salary.
The quantum of any awards granted is dependent 
on performance against performance targets set by 
the committee for each relevant financial year.
Performance targets may comprise, for example, 
diluted earnings per share (DEPS) targets, Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) and non-financial 
measures. Performance is measured over single 
plan years (financial years) except for TSR (from plan 
year 2 – awards in respect of financial year ending 
31 May 2015). We currently intend to apply the 
following performance criteria:
DEPS – a sliding scale of targets will apply for each 
plan year. The targets will be set at the start of 
each plan year. Targets and performance will be 
disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration for the relevant financial year-end.
Relative TSR – the Company’s share price (plus 
dividends reinvested) performance is measured 
against an appropriate comparator group. For 
the first plan year, performance was based on 
that plan year alone; for the second plan year, 
performance was based on plan years 1 and 2. For 
plan years thereafter performance is measured over 
three plan years ending with the plan year being 
reported on. The committee retains the discretion 
to scale back the level of award if it feels the 
Company’s underlying financial performance does 
not warrant the level of award resulting from TSR 
performance alone.
Non-financial – these may comprise strategic goals, 
operational and client satisfaction measures for 
each plan year. Targets and performance will be 
disclosed retrospectively.
Where possible, a sliding scale of targets will be 
set. For the DEPS and relative TSR measures, no 
more than 25% is payable for achieving threshold 
performance, rising to full payout for achieving a 
more challenging target.
The scorecard of financial, share price and non-
financial metrics may vary from year to year in 
accordance with strategic priorities and the 
regulatory environment.
At the time of determining the contribution for plan 
year 5, in the event that the committee feels the 
Company’s underlying financial performance over 
the first five plan years has not been satisfactory, the 
committee may scale back the final balance of the 
plan account. 
The committee 
may decide within 
three years of a plan 
contribution that the 
underlying award will 
be subject to clawback. 
This may happen 
where there has been a 
material misstatement 
in the Company’s 
financial results or an 
error in assessing any 
applicable performance 
condition. It may also 
be triggered if there has 
been substantial failure 
of risk management, 
or if the participant’s 
employment is 
terminated for 
serious misconduct.  
The clawback may be 
satisfied by a reduction 
in the amount of 
any subsisting plan 
account, a reduction 
in the vesting of any 
subsisting vested 
awards or future 
share awards and/or a 
requirement to make 
cash payment.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
(CONTINUED)
 
KEY ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION
| 74 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS
RECOVERY OR 
WITHHOLDING
SUSTAINED PERFORMANCE PLAN (SPP)
Approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, the 
SPP provides a single incentive plan for Executive 
Directors rather than having separate annual and 
long-term plans.
It provides a simple and competitive incentive 
mechanism that encourages and rewards both annual 
and sustained long-term performance, linked to the 
Company’s strategic objectives.
The SPP encapsulates traditional annual bonus and 
long-term incentive plans. It is entirely share-based, 
encouraging executives to build up a substantial 
stake in the Company, thereby aligning the interests 
of management with shareholders.
We are initially operating the SPP by reference to five 
consecutive ‘plan years’. The first plan year was the 
financial year ended 31 May 2014.
Awards of shares (either in the form of par value options, 
nil cost options or conditional awards), known as ‘plan 
contributions’, are made after the announcement of results 
relating to each plan year. 
Plan contributions are granted by reference to achievement 
against applicable performance targets and accumulate 
within a participant’s ‘plan account’.
Each year, a percentage of the accumulated balance in 
the plan account vests (ie options or awards are released 
to participants).
Therefore, a participant’s plan account will comprise the 
sum of the plan contribution (if any) being made in relation 
to the relevant plan year plus the accumulated awards 
registered in the plan account from previous plan years.
In the first five plan years, a participant’s plan account vests 
as follows:
Following Financial year 
ending
% of cumulative shares in  
plan account vesting
Plan year 1 31 May 2014 40.0%
Plan year 2 31 May 2015 40.0%
Plan year 3 31 May 2016 33.3%
Plan year 4 31 May 2017 33.3%
Plan year 5 31 May 2018 33.3%
After plan year 5, the committee may at such time (or at a 
later date during the life of the SPP) close the operation of 
the plan. 
If the SPP is closed following plan year 5, unvested awards 
remaining in the plan account will vest in tranches of 50%, 
25% and 25% on the first, second and third anniversaries of 
the SPP’s closure. The same principles will apply on a later 
termination of the plan.
Participants may receive a payment at the time of delivery 
of vested shares of an amount equivalent to the dividends 
that would have been paid on those shares while in the 
plan account (adopting a first-in, first-out basis). This 
amount may assume dividend reinvestment. Dividends will 
not accrue on vested but unexercised awards.
The maximum plan contribution in 
respect of a plan year is an award of 
shares with a market value of no more 
than 500% of an executive’s annual 
rate of salary.
The quantum of any awards granted is dependent 
on performance against performance targets set by 
the committee for each relevant financial year.
Performance targets may comprise, for example, 
diluted earnings per share (DEPS) targets, Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) and non-financial 
measures. Performance is measured over single 
plan years (financial years) except for TSR (from plan 
year 2 – awards in respect of financial year ending 
31 May 2015). We currently intend to apply the 
following performance criteria:
DEPS – a sliding scale of targets will apply for each 
plan year. The targets will be set at the start of 
each plan year. Targets and performance will be 
disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on 
Remuneration for the relevant financial year-end.
Relative TSR – the Company’s share price (plus 
dividends reinvested) performance is measured 
against an appropriate comparator group. For 
the first plan year, performance was based on 
that plan year alone; for the second plan year, 
performance was based on plan years 1 and 2. For 
plan years thereafter performance is measured over 
three plan years ending with the plan year being 
reported on. The committee retains the discretion 
to scale back the level of award if it feels the 
Company’s underlying financial performance does 
not warrant the level of award resulting from TSR 
performance alone.
Non-financial – these may comprise strategic goals, 
operational and client satisfaction measures for 
each plan year. Targets and performance will be 
disclosed retrospectively.
Where possible, a sliding scale of targets will be 
set. For the DEPS and relative TSR measures, no 
more than 25% is payable for achieving threshold 
performance, rising to full payout for achieving a 
more challenging target.
The scorecard of financial, share price and non-
financial metrics may vary from year to year in 
accordance with strategic priorities and the 
regulatory environment.
At the time of determining the contribution for plan 
year 5, in the event that the committee feels the 
Company’s underlying financial performance over 
the first five plan years has not been satisfactory, the 
committee may scale back the final balance of the 
plan account. 
The committee 
may decide within 
three years of a plan 
contribution that the 
underlying award will 
be subject to clawback. 
This may happen 
where there has been a 
material misstatement 
in the Company’s 
financial results or an 
error in assessing any 
applicable performance 
condition. It may also 
be triggered if there has 
been substantial failure 
of risk management, 
or if the participant’s 
employment is 
terminated for 
serious misconduct.  
The clawback may be 
satisfied by a reduction 
in the amount of 
any subsisting plan 
account, a reduction 
in the vesting of any 
subsisting vested 
awards or future 
share awards and/or a 
requirement to make 
cash payment.
75 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS
RECOVERY OR 
WITHHOLDING
ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES
All employees including Executive Directors are 
encouraged to become shareholders through the 
operation of an HMRC-approved share-incentive 
plan (SIP) and/or such other all-employee share plans 
as the Company may adopt in the future.
The SIP is a flexible, tax-efficient, all-employee plan. Partnership, 
free, dividend and matching shares may be granted under the SIP .
If other HMRC-approved all-employee plans are introduced, they 
will operate in accordance with HMRC guidance and limits.
Similar non-UK plans may be operated to enable non-UK 
employees and Directors to participate.
HMRC or non-UK plan equivalent limits 
will apply to any all-employee schemes 
that may be introduced.
This currently constitutes a small 
proportion of Executive Directors’ 
total remuneration.
No performance metrics tend to apply, although 
they may be introduced where applicable and 
if appropriate.
No recovery or 
withholding applies 
to all-employee 
share schemes.
SHARE OWNERSHIP POLICY
Aligns the interests of management and shareholders 
and promotes a long-term approach to performance 
and risk management.
A share ownership policy was introduced from the financial year 
ended 31 May 2014.
Under this policy, the Chief Executive Officer is required to  
hold shares to the value of a minimum of 200% of base salary, 
and for other Executive Directors a requirement of 100% of 
base salary applies.
Only shares owned outright by the Executive Director are 
included in the guideline, which must be achieved within five 
years of the introduction of the policy or, if later, from the date 
of appointment to the Board.
The committee will review progress annually, with an 
expectation that Executive Directors will make progress towards 
achieving the shareholding policy each year. 
Not applicable. Not applicable. Not applicable. 
NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE
Choice of performance measures:
The performance measures that are used in the share performance plan (SPP) are a subset of the Company’ s Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). 
Metric Rationale and link to the strategic KPIs How performance measures are set
Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) relative to a suitable 
benchmark group 
TSR measures the total return to IG Group’s shareholders, both through share price growth 
and dividends paid, and as such it is aligned to shareholder interests.
TSR is influenced by how well IG Group performs on a range of other metrics, including 
financial indicators such as revenue, profit, cash generation and dividends, and non-financial 
indicators such as client satisfaction and operational performance.
The committee sets the requirements for each plan year. The current benchmark group comprises the constituents of the FTSE 350 
index (excluding investment trusts).
Diluted earnings per share 
(DEPS)  
DEPS is a key indicator of the profits generated for shareholders, and a reflection of both 
revenue growth and cost control.
The committee determines appropriate performance targets each year, taking account of the annual and longer-term business 
plans. DEPS is calculated on such adjusted basis as the committee reasonably selects (eg adjusting for the effects of any share 
buybacks).
Non-financial performance 
Specific non-financial measure Specific non-financial criteria include system reliability, customer satisfaction, effective 
risk management, sustaining the Company’s excellent reputation and maintaining a good 
standing with regulators. Each of these measures has a direct impact on a number of the 
Group’s KPIs, for example, system reliability is a key measure of the resilience of our trading 
platforms, which is an essential element of revenue generation and client satisfaction.
Customer satisfaction is also measured using the Net Promoter Score (NPS) data supplied by 
Investment Trends. NPS is a measure of whether clients would recommend IG Group. 
The basket of measures chosen is considered to provide a broader assessment of executive 
delivery than financial metrics alone.
The committee approved, in advance, a basket of non-financial measures for the year ended 31 May 2015. 
Following the end of the year the committee assesses performance relative to prior years, internal targets and sector averages. 
Assessment is undertaken ‘in the round’, taking account of activities and achievements during the year.
For example, for NPS, performance is assessed through comparison of the Group’s performance against other companies in the 
sector, with the aim of maintaining a high NPS score relative to the sector average.
Execution and delivery of key 
strategic initiatives
The delivery of the Group’s strategic initiatives is key to the delivery of the strategy and will, 
over time, drive financial performance and growth. 
As part of the Board’s strategy planning, there is a clear plan of strategic initiatives provided to the Remuneration Committee at the 
start of the year, which details the underlying projects set for delivery in the short-to-medium term. The Remuneration Committee 
uses this plan to judge performance and management’s execution and delivery of key strategic initiatives.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
(CONTINUED)
 
KEY ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION
| 76 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS
RECOVERY OR 
WITHHOLDING
ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES
All employees including Executive Directors are 
encouraged to become shareholders through the 
operation of an HMRC-approved share-incentive 
plan (SIP) and/or such other all-employee share plans 
as the Company may adopt in the future.
The SIP is a flexible, tax-efficient, all-employee plan. Partnership, 
free, dividend and matching shares may be granted under the SIP .
If other HMRC-approved all-employee plans are introduced, they 
will operate in accordance with HMRC guidance and limits.
Similar non-UK plans may be operated to enable non-UK 
employees and Directors to participate.
HMRC or non-UK plan equivalent limits 
will apply to any all-employee schemes 
that may be introduced.
This currently constitutes a small 
proportion of Executive Directors’ 
total remuneration.
No performance metrics tend to apply, although 
they may be introduced where applicable and 
if appropriate.
No recovery or 
withholding applies 
to all-employee 
share schemes.
SHARE OWNERSHIP POLICY
Aligns the interests of management and shareholders 
and promotes a long-term approach to performance 
and risk management.
A share ownership policy was introduced from the financial year 
ended 31 May 2014.
Under this policy, the Chief Executive Officer is required to  
hold shares to the value of a minimum of 200% of base salary, 
and for other Executive Directors a requirement of 100% of 
base salary applies.
Only shares owned outright by the Executive Director are 
included in the guideline, which must be achieved within five 
years of the introduction of the policy or, if later, from the date 
of appointment to the Board.
The committee will review progress annually, with an 
expectation that Executive Directors will make progress towards 
achieving the shareholding policy each year. 
Not applicable. Not applicable. Not applicable. 
NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE
Choice of performance measures:
The performance measures that are used in the share performance plan (SPP) are a subset of the Company’ s Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). 
Metric Rationale and link to the strategic KPIs How performance measures are set
Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) relative to a suitable 
benchmark group 
TSR measures the total return to IG Group’s shareholders, both through share price growth 
and dividends paid, and as such it is aligned to shareholder interests.
TSR is influenced by how well IG Group performs on a range of other metrics, including 
financial indicators such as revenue, profit, cash generation and dividends, and non-financial 
indicators such as client satisfaction and operational performance.
The committee sets the requirements for each plan year. The current benchmark group comprises the constituents of the FTSE 350 
index (excluding investment trusts).
Diluted earnings per share 
(DEPS)  
DEPS is a key indicator of the profits generated for shareholders, and a reflection of both 
revenue growth and cost control.
The committee determines appropriate performance targets each year, taking account of the annual and longer-term business 
plans. DEPS is calculated on such adjusted basis as the committee reasonably selects (eg adjusting for the effects of any share 
buybacks).
Non-financial performance 
Specific non-financial measure Specific non-financial criteria include system reliability, customer satisfaction, effective 
risk management, sustaining the Company’s excellent reputation and maintaining a good 
standing with regulators. Each of these measures has a direct impact on a number of the 
Group’s KPIs, for example, system reliability is a key measure of the resilience of our trading 
platforms, which is an essential element of revenue generation and client satisfaction.
Customer satisfaction is also measured using the Net Promoter Score (NPS) data supplied by 
Investment Trends. NPS is a measure of whether clients would recommend IG Group. 
The basket of measures chosen is considered to provide a broader assessment of executive 
delivery than financial metrics alone.
The committee approved, in advance, a basket of non-financial measures for the year ended 31 May 2015. 
Following the end of the year the committee assesses performance relative to prior years, internal targets and sector averages. 
Assessment is undertaken ‘in the round’, taking account of activities and achievements during the year.
For example, for NPS, performance is assessed through comparison of the Group’s performance against other companies in the 
sector, with the aim of maintaining a high NPS score relative to the sector average.
Execution and delivery of key 
strategic initiatives
The delivery of the Group’s strategic initiatives is key to the delivery of the strategy and will, 
over time, drive financial performance and growth. 
As part of the Board’s strategy planning, there is a clear plan of strategic initiatives provided to the Remuneration Committee at the 
start of the year, which details the underlying projects set for delivery in the short-to-medium term. The Remuneration Committee 
uses this plan to judge performance and management’s execution and delivery of key strategic initiatives.
77 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE (CONTINUED)
Annual DEPS targets and non-financial performance 
measures, where used, are likely to be too sensitive to 
disclose in advance, for commercial reasons. We will, 
however, disclose the measures and targets (where 
applicable) used, and the extent to which we have achieved 
them, on a retrospective basis, at the end of the relevant 
performance period. 
Incentive plan discretions
The committee will operate the current SPP (and other share 
plans still in operation) according to their respective rules and 
the policy set out above, and in accordance with the Listing 
Rules and HMRC rules where relevant. Copies of the SPP 
rules are available on request from the Company Secretary. 
As is consistent with market practice, the committee retains 
discretion over a number of areas relating to operating and 
administrating these plans. These include (but are not limited 
to) the following:
• Who participates in the plans
• The timing of grant of award and/or payment
• The size of an award and/or a payment within the plan 
limits approved by shareholders
• The choice of (and adjustment of) performance measures 
and targets in accordance with the policy set out above and 
the rules of each plan (including the treatment of delisted 
companies for the purpose of the TSR Comparator Group) 
• Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in 
the event of a change of control or reconstruction
• Determination of a good leaver (in addition to any specified 
categories) for incentive-plan purposes, based on the rules 
of each plan and the appropriate treatment under the 
plan rules
• Adjustments required in certain circumstances (eg rights 
issues, corporate restructuring, special dividends and on a 
change of control)
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, 
be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration. As 
appropriate, it might also be the subject of consultation with 
the Company’s major shareholders.
Legacy arrangements
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy, the Company has authority to honour 
any commitments entered into with current or former 
Directors that have been disclosed to shareholders previously. 
This includes awards made under the deferred bonus plan, 
the value-sharing plan (VSP) and any other share plans 
operated by the Company.
REMUNERATION SCENARIOS FOR 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
As a result of the Company’s remuneration policy, a significant 
proportion of the remuneration received by Executive 
Directors depends on Company performance. The chart 
on page 79 shows how total pay for the Executive Directors 
varies under three different performance scenarios: minimum, 
target and maximum:
Minimum
This comprises the fixed elements of pay, being base salary, 
benefits and pension. Base salary and pension are effective 
as at 1 June 2015 and the benefits value is the actual value for 
the year ended 31 May 2014. 
Target
This comprises fixed pay and the target value of SPP 
(250% of salary).
Maximum
This comprises fixed pay and the maximum value of SPP 
(500% of salary).
No account has been taken of share price growth, 
or of dividend shares awarded in respect of the 
deferred element of bonus and SPP awards over the 
deferral/performance periods.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ SERVICE CONTRACTS
Each Executive Director is employed under a service contract 
with IG Group Limited (a wholly-owned intermediate holding 
company) for the benefit of the Company and the Group.
The period of notice for existing Executive Directors does 
not exceed six months and, accordingly, Executive Directors’ 
employment contracts can be terminated on six months’ 
notice by either party.
In the event that the Company terminates an Executive 
Director’s service contract other than in accordance with the 
terms of his or her contract, the committee will act in the best 
interests of the Company and ensure there is no reward for 
failure. All service contracts are continuous, and contractual 
termination payments relate to the unexpired notice period. 
On a Director’s departure, the Company may at its sole 
discretion pay base salary and the value of any benefits 
(including pension) that would have been receivable in lieu 
of any unexpired period of notice. In the event of termination 
for gross misconduct, the Company may give neither 
notice nor a payment in lieu of notice. Where the Company, 
acting reasonably, believes it may have a right to terminate 
employment due to gross misconduct, it may suspend the 
executive from employment on full salary for up to 30 days to 
investigate the circumstances prevailing.
The Company may place an executive on gardening leave 
for up to the duration of the notice period. During this time, 
the executive will be entitled to receive base salary and all 
contractual benefits (including pension). At the end of the 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
(CONTINUED)
| 78 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Fixed pay
3,000
2,500
2,000
Target Minimum Maximum
T A Howkins
1,500
1,000
500
C F Hill P G Hetherington
100%
32% 19%
68%
81%
100% 32% 19%
68%
81%
100% 32% 19%
68%
81%
Target Minimum Maximum Target Minimum Maximum
£000
SPP
gardening leave period, the Company may, at its discretion, 
pay the executive base salary alone, in lieu of the balance of 
any period of notice given by the Company or the executive.
When considering payments in the event of termination, 
the Remuneration Committee takes into account individual 
circumstances. Relevant factors include the reasons for 
termination, contractual obligations and the relevant incentive 
plan rules. When determining any loss of office payment 
for a departing Director the committee will always seek to 
minimise the cost to the Company while complying with the 
contractual terms and seeking to reflect the circumstances 
in place at the time. The committee reserves the right to 
make additional payments where such payments are made 
in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation 
(or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation); or 
by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in 
connection with the termination of an Executive Director’s 
office or employment.
For new executive appointments, the committee has 
discretion to offer a longer notice period of up to 12 months 
to secure an appointment. Any payments in lieu of notice will 
be at the committee’s discretion, and will be limited to base 
salary and the value of benefits (including pension) as set 
out above.
Sustained performance plan awards
As a general rule, if a participant ceases to hold employment 
or be a Director within the Group, or gives notice of 
leaving, they forfeit any entitlement to receive further plan 
contributions. All awards subsisting in their plan account at 
such time are forfeited in full.
However, the situation may be different if the participant 
ceases to be an employee or a Director within the Group 
under certain circumstances. These include injury, disability, 
retirement, redundancy, the disposal of the participant’s 
employing company or the business for which they work by 
the Group, or other circumstances at the discretion of the 
committee. In this case, participation in the plan will cease 
once the plan contributions in respect of the plan year in 
which the cessation arises are determined. This will take 
into account the proportion of the full plan year worked. 
Ordinarily, the participant’s plan account will then vest, 
yielding one third immediately and thereafter the remaining 
balance in equal parts on the first and second anniversary of 
such determinations. 
For the purposes of any awards permitted to vest to leavers as 
described above, the committee retains discretion to reduce 
the level of vesting that would otherwise result. It may refer to 
such time-based adjustments as it considers appropriate.
Where awards are granted in the form of options, any vested 
awards already held at the time of cessation (ie vested awards 
held outside the plan account but unexercised) will remain 
exercisable for a limited period. The exception is when 
dismissal has been for misconduct, in which case such awards 
lapse in full.
Value-sharing plan (VSP) awards – legacy plan
As a general rule, awards which have not vested will 
lapse when employment ceases. This may differ in certain 
circumstances when there is a good reason for leaving. 
Examples include injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, 
the disposal of the participant’s employing company or 
the business for which they work by the Group, or other 
circumstances at the discretion of the committee. The 
committee has the discretion to determine that an Executive 
Director is a good leaver. In this case, the award will not lapse 
but will continue or, if the committee decides, will vest on 
cessation to the extent the performance condition is satisfied. 
A time pro-rated reduction will apply unless the committee 
determines otherwise. In the event of death, awards will vest 
at that time to the extent that performance, in the opinion of 
the committee, has been satisfied. 
Change of control
The Executive Directors’ contracts do not provide for any 
enhanced payments in the event of a change of control 
of the Company, nor for liquidated damages. Copies of 
the Executive Directors’ service contract are available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered office.
REMUNERATION SCENARIOS FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
79 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | REMUNERATION POLICY ACROSS THE COMPANY
We have designed the remuneration policy for the Executive 
Directors and senior management with regard to the 
policy for employees across the Company as a whole. The 
committee is kept updated through the year on general 
employment conditions, basic salary-increase budgets, 
the level of bonus pools and payouts and participation in 
share plans. The committee is therefore aware of how total 
remuneration at the Executive Director level compares to the 
total remuneration of the general population of employees. 
Common approaches to remuneration policy which apply 
across the Company include:
• Consistency in ‘pay for performance’, with annual bonus 
schemes being offered to the vast majority of employees
• Offering pension, medical and life assurance benefits for all 
employees, where practical given geographical location
• Ensuring that salary increases for each category of 
employee are considered, taking into account the overall 
rate of increase across the Company, benchmarking, and 
Company and individual performance
• Encouraging broad-based share ownership through the use 
of all-employee share plans, where practical
RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION POLICY
The committee’s overriding objective is to appoint Executive 
Directors with the necessary background, skills and 
experience to ensure the continuing success of the Company. 
We recognise that the pace of change and technology 
development in our industry, as well as the global nature 
of IG Group, mean that the right individuals may often be 
highly sought-after. 
We set the remuneration package for a new Executive 
Director in accordance with the Company’s approved 
remuneration policy, as detailed on page 79 of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report, subject to the additional 
provisions described below. The maximum level of variable 
remuneration (excluding any buyout arrangements) that we 
can offer to a new executive on an annual basis will be in 
accordance with the sustained performance plan limit, being 
500% of salary. 
In many cases, where we make an external appointment, 
the individual will forfeit incentive awards connected with 
their previous employment on resignation. The committee 
may therefore decide to offer further cash or share-based 
payments to ‘buy-out’ these existing entitlements by making 
awards of a broadly equivalent value, in the committee’s 
view. These awards can be made either under the Company’s 
existing incentive plans or via other arrangements. In 
determining the appropriate form and amount of any such 
award, the committee will consider various factors. These 
include the type and quantum of award, the length of the 
performance period and the performance and vesting 
conditions attached to each forfeited incentive award. 
Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different 
performance measures may be set for the SPP for the year of 
joining the Board, taking into account the individual’s role and 
responsibilities and the point in the year when they joined. 
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element 
granted in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out 
according to its terms, adjusted as appropriate to take into 
account the terms of the Executive Director appointment. The 
committee will carefully determine the base salary level for a 
new Executive Director, taking into account the individual’s 
background, skills and experience, and the business criticality 
and nature of the role being offered. It will also consider the 
Company’s circumstances and relevant external and internal 
benchmarks. Above all, the committee must exercise its own 
judgement in determining the most appropriate salary for the 
new appointment.
In certain circumstances, the committee will have set a 
starting base salary which is positioned below the relevant 
market rate. It may then wish to adjust the Executive Director’s 
base salary, at a level above the average increase in the 
Company, as the individual gains experience and establishes 
a strong performance track record in the role. Conversely, the 
base salary may need to be positioned above the relevant 
market rate in order to attract the most appropriate candidate 
for the role.
We will provide benefits in accordance with the approved 
policy. We may pay relocation expenses or allowances, 
legal fees and other costs relating to the recruitment 
as appropriate.
We will set fees for a new Non-Executive Director or Chairman 
in accordance with the approved policy. 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
(CONTINUED)
| 80 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy applicable to the Non-Executive Directors.
PURPOSE AND 
LINK TO STRATEGY
OPERATION OPPORTUNITY
PERFORMANCE 
METRICS
RECOVERY OR 
WITHHOLDING
To attract and retain 
Non-Executive 
Directors of 
appropriate calibre 
and experience.
The Remuneration 
Committee 
determines the fee 
for the Chairman 
(without the 
Chairman present).
The Board is 
responsible for 
setting Non-
Executive Directors’ 
fees. The Non-
Executive Directors 
are not involved in 
any discussions or 
decisions by the 
Board about their 
own remuneration.
Fees are within 
the limits set by 
the articles of 
association and 
take account of the 
commitment and 
responsibilities of 
the relevant role.
The Chairman 
receives a single 
fee to cover all their 
Board duties. 
Non-Executive 
Directors receive 
a fee for carrying 
out their duties. 
They may receive 
additional fees 
if they chair the 
primary Board 
Committees, and for 
holding the post of 
Senior Independent 
Director.
Committee 
membership fees 
may be paid.
Details of current fee 
levels are set out in 
the Annual Report 
on Remuneration. 
No performance 
metrics apply.
No recovery or 
withholding applies.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts; they are engaged by letters of appointment. Each Non-Executive 
Director is appointed for an initial term of three years subject to re-election, but the appointment can be terminated on three 
months’ notice. 
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS
The committee engages proactively with the Company’s major shareholders. For example, when making any material changes 
to the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee Chair will inform major shareholders of these in advance, and will offer 
a meeting to discuss details as required. 
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY
In setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the committee takes into account the overall approach to reward for 
employees in the Company. The Group operates in a number of different environments, and has many employees who carry 
out diverse roles across a number of countries. All employees, including Directors, are paid by reference to the market rate, 
and base salary levels are reviewed regularly. When considering salary increases for Directors, the Company will be sensitive to 
pay and employment conditions across the wider workforce, however no remuneration comparison measurements have been 
utilised to date. The committee does not formally consult with employees on the executive remuneration policy. The committee 
is periodically updated on pay and conditions applying to employees across the Company.
81 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION
This part of the report includes a summary of how we implemented the policy in the financial year ended 31 May 2015 (including 
payment and awards in respect of incentive arrangements), and how we will apply the remuneration policy for the financial year 
ending 31 May 2016. We also give details of the Remuneration Committee’s operation, the Directors’ share interests and how 
shareholders voted at the 2014 AGM. 
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2015
Single total figure of remuneration for each Director (audited)
Contribution to SPP plan account
(6)
Name of  
Director Year
Fees/ 
basic 
salary
£000
Benefits 
in kind
(4)
£000
Pension
(5)
£000
Vested 
element
£000
Deferred 
element
£000
Total
£000
Legacy 
Plan:
VSP
(7)
£000
Total
£000
Executive Directors
T A Howkins 2015 472 1 71 390 585 975 – 1,519
2014 459 1 69 498 748 1,246 195 1,970
C F Hill 2015 331 1 50 273 409 682 – 1,064
2014 321 1 48 349 523 872 117 1,359
P G Hetherington
(1)
2015 283 1 43 292 439 731 – 1,058
2014 275 1 41 374 561 935 117 1,369
Non-Executive Directors
J R Davie 
(2)
2015 73 1 – – – – – 74
2014 192 1 – – – – – 193
A Green 
(3)
 2015 235 – – – – – – 235
2014 – – – – – – – –
S G Hill 2015 70 9 – – – – – 79
2014 53 11 – – – – – 64
D M Jackson 
(2)
2015 29 1 – – – – – 30
2014 67 6 – – – – – 73
J A Newman 2015 65 – – – – – – 65
2014 40 – – – – – – 40
S J Tymms 2015 55 3 – – – – – 58
2014 53 1 – – – – – 54
R P Yates 2015 70 – – – – – – 70
2014 53 – – – – – – 53
(1) 
P G Hetherington was paid a reduced pro rata salary of £283,400, based upon a £354,300 full-time equivalent salary, to reflect his flexible working arrangements. 
As in previous years, and consistent with the previous legacy arrangements, his SPP opportunity is based on his full-time equivalent salary. As of 1 June 2015, P G 
Hetherington has ceased the flexible working arrangement and accordingly his salary from this date will revert to the full-time amount.
(2) 
J R Davie ceased to be Chairman at the 2014 AGM held on 16 October 2014 and D M Jackson ceased to be a director on 16 October 2014.
(3) 
A Green joined the Group as Deputy Chairman on 9 June 2014 and succeeded J R Davie as Chairman at the 2014 AGM.
(4) 
Executive Directors’ benefits can include private medical cover, discounted gym membership and life assurance cover. Following an internal review, certain 
Non-Executive Directors’ expenses relating to the performance of a director’s duties such as travel to and from company meetings and related accommodation 
have been classified as taxable benefits. In such cases, the Company will ensure that the director is kept whole by settling the expense and any related tax. In line 
with the regulations, these taxable benefits have been disclosed and are shown in the benefits in kind column, with a consequential restatement of the prior year 
comparatives. The figures shown include the cost of the taxable benefit plus the related personal tax charge.
(5) 
The Group contributes 15% of basic salary to personal pensions for each of the Executive Directors, who also have the option to receive part, or all, of their pension 
entitlement in cash. The additional cash payment is counted in lieu of pension, and is not treated as base salary for the purposes of calculating other benefits. 
T Howkins elected to restrict pension contributions to £40,000 and receive the balance of the pension contribution as an additional cash payment. C Hill elected to 
restrict pension contributions to £40,000 and receive the balance of the pension contribution as an additional cash payment. P Hetherington elected to receive the 
full pension contribution as an additional cash payment.
(6) 
Figures provided are the values of the SPP plan contributions in respect of performance for the periods ending 31 May 2015 and 31 May 2014 (ie Plan Years 2 and 
1). The vested element is the proportion of the Plan Year contribution for the relevant period that vests shortly following the end of the financial year. The deferred 
element is the proportion that remains deferred in the plan account. Details of SPP awards held in the Plan Account, both vested and unvested, are provided in the 
Outstanding Share Awards table on page 86.
(7) 
The 2011 VSP awards had a performance period ending 31 May 2014. Half the awards vested on 22 July 2014 with the remaining vesting on 21 July 2015. The 
value of these awards provided in last year’s remuneration report was based on an estimated share price. We have restated the amounts (now as 2014 prior year 
comparatives) using the actual share price on 22 July 2014 (619.5p, for half the awards) and the average three-month share price for period ended 31 May 2015 
(740.9p) for the remaining awards.
 The 2012 VSP awards had a performance period ending 31 May 2015. Performance was below threshold for both the PBT and TSR metrics and therefore this 
award lapsed.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
(CONTINUED)
| 82 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 DETERMINATION OF SPP PLAN CONTRIBUTION FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2015
Performance targets for Plan Year 2 (financial year ending 31 May 2015) comprised Diluted Earnings per Share (DEPS) targets, Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) and non-financial measures. TSR performance was measured over the 2-year period from 1 June 2013 to 
31 May 2015 and DEPS and non-financial measures over the financial year ending 31 May 2015.
Performance 
measure Weighting
Potential as a 
percentage of 
base salary
Threshold  
(25% payout 
for TSR and  
0% for DEPS)
Maximum 
(100% payout)
Actual  
performance
Plan  
contribution as 
percentage of 
base salary
DEPS 45% 225% 40.18 pence 44.20 pence
35.99 pence  
(0% vesting) 0%
TSR 35% 175% Median ranking Upper-quartile 
ranking
98 of 291 
companies 
(74.5% vesting)
130%
Non-financial 20% 100% See commentary on page 84 76%
Total 100% 500% 206%
PERFORMANCE MEASURES – HOW THESE ARE SET AND REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE FOR THE 
FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2015 (AUDITED)
Diluted earnings per share (45% weighting)
At the start of the 2015 financial year, the committee established a diluted earnings per share (DEPS) range for the purposes of 
performance measurement and consequentially payout under the SPP . This was demanding given the strategic investment the 
business is making in new technology, products and geographies. In setting the DEPS range, the committee considered the 
costs of planned investment in strategic objectives, the actual DEPS for the year ended 31 May 2014 of 40.18 pence and analyst 
DEPS consensus for 2015.
Notwithstanding the strong underlying performance of the Group over the year, the negative financial impact of the Swiss franc 
movement meant that actual DEPS for the year ended 31 May 2015 of 35.99 pence was below the threshold target and therefore 
none of the potential award under this measure was granted.
In setting the DEPS range for the year ending 31 May 2016, the committee has taken into account a number of relevant factors 
including internal and external considerations and an appropriate degree of challenge on prior year performance after taking 
account of the impact of the Swiss franc event.
Total shareholder return (35% weighting)
Under the Total Shareholder Return measure, a median ranking against the FTSE 350 (excluding Investment Trusts) would 
result in 25% of this element being granted with the full award being granted for upper quartile ranking or better. The award 
to be granted for performance between median and upper quartile would be determined on a straight line basis between 
these points.
In respect of the award to be granted in respect of Plan Year 2, TSR was measured over the two-year period from 1 June 2013 
to 31 May 2015. Actual TSR performance for IG Group, as measured by New Bridge Street, for the two-year period was 48.2%. 
Against the peer group this performance was sufficient to rank IG Group at 98 out of 291 companies and resulted in 74.5% of 
the potential payout under this measure being awarded. 
Non-financial measures
The committee approved a basket of non-financial measures comprising strategic goals as well as operational and client 
satisfaction measures for the year ended 31 May 2015. These measures are also utilised for an element of the staff general 
bonus pool. These measures, and the assessment of performance, for the year ended 31 May 2015 are set out in the following 
table. An average of the performance under the specific non-financial measures combined with performance under the 
execution and delivery measure resulted in an overall assessment of 76% of the potential payout under this element of the plan 
being awarded.
83 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
(CONTINUED)
METRIC PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
SPECIFIC NON-FINANCIAL MEASURES
System 
reliability / 
uptime
The main measures used to assess performance against this metric are core dealing 
availability per month and maximum percentage downtime in any one day. The Group 
strives to achieve 99.8% for the first measure and less than 4.0% for the second measure. 
During the year, core dealing availability per month was breached on one occasion 
(April 2015) and maximum downtime was breached on two occasions – in August 2014 
and April 2015. 
For the majority of the year core dealing availability was very high. The main system 
outage and breach of the Group’s availability target was due to a software flaw in a new 
reporting tool – measures have been taken to remedy this. Overall, system reliability 
was marginally down from the prior year (99.95% versus 99.97%) as shown in the Key 
Performance Indicators section of the Strategic Report. The availability of the dealing 
platform is very important in terms of client confidence of trading with IG and the 
Group will continue to undertake work in this area to ensure a consistently high level of 
platform uptime is maintained. 
65%  
(FY14 85%)
Maintaining 
good standing 
relationships 
with regulators
The Group continues to maintain constructive and open relationships with regulators 
and FY15 was a good year from a regulatory perspective.
The Group continues to have strong relations with all regulators. During FY15, IG 
successfully obtained licences in Switzerland and Dubai, both of which involved very 
stringent application processes and represented significant achievements. In addition, 
there were no regulatory incidents during the year.
92.5%  
(FY14 90%)
Customer 
satisfaction
The Remuneration Committee uses a number of indicators to measure performance 
against this metric.
Net Promoter Score (NPS) data is tracked by the syndicated Investment Trends studies 
and is a measure of how likely clients are to recommend IG to others. Over the last year 
the Group has seen improvement in Australia, France and Germany while Singapore 
remained unchanged. The UK on the other hand saw a drop in NPS but was ranked first 
for Spread Betting. The reasons for this drop in satisfaction are considered to have been 
remedied. Please refer to the Key Performance Indicators section of the Strategic Report 
for more information on NPS.
During the year, the Group once again commissioned an independent study to conduct 
a ‘mystery shopping’ programme among IG and a number of competitors in the UK. 
The study consisted of ten cases being raised with each provider where they were 
challenged with the same questions or scenarios. Each case was scored against desired 
behaviours expected from the case handler. The result of the study shows that the 
Group performed consistently well in most categories and ranked first in overall scoring 
with a 30% lead against the Group’s main competitor.
The Group continued to run IG Think Tank, an online community and forum which 
supports engagement with clients and the inclusion of their feedback into the IT 
development cycle. This has led to better IG apps development, mobile charting 
functionalities, and more informative news feeds. 
IG brand awareness continued to improve with almost 50% of online investors naming 
the Group when asked to state the different providers they have heard of. With the 
launch of stockbroking, recognition of the brand grew 14%, which was a significant 
achievement given the timeframe.
During the year, the Group also established a senior management forum to discuss 
and address the latest client insights and feedback – a process that has already led to a 
number of key client wishes having been addressed or where solutions are in progress.
85%  
(FY14 80%)
Reputation The Remuneration Committee assessed whether there have been any events resulting 
in negative media coverage or reputational damage during the year.
The Group and the industry as a whole experienced adverse press coverage in the 
aftermath of the Swiss National Bank decision to remove the Swiss franc’s peg to the 
euro. Additionally, the industry also saw some scrutiny from the regulators following 
some concerns raised regarding the operations of some competitors. The Group’s PR 
team and external advisors are considered to have done well in mitigating the poor PR 
and reputational impact.
65% 
(FY14 100%)
| 84 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 METRIC PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
SPECIFIC NON-FINANCIAL MEASURES (CONTINUED)
Risk 
management
The impact of the Swiss franc event was significant and resulted in material financial 
losses for the Group. However, the Group was satisfied with the response of the risk 
management systems in terms of the identification of the issues, the speed of which the 
losses were quantified and the subsequent communication made with stakeholders.
Furthermore, the Group made considerable progress across a number of risk 
management areas during the year through the newly established Board Risk 
Committee. Nevertheless, the Remuneration Committee’s assessment is that the 
negative impact on our shareholders resulting from the Swiss franc event should result 
in a zero score for this metric.
0% (FY14 100%)
EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF KEY STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
Execution and 
delivery of 
key strategic 
initiatives
As part of the Board’s strategy planning, there is a clear plan of strategic projects 
provided to the Remuneration Committee at the start of the year, which details the 
underlying projects set for delivery in the short-to-medium term. The Remuneration 
Committee uses this plan to judge performance and management’s execution and 
delivery of key strategic initiatives. 
There were a number of key strategic projects delivered during the year.  
Examples of the projects include:
• Stockbroking – Successfully launched in the UK in September 2014 including ISAs 
and use of stock as collateral for shorter-term trading from November 2014. It was 
rolled out internationally in the Netherlands in March 2015 and further launches are 
expected later this calendar year. 
• Switzerland – The Group received a licence from FINMA, the Swiss regulator, in 
September 2014 for Switzerland and the business went live the following month. 
• Dubai – Another significant milestone was the licence from the DFSA, the Dubai 
Regulator, which was obtained in principle in May 2015. 
• gTLD – The Group’s first gTLD was made available in May 2015 with the remainder to 
go live sequentially in the first quarter of FY16. 
Significant progress has been made on a number of projects which was not envisaged 
at the start of the financial year – each of which has been progressed without disruption 
to the key strategic projects noted above. There has also been significant progress 
towards several other strategic projects which remain work in progress. The outcome 
will be disclosed once they cease to be commercially sensitive.
90% (FY14 90%)
Overall summary
Based on performance for the financial year ending 31 May 2015, we will grant awards under the SPP to the value of 206% of 
base salary (41% of the maximum potential payout) as plan contributions to the Executive Directors after the announcement of 
the results. The actual number of shares that will be deposited within the Directors’ plan accounts will be based on the ten-day 
average share price immediately prior to grant. 
LEGACY VALUE-SHARING PLAN VESTING IN RELATION TO PERFORMANCE PERIOD ENDING 
31 MAY 2015
The legacy Value-Sharing Plan (VSP), which was approved by shareholders in 2010, comprises annual awards. It provides the 
Executive Directors and other senior staff with a pre-defined number of shares for each £10.0 million of surplus shareholder 
value created over three years above a hurdle. Surplus shareholder value was calculated under two criteria: Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) and Profit before Taxation (PBT). In relation to the final award made under the plan on 1 August 2012, statutory PBT 
fell by 13% to £169.5 million, following the impact of the Swiss franc (underlying PBT grew by 4%) and a TSR of 88.4% over the 
three-year period ended 31 May 2015 none of the award vested. Further detail is provided overleaf.
85 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | The calculation of surplus shareholder value in relation to this plan is explained below:
(i) TSR element (60%): This is based on the value created from the difference between the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) of 
IG Group Holdings plc and that of the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index, multiplied by the IG Group Holdings plc starting 
market capitalisation. 
 Despite a TSR of 88.4% over the three-year period ending 31 May 2015 (measured by Kepler Associates) there was no vesting 
under this element of the scheme as this performance was below that of the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index of 120.6%. 
(ii) Profit before taxation (40%): This is based on the growth in PBT over the three-year period, multiplied by a fixed multiple 
determined by the IG Group Holdings plc starting market capitalisation, plus net equity cash flows to shareholders above a 
hurdle return. 
 The multiple for the 2012 VSP was 8.83. This is derived by dividing the starting market capitalisation of £1,636 million by the 
PBT for the year ending 31 May 2012 (£185.7 million). The required hurdle return was 12% per annum.
 PBT for the final year of the three-year performance period ending 31 May 2015 of £169.5 million together with net equity 
cash flows to shareholders did not result in the generation of a shareholder value when compared to the required hurdle 
return at which vesting commences. That is the growth in PBT and dividend return over the three-year performance period 
was below the required 12% per annum hurdle rate and accordingly there was no vesting under this element of the scheme.
AWARDS GRANTED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2015 (AUDITED)
The SPP awards granted during the financial year ending 31 May 2015 in respect of performance to 31 May 2014 (Plan Year 1) 
are as follows.
Contribution
Number of options 
in the plan account 
after plan year 1 
contribution
Number of options 
vested and exercised 
during the year
Number of options 
in the plan account 
at the end of the 
year   
% of 
salary
Value of 
options 
awarded
Number 
of options 
awarded
(1)
T A Howkins 271% 1,245,965 204,290 204,290 81,716 122,574
C F Hill 271% 872,035 142,980 142,980 57,192 85,788
P G Hetherington 271% 934,812 153,273 153,273 61,309 91,964
(1) 
The number of options contributed to the plan account was based on the 10-day average share price immediately post the announcement date of the Group results 
for the year ended 31 May 2014 of 610 pence per share. Awards were granted in the form of nil cost options. Awards were based on performance achieved and are 
therefore subject to continued employment and subject to the satisfaction of the underlying financial performance underpin to be tested at the end of Plan Year 5 as 
set out in the remuneration policy. 
 Details of the outstanding SPP share awards, using an estimate of the options to be granted in respect of Plan Year 2 (i.e. performance to 31 May 2015) are set 
out below.  
OUTSTANDING SHARE AWARDS
Sustained performance plan
Event 
Plan account 
brought 
forward 
(number of 
shares)
Options 
awarded as 
dividend 
equivalents 
accruing on 
unvested 
options 
during the 
year
(number of 
options)
Plan 
contribution 
in respect of 
year ending 
31 May 2015 
(estimated 
number of 
shares) 
(1)
Plan account 
following 
contribution 
for the year
Estimated 
number of 
options vesting 
(40% following 
determination 
of plan year 2 
contributions
 (2)
Estimated 
cumulative 
number of  
unvested 
options 
remaining in 
plan account 
at the end of 
plan year 2
T A Howkins Plan year 2 122,574 5,825 124,695 253,094 101,238 151,856
C F Hill Plan year 2 85,788 4,077 87,276 177,141 70,856 106,285
P G Hetherington Plan year 2 91,964 4,371 93,561 189,896 75,958 113,938
(1) 
Executive Directors will be granted awards in respect of Plan Year 2 following the announcement of results for the year ended 31 May 2015 on 21 July 2015. The 
share price used to calculate the number of awards to be granted will be the ten-day average share price immediately following the announcement of results for the 
year ended 31 May 2015 on 21 July 2015. As the actual average share price is not known at the time of signing of the Annual Report, the above number of awards 
has been estimated using a share price of 781.5 pence, being the share price on 29 May 2015.
 Share awards have an exercise price of 0.005 pence and are exercisable until August 2024. 
(2) 
In accordance with the scheme rules 40% of the cumulative awards in the Plan Account (after the contributions in respect of Plan Year 2) will vest in August 2015 with 
the vesting of the remaining options deferred. The August 2015 vesting will include additional dividend shares accrued as follows in respect of Plan Year 1 awards 
held in the Plan Account – TA Howkins (5,825), C F Hill (4,077) and P G Hetherington (4,371) based on reinvestment at the dividend payment date.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
(CONTINUED)
| 86 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Other share awards
Award 
date
Share 
price at 
award 
date
Number 
as at 31 
May 2014
Number 
awarded 
during 
the year
Number 
lapsed 
during the 
year
Number 
exercised 
during 
the year
Number 
outstand-
ing at 31 
May 2015
Number 
vested 
but not 
exercised 
at 31 
May 2015
T A Howkins
VSP: Profit award – three year 29 Oct 10 528.50p 17,057 – – (17,057) – – 
VSP: Profit award – four year 29 Oct 10 528.50p 17,057 – – – 17,057 17,057
VSP: Profit award – three year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 4,314 – – (4,314) – –
VSP: Profit award – four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 4,314 – – – 4,314 –
VSP: Total shareholder return 
award – three year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 9,984 – – (9,984) – –
VSP: Total shareholder return 
award – four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 9,985 – – – 9,985 –
VSP: Profit award – three year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 163,636 – (163,636) – – –
VSP: Profit award – four year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 163,636 – (163,636) – – –
VSP: Total shareholder return 
award – three year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 245,454 – (245,454) – – –
VSP: Total shareholder return 
award – four year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 245,453 – (245,453) – – –
Long-term bonus plan – 2012 01 Aug 12 450.45p 109,938 – – (109,938) – –
Long-term bonus plan – 2013 29 Jul 13 545.29p 38,000 – – (38,000) – –
    1,028,828 – (818,179) (179,293) 31,356 17,057
Award 
date
Share 
price at 
award 
date
Number 
as at 31 
May 2014
Number 
awarded 
during 
the year
Number 
lapsed 
during the 
year
Number 
exercised 
during 
the year
Number 
outstand-
ing at 31 
May 2015
Number 
vested 
but not 
exercised 
at 31 
May 2015
C F Hill
VSP: Profit award – three year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 2,589 – – (2,589) – –
VSP: Profit award – four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 2,589 – – – 2,589 –
VSP: Total shareholder return 
award – three year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 5,990 – – (5,990) – –
VSP: Total shareholder return 
award – four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 5,990 – – – 5,990 –
Share Incentive Plan – 2012 
partnership shares  27 Jul 12 419.18p 328 – – – 328 –
VSP: Profit award – three year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 130,909 – (130,909) – – –
VSP: Profit award – four year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 130,908 – (130,908) – – –
VSP: Total shareholder return 
award – three year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 196,363 – (196,363) – – –
VSP: Total shareholder return 
award – four year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 196,363 – (196,363) – – –
Share Incentive Plan – 2013 
partnership shares 26 Jul 13 555.19p 259 – – – 259 –
Long-term bonus plan – 2013 29 Jul 13 545.29p 22,783 – – (22,783) – – 
Share Incentive Plan – 2014 
partnership shares 25 Jul 14 556.26p –  297 – – 297 – 
   695,071 297 (654,543) (31,362) 9,463 –
87 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | Award 
date
Share 
price at 
award 
date
Number 
as at 31 
May 2014
Number 
awarded 
during 
the year
Number 
lapsed 
during the 
year
Number 
exercised 
during 
the year
Number 
outstand-
ing at 31 
May 2015
Number 
vested 
but not 
exercised 
at 31 
May 2015
P G Hetherington
VSP: Profit award – four year 29 Oct 10 528.50p 10,661 – – (10,661) – –
VSP: Profit award – three year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 2,589 – – (2,589) – –
VSP: Profit award – four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 2,589 – – – 2,589 –
VSP: Total shareholder return 
award – three year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 5,990 – – (5,990) – –
VSP: Total shareholder return 
award – four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 5,990 – – – 5,990 –
VSP: Profit award – three year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 130,909 – (130,909) – – –
VSP: Profit award – four year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 130,908 – (130,908) – – –
VSP: Total shareholder return 
award – three year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 196,363 – (196,363) – – –
VSP: Total shareholder return 
award – four year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 196,363 – (196,363) – – –
Share Incentive Plan – 2013 
partnership shares 26 Jul 13 555.19p 258 – – – 258 –
Long term bonus plan – 2013 29 Jul 13 545.29p 25,340 – – (25,340) – –
Share Incentive Plan – 2014 
partnership shares 25 Jul 14 556.26p –  297 – – 297 – 
    707,960 297 (654,543) (44,580) 9,134 –
TABLE OF DIRECTORS’ SHARE INTERESTS (AUDITED)
The share interests of each person who was a Director of the Company during the year as at 31 May 2015 (together with 
interests held by his or her connected persons) were as follows: 
Legally  
owned shares
(5)
Share  
Incentive 
Plan 
shares
(6)
SPP awards
(2)
VSP share  
option awards Total
% of salary 
held under 
shareholding 
policy
(1)
31 May 
2014
31 May 
2015 Un-vested
V ested but 
unexer-
cised Un-vested
V ested but 
unexer-
cised
31 May 
2015 % salary
Executive Directors
T A Howkins 1,621,183 1,621,183 – 128,399 – – 31,356 1,780,938 2,638%
C F Hill 35,131 43,928
(4)
1,181 89,865 – – 8,579 143,553 107%
P G Hetherington
(3)
113,970 129,899 852 96,335 – – 8,579 235,665 361%
Non-Executive Directors
A Green – – – – – – – – –
S G Hill 117,209 80,707 – – – – – 80,707 901%
D M Jackson – – – – – – – – –
J A Newman – – – – – – – – –
S J Tymms – – – – – – – – –
R P Yates 25,000 25,000 – – – – – 25,000 279%
(1) 
Calculated as shares owned on 29 May 2015 at the closing mid-market share price of 781.5p.
(2) 
This figure excludes awards under the SPP scheme for performance year ending 31 May 2015 which will be granted following the announcement of the Group’s 
results on 21 July 2015. The awards held in the Plan Account include those in respect of Plan Year 1 as at 31 May 2015. 
(3) 
P Hetherington also held 10,000 preference shares at 31 May 2015 and 31 May 2014.
(4) 
Of which 43,000 belong to Vanessa Hill.
(5) 
This figure includes partnership shares that are purchased as part of the Group’s Share Incentive Plan (SIP) which are not subject to vesting conditions and prior year 
figures have been restated.
(6) 
This figure shows the number of matching shares held at 31 May 2015 as part of the Group’s Share Incentive Plan (SIP) which will vest after three years from the 
respective award date, as long as employees remain employed by the Group.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
(CONTINUED)
| 88 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 A share ownership policy was introduced from the financial year ending 31 May 2014. Under this policy, the CEO is required to 
hold shares to the value of a minimum of 200% of base salary, and for other Executive Directors a requirement of 100% of base 
salary applies. Only shares owned outright by the Executive Director are included in the guideline, which must be achieved 
within five years of the introduction of the policy or, if later, from the date of appointment to the Board.
There have been no changes to any of the Directors’ share interests in the period since 31 May 2015. The awards to be made 
under the Company’s SPP in respect of the performance period ending on 31 May 2015 are set out earlier in this report and are 
not included in this table.  
CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Base salary Taxable benefits Performance based remuneration
(1)
% 
Change 
(2015/ 
2014)
% 
Change 
(2014/ 
2013)
% 
Change 
(2013/ 
2012)
% 
Change 
(2015/ 
2014)
% 
Change 
(2014/ 
2013)
% 
Change 
(2013/ 
2012)
% 
Change 
(2015/ 
2014)
% 
Change 
(2014/ 
2013)
(2)
%  
Change 
(2013/ 
2012)
Chief Executive 2.83% 7.49% 3.14% 0% 0% 0% (32.34%) 136.23% (64.62%)
Group employees 6.8% 5.91% 4.44% 6.44% 2.78% 19.08% (22.94%) 13.09% (42.40%)
(1) 
For the Chief Executive, the change in remuneration has been restated to include all performance-based remuneration. Remuneration is included in the financial 
year in which performance is measured against.
(2) 
Given the move away from separate annual and long-term plans to a single variable pay plan in the 2014 financial year, the performance-based remuneration 
consists of the SPP award and legacy VSP plans only. The change is calculated based on the change in the total of the SPP contribution for the plan year and the VSP 
vesting in that year.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ OUTSIDE APPOINTMENTS 
T Howkins is a member of the Board and Executive Committee of FIA Europe. The Executive Directors have no other 
external appointments. 
PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE (AUDITED)
No Director has departed, nor has there been a payment for loss of office during the year.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
The following table sets out the profit, dividends and overall spend on pay over the last five financial years:
2015
£m
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
2012  
£m
2011 
£m
Profit after tax 131.9 147.2 141.7 136.8 (25.3)
Dividends 102.8 102.8 84.6 81.6 72.0
Employee remuneration costs 94.3 89.3 86.3 92.7 75.5
Average number of employees 1,287 1,070 1,005 960 951
89 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ACTIVITY 
DURING THE YEAR
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ALLOCATION 
OF TIME
 Salary and Bonus 
Scheme Arrangements
 Incentive Awards
 Remuneration regulation
 Remuneration reporting
 Remuneration policy
 Other
REMUNERATION  
COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS
During the year, the committee undertook a questionnaire- 
based review of its own effectiveness. The evaluation process 
was externally facilitated by Lintstock as part of the overall 
annual Board effectiveness review. Overall, the review 
concluded that the committee is effective and its performance 
was rated highly. The committee however could further 
enhance its effectiveness with more training and support 
on regulatory changes in the area of remuneration and the 
implications for remuneration policy.
ADVICE TO THE COMMITTEE
During the financial year ended 31 May 2015 the committee 
consulted T Howkins, Chief Executive, about remuneration 
matters relating to individuals other than himself. The 
Company Secretary also provided advice and support to 
the committee. 
Appropriate Company employees and external advisers may 
attend committee meetings at the invitation of the Chairman. 
EXTERNAL ADVISORS
The Remuneration Committee was advised during the year 
by New Bridge Street (NBS), which was appointed following a 
competitive tender process in early 2013. 
NBS provided advice in respect of a wide range of issues, 
including advice on the operation of the Sustained 
Performance Plan, TSR performance monitoring, drafting the 
Remuneration Report, remuneration benchmarking and share 
plan implementation services. 
NBS’s fee for advice provided to the Remuneration 
Committee during the financial year ending 31 May 2015 was 
£58,000 (excluding VAT). 
NBS was appointed following a review of advisors. The 
committee considers the advice obtained from NBS to 
be objective and independent. NBS is a member of the 
Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to its 
Code of Conduct, which requires its advice to be objective 
and impartial.
STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING 
AT 2014 AGM
At the October 2014 AGM, resolutions were proposed for 
shareholders to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the financial year 
ended 31 May 2014 and the IG Group Long Term Incentive 
Plan. The following votes were received:
2014 Remuneration Policy
Total number  
of votes % of votes cast
For
(1)
292,271,643 96.20%
Against 11,550,602 3.80%
Total 303,822,245 100%
Withheld 375,428 –
2014 Annual Report on 
Renumeration
Total number  
of votes % of votes cast
For
(1)
300,876,365 99.54%
Against 1,390,389 0.46%
Total 302,266,754 100%
Withheld 1,930,919 –
IG Group Long Term 
Incentive Plan
Total number  
of votes % of votes cast
For
(1)
298,686,270 98.34%
Against 5,045,504 1.66%
Total 303,731,774 100%
Withheld 375,902 -
(1) 
For includes votes at the Chairman’s discretion.
A majority (over 50%) of the votes cast was required for 
the resolutions to be passed, and all were duly approved 
by shareholders. 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
(CONTINUED)
| 90 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN CHART
The chart below shows the Company’s TSR performance compared with that of the FTSE 350 index. As IG Group is a member of 
this index, the committee believes it is appropriate to compare the Group’s performance against it. 
300
350
400
450
500
250
200
150
100
50
0
May 09 May 10 May 11 May 12 May 13 May 14 May 15
Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters)
IG Group FTSE 250 FTSE 350 Financial Services
The graph represents the change in the value of a nominal investment of £100, made on 1 June 2009, in the Company and in 
the FTSE 350 index. The closing values at 31 May 2015 represent the value of each nominal holding at that date, and reflect the 
change in the share price and the value of dividend income reinvested over the period.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE – EARNINGS HISTORY
The five-year earnings history of the Chief Executive is shown in the table below:
Financial year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
(2)
2015
Single-figure remuneration (£000) 1,628 1,141 2,201 1,103 1,970 1,519
Annual bonus outcome (% maximum) 100% 7% 99% 47% – –
LTIP vesting outcome (% maximum) 48% 40% 61% – – –
VSP vesting outcome (% maximum)
(1)
– – – 6% 3% 0%
SPP plan contribution (% maximum)
(1)
– – – – 54% 41%
(1) 
The SPP replaced the annual bonus and VSP schemes from the financial year ending 31 May 2014.
(2) 
The 2011 VSP awards had a performance period ending 31 May 2014. Half the awards vested on 22 July 2014 with the remaining vesting on 21 July 2015. The 
value of these awards provided in last year’s remuneration report was based on an estimated share price. We have restated the amounts (now as 2014 prior year 
comparatives) using the actual share price on 22 July 2014 (619.5 pence, for half the awards) and the average three month share price for period ending 31 May 2015 
(740.9 pence) for the remaining awards.
91 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2016
Base salaries
Base salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed annually by the committee. The Remuneration Committee decided to 
increase base salaries by 3% for the forthcoming year. Base salary is the only pensionable component.
The base salaries as at 1 June 2015 and increases from the prior year are:
2015 2016 Increase
T A Howkins £472,200 £486,400 3%
C F Hill £330,500 £340,400 3%
P G Hetherington
(1)
£354,300 £364,900 3%
(1) 
In 2015 P G Hetherington was paid a reduced pro rata salary of £283,400 calculated as 80% of his full-time equivalent salary of £354,300 to reflect his flexible working 
arrangements. In 2016, there is no pro rata reduction as P G Hetherington‘s flexible working arrangements will no longer apply.  
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ fees were last reviewed in July 2014. There are no changes to fee levels for the 
forthcoming year and the fee levels for 2016 are:
• Chairman: £235,000 (unchanged from the financial year ended 31 May 2015). The fee was set by the committee after taking 
into account the experience of the individual and Chairman fee levels in the market). 
• Non-Executive Director base fee: £55,000
• Chairman of the Audit Committee additional fee: £15,000
• Chairman of Board Risk Committee additional fee: £15,000
• Combined role of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director fee: £15,000.
• The Chairman of the Nomination Committee will not receive an additional fee.
Benefits and pension
We will provide benefits and pension in line with the information set out in the Policy Table on page 72 (pension to a maximum 
of 15% of base salary, cash of equivalent value or a mixture of both).
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
(CONTINUED)
| 92 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Sustained performance plan
For the awards to be granted in respect of Plan Year 3, which will end on 31 May 2016, maximum opportunity of 500% of annual 
rate of base salary will apply for Executive Directors. 
The performance targets for these awards are as follows:
MEASURE FURTHER DETAIL
MEASUREMENT 
PERIOD (PLAN YEARS)
WEIGHTING
Diluted 
earnings  
per share 
The committee has determined a sliding scale of 
targets that will apply for the financial year ending  
31 May 2016. 
Financial year ending  
31 May 2016.
45%
Relative 
Total 
Shareholder 
Return
Performance is measured against constituents of 
the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts. No part 
of this element will be awarded if performance is 
below median. 25% will be awarded for median, 
increasing on a straight-line basis, with full vesting 
for upper-quartile performance or better. The 
committee’s discretion to scale back vesting will apply 
as set out in the Policy Report.
The two financial years 
ending 31 May 2016.
35%
Non-
financial 
measures 
The measures will include: 
• System reliability 
• Maintaining good standing with regulators
• Customer satisfaction
• Reputation and PR 
• Risk management
• Execution and delivery of key strategic initiatives
Financial year ending  
31 May 2016.
20%
The committee will ensure the EPS and non-financial targets are suitably stretching. We deem the EPS and non-financial 
measures themselves to be commercially sensitive, and will not disclose these prospectively. However, we will provide 
retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them in next year’s remuneration report.
 APPROVAL
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 21 July 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Roger Yates 
Chair, Remuneration Committee
93 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
During the year, the Audit Committee has maintained its 
focus on the integrity of financial reporting and supported 
the Board in carrying out its responsibilities in relation to the 
Group’s financial reporting requirements, through reviewing 
the results and formal financial announcements. The ultimate 
responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual Report 
and other externally reported financial information remains 
with the Board.
The committee again considered the appropriateness of the 
design and effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal 
controls and governance over a wide range of regulatory and 
compliance-related matters. The committee also reviewed 
the quality of the external audit process, including the 
identified audit risks, the audit plan and reports from the 
Company’s auditor.
In the prior year, as part of its overall consideration of the 
effectiveness of the Company’s internal audit function, the 
committee received both an internal review against best 
practice guidance and commissioned an External Quality 
Assessment (EQA) performed by an independent external 
firm. The External Quality Assessment concluded that the 
Internal Audit Charter, policies and procedures ‘generally 
conforms’ to the IIA Standards and the Code of Ethics. This 
is the highest rating achievable in accordance with the IIA 
Standards. The review identified potential improvements 
which the committee considered – the detail of which is 
discussed later in the Internal Audit section.
In relation to financial reporting the committee’s primary 
responsibilities are to review the appropriateness of the 
half-year and annual financial statements. Matters considered 
include the impact and disclosure of the Swiss franc related 
losses, the prior year restatements required following the 
mandatory adoption of and consequential changes to 
accounting policy required by IFRIC 21 and the primary areas 
of judgement – each of which are detailed later in this report. 
The year ended 31 May 2015 is the final year that the Group’s 
current audit partner will provide an opinion on the Group’s 
Annual Report and Financial Statements as the mandatory 
rotation time limit of five years has been reached. For the 
financial year ending 31 May 2016 the Group will therefore 
have a new audit partner from PricewaterhouseCoopers. The 
Audit Committee Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer 
have worked with PricewaterhouseCoopers in order to ensure 
an effective transition. 
The Audit Committee’s terms of reference, which were 
amended in the prior year to reflect both the revised 
Corporate Governance Code and the establishment of the 
Board Risk Committee, are summarised below and can be 
found in full on the corporate website iggroup.com.
AUDIT 
COMMITTEE
Jim Newman, Chairman of 
the Audit Committee, gives 
his review of the committee’s 
activities during the 
financial year.
| 94 ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
In summary, the Audit Committee’s terms of reference are to:
• Monitor the integrity of the Group’s financial statements, 
including Annual and Interim Reports, preliminary results 
announcements and any other formal announcements 
relating to its financial performance, reviewing significant 
reporting issues and judgements which they contain
• Provide advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the company’s performance 
• Review the continuing appropriateness of the Group’s 
accounting policies
• Review the clarity of disclosures, ensuring the Group has 
made appropriate estimates and judgements in preparing 
all material information presented in the Annual Report
• Review an annual report from the Board Risk 
Committee on the Company’s internal controls and Risk 
Management Framework
• Ensure there are suitable whistle-blowing arrangements for 
employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible 
wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters
• Review an assessment of the control environment, via 
internal audit reports, and progress on implementing both 
internal and external audit recommendations
• Monitor and review the internal audit function’s 
effectiveness in the overall context of the Group’s internal 
controls and risk-management systems
• Consider and approve the internal audit function’s remit, 
ensure it has adequate resources and appropriate access to 
information, and that it has adequate standing and is free 
from management or other restrictions
• Review and assess the internal audit plan
• Consider and make recommendations to the Board on 
appointing, reappointing and removing the Company’s 
external auditors, which are subject to shareholder approval 
• Oversee the relationship with the external auditors, 
including approving the audit fee, non-audit fees and 
non-audit services policy, as well as assessing annually the 
external auditors’ independence and objectivity and the 
effectiveness of the audit process
• Review the annual audit plan and the findings of the 
external auditors, including a discussion on major areas 
of audit focus, accounting and audit judgements and any 
errors identified during the audit
• After each committee meeting, make a formal report to 
the Board in which the Chairman of the Audit Committee 
describes the proceedings 
The Company Secretary drafts the agenda for each 
committee meeting, ensuring that each item in the terms of 
reference is covered at least once in the financial year, and 
more frequently if required.
SCHEDULED 
MEETINGS 
ELIGIBLE TO 
ATTEND
SCHEDULED 
MEETINGS 
ATTENDED
Chairman of the Audit Committee
Martin Jackson* 1 1
Jim Newman 4 4
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Roger Yates** 4 3
Sam Tymms 4 4
Andy Green*** 4 4
* Martin Jackson stepped down as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 
16 October 2014
** Roger Yates was unable to attend a rescheduled meeting
*** Andy Green attended by invitation
AUDIT COMMITTEE – MEMBERSHIP 
AND ATTENDANCE 
All Audit Committee members are independent Non-
Executive Directors who can draw on considerable, recent 
financial services experience.
The Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Head of 
Finance, Head of Internal Audit, Company Secretary and the 
external auditors attend the Audit Committee by invitation 
appropriate to the matters under consideration. Other 
Directors and representatives from the finance function and 
other areas of the business attend the Audit Committee 
as necessary.
The committee normally meets four times a year and as 
and when required. Separately, members of the committee 
also meet privately with the Head of Internal Audit and the 
external auditors to focus on respective areas of responsibility 
and to discuss any potential requirements for support from 
the committee to address any issues arising.
MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE 
FINANCIAL YEAR
Following the establishment of the Board Risk Committee 
during the prior year, responsibility for compliance, conduct 
risk, client money and fraud was passed to the Board 
Risk Committee. 
In addition to discharging its responsibilities as described 
above, the committee focused on a number of key areas. The 
following summary of activities includes all areas covered by 
the Audit Committee during the financial year.
95 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | FINANCIAL REPORTING
In relation to financial reporting, the primary role of the 
committee is to work with management and the external 
auditors in reviewing the appropriateness of the half-year and 
annual financial statements. The committee discharged its 
responsibilities in this area through concentrating on, among 
other matters:
• Assessing the quality and acceptability of accounting 
policies and practices
• Ensuring disclosures are clear and compliant with financial 
reporting standards and relevant financial and governance 
reporting requirements
• Considering material areas in which significant judgements 
have been applied or there has been discussion with the 
external auditors 
• Reviewing all formal financial announcements and financial 
statements prior to issuance 
• Evaluating whether the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable 
and provide the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy
To aid this review, the committee has considered reports from 
the Chief Financial Officer and his team. It has also received 
reports from the external auditors on the outcomes of their 
half-year review and annual audit. 
The committee considered and addressed the following 
disclosure or primary areas of judgement in relation to the 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 May 2015:
Swiss franc related losses
The committee has received a paper from management 
setting out the rationale for the disclosures made in the 
Annual Report and financial statements associated with 
the losses incurred as a direct impact of the Swiss National 
Bank actions on the 15 January 2015. The ultimate impact 
on the Group’s profit before taxation is dependent on the 
Group’s ability to recover the remaining outstanding debt, 
the recovery of which is significantly dependent on a small 
number of individually large debtors. Management’s paper 
included an analysis of the gross debt, the recoveries made as 
at 31 May 2015 and the provision for bad and doubtful debts 
recorded in the financial statements. The Group’s auditor also 
provided commentary on this matter to the committee.
IFRIC 21 
As disclosed in note 41 to the Financial Statements IFRIC 21 
is mandatory for the Group’s 31 May 2015 year-end. IFRIC 
21 gives guidance as the obligating event that gives rise 
to the liability to pay a levy, in the case of the Group this 
is applicable to the United Kingdom’s Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme levy (FSCS levy) at 1 April each year. 
This interpretation is retrospective and accordingly requires 
restatement of the comparative information. 
The committee has received a paper from management 
setting out the technical accounting analysis, the impact of 
the guidance on the Group’s recognition of the FSCS levy and 
the consequential restatement of the prior year information. 
The Group’s auditor also provided commentary on this matter 
to the committee.
Goodwill
In accordance with accounting standards the Group is 
required to review any goodwill balances for impairment and 
consider the underlying assumptions involved in calculating 
the value-in-use of separate parts of the business known as 
cash-generating units (CGUs). The committee observed that 
a significant proportion of the Group’s goodwill relates to 
the UK, Australian and South African CGUs, for which both 
the single-year profit for the year ended 31 May 2015 and 
that included in the Board-approved budget for the year 
ending 31 May 2016 are greater than the carrying value of the 
associated goodwill. Accordingly, the goodwill impairment 
reviews of these CGUs are not considered to contain material 
or significant judgements.
Therefore the key judgement in terms of goodwill 
impairment reviews relates to the underlying assumptions 
used in calculating the US CGU’s value-in-use. The US CGU 
comprises both the Nadex exchange and the associated 
market-making business (the ‘Nadex business’) as well as 
the wider commercial use of the exchange technology 
within the Group. The Nadex business remains in the early 
stages of development and while significant progress 
has been made during the year, it has continued to be 
loss-making. Accordingly, the Audit Committee received a 
paper from management setting out the financial forecasts 
for both the Nadex exchange business and the platform 
savings associated with the wider use of the exchange 
technology within the Group. This paper set out the key 
assumptions used in the impairment review and an associated 
sensitivity analysis.
The committee also considered the development of the 
Nadex business through the year ended 31 May 2015. This 
included advances in the platform and product offering, 
increased levels of client acquisition and volumes traded, 
the additional liquidity resulting from the new market-
maker to the exchange and the continued commitment by 
management to ensure the US business has the investment 
it needs to reach profitability. The committee also reviewed 
detailed financial forecasts and assumptions. In addition, 
the Group’s auditor provided commentary on the matter to 
the committee.
AUDIT  
COMMITTEE
(CONTINUED)
| 96 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Useful economic life of intangible fixed assets
The Group is required to make judgements regarding the 
useful economic life and carrying value of all its acquired 
and internally developed software and licences and domain 
names. During the year, the Group continued to invest in the 
technology platform, domain names and industry-specific 
generic top-level domains and to consolidate the online 
presence around the IG.com website. As at 31 May 2015, the 
Group had £6.1 million of domain assets in the Group balance 
sheet that are amortised over a ten-year useful economic 
life. As there is a risk of obsolescence for such assets, the 
committee reviewed a report from management detailing the 
financially significant intangible assets, the rationale for their 
useful economic life, their continued use within the business 
and their remaining carrying value.
Corporation tax
Calculating the Group’s current corporation tax charge 
involves a degree of estimation and judgement, as the tax 
treatment of certain items cannot be finally determined until 
resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority. 
The Group holds tax provisions in respect of the potential tax 
liability that may arise on these unresolved items. However, 
the amount ultimately payable may be materially lower than 
the amount accrued, and could therefore improve the Group’s 
overall profitability and cash flows in future periods. The 
committee reviewed a report from management that detailed 
the assumptions made in calculating the Group’s current 
corporation tax charge and provisions. The Group’s auditor 
also provided commentary on this matter to the committee.
EXTERNAL AUDIT
The committee is responsible for making recommendations 
on the appointment, reappointment and removal of external 
auditors, and for assessing and agreeing the fees payable  
to the Company’s auditor (both audit and non-audit fees).  
The committee is also responsible for reviewing the audit 
plans and reports from the external auditors. The main 
activities undertaken in relation to the external audit are 
summarised below.
Audit tendering and rotation
The Company’s external audit was last re-tendered 
in 2010, resulting in a change of external auditors to 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the financial year ended 31 
May 2011. In line with the requirement to rotate the senior 
statutory auditor, the Company’s current audit partner will 
rotate after the audit of the year ended 31 May 2015 is 
complete. Having recently conducted a full audit-firm tender 
exercise, provided it remains satisfied with the external 
audit process, the committee anticipates that the next 
formal re-tender process will be for the audit of the year 
ending 31 May 2021. This is in line with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and will comply with the transitional 
requirements of both the EU and the Competition and 
Markets Authority, subject to the final UK implementation of 
the EU requirements. 
Oversight of the external audit
The effectiveness of the external audit process depends 
upon appropriately identifying risks at the start of the audit 
cycle, and consequently the committee receives a detailed 
audit plan from the auditor, on an annual basis, identifying 
its assessment of the key audit risks. International audit 
standards require that the risk of override of internal controls 
is assumed to be a significant audit risk. In the auditors’ 
assessment, the primary audit risk identified to the Financial 
Statements concerned management override of internal 
controls, including both information technology as well as 
manual controls. The work performed in this area by the audit 
firm is detailed in its audit opinion. 
The risk associated with information technology relates to 
super-user access to certain legacy areas of the Group’s 
trading system. The committee reviewed reports from 
management and internal audit on the design, operation and 
ongoing monitoring of a number of key controls designed 
to mitigate the risks associated with the super-user access. 
Additionally, the committee assessed whether the audit 
process addressed these matters effectively through the 
reporting received from the auditor during the audit cycle. 
Management considers the risk in this area to have been 
appropriately managed. The committee concurs with this 
view. The committee has also considered the auditors’ report 
on the potential override of internal controls, including the 
results of additional substantive audit procedures and manual 
journal testing undertaken. 
The auditors’ also assessed counterparty credit risk to be 
an elevated audit risk, both in terms of financial institution 
credit risk and also client credit risk. This later element being 
particularly highlighted by the Swiss franc related debtors 
realised during the year. 
With regards to financial institution credit risk the committee 
has reviewed a paper from management and additionally the 
risk disclosures within note 36 to the Financial Statements that 
set out the control framework and policies and procedures 
for the management of credit and associated concentration 
risk by the Group. As a key business risk to the Group the 
committee considers an appropriate control framework with 
regards to financial institution credit risk, overseen by the 
Board Risk Committee has been established. Additionally, the 
committee assessed whether the audit process addressed 
these matters effectively through the reporting received from 
the auditor during the audit cycle. Both management and the 
audit firm consider the financial statement risk in this area to 
have been appropriately managed. The committee concurs 
with this view.
With regards to client credit risk, this principally arises where 
the client total funds deposited with the Group are insufficient 
to cover any trading losses incurred and can arise where there 
are significant and sudden movements in a market. From a 
financial reporting viewpoint, material client credit risk only 
arises post client losses being incurred, as is the case with the 
Swiss franc related losses. As stated earlier, the committee has 
97 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | received a paper from management setting out an analysis 
of the gross debt, the recoveries made as at 31 May 2015 
and the provision for bad and doubtful debts recorded in 
the financial statements. Both management and the audit 
firm consider the financial statement risk in this area to have 
been appropriately managed. The committee concurs with 
this view. 
The committee also holds private meetings with the external 
auditor through the year as an additional opportunity for 
open dialogue and feedback from both the committee and 
the auditor without management being present. 
Effectiveness of the external auditors
Having performed a review of the external auditors during 
the year, the committee is satisfied with their effectiveness. 
The committee noted that the Company’s current audit 
partner will rotate after the audit for the year ended 
31 May 2015 is complete, and that the replacement partner 
and handover process remain key to the external auditors’ 
continued effectiveness. 
Audit and audit-related fees
Details of the Group’s audit and audit-related fees for the year 
ended 31 May 2015 are disclosed in note 6 to the Financial 
Statements. Audit-related fees include the statutory audit of 
the Group and its subsidiaries, as well as audits required due 
to the regulated nature of our business. Also included therein 
are fees associated with the ISAE 3000 controls opinion 
relating to the Group’s processes and controls over client 
money segregation.
During the year, the committee reviewed and approved a 
recommendation from management on the Company’s audit 
and audit-related fees. 
Non-audit fees
To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the 
external auditors from becoming compromised, the 
committee has a formal policy governing the engagement 
of the external auditors to provide non-audit services. This 
year, the committee again reviewed the Group’s policy 
governing non-audit work, details of which are provided on 
the corporate website.
The policy makes an important distinction between ‘audit-
related services’ and all other ‘non-audit services’.
The underlying rationale for this is because a number of 
‘audit-related services’ are specifically required of the Group’s 
auditors, through regulatory, legislative or contractual 
obligations in addition to the statutory audit services. The 
policy also sets out the considerations and safeguards that 
are required in relation to non-audit services provided by the 
auditors, and the specific services the auditors are precluded 
from providing. Additionally, the policy sets out certain 
permitted services for which the committee has pre-approved 
management to engage the auditors. 
This approval is subject to the policies set out above, and 
to specified fee limits for individual engagements, as well as 
the reporting requirements for all non-audit services to the 
committee. There were no exceptions to this policy during 
the year.
Since appointing PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors, 
the Group has established and developed relationships 
with a number of independent advisory and assurance 
firms which provide alternatives to engaging the audit firm. 
During the year, PricewaterhouseCoopers has performed 
non-audit services in accordance with the non-audit policy. 
The committee has monitored PricewaterhouseCoopers to 
ensure that under no circumstances has work been performed 
which affects its independence. This was done by carefully 
assessing the nature of all non-audit work performed, 
reviewing a summary of all the non-audit fees paid during 
the year, evaluating the non-audit policy and ensuring that 
appropriate safeguards were in place for each non-audit 
engagement. The committee also requested and received an 
explanation from PricewaterhouseCoopers of its own in-house 
independence process. 
During the year, non-audit fees of £0.9 million were paid 
to PricewaterhouseCoopers as discussed in note 6 to 
the financial statements. These principally related to tax 
compliance and filing; corporate, structuring and sales-related 
tax advice; regulatory advice and strategic advice to the 
board. All contracts for non-audit services in excess of 
£0.1 million require committee approval. Below this level, 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee is notified of new 
instructions for the delivery of non-audit services. Firms 
other than the auditors have been engaged, following 
a competitive tender process for the provision of a wide 
range of non-audit services, including transfer pricing, tax 
advisory services related to new business offerings and 
changes to regulation, tax compliance services, risk and 
regulatory advice.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The internal audit function provided the committee with 
a summary report including internal audit reports and 
recommendations in line with the internal audit plan for 
the financial year. In addition, in the light of potential 
improvements highlighted by the EQA, the function 
provided additional updates on specific areas throughout 
the year. The main areas of focus have been regulatory and 
operational in nature. The committee monitored progress 
on the implementation of the audit recommendations raised 
by the internal audit function, and the effectiveness of the 
coordination between internal and external audit.
AUDIT  
COMMITTEE
(CONTINUED)
| 98 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 The committee reviewed the three-year rolling risk-based 
internal audit plan including improvements as a result of the 
EQA and considered the resources and skills allocated to 
the internal audit function in order to execute the plan. The 
plan consists of various different types of audit which require 
different skills in order to provide adequate coverage across 
the Group.
In the current year, internal audit resource was further 
supplemented with functional specialism from external 
advisory firms, and a Regulatory Internal Audit Manager 
was recruited to provide more focus on regulatory risk. 
This in-house specialism is in addition to the IT Internal 
Audit Manager who focuses on internal audits of the IT 
department and provides assurance over technology risks. 
For the forthcoming year, the committee has again authorised 
investment both in internal audit resource and in external 
expertise. This will enable the delivery of the planned audits 
with support from external specialists. The Audit Committee 
considers this investment will ensure that resources remain 
sufficient to provide adequate coverage of the Group’s risks, 
while retaining flexibility to address new risks as they arise 
over the three-year plan period.
All of the improvements from the External Quality Assessment 
performed by an independent external firm have now been 
introduced into the internal audit function to the satisfaction 
of the Audit Committee.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CONTROLS
The Group’s operations are heavily dependent on information 
technology (IT), and accordingly the committee has reviewed 
internal audit reports on IT controls and assessments of 
external penetration tests and cyber risk. All of these have 
been supported or performed by external specialists. 
AUDIT COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS
During the year, the committee undertook a questionnaire-
based review of its own effectiveness. The evaluation 
process was externally facilitated by Lintstock Limited as 
part of the overall annual Board effectiveness review. The 
review concluded that the committee was effective and its 
performance was highly rated. For the committee to continue 
to perform effectively, there was the need to ensure that the 
balance of competencies on the committee is maintained 
when members depart. In addition, the committee should 
continue its enhancement of the quality of the internal audit 
programme and its liaison with the Board Risk Committee. 
Jim Newman 
Chairman, Audit Committee 
21 July 2015
AUDIT COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME
The following chart highlights how the committee spent its 
time during the year ended 31 May 2015.
 Statutory Reporting 
 Internal Audit Matters
 Risks and Controls
 External Audit Matters
 Other
99 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 |    |  100
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
The Board Risk Committee was formed in 2014 and, in its first 
full year of operation, has proven to be a useful resource in 
providing the Board with further opportunity to review and 
challenge the Group’s risk management framework in relation 
to current and potential risk exposures. During the year, 
as well as the continual review of the main risk documents, 
including the Risk Appetite Statement, the ICAAP and the 
ILAA, the committee considered the impacts of the Swiss 
franc event and the resultant changes to our approach to 
managing the risks associated with such an event.
ROLE OF THE BOARD RISK COMMITTEE 
The committee’s key responsibilities are to:
• Consider and recommend for approval by the Board, the 
Risk Appetite Statement (RAS) and Key Risk Indicators (KRIs) 
for the current and future strategy
• Monitor, review and challenge the Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and Internal 
Liquidity Adequacy Assessment (ILAA). This includes stress-
testing, the liquidity and regulatory capital positions of the 
Group, the size of the liquidity and capital buffers, and the 
appropriateness of management mitigation actions 
• Ensure rigorous stress-testing and scenario-testing of the 
Group’s business and receive reports that explain the impact 
of identified risks and threats
• Ensure risk mitigation consistent with our risk appetite is 
in place
• Review the Group’s major risk exposures
• Consider the adequacy and effectiveness of the technology 
infrastructure and supporting documentation in the Risk 
Management Framework
• Provide input to the Remuneration Committee on the 
risk implications of the remuneration policy
• Review the scope and nature of the work undertaken by the 
control functions in connection with business model and 
industry risks, and specifically regulatory, compliance, client 
money, anti-money-laundering and conduct risks
• Review and approve the statements to be included in the 
Annual Report concerning controls and risk management
• Review and monitor risk-related control recommendations 
to ensure they are being actioned appropriately
The full Terms of Reference for the committee can be found 
on the Company’s website, iggroup.com
BOARD RISK COMMITTEE
Stephen Hill, Chairman of the 
Board Risk Committee, gives 
his review of the committee’s 
activities during the financial year.
| 100 BOARD RISK COMMITTEE – MEMBERSHIP 
AND ATTENDANCE
The Board Risk Committee is composed of independent 
Non-Executive Directors and the table on the next page 
shows the committee members during the year and their 
attendance at committee meetings.
The committee is scheduled to meet four times a year 
and additionally as and when required. The committee’s 
recommendations are referred to the Board and matters 
discussed by the committee are reported to the Board at 
Board meetings.
The Chairman of the Company, the Chief Financial Officer, 
Chief Operating Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Global Head of 
Legal and Compliance, Head of Internal Audit and Deputy 
Company Secretary all attend the Board Risk Committee by 
invitation. Other Directors, representatives from the finance 
function and other areas of the business attend the Board Risk 
Committee appropriate to the matter under consideration. 
ACTIVITY DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 
The committee met three times during the year. To ensure 
the committee discharges its responsibilities appropriately, 
an annual work plan is set around the committee’s Terms 
of Reference and was approved by the committee at 
the start of the year. The Company Secretary assists the 
Chairman of the committee in drafting the agenda for each 
committee meeting.
During the year, the committee reviewed updates to 
the ICAAP and the ILAA, approved the scenarios and 
assumptions for internal stress testing and recommended the 
documents to the Board for approval.
The Swiss franc strengthened dramatically following the 
removal of the peg by the Swiss National Bank in January 
and, as a result, IG incurred a market loss of £11.8 million and 
booked a provision for bad debts of £15.1 million. The Risk 
Committee reviewed how the business had responded to this 
event and, in particular, considered how the dealing, market 
and credit risk management systems and frameworks had 
functioned in response to such a stress.
The committee was clear that the outcome was within IG’s 
overall risk appetite, albeit at the higher end, but challenged 
management in its modelling of stress scenarios. A number of 
changes were made to margins on indices and currencies as 
a result. 
The committee also provided input to the Remuneration 
Committee on the risks associated with the Group’s 
remuneration policy, paying particular attention to the design 
and monitoring of sales-incentive schemes.
The committee received the annual report from the Client 
Money Committee, and also reviewed the risks and processes 
around client money in relation to potential new business 
and product developments. The internal audit function also 
provided updates on the risks highlighted in its reports. 
The committee received an environmental risk report focusing 
on risks which are outside the Company’s control but could 
have a negative impact on the business. 
Such risks include political risks such as the impact of the 
exit of the UK from the EU, and other associated regulatory 
risks. In addition, the committee reviewed reports from 
the Compliance function on the department’s activities 
around compliance monitoring, conduct risk, money 
laundering. The committee also received briefings on current 
regulatory themes.
SCHEDULED 
MEETINGS 
ELIGIBLE TO 
ATTEND
SCHEDULED 
MEETINGS 
ATTENDED
Chairman of the Board Risk Committee
Stephen Hill 3 3
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Roger Yates 3 3
Sam Tymms 3 3
Jim Newman 3 3
Andy Green
*
3 3
* Andy Green attended by invitation
BOARD RISK COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME
 Reporting, risks 
and controls
 Governance
 ICAAP and ILAA
 Compliance and 
Conduct Risk
 Operational Risk
 Remuneration
 Risk appetite
 Client Money
 Others
During the year, a review of the committee’s effectiveness and 
performance was performed without significant issues.
Stephen Hill 
Chairman, Board Risk Committee 
21 July 2015
101 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | The Directors’ Report comprises pages 102 to 104 of this 
report, together with the sections of the Annual Report 
incorporated by reference. 
The Companies Act 2006 (‘the Act‘) requires the Directors to 
present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report and Accounts. 
This information can be found on pages 10 to 53. 
The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414 C(11) 
of the Act and as noted in this Directors’ Report, to include 
certain matters in its Strategic Report that it would otherwise 
be necessary to disclose in the Directors’ Report. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
In compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 
(DTR) 7.2.1, the disclosures required by DTR 7.2.2 to 7.2.7 
are set out in this Directors’ Report and in the Corporate 
Governance Report on pages 54 to 109 which, together with 
the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, is incorporated by 
reference into this Directors’ Report.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
A statement of the Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the 
Financial Statements is set out immediately prior to that section 
of the Annual Report, on page 105, and a statement regarding 
the use of the going-concern basis in preparing these Financial 
Statements is provided later in this report.
The Independent Auditors’ Report, which sets out the auditors’ 
reporting responsibilities, can be found on pages 106 to 109.
PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS
The Group’s statutory profit for the year after taxation 
amounted to £131,933,000 (2014: £147,156,000), all of which 
is attributable to the equity members of the Company 
(2014: £147,156,000).
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 
19.70 pence per share, amounting to £71,843,000, making a 
total of 28.15 pence per share and £102,660,000 for the year. 
Dividends are recognised in the Financial Statements for the 
year in which they are paid or, in the case of a final dividend, 
when approved by the shareholders. The amount recognised in 
the Financial Statements, as described in note 12, includes this 
financial year’s interim dividend and the final dividend from the 
previous year, both of which were paid.
The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 
30 October 2015 to those shareholders on the register at 
02 October 2015.
OPERATIONS OUTSIDE THE UNITED KINGDOM
In line with our strategic objectives, the Group has branches 
in Australia, South Africa, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, 
the Netherlands, Norway, Ireland, Spain and Sweden. It has 
operating subsidiaries in the US, Singapore, Japan, Australia, 
India, Switzerland, Dubai and Belarus.
REVIEW OF BUSINESS AND LIKELY 
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS
We provide a review of the Group’s progress, outlining 
developments during the year and giving an indication of likely 
future developments, in the Strategic Report on pages 10 to 
53. The Strategic Report also covers an analysis of the financial 
position of the Group at the year-end, and information about 
our Key Performance Indicators.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
The Company’s articles of association (‘the Articles’) are 
available from the Group’s website, iggroup.com, or by writing 
to the Company Secretary at the Group’s registered office. 
The Articles can also be obtained from the UK Registrar of 
Companies. Amendments to the Articles can only be made 
by means of a special resolution at a general meeting of the 
Company’s shareholders.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS
Details of the Directors who held office at the end of the 
year are set out on pages 56 to 57 and are incorporated into 
this report by reference. We provide information about the 
Directors’ service contracts, and their interests in the share 
capital of the Company, in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
on pages 70 to 93.
During the year, Jonathan Davie and Martin Jackson stepped 
down as Chairman and Non-Executive Director respectively on 
16 October 2014. On this date, Andy Green, who joined the 
Board as Deputy Chairman on 9 June 2014, became Chairman 
of the Group. Roger Yates and Tim Howkins will retire from the 
Board at the Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 
15 October 2015.
APPOINTMENT AND RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS
The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by 
the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’), 
the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation. The Board has 
the power to appoint any person as a Director to fill a casual 
vacancy or as an additional Director, provided the total number 
of Directors does not exceed the maximum prescribed in the 
Articles. Any such Director holds office only until the next AGM, 
and is then eligible to offer himself or herself for election.
The Articles also require that all those Directors who have been 
in office at the time of the two previous AGMs, and who did 
DIRECTORS’  
REPORT
The Directors are pleased to 
submit their report, together with 
the Group Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31 May 2015.
| 102 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 not retire at either of them, must retire as Directors by rotation. 
Such Directors are eligible to stand for re-election. However, in 
line with the Code’s recommendation that all directors of FTSE 
350 companies should be subject to annual election, all our 
Directors will stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM with the 
exception of Roger Yates and Tim Howkins, who are retiring 
from the Board.
DIRECTORS’ CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, all Directors must 
disclose both the nature and extent of any potential or actual 
conflicts with the interests of the Company. We explain the 
procedure for this in the Board section, on page 61.
INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES
The Group has Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance 
in place, providing appropriate cover for any legal action 
brought against its Directors. Qualifying third-party indemnity 
provisions (as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 
2006) were in force during the year ended 31 May 2015. At the 
date of approval of the financial statements these provisions 
remain in force for the benefit of the Directors, in relation to 
certain losses and liabilities which they may incur (or have 
incurred) to third parties in the course of acting as Directors of 
the Company.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
In the ordinary course of business, the Company regularly 
develops new products and services. 
GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS
Information on the required disclosure of the Group’s GHG 
emissions for the year ended 31 May 2015 is set out in the 
Strategic Report on page 37.
POLITICAL DONATIONS
The Company made no political donations to political 
organisations or independent election candidates and incurred 
no political expenditure in the year (2014: £nil). 
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT
The Company is fully committed to involving employees in all 
aspects of the business. Detailed information on employee 
engagement can be found on page 35 of the Strategic Report.
EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES
We give full and fair consideration to applications for 
employment from people with disabilities. Information on the 
Company’s policy on employing people with disabilities can be 
found on page 33 of the Strategic Report.
SHARE CAPITAL
The Company has three classes of shares: ordinary shares, 
B shares and preference shares. As at 31 May 2015, the 
Company’s issued shares comprised 366,157,776 ordinary 
shares of 0.005p each, 65,000 B shares of 0.001p and 40,000 
preference shares of £1.00 each. Details of movement in the 
Company’s share capital and rights attached to the issued 
shares are given in notes 26 and 27 to the Financial Statements. 
Information about the rights attached to the Company’s 
shares can also be found in the Articles. Details of the Group’s 
required regulatory capital are disclosed in note 37 to the 
Financial Statements.
VARIATION OF RIGHTS
Subject to the provisions of applicable statutes, the rights 
attached to any class of shares may be varied either with the 
consent in writing of the holders of at least three-quarters in 
nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with the 
sanction of a Special Resolution passed at a separate meeting 
of the holders of the shares of that class.
RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SECURITIES
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities 
in the Company, other than as contained in the Articles 
and certain laws or regulations, such as those related to 
insider trading, which may be imposed from time to time. 
The Directors and certain employees of the Company are 
required to obtain the Company’s approval prior to dealing in 
the Company’s securities. The Company is not aware of any 
agreements between holders of securities that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
EXERCISE OF RIGHTS OF SHARES IN EMPLOYEE 
SHARE SCHEMES
The trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust do not seek to 
exercise voting rights on shares held in the employee trusts, 
other than on the direction of the underlying beneficiaries. No 
voting rights are exercised in relation to shares unallocated to 
individual beneficiaries.
POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS TO ISSUE OR 
PURCHASE THE COMPANY’S SHARES
The Articles permit the Directors to issue or repurchase the 
Company’s own shares, subject to obtaining shareholders’ 
prior approval. The shareholders gave this approval at the 
2014 AGM. The authority to issue or buy back shares will 
expire at the 2015 AGM, and it will be proposed at the 
meeting that the Directors be granted new authorities 
to issue or buy back shares. The Directors currently have 
authority to purchase up to 36,606,154 of the Company’s 
ordinary shares. However, the Company did not repurchase 
any of its ordinary shares during the year. 
During the year, the Company instructed the trustee of the 
Employee Benefit Trust to purchase shares in order to satisfy 
awards under the Group’s share-incentive plan schemes. 
The Company also issued shares in respect of long-term 
incentive plan and value-sharing plan schemes. Details of the 
shares held by the Group’s Employee Benefit Trusts and the 
amounts paid during the year are disclosed in note 28 to the 
Financial Statements.
MAJOR INTEREST IN SHARES
Information provided to the Company by major shareholders 
pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)’s Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules (DTRs) is published via a Regulatory 
Information Service and is available on the Company’s 
website. The following information has been received, in 
accordance with DTR5, from holders of notifiable interests 
103 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | in the Company’s issued share capital. It should be noted 
that some of these holdings may have changed since the 
Company received the notification. Holders are not required 
to notify the Company of any change until the next applicable 
threshold is reached or crossed.
31 May 2015
No. of shares Percentage 
Massachusetts Financial Services 
Company
36,584,986 10.00%
Artemis Investment Management LLP 18,806,983 5.15%
Black Rock Inc. 18,313,343 5.01%
Cantillon Capital Management LLC 18,258,919 4.99%
Prudential PLC Group of Companies 11,066,471 3.00%
The company was informed of the following movement of notifiable 
interest between 31 May 2015 and 20 July 2015.
 20 July 2015
No. of shares Percentage 
Allianz Global Investors GmbH 18,303,673 4.99%
CHANGE OF CONTROL
Following any future change of control of the Company, the 
Group’s banking facilities, which are currently undrawn (refer 
to note 18 of the Financial Statements), will be cancelled, and 
any obligations will become immediately due and payable.
There are no agreements between the Company and its 
Directors or employees providing for compensation on 
any loss of office or employment that occurs because of 
a takeover bid. However, options and awards granted to 
employees under the Company’s share schemes and plans 
may vest on a takeover, under the schemes’ provisions.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
The Group is exposed to a number of business risks in 
providing products and services to its clients. The Board is 
responsible for establishing the overall appetite for these 
risks, which is detailed and approved in the Risk Appetite 
Statement. Our Risk Management Framework is supported 
by a system of internal controls designed to embed the 
management of business risk throughout the Group. We 
outline the risks to which the Group is exposed and our 
Risk Management Framework, including a description of its 
system of internal controls, in the Managing Our Business Risk 
section of the Strategic Report.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Details of our use of financial instruments and financial 
risk management are set out in note 35 and 36 to the 
Financial Statements.
RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Details of related-party transactions are set out in note 34 to 
the Financial Statements.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Company’s AGM will be held on 15 October 2015. We set 
out details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM in a 
separate circular sent to all shareholders.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
Resolutions to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as 
the Company’s auditors and to authorise the Directors to 
determine their remuneration will be put to shareholders at 
the AGM on 15 October 2015.
GOING CONCERN
The Directors have prepared the Financial Statements 
on a going-concern basis, which requires them to have 
a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future.
The Directors have reviewed the Group’s processes for 
controlling the financial risks to which it is exposed, its 
available liquidity, its regulatory capital position and the 
annual budget. As a result of this review, the Directors are 
satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason, they continue to adopt the going-concern basis in 
preparing the Financial Statements.
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF 
INFORMATION TO AUDITORS
So far as each person who was a Director at the date of 
approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information, being information needed by the auditors in 
connection with preparing their report, of which the auditors 
are unaware. Each Director has taken all the steps that he or 
she is obliged to take as a Director in order to make himself 
or herself aware of any relevant audit information, and to 
establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that 
information. This confirmation is given pursuant to section 
418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted in 
accordance with and subject to these provisions.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
As a result of a review of our contingent liquidity requirements 
and upon approval from the Executive Risk Committee, we 
have renegotiated and reduced our liquidity facility from 
£200.0 million to £160.0 million. Further details are set out in 
Note 19(e) to the Financial Statements.
DIRECTORS’ 
REPORT
(CONTINUED)
| 104 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to prepare 
Financial Statements for each financial year. Under this law, 
the Directors have prepared the Group and parent company 
Financial Statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union. In preparing these Financial Statements, the 
Directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs issued by 
the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). 
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the 
Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the 
Company, and of the Group’s profit or loss for that financial 
year. In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors 
are required to:
• Select suitable accounting policies and apply 
them consistently
• Make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent
• State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and IFRSs issued by the IASB have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the Financial Statements
• Prepare the Financial Statements on a going-concern basis, 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company 
keeps adequate accounting records. These records must be 
sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose the financial position of the Company and the Group 
with reasonable accuracy at any time. They must also enable 
the Directors to ensure that the Financial Statements and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies 
Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
The Directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and the Group, and for taking reasonable steps 
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Group’s website is also 
the Directors’ responsibility. 
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
It is the Directors’ opinion that the Annual Report and 
Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable and provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in 
the Corporate Governance Report, confirms that, to the best 
of their knowledge:
• The Financial Statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole
• The Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report included 
within this Annual Report provide a fair review of the 
business’s development and performance, the Company’s 
position and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces
On behalf of the Board:
Christopher Hill 
Chief Financial Officer 
21 July 2015
STATEMENT OF 
DIRECTORS’ 
RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are responsible for 
preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and the Financial Statements in 
accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
105 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | INDEPENDENT 
AUDITORS’ REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF 
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC
REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our opinion
In our opinion:
• IG Group Holdings plc’s Group Financial Statements 
and the Company Financial Statements (the ‘Financial 
Statements’) give a true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as at 31 May 2015 and 
of the Group’s profit and the Group’s and the Company’s 
cash flows for the year then ended;
• The Group Financial Statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the 
European Union;
• The Company Financial Statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
• The Financial Statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited
IG Group Holdings plc’s Financial Statements comprise:
• The Group and Company Statements of Financial Position 
as at 31 May 2015;
• The Group income Statement and the Group statement of 
comprehensive income for the year then ended;
• The Group and Company Cash Flow Statements for the 
year then ended;
• The Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity 
for the year then ended; and
• The notes to the Financial Statements, which include 
a summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
the preparation of the Financial Statements is applicable law 
and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards 
the Company Financial Statements, as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit approach
Overview
We present below an overview of our audit approach, the 
details of which are considered within our audit report:
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of
focus
• Overall Group materiality: 
£8.5 million which represents 
5% of profit before tax.
• The majority of the audit work 
was performed by the Group 
audit team in London. 
• Specific procedures were 
carried out by overseas teams 
where necessary.
• Risk of management 
override of internal controls, 
incorporating Information 
Technology.
• Counterparty credit risk.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
We conducted our audit in accordance with International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and 
assessing the risks of material misstatement in the Financial 
Statements. In particular, we looked at where the directors 
made subjective judgements, for example in respect of 
significant accounting estimates that involved making 
assumptions and considering future events that are inherently 
uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the 
risk of management override of internal controls, including 
evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the 
directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due 
to fraud. 
| 106 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Risk of management override of internal controls, incorporating 
Information Technology 
International Standards on Auditing (UK & Ireland) (ISAs (UK 
& Ireland)) require that we consider this as a significant risk as 
management is in a unique position to perpetrate fraud because of 
their ability to manipulate accounting records and prepare fraudulent 
Financial Statements by overriding controls that otherwise appear to 
be operating effectively.
Although management is responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the business, we planned our audit so that we had a reasonable 
expectation of detecting material misstatements to the Financial 
Statements and accounting records.
Specifically in relation to Information Technology, the risk relates to 
super user access to the Universe, the main client ledger system, by 
certain individuals in order to perform their role. Those individuals 
have an opportunity to commit and conceal fraud.
We tested the fraud risk assessment performed by management and 
the prevention and detection controls in place in the Group with no 
exceptions noted from our testing. We tested the appropriateness 
and authorisation of journal entries that we identified as unusual and 
no issues arose from this work.
We examined significant one-off transactions and considered 
their accounting treatment with no significant exceptions arising. 
We also incorporated an element of unpredictability into our 
testing approach.
We understood and tested key controls in place over financial 
information. Specifically, in relation to information technology, we 
performed testing over the IT general controls in Universe, including 
access rights. Additionally we tested the controls mitigating the risks 
relating to super-user access including controls that would identify 
unexpected changes to data which could impact the Financial 
Statements and reconciliations of Universe reports to external third 
party sources including broker and bank reconciliations. We noted 
no significant issues arising.
Counterparty credit risk
The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk when placing cash 
with banks and brokers and individual client counterparty credit risk.
The removal of the link of the Swiss franc to the euro in January 
resulted in significant provision for bad debts relating to individual 
clients for the Group at the year end.
We inspected the Group’s credit policy and tested the effectiveness 
of the ongoing monitoring which includes ensuring balances held 
with counterparties are within the levels approved by the Executive 
Risk Committee and checking for changes in the short term and long 
term credit worthiness of institutional counterparties. No significant 
were identified through this work. 
We tested on a sample basis the credit worthiness of institutional 
counterparties to external rating agency reports. No exceptions were 
noted from this work.
We performed controls and substantive testing over cash and 
broker reconciliations. We noted no significant issues arising.
We read and understood the bad debt provisioning policies and 
checked that these were consistent with prior year. Where this 
was not the case, we understood the rationale for any change and 
considered whether new methodologies are appropriate.
We reperformed the calculation of the provision to calculate the 
expected recovery and value within the Financial Statements, and no 
issues were noted in the testing.
We understood the basis and assumptions used by management 
for the provisioning of the Swiss franc exposures. We considered 
the adequacy of this provision and noted no significant issues from 
our testing. 
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we 
performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on 
the Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the 
geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes 
and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates. 
The Group consists of a UK holding Company with a number 
of subsidiary entities and branches containing the operating 
businesses of both the UK and overseas territories. The 
accounting records for both the UK and overseas businesses 
are primarily maintained in the UK. As a result, the majority 
of the audit work was performed by the Group audit team 
in London, with certain, specific procedures carried out by 
overseas PwC engagement teams where necessary. This work 
was limited to payroll procedures in Australia and Singapore.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect 
on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and 
effort, are identified as ‘areas of focus’ in the table below. We 
have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these 
specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the Financial 
Statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the 
results of our procedures should be read in this context. This 
is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
107 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application 
of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for 
materiality. These, together with qualitative considerations, 
helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, 
timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the 
effect of misstatements, both individually and on the Financial 
Statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we determined 
materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £8.5 million (2014: £9.7 million).
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark 
applied
Consistent with last year, we applied 
this benchmark, a generally accepted 
audit practice, in the absence 
of indicators that an alternative 
benchmark would be appropriate.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report 
to them misstatements identified during our audit above 
£420,000 (2014: £450,000) as well as misstatements below 
that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for 
qualitative reasons.
Going concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the 
Directors’ Statement, set out on page 104, in relation to 
going concern. We have nothing to report having performed 
our review.
As noted in the Directors’ Statement, the directors have 
concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Financial 
Statements using the going concern basis of accounting. 
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and the 
Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, 
and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one 
year from the date the Financial Statements were signed. As 
part of our audit we have concluded that the directors’ use of 
the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can 
be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as 
to the Group’s and Company’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING
Consistency of other information
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report 
and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which 
the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the 
Financial Statements.
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
• Information in the Annual Report is:
− materially inconsistent with the information 
in the audited Financial Statements; or
− apparently materially incorrect based 
on, or materially inconsistent with, our 
knowledge of the Group and Company 
acquired in the course of performing our 
audit; or
− otherwise misleading.
We have no 
exceptions to 
report arising from 
this responsibility.
• the statement given by the directors on page 
105, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the 
Code’), that they consider the Annual Report 
taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information 
necessary for members to assess the Group’s 
and Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy is materially inconsistent with 
our knowledge of the Group and Company 
acquired in the course of performing 
our audit.
We have no 
exceptions to 
report arising from 
this responsibility.
• the section of the Annual Report on page 
96, as required by provision C.3.8 of the 
Code, describing the work of the Audit 
Committee does not appropriately address 
matters communicated by us to the Audit 
Committee.
We have no 
exceptions to 
report arising from 
this responsibility.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and 
explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 
you if, in our opinion:
• We have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit
• Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us
• The Company Financial Statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
| 108 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Directors’ remuneration
Directors’ remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 
opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not made. We have no 
exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part 
of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the ten provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report 
having performed our review. 
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT
Our responsibilities and those of the directors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 105, the directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the Financial Statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and 
ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with 
the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for 
and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance 
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for 
no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept 
or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it 
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent 
in writing.
What an audit of Financial Statements involves
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: 
• Whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the 
Group’s and the Company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
• The reasonableness of significant accounting estimates 
made by the directors
• The overall presentation of the Financial Statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the 
directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming 
our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the 
Financial Statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We 
obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of 
controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements and to 
identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect 
based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge 
acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If we 
become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Darren Ketteringham (Senior Statutory Auditor)  
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 
London 
21 July 2015
109 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
GROUP INCOME STATEMENT  FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2015
Year ended  
31 May 2015
Restated* 
Year ended  
31 May 2014 
Note £m £m
Trading revenue
(1)
422.1 407.9
Interest income on segregated client funds 3 4.9 5.8
Revenue 427.0 413.7
Interest expense on segregated client funds (0.4) (0.3)
Introducing partner commissions (33.7) (37.5)
Betting duty and financial transaction taxes
(1)
(6.3) (3.8)
Other operating income 3 0.6 2.1
Net operating income 4 387.2 374.2
Analysed as:
Net trading revenue
(1)
3 388.4 370.4
Other net operating income (1.2) 3.8
Administrative expenses
(1)
 5 (217.6) (178.8)
Operating profit 169.6 195.4
Finance income 8 1.8 1.5
Finance costs 9 (1.9) (2.0)
Profit before taxation 169.5 194.9
Taxation 10 (37.6) (47.7)
Profit for the year 131.9 147.2
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 131.9 147.2
131.9 147.2
Earnings per ordinary share Note 2015 Restated*
 Basic 11 36.13p 40.35p
 Diluted 11 35.99p 40.22p
The notes on pages 116 to 177 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
(1) 
The Group’s trading revenue and net trading revenue have been negatively impacted by £12.2 million and £11.8 million respectively, betting duty and financial 
transaction taxes by £0.4 million and administrative expenses by £11.5 million, following the Swiss National Bank’s announcement, on 15 January 2015, that it had 
ceased intervention in the exchange rate between the Swiss franc and euro. Please refer to note 2 for further details.
* As outlined in the Group Accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in 
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information. 
| 110 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2015
Year ended 31 May 2015
Restated* 
Year ended 31 May 2014
£m £m £m £m
Profit for the year 131.9 147.2
Other comprehensive income/(expense): 
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss:
Change in value of available-for-sale financial assets 0.3 0.1
Foreign currency translation income/(expense) on overseas subsidiaries 0.6 (6.5)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax 0.9 (6.4)
Total comprehensive income for the year 132.8 140.8
Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent 132.8 140.8
132.8 140.8
All items of other comprehensive income or expense may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss.
The items of comprehensive income noted above are stated net of related tax effects.
The notes on pages 116 to 177 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
*  As outlined in the Group Accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in  
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information. 
111 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION AT 31 MAY 2015
Group Company
31 May 
2015
 Restated*
31 May 
2014
 Restated*
1 June
2013
31 May 
2015 2014
Note £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 13 13.3 13.0 14.5 – –
Intangible assets 14 124.0 122.7 120.5 – 1.6
Investment in subsidiaries 15 – – –  479.8 471.6
Financial investments 21 75.5 32.2 – – –
Deferred tax assets 10 7.1 7.1 10.9 – –
 219.9 175.0 145.9 479.8 473.2
Current assets     
Trade receivables 17 269.6 327.5 300.6 – –
Prepayments and other receivables 12.2  12.2 10.3 202.8 135.7
Cash and cash equivalents 18 148.8 101.5 98.3 – –
Financial investments 21 32.9 50.3 50.5 – –
 463.5 491.5 459.7 202.8 135.7
TOTAL ASSETS 683.4 666.5 605.6 682.6 608.9
Liabilities     
Current liabilities     
Trade payables 22 17.7 21.9 19.0 – –
Other payables 23 61.2 58.4 59.1 126.5 7.7
Income tax payable 13.1 20.3 24.3 – –
 92.0 100.6 102.4 126.5 7.7
Non-current liabilities     
Redeemable preference shares 26 – – – – –
Total liabilities 92.0 100.6 102.4 126.5 7.7
Equity attributable to owners of the parent     
Share capital 27 – – – – –
Share premium 27 206.8 206.8 206.8 206.8 206.8
Other reserves 29 91.8 85.4 85.1 39.3 34.3
Retained earnings 292.8 273.7 211.3 310.0 360.1
Shareholders’ equity 591.4 565.9 503.2 556.1 601.2
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 683.4 666.5 605.6 682.6 608.9
* As outlined in the Group accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in 
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information.The opening balance sheet as at 1 June 2013 reflects the Group’s restated closing balance 
as at 31 May 2013.
The financial statements on pages 110 to 177 were approved by the Board of Directors on 21 July 2015  
and signed on its behalf by:
 
Tim Howkins Christopher Hill
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
Registered Company number: 04677092 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
| 112 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2015
Share 
capital 
(note 27)
Share 
premium 
account 
(note 27)
Other 
reserves 
(note 29)
Retained 
earnings
Share-
holders’ 
equity
Non- 
con-
trolling 
interests
Total 
equity
Group £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Restated* At 1 June 2013 – 206.8 85.1 211.3 503.2 – 503.2
Profit for the year – – – 147.2 147.2 – 147.2
Other comprehensive expense for the year – – (6.4) – (6.4) – (6.4)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (6.4) 147.2 140.8 – 140.8
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 
(Note 30)
– – 6.6 – 6.6 – 6.6
Utilisation of own shares – – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1
Equity dividends paid (Note 12) – – – (84.8) (84.8) – (84.8)
Movement in equity – – 0.3 62.4 62.7 – 62.7
Restated* At 31 May 2014 – 206.8 85.4 273.7 565.9 – 565.9
Profit for the year – – – 131.9 131.9 – 131.9
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 0.9 – 0.9 – 0.9
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – 0.9 131.9 132.8 – 132.8
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 
(Note 30)
– – 5.3 – 5.3 – 5.3
Excess of tax deduction benefit on share-based 
payments recognised directly in equity (Note 10)
– – 0.5 – 0.5 – 0.5
Purchase of own shares – – (0.3) – (0.3) – (0.3)
Equity dividends paid (Note 12) – – – (112.8) (112.8) – (112.8)
Movement in equity – – 6.4 19.1 25.5 – 25.5
At 31 May 2015 – 206.8 91.8 292.8 591.4 – 591.4
The notes on pages 116 to 177 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
* As outlined in the Group accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in 
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information.
113 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2015
Share 
capital  
(note 27)
Share 
premium 
account  
(note 27)
Other 
reserves 
(note 29)
Retained 
earnings Total equity
Company £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 June 2013 – 206.8 27.4 359.1 593.3
Profit for the year and total comprehensive income – – – 85.8 85.8
Equity-settled employee share-based payments (note 30) – – 6.6 – 6.6
Utilisation of own shares – – 0.3 – 0.3
Equity dividends paid (note 12) – – – (84.8) (84.8)
Movement in equity – – 6.9 1.0 7.9
At 31 May 2014 – 206.8 34.3 360.1 601.2
Profit for the year and total comprehensive income – – – 62.7 62.7
Equity-settled employee share-based payments (note 30) – – 5.3 – 5.3
Purchase of own shares – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Equity dividends paid (note 12) – – – (112.8) (112.8)
Movement in equity – – 5.0 (50.1) (45.1)
At 31 May 2015 – 206.8 39.3 310.0 556.1
The notes on pages 116 to 177 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
| 114 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 CASH FLOW STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2015
Group Company
Year ended  
31 May 2015
Restated* 
Year ended  
31 May 2014 
Year ended  
31 May 2015
Year ended  
31 May 2014 
Note £m £m £m £m
Cash generated from operations 20 210.4 176.5 112.8 85.8
Income taxes paid (42.9) (47.8) – –
Interest received on segregated client funds 4.9 6.0 – –
Interest paid on segregated client funds (0.4) (0.3) – –
Net cash flow from operating activities 172.0 134.4 112.8 85.8
Investing activities
Interest received 0.8 1.4 – –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (6.0) (3.4) – –
Payments to acquire intangible assets (6.4) (8.1) – –
Proceeds from maturity of financial investments and 
coupon receipts
 51.3 59.4 – –
Purchase of financial investments (51.1) (91.3) – –
Net cash flow used in investing activities (11.4) (42.0) – –
Financing activities
Interest paid (1.9) (2.0) – (1.2)
Equity dividends paid to owners of the parent 12 (112.8) (84.8) (112.8) (84.8)
Proceeds from drawdown of committed banking facility 19(c) 100.0 80.0 – –
Repayment of committed banking facility 19(c) (100.0) (80.0) – –
Net cash flow used in financing activities (114.7) (86.8) (112.8) (86.0)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 45.9 5.6 – (0.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 101.5 98.3 – 0.2
Exchange profit/(loss) on cash and cash equivalents 1.4 (2.4) – –
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 18 148.8 101.5 – –
* As outlined in the Group accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in 
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents is stated gross of the drawdown of the committed 
banking facility (31 May 2015 and 31 May 2014: £nil). Please refer to note 19.
The notes on pages 116 to 177 are an integral part of these Financial Statements. 
115 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | NOTE
1. Presentation, critical accounting estimates and judgements
2. Underlying results
3. Turnover
4. Segment information 
5. Administrative expenses
6. Auditors’ remuneration
7. Staff costs
8. Finance income 
9. Finance costs 
10. Taxation
11. Earnings per ordinary share
12. Dividends
13. Property, plant and equipment
14. Intangible assets
15. Investment in subsidiaries
16. Impairment of goodwill
17. Trade receivables 
18. Cash and cash equivalents
19. Liquidity analysis and risk management 
20. Cash generated from operations 
21. Financial investments   
22. Trade payables
23. Other payables
24. Provisions
25. Contingent liabilities
26. Redeemable preference shares   
27. Share capital  
28. Own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts  
29. Other reserves
30. Employee share plans 
31. Capital commitments 
32. Obligations under leases
33. Transactions with Directors
34. Related party transactions
35. Financial instruments 
36. Financial risk management
37. Capital management and resources
38. Impact of adopting new accounting standards   
39. Subsequent events 
40. Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRS
41. Accounting policies
INDEX TO NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 116 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 1.  PRESENTATION, CRITICAL  
ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES  
AND JUDGEMENTS 
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements requires the Group 
to make estimates and judgements that affect the amounts 
reported for assets and liabilities, as at the year-end, and the 
amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year. 
The nature of estimates means that actual outcomes could 
differ from those estimates.
In the Directors’ opinion, the accounting estimates or 
judgements that have the most significant impact, on the 
measurement of items recorded in the financial statements, 
remain the impairment of goodwill (refer to note 16), the 
useful economic life applied to the intangible assets, the 
recoverability of amounts owed by clients and the calculation 
of the Group’s current corporation tax charge (refer to 
note 10(b)). 
The judgements in relation to the assessment of goodwill for 
impairment largely relate to the assumptions underlying the 
calculation of the value-in-use of the US cash generating unit 
(CGU). The US CGU comprises both the Nadex exchange 
and associated market making business (the ‘Nadex 
exchange business’) as well as the wider commercial use 
of the exchange technology within the Group. While the 
Nadex exchange business remains loss making, the wider 
commercial use of the technology by the Group provides 
other significant economic benefits, which taken alone 
support the carrying value of the goodwill. For this reason, 
the Directors consider that a reasonably possible change in a 
key assumption would not cause the units' carrying amount 
to exceed its recoverable amount. In the event of the Nadex 
exchange business failing to generate sufficient profits, the 
deferred tax asset of US$2.8 million held in relation to carry 
forward tax losses might suffer impairment.
The assessment of the useful economic life of the Group’s 
internally developed and acquired software, licenses, domain 
name and generic top-level domain based intangible assets is 
judgemental and can change due to obsolescence as a result 
of unforeseen technological developments. The useful life 
for licences represents management’s view of the expected 
term over which the Group will receive benefits from the 
software, and does not exceed the licence term. For internally 
developed and acquired software and domain assets the life 
is based on historical experience with similar products as well 
as anticipation of future events which may impact their useful 
economic life.
The recoverability of amounts owed by clients, particularly 
following the impact of the actions of the Swiss National Bank 
in January 2015, is dependent on the Group’s ability to collect 
the remaining outstanding amounts from a small number of 
individually large debtors. Provisions have been made where 
the directors consider there is a risk of non-recoverability 
(refer to note 36((ii)b).
The calculation of the Group’s current corporation tax 
charge involves a degree of estimation and judgement with 
respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be 
finally determined until resolution has been reached with 
the relevant tax authority. The Group holds tax provisions in 
respect of the potential tax liability that may arise on these 
unresolved items, however, the amount ultimately payable 
may be materially lower than the amount accrued and paid 
and could therefore improve the overall profitability and cash 
flows of the Group in future periods. 
The measurement of the Group’s net trading revenue is 
predominately based on quoted market prices (refer to note 
35 for the financial instrument valuation hierarchy disclosures) 
and accordingly involves little judgement. However, the 
calculation of the segmental net trading revenue, as the 
Group manages risk and hedges on a group-wide portfolio 
basis, involves the use of an allocation methodology. This 
allocation methodology does not impact on the overall Group 
net trading revenue disclosed.
2. UNDERLYING RESULTS
The Directors regard the adjustment of exceptional items as 
detailed below necessary to provide a greater understanding 
of the results of the Group for the year. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
117 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 2(A) UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE TAX AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
Exceptional items – Swiss franc event impact
On 15 January 2015, the Swiss National Bank announced that it had ceased intervention in the exchange rate between the Swiss 
franc and euro. This caused a sudden extreme appreciation in the value of the franc, accompanied by a lack of market liquidity 
which lasted several minutes and resulted in a negative financial impact to the Group to a maximum of £30.0 million. This was 
from a combination of £11.8 million of market losses and £18.4 million of gross client credit exposures. The market related losses 
occurred where client positions were closed in the Group’s systems at a more beneficial level than the Group was able to close 
its entire corresponding hedge due to the market dislocation.
The precise level of the impact on the Group’s profit before taxation is partially dependent on the Group’s ability to recover 
client debts. The recovery of the outstanding debt is dependent on the ultimate recovery from a small number of debtors. The 
Group’s approach remains that for clients who are considered to be well positioned and with resources to pay their debts the 
Group will continue to employ resources to recover the debts. The impact on profit before tax and diluted earnings per share at 
31 May 2015 is as below:
Statutory 
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Swiss franc 
event impact
Underlying 
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Restated*   
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
Note £m £m £m £m
Net operating income 2(b) 387.2 12.2 399.4 374.2
Analysed as:
Net trading revenue 2(b), 3(a) 388.4 11.8 400.2 370.4
Other net operating (loss)/income
(1)
2(b) (1.2) 0.4 (0.8) 3.8
Administrative expenses
(2) 
  (217.6) 11.5 (206.1) (178.8)
Operating profit 2(b) 169.6                     23.7 193.3                      195.4
Finance income 8 1.8 – 1.8 1.5
Finance costs 9 (1.9) – (1.9) (2.0)
Profit before taxation 169.5 23.7 193.2 194.9
Tax expense
(3)
10 (37.6) (4.9) (42.5) (47.7)
Profit for the year 131.9 18.8 150.7 147.2
Earnings per ordinary share Restated*
– basic 2(c) 36.13p 5.14p 41.27p 40.35p
– diluted 2(c) 35.99p 5.08p 41.07p 40.22p
(1)
 £0.4 million Swiss franc event impact relates to betting duty.  
(2) 
Included in administrative expenses are:
£m
Swiss franc related bad debts charge
(2.1)
15.1
Employee bonuses
(2.2)
(3.1)
Share schemes - Sustained Performance Plan (SPP)
(2.3)
(0.5)
11.5
(2.1)
 The movement in the Swiss franc event related debts are below:
£m
Gross debt at 15 January 2015 18.4
Amounts recovered
(2.4)
(2.8)
Bad debts charge (note 36) (15.1)                      
Net debt at 31 May 2015 0.5
* As outlined in the Group accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in 
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information.
(2.2) 
The losses associated with the Swiss franc move impact upon the general staff bonus pool. The approximate reduction in the general staff bonus pool of 
£3.1 million, results from impaired performance against both financial and non-financial measures. 
(2.3) 
Performance under the Executive Director and Senior Management SPP is 35% weighted to a diluted earnings per share (DEPS) target. At headline DEPS no awards 
under the element of the scheme will be made, with a resulting reduced IFRS 2 charge of £0.5 million. 
(2.4) 
Amounts recovered are settled debtors in the period from 15 January to 31 May 2015. 
(3) 
The Swiss franc event tax impact of £4.9 million  was calculated using the UK effective corporation tax rate at 20.83%.
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 118 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 2(B) UNDERLYING SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS
UK Australia Europe
Rest of 
World Central Total
Year ended 31 May 2015 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net trading revenue 206.0 58.1 76.9 47.4 – 388.4
Swiss franc event impact on net trading revenue 5.9 1.1 4.0 0.8 – 11.8
Underlying net trading revenue 211.9 59.2 80.9 48.2 – 400.2
2(C) UNDERLYING EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to ordinary equity holders of the 
parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding shares purchased and held 
as own shares in Employee Benefit Trusts. Diluted earnings per ordinary share is calculated using the same profit figure as that 
used in basic earnings per ordinary share and by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to 
assume conversion of all dilutive ordinary shares arising from share schemes. 
The following reflects the income and share data used in the earnings per share computations:
Statutory 
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Swiss franc 
event impact
Underlying 
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Restated*    
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
Note £m £m £m £m
 Profit for the period:
 Earnings attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 2(a) 131.9 18.8 150.7 147.2
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
(number) (number)
 Weighted average number of ordinary shares
 Basic 365,199,825 364,710,756
 Dilutive effect of share-based payments 1,383,806 1,213,527
 Diluted 366,583,631 365,924,283
Statutory 
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Swiss franc 
event impact
Underlying 
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Restated*    
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
Note £m £m £m £m
Basic earnings per ordinary share 11 36.13p 5.14p 41.27p 40.35p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 35.99p 5.08p 41.07p 40.22p
*  As outlined in the Group accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in 
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information.
119 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2(D) UNDERLYING FUNDS GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
The following statement summarises the Group’s cash generation during the period and excludes all cash flows in relation to 
monies held on behalf of clients. Additionally amounts due from brokers and the liquid asset buffer have been included within 
‘own funds’ in order to provide a clear presentation of the Group’s available cash resources. The derivation of own funds is 
explained in note 15(a), and is stated net of amounts drawn on the Group’s committed banking facility. 
Statutory  
Year ended  
31 May 2015
Swiss franc  
event impact
(1)
Underlying 
Year ended  
31 May 2015
Restated*    
Year ended  
31 May 2014 
Note £m £m £m £m
 Operating activities
 Profit before tax 2(a), 19(d) 169.5 23.7 193.2 194.9
 Depreciation and amortisation 19(d) 10.7 – 10.7 9.7
 Other non-cash adjustments
(1)
   19(d) (0.5) 3.6 3.1 3.8
 Income taxes paid (42.9) (4.9) (47.8) (47.8)
 Own funds generated from operations 136.8 22.4 159.2 160.6
(1) 
The £3.6 million included in the ‘Other non-cash adjustments’ line relates to remuneration expenses. The £4.9 million in the ‘Income taxes paid‘ line was calculated 
using the UK effective corporation tax rate at 20.83% (refer to note 2(a)). 
* As outlined in the Group accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in 
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information.
3. TURNOVER
3(A) NET TRADING REVENUE
Net trading revenue represents trading revenue from financial instruments carried at fair value through profit or loss net of 
introducing partner commission, and commission earned from providing the execution only stockbroking service. This is 
consistent with the management information received by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (refer to note 4). Revenue from 
external customers includes interest income on segregated client funds and is analysed as follows:
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
Net trading revenue
Contracts for difference 205.8 210.8
Spread betting 146.2 132.8
Binaries 36.2 26.8
Stockbroking commission
(1)
 0.2 -–
Total net trading revenue 388.4 370.4
Interest income on segregated client funds 4.9 5.8
Revenue from external customers 393.3 376.2
In addition to the above, finance income is disclosed in note 8. The Group does not derive more than 10% of external revenue 
from any one single customer.
(1) 
During the year the Group commenced the offering of an execution-only stockbroking service in the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands.
3(B) OTHER OPERATING INCOME
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
Revenue share arrangement
(1)
– 1.4
Administrative charges to clients
(2)
0.6 0.7
0.6 2.1
(1) 
The Group received income under a revenue share agreement with Spreadex Limited in relation to the client list of the former Sport business, calculated by 
reference to the revenue that Spreadex Limited generated from clients on the list. This arrangement ended on 23 June 2014.
(2) 
The Group charges inactivity fees for those accounts on which clients have not traded for two years.
| 120 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 4. SEGMENT INFORMATION
The segment information is presented as follows:
• Segment net trading revenue has been disclosed net of introducing partner commissions as this is consistent with the 
management information received by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), being the Executive Directors
• Net trading revenue is reported by the location of the office that manages the underlying client relationship and aggregated 
into the disclosable segments of UK, Australia, Europe and Rest of World. The Rest of World segment comprises the Group’s 
operations in Japan, South Africa, Singapore, the United States and the United Arab Emirates
• The UK segment comprises the Group’s operations in the UK and Ireland
• The Europe segment comprises the Group’s operations in France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, 
Spain, Sweden and Switzerland
• Segment contribution, being segment trading revenue less directly incurred costs, as the measure of segment profit and loss 
reported to the CODM
The UK segment derives its revenue from financial spread bets, contracts for difference (CFDs), binary options and execution-
only stockbroking. The Australian segment derives its revenue from CFDs and binary options. The European segment derives 
its revenue from CFDs, binary options and execution-only stockbroking. The businesses reported within Rest of World derive 
revenue from the operation of a regulated futures and options exchange as well as CFDs and binary options.
The Group employs a centralised operating model whereby market risk is managed principally in the UK, switching to Australia 
outside of UK hours. The costs associated with these operations are included in the Central segment, together with central costs 
of senior management, IT development, marketing and other support functions. As the Group manages risk and hedges on a 
group-wide portfolio basis, the following segmental revenue analysis involves the use of an allocation methodology. Interest 
income and expense on segregated client funds is managed and reported to the CODM centrally and thus has been reported 
in the Central segment. In the following analysis, the Central segment costs have been further allocated to the other reportable 
segments based on a number of cost allocation assumptions and segment net trading revenue.
UK Australia Europe
Rest of 
World Central Total
Year ended 31 May 2015 £m £m £m £m £m £m
 Segment net trading revenue 206.0 58.1 76.9 47.4 – 388.4
 Interest income on segregated client funds – – – – 4.9 4.9
 Revenue from external customers 206.0 58.1 76.9 47.4 4.9 393.3
 Interest expense on segregated client funds – – – – (0.4) (0.4)
 Other operating income – – – – 0.6 0.6
 Betting duty and financial transaction taxes (5.8) (0.1) (0.4) – – (6.3)
 Net operating income 200.2 58.0 76.5 47.4 5.1 387.2
 Segment contribution 154.5 48.3 35.1 25.6 (83.2) 180.3
 Allocation of central income and costs (41.6) (12.5) (19.0) (10.1) 83.2 –
 Depreciation and amortisation (5.6) (1.4) (2.2) (1.5) – (10.7)
 Operating profit 107.3 34.4 13.9 14.0 – 169.6
 Net finance costs (0.1)
 Profit before taxation 169.5
121 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4. SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
UK Australia Europe
Rest of 
World Central Total
Restated* Year ended 31 May 2014 £m £m £m £m £m £m
 Segment net trading revenue 192.7 52.2 82.1 43.4 – 370.4
 Interest income on segregated client funds – – – – 5.8 5.8
 Revenue from external customers 192.7 52.2 82.1 43.4 5.8 376.2
 Interest expense on segregated client funds – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
 Other operating income – – – – 2.1 2.1
 Betting duty and financial transaction taxes (3.5) – (0.3) – – (3.8)
 Net operating income 189.2 52.2 81.8 43.4 7.6 374.2
 Segment contribution 160.5 43.7 51.6 25.2 (75.9) 205.1
 Allocation of central income and costs (37.9) (11.1) (17.6) (9.3) 75.9 –
 Depreciation and amortisation (4.9) (1.3) (2.1) (1.4) – (9.7)
 Operating profit 117.7 31.3 31.9 14.5 – 195.4
 Net finance income (0.5)
 Profit before taxation 194.9
* During the year ended 31 May 2015, the Group adopted IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. The comparative figures for the year ended 31 May 2014 have been restated to reflect the 
change in timing of recognition of the UK FSCS levy. 
5. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
Group
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
This is stated after charging/(crediting):
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5.7 4.7
Amortisation of intangible assets 5.0 5.0
Advertising and marketing 37.8 31.7
Net charge for impaired trade receivables
(1)
16.1 1.6
Operating lease rentals for land and buildings 5.3 4.4
Foreign exchange gains
(2)
(0.6) (0.4)
(1) 
Net charge for impaired trade receivables includes £15.1m (2014: £nil) in relation to the Swiss franc event (refer to note 2).
(2) 
All of the above, except foreign exchange differences, are included in administrative expenses within the income statement. Foreign exchange gains and losses are 
included in revenue.
| 122 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 6. AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION 
Group
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
Audit and audit-related fees
(1)
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the  
parent company and consolidated financial statements
0.4 0.3
Fees payable to company’s auditor and its associates for other services:
– Statutory and regulatory audit of subsidiaries and branches of the Company 0.3 0.2
– Audit-related assurance services:
• Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1
• Other audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1
Total audit and audit-related fees 0.9 0.7
Non-audit fees 
Other services relating to taxation
– Tax compliance services
(2)
0.2 0.3
– Tax advisory services
(3)
0.3 0.2
Services relating to regulatory advice
(4)
0.1 –
Services relating to strategic advice
(5)
0.3
Total other fees 0.9 0.5
(1) 
Includes the Group’s audit fee as well as services that are specifically required of the Group’s auditors through legislative or contractual requirements, controls 
assurance engagements required of the auditors by the regulatory authorities in whose jurisdiction the Group operates and other audit-related assurance services.
(2) 
Includes corporate and other tax compliance and filing services which are closely related to the audit process and are therefore efficiently provided by the auditors 
due to their existing knowledge of the business.
(3) 
Includes advice relating to the Group’s transfer pricing policies, sales taxes, tax structures and other general tax advice.
(4) 
Includes services provided in relation to regulatory requirements and other regulatory advice.
(5) 
Includes advisory work in relation to strategic advice to the Board.
An overview of the Audit Committee’s review of Auditors’ remuneration and non-audit fee policy can be found in the 
Corporate Governance Statement.
123 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7. STAFF COSTS 
The staff costs for the year, including Directors, were as follows:
Group
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
Wages and salaries 79.4 75.4
Social security costs 9.2 8.7
Other pension costs (in relation to defined contribution schemes) 5.7 5.2
94.3 89.3
Staff costs, including Directors, include the following amounts in respect of performance-related bonuses, and share-based 
payments (inclusive of national insurance) charged to the income statement: 
Group
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
Performance-related bonuses 14.0 17.2
Equity-settled share-based payment schemes 6.3 7.1
20.3 24.3
The Directors’ emoluments for the years ended 31 May 2015 and 31 May 2014, can be found in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
The average monthly number of employees, including Directors, was made up as follows: 
Group
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
IT development 479 395
IT support 81 71
Sales, marketing and client support 488 397
Dealing 38 38
Management and administrative 201 169
1,287 1,070
8. FINANCE INCOME
Group
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
Bank interest receivable 0.7 0.6
Interest receivable from brokers 0.4 0.6
Interest accretion on financial investments 0.7 0.3
1.8 1.5
| 124 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 9. FINANCE COSTS
Group
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
Liquidity facility arrangement and non-utilisation fees 1.2 1.7
Interest payable to clients 0.1 –
Interest payable to brokers 0.1 –
Bank interest payable 0.1 0.3
Other charges 0.4 –
1.9 2.0
Interest payable to clients relates to interest paid or accrued to clients in relation to title transfer funds (refer to note 18). 
10. TAXATION
10(A) TAX ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES
Tax charged in the income statement:
Group
Year ended 31 
May 2015
Restated*
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
Current income tax:
UK Corporation Tax 34.3 42.4
Foreign tax 3.8 3.6
Adjustment in respect of prior years (1.0) (1.8)
Total current income tax 37.1 44.2
Deferred income tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (0.4) 0.5
Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.9 2.3
Impact of change in tax rates on deferred tax – 0.7
Total deferred income tax (note 10(d)) 0.5 3.5
Tax expense in the income statement (note 10(b)) 37.6 47.7
125 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 10. TAXATION (CONTINUED)
10(B) RECONCILIATION OF THE TOTAL TAX CHARGE 
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 21% to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. Accordingly, the effective 
corporation tax is calculated at 20.83% (2014: 22.67%) of the estimated assessable profit in the UK. Taxation outside the UK is 
calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. The tax expense in the income statement for the year can be 
reconciled to the income statement as set out below:
Group
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Restated*
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
Profit before taxation 169.5 194.9
Profit multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 20.83% (2014: 22.67%) 35.3 44.1
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.5 0.1
Impact of timing differences not recognised 1.2 1.3
Higher taxes on overseas earnings 0.7 1.0
Adjustment in respect of prior years (0.1) 0.5
Impact of change in tax rates on deferred tax – 0.7
Total tax expense reported in the income statement 37.6 47.7
The effective tax rate is 22.18 % (2014: 24.47%). 
* As outlined in the Group accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in 
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information.
10(C) DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS
The deferred income tax assets included in the Statement of Financial Position are as follows: 
Group
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Restated*
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
Decelerated capital allowances – 0.4
Tax losses available for offset against future tax 1.8 1.7
Share-based payments 1.5 1.0
Other timing differences 3.8 4.0
7.1 7.1
The tax losses available for offset against future tax relate to operating losses arising in the US consolidated tax group, the 
recoverability of which is dependent on sufficient future operating profits in those entities. A deferred tax asset is recognised 
where it is considered probable that the US consolidated tax group will generate future operating profits which can be offset 
against the tax losses carried forward. Where it is not anticipated that future operating profits will be generated against which 
the losses can be offset, a deferred tax asset is not recognised. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 126 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Share-based payment awards have been charged to the Income Statement but are not allowable as a tax deduction until the 
awards vest. The excess of tax relief in future years over the amount charged to the Income Statement is recognised as a credit 
directly to equity. The movement in the deferred income tax assets included in the Statement of Financial Position is as follows: 
Group
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Restated*
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
At the beginning of the year 7.1 10.9
Income statement charge (note 10(d)) (0.5) (3.5)
Tax credited directly to equity 0.5 –
Foreign currency adjustment – (0.3)
IFRIC 21 restatement – –
At the end of the year 7.1 7.1
* As outlined in the Group accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in 
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information.
10(D) DEFERRED INCOME TAX – INCOME STATEMENT CREDIT
Group
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Restated*
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
The deferred income tax charge included in the Income Statement is made up as follows:
Decelerated capital allowances (0.4) (0.3)
Share-based payments 0.1 (1.1)
Other timing differences (0.2) (2.1)
Income statement charge (0.5) (3.5)
The deferred tax credited to equity during the year is as follows:
Share-based payments (0.5) –
Closing deferred tax on UK temporary differences has been calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 20% (2014: 20%).
* As outlined in the Group accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in 
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information.
10(E) FACTORS AFFECTING THE TAX CHARGE IN FUTURE YEARS
Factors that may affect the Group’s future tax charge include the geographic location of the Group’s earnings, the tax rates 
in those locations, changes in tax legislation, future planning opportunities, the use of brought-forward tax losses and the 
resolution of open tax issues. The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge involves a degree of estimation and judgement 
with respect to the recognition of deferred tax assets (refer to note 10(d)) and of certain items whose tax treatment cannot 
be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority. The Group holds tax provisions in 
respect of the potential tax liability that may arise on these unresolved items, however, the amount ultimately payable may be 
materially lower than the amount accrued and could therefore improve the overall profitability and cash flows of the Group in 
future periods. 
127 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 11. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted 
average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Company and held as 
own shares in Employee Benefit Trusts. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using the same profit figure as that used in basic 
earnings per share and by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all 
dilutive ordinary shares arising from share schemes. The following reflects the income and share data used in the earnings per 
share computation:
Group
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Restated*
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
Profit for the year 131.9 147.2
Earnings attributable to non-controlling interests – –
Earnings attributable to owners of the parent 131.9 147.2
Weighted average number of shares
Basic 365,199,825 364,710,756
Dilutive effect of share-based payments 1,383,806 1,213,527
Diluted 366,583,631 365,924,283
Group
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Restated*
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
Basic earnings per share 36.13p 40.35p
Diluted earnings per share 35.99p 40.22p
* As outlined in the Group accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in 
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information.
12. DIVIDENDS
Group
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Restated*
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
Declared and paid during the year:
Final dividend for 2014 at 22.40p per share (2013: 17.50p) 81.9 63.8
Interim dividend for 2015 at 8.45p per share (2014: 5.75p) 30.9 21.0
112.8 84.8
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM:
Final dividend for 2015 at 19.70p per share (2014: 22.40p) 71.8 81.9
The final dividend for 2015 of 19.70p per share amounting to £71.8 million was proposed by the Board on 15 July 2015 and 
has not been included as a liability at 31 May 2015. This dividend will be paid on 30 October 2015, following approval at the 
Company’s AGM, to those members on the register at the close of business on 2 October 2015. 
The dividend paid or declared in relation to the financial year are set out below:
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Year ended 
31 May 2014 
£m £m
Dividend declared per share:
Interim dividend 8.45p 5.75p
Final dividend 19.70p 22.40p
28.15p 28.15p
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 128 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Leasehold
improvements
Office
equipment, 
fixtures 
and fittings
Computer
and other
equipment Total
Group £m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 June 2013 17.5 2.4 18.0 37.9
Foreign currency adjustment (0.2) (0.1) (0.3) (0.6)
Additions 0.7 0.2 2.5 3.4
Written off (0.1) (0.1) (5.0) (5.2)
At 31 May 2014 17.9 2.4 15.2 35.5
Foreign currency adjustment (0.1) – – (0.1)
Additions 1.0 0.3 4.6 5.9
Written off – – (1.0) (1.0)
At 31 May 2015 18.8 2.7 18.8 40.3
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 June 2013 7.1 1.5 14.8 23.4
Foreign currency adjustment (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) (0.4)
Provided during the year 1.9 0.4 2.4 4.7
Written off (0.1) (0.1) (5.0) (5.2)
At 31 May 2014 8.8 1.7 12.0 22.5
Foreign currency adjustment (0.1) – (0.1) (0.2)
Provided during the year 2.0 0.5 3.2 5.7
Written off – – (1.0) (1.0)
At 31 May 2015 10.7 2.2 14.1 27.0
Net book value – 31 May 2015 8.1 0.5 4.7 13.3
Net book value – 31 May 2014 9.1 0.7 3.2 13.0
Net book value – 1 June 2013 10.4 0.9 3.2 14.5
129 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
Client 
lists and 
customer 
relationships
Domain 
names
Development 
costs
Software and 
licences Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 June 2013 235.5 2.0 4.0 7.3 15.9 264.7
Foreign currency adjustment (0.6) (0.3) – – (0.1) (1.0)
Additions – – 1.8 4.7 1.3 7.8
Written off
(1)
(128.2) – – – (0.4) (128.6)
At 31 May 2014 106.7 1.7 5.8 12.0 16.7 142.9
Foreign currency adjustment 0.4 (0.1) – – 0.1 0.4
Additions – – 1.5 3.1 1.3 5.9
Written off – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 May 2015 107.1 1.6 7.3 15.1 17.8 148.9
Accumulated amortisation:
At 1 June 2013 128.2 2.0 0.1 1.9 12.0 144.2
Foreign currency adjustment – (0.3) – – (0.1) (0.4)
Provided during the year – – 0.4 1.7 2.9 5.0
Written off
(1)
(128.2) – – – (0.4) (128.6)
At 31 May 2014 – 1.7 0.5 3.6 14.4 20.2
Foreign currency adjustment – (0.1) – – 0.1 –
Provided during the year – – 0.7 2.4 1.9 5.0
Written off – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 May 2015 – 1.6 1.2 6.0 16.1 24.9
Net book value – 31 May 2015 107.1 – 6.1 9.1 1.7 124.0
Net book value – 31 May 2014 106.7 – 5.3 8.4 2.3 122.7
Net book value – 1 June 2013 107.3 – 3.9 5.4 3.9 120.5
(1) 
Goodwill of £123.0 million and £5.2 million relating to the Group’s Japanese and discontinued Sport businesses was fully impaired in the year ended 31 May 2011 
(refer to note 15(b) of the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2011). 
Goodwill primarily relates to the purchase of IG Group plc by IG Group Holdings plc; detail is provided in note 16. The client list 
acquired with the business of Ideal CFDs has been amortised on a sum of digits basis over three years. 
Domain names include the cost of acquiring ig.com and a suite of complementary domains to support the Group global brand. 
This also includes industry-specific generic top-level domains (gTLDs). 
Development costs relate to both internally generated intangible assets and third-party software acquired to further enhance 
the Group own proprietary software. 
Software and licences relate entirely to external purchases of off-the-shelf, commercially available software for internal 
consumption within the Group. 
The expected useful lives of each class of intangible asset are set out in note 41, Accounting Policies.
| 130 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Domain names
Company £m
Cost:
At 1 June 2013 –
Additions 1.6
At 31 May 2014 1.6
Additions 1.5
Transfer to Group companies
 (1)
(3.1)
At 31 May 2015 –
Accumulated amortisation:
At 1 June 2013 –
Provided during the year –
At 31 May 2014 –
Provided during the year 0.2
Disposal (0.2)
At 31 May 2015 –
Net book value – 31 May 2015 –
Net book value – 31 May  2014 1.6
Net book value – 31 June  2013 –
(1) 
During the year, the Company transferred the generic top-level domains it owned to other group companies.
Please refer to the Group intangible assets disclosure above for more details regarding domain names.
15. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
PARENT COMPANY – INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
Company
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
At cost: £m £m
At the beginning of the year 471.6 460.0
Additions
(1)
8.2 11.6
At the end of the year 479.8 471.6
(1) 
Additions in the year ended 31 May 2015 comprise the investment relating to equity-settled share-based payments for subsidiary employees of £5.3 million (2014: 
£6.6 million) and the purchase of shares in the Company’s immediate subsidiary, IG Group Limited, of £2.9 million (2014: £5.0 million).
131 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 15. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
The following companies are all owned directly or indirectly by IG Group Holdings plc:
Name of Company
Country of 
Incorporation Holding
Voting  
Rights Nature of Business
Subsidiary undertakings held directly:
IG Group Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Holding company
IG Jersey Cashbox Limited Jersey Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading
Subsidiary undertakings held indirectly:
IG Index Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Spread betting 
IG Markets Limited UK Ordinary shares 100%
CFD trading, foreign exchange 
and market risk management
IG Markets South Africa Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading 
IG Australia Pty Limited Australia Ordinary shares 100% Sales and marketing office
IG Asia Pte Limited Singapore Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading and foreign exchange
North American Derivatives Exchange Inc. USA Ordinary shares 100% Exchange
IG Securities Limited
(1)
Japan Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading and foreign exchange
IG Bank S.A. (previously called IG Switzerland S.A.) Switzerland Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading and foreign exchange
Market Data Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Data distribution
Market Risk Management Inc. USA Ordinary shares 100% Market maker
IG Infotech (India) Private Limited India Ordinary shares 100% Software development 
IG Nominees Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Nominee company
IG Knowhow Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Software development
extrabet Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading
LLC IG Dev Belarus Ordinary shares 100% Software development
IG Finance UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance Two UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance Three UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance Four UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance 5 Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Forex Limited (previously called IG Finance 6 Limited) UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Spread Betting Limited (previously called IG Finance 7 
Limited)
UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance 8 Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance 9 Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
ITS Market Solutions Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading
Fox Sub Limited Gibraltar Ordinary shares 100% Financing
Fox Sub Two Limited Gibraltar Ordinary shares 100% Financing
Fox Japan Holdings
(1)
Gibraltar Ordinary shares 100% Holding company
IG US Holdings Inc. USA Ordinary shares 100% Holding company
Market Data Japan Limited Japan Ordinary shares 100% Holding company
FXOnline Japan Co., Limited Japan Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading
IG Limited Dubai Ordinary Shares 100% CFD trading and foreign exchange
IG Services Limited Dubai Ordinary Shares 100%  Intra-Group Corporate Services
Financial Domaign Limited                                     UK Or dinary Shar es                       100% Holding company
Financial Domaign Registry Holdings Limited                             UK  Ordinary Shares              100%          Holding company
Financial Domaign Registrar Limited                                     UK   Ordinary Shares              100% Domains registrar
Financial Domaign (Services) Limited                             UK Or dinary Shar es                     100% Domains registry
DotSpreadbetting Registry Limited                        UK Or dinary Shar es                  100% Domains registry
DotMarkets Registry Limited                                  UK Ordinary Shares              100%  Domains registry
DotTrading Registry Limited                                   UK Ordinary Shares              100% Domains registry
DotCFD Registry Limited                                        UK Ordinary Shares              100% Domains registry
DotBroker Registry Limited                                    UK Ordinary Shares              100% Domains registry
DotForex Registry Limited                                  UK     Ordinary Shares              100% Domains registry
IG Markets Corporation                                   Canada Or dinary Shar es                            100% Non - trading
Nadex Domains Inc.                                         USA Ordinary Shares              100%             Domains registry
Tower Three Capital Inc.                                   USA Ordinary Shares              100%              Non-trading
Hedgestreet Securities Inc.                            USA   Or dinary Shar es                            100% Non-trading
Nadex Clearing LLC                                            USA  Ordinary Shares              100% Non-trading
Deal City Limited UK     Ordinary Shares              100% Software development
(1) 
IG Securities Limited and Fox Japan Holdings have a year end of 31 March due to local Japanese law.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 132 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Employee Benefit Trusts:
IG Group Holdings plc Inland Revenue Approved Share Incentive Plan (UK Trust)
IG Group Limited Employee Benefit Trust (Jersey Trust)
IG Group Employee Equity Plan Trust (Australian Trust)
The following UK entities, all of which are 100% owned by the Group, are not subject to an audit by virtue of s479A of the 
Companies Act 2006 relating to subsidiary companies: IG Finance 5 Limited (06752558), IG Finance 9 Limited (07306407), and 
Extrabet Limited (04560348).
The following UK entities, all of which are 100% owned by the Group, are exempt from the requirement to prepare individual 
accounts by virtue of s394A of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the individual accounts of dormant subsidiaries: IG Nominees 
Limited (04371444), IG Finance (05024562), IG Finance Two (05137194), IG Finance Four (05312015), IG Forex Limited (06808361), 
IG Spread Betting Limited (06806588), IG Finance 8 Limited (06807656), ITS Market Solutions Limited (04768327), Financial 
Domaign Limited (09233880), Financial Domaign Registry Holdings Limited (09235699), Financial Domaign Registrar Limited 
(09235694), Financial Domaign (Services) Limited (09235591), DotSpreadbetting Registry Limited (09237702), DotMarkets 
Registry Limited (09237708), DotCFD Registry Limited (09237733), DotBroker Registry Limited (09237714), DotForex Registry 
Limited (09237740) and Deal City Limited (9635230) (incorporated 11 June 2015).
16. IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL
Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to the cash-generating units (CGUs), as follows:
Group
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
£m £m
UK 100.0 100.0
Australia 0.9 0.9
US 5.0 4.6
South Africa 1.2 1.2
107.1 106.7
UK goodwill arose on the purchase of IG Group plc by IG Group Holdings Limited on 5 September 2003. Goodwill disclosed 
for Australia arose on the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in IG Australia Pty Limited in the year ended 31 May 2006. 
Goodwill arising on the acquisitions of Nadex (formerly HedgeStreet) and the associated exchange technology and licence, and 
Ideal CFDs has been allocated to the separate US and South African CGUs respectively. 
Impairments during the year ended 31 May 2015
There was no indication of an ‘impairment trigger’ existing on any of the CGUs (2014: £nil), nor any impairment recognised 
during the year ended 31 May 2015.
Impairment testing at year end
The goodwill associated with each CGU has been subject to an impairment test at 31 May 2015 as set out in the following 
disclosures. For the purposes of impairment testing of goodwill, the carrying amount of each CGU is compared to the 
recoverable amount of each CGU and any deficits are provided. The carrying amount of a CGU includes only those assets that 
can be attributed directly, or allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis.
The estimated recoverable amount for the UK CGU of £1.7 billion (2014: £1.3 billion) is based upon fair value less costs of 
disposal. This is £1.6 billion (2014: £1.2 billion) in excess of the carrying amount of the CGU.
The estimated recoverable amount of the US CGU, however, is based upon a value-in-use calculation due to the difficulty in 
determining a fair value for this CGU. For the US CGU this is calculated as the total of the present value of projected future cash 
flows and a terminal value.
133 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 16. IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL (CONTINUED)
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
The UK, Australian and South African CGUs reported a segment operating profit, after the allocation of central costs, 
of £107.3 million, £34.4 million and £2.3 million respectively for the year ended 31 May 2015 (refer to note 4, Segment 
information). Furthermore, the UK CGU represents 53% of the Group’s net trading revenue for the year ended 31 May 2015. 
The Board approved budget for the financial year ending 31 May 2016 and longer-term strategic plans for the Group forecast 
at least a similar level of performance for these CGUs to continue. As a result both the single year operating profit and 
thus the recoverable amount of the UK, Australian and South African CGUs is significantly in excess of the carrying value. 
Accordingly, the outcome of the impairment review for the CGUs is not considered to be sensitive to the assumptions used.
The Directors have performed a sensitivity analysis around the assumptions used in the value-in-use calculation of the goodwill 
associated with the US CGU. The US CGU comprises both the Nadex exchange and associated market making business (the 
‘Nadex exchange business’) as well as the wider commercial use of the exchange technology within the Group. While the Nadex 
exchange business remains loss making, the wider commercial use of the technology by the Group provides other significant 
economic benefits which taken alone support the carrying value of the goodwill. For this reason, the Directors consider that a 
reasonably possible change in a key assumption would not cause the units' carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount. 
In the event of the Nadex exchange business failing to generate sufficient profits, the deferred tax asset of US$2.8 million held 
in relation to carry forward tax losses might suffer impairment.
Key assumptions used in fair value less costs of disposal calculations
The fair value less costs of disposal of the UK CGU has been calculated using an earnings multiple determined by reference to 
the Company’s quoted market capitalisation and the Group’s segmental operating profit. As the business model of this CGU is 
largely synonymous with that of the Group, this methodology is deemed to be appropriate.
Key assumptions used in value-in-use calculations
Projected future cash flows for the US CGU were based upon the Board-approved budget for the year ending 31 May 2016. 
Forecasts to the year ending 31 May 2020 were then extrapolated from the budget using a range of client recruitment, client 
retention rates, average trading clients’ growth month on month and revenue per client assumptions. These were based 
upon actual amounts measured in prior periods which were projected forward in accordance with expected trends. This 
methodology is consistent with that used for the 31 May 2014 year-end impairment review. The revenue growth rates, disclosed 
in the following table, are consistent with the long-term growth rates of other of the Group’s businesses measured over a 
five-year period.
The calculation of value-in-use for the US CGU is most sensitive to the following assumptions:
• Client recruitment and retention rates
• Average revenue per client
• The discount rate
• The long-term growth rate used for the terminal value calculation
Cash flows were translated into sterling using year-end exchange rates.
The cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate as disclosed in the table below. This was derived using a region 
specific, market-based cost of equity and debt assumption in order to reflect both the financing cost and risk associated with 
the US CGU. The long-term growth rate (g) used in the terminal value calculation of the US CGU is also disclosed below and is 
equivalent to, or lower than, the respective long-term growth rate for the US economy. 
Discount rate
Average years 1-5  
growth rate
Terminal growth rate 
(g)
Cash-generating unit 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
US 15.81% 16.8% 58% 44% 1.9% 1.9%
On the basis of the results of the above analysis there was no impairment of goodwill during the year.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 134 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 17. TRADE RECEIVABLES
Group
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
£m £m
Amounts due from brokers
(1)
239.2 303.9
Other amounts due to the Group
(2)
28.4 21.3
Amounts due from clients
(3)
2.0 2.3
269.6 327.5
(1) 
Amounts due from brokers represent balances with brokers where the combination of cash held on account and the valuation of financial derivative open positions 
results in an amount due to the Group. At 31 May 2015 the actual broker margin requirement was £204.8 million (2014: £285.1 million) with the balance being excess 
cash margin held at brokers.
(2) 
Other amounts due to the Group include balances that will be transferred to the Group’s own cash from segregated client funds on the following working day in 
accordance with the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) ‘CASS’ rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates as well as 
excess funds held in segregation in certain jurisdictions. This also includes amounts due from banking counterparties or held within segregated client funds in 
relation to monies transferred by clients to the Group that remain unsettled at the year-end. The Group is required to segregate these client funds at the point of 
client funding and not at cash settlement. 
(3) 
Amounts due from clients arise when a client’s total funds deposited with the Group are insufficient to cover any trading losses incurred and are stated net of an 
allowance for impairment (refer note 36).
 
18. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
18(A) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Group Company
31 May 2015 31 May 2014 31 May 2015 31 May 2014
£m £m £m £m
Gross cash and cash equivalents
(1)
1,062.4 959.9 – –
Less: Segregated client funds
(2)
(913.6) (858.4) – –
Cash and cash equivalents
(3)
148.8 101.5 – –
(1) 
Gross cash and cash equivalents includes each of the Group’s own cash, proceeds from the drawdown of the committed banking facility, as well as all client 
monies held. 
(2) 
Segregated client funds comprise individual client funds held in segregated client money accounts or money market facilities established under the UK’s Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) ‘CASS’ rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. Such monies are not included in the Group’s 
Statement of Financial Position. 
(3) 
Cash and cash equivalents includes both title transfer funds held by the Group under a Title Transfer Collateral Arrangement (TTCA) by which a client agrees that full 
ownership of such monies is unconditionally transferred to the Group, and client monies deposited with the Group’s Swiss banking subsidiary, IG Bank SA. 
 The Group’s Swiss banking subsidiary, IG Bank SA, is also required to protect customer deposits under the FINMA Privileged Deposit Scheme. At 31 May 2015 IG 
Bank SA was required to hold £2.8 million in satisfaction of this requirement. 
18(B) CLIENT FUNDS AND ASSETS
Group Company
31 May 2015 31 May 2014 31 May 2015 31 May 2014
£m £m £m £m
Segregated client funds
(1)
913.6 858.4 – –
Segregated client assets
(2)
77.4 – – –
Total segregated client funds and assets 991.0 858.4 – –
(1) 
Segregated client funds comprise individual client funds held in segregated client money accounts or money market facilities established under the UK’s Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) ‘CASS’ rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. Such monies are not included in the Group’s 
Statement of Financial Position. 
(2) 
During the year the Group commenced the offering of an execution only stockbroking service in the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands. As a result the Group is 
required to segregate the clients’ equity positions under the Financial Conduct Authority’s ‘CASS’ rules. 
135 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 19.  LIQUIDITY ANALYSIS AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The following section provides an analysis of the Group’s available liquidity, the liquidity requirements that result from the 
Group’s business model, and sets out the key measures used to monitor and manage the level of liquidity available.
The key measures used by the Group are explained below:
Liquid assets: These are the total liquid assets that the Group can access. These include cash held at bank (both own cash and 
title transfer funds) as well as at brokers, the liquid assets buffer held by the Group and other cash amounts due to the Group. 
Own funds: These are liquid assets less title transfer funds. Title transfer funds are client monies held by the Group under a Title 
Transfer Collateral Arrangement (TTCA). 
Available liquid assets: Certain of the Group’s funds are not immediately available for the purposes of central market risk 
management as they are required to provide regulatory capital balances in regulated subsidiaries. Additionally, the Group’s 
overseas businesses also require working capital balances to both fund daily operations and to ensure sufficient liquidity is 
available to fund the local client segregation requirements. Available liquid assets are therefore liquid assets less all amounts 
held in overseas subsidiaries and amounts due from segregation – each of which are not considered immediately available for 
market risk management. 
Net available liquidity: This is the remaining liquidity available to the Group after the funding of the broker margin requirement 
associated with market risk management. 
Total available liquidity: This measure is the total of the Group’s liquid assets and the Group’s undrawn committed 
banking facilities.
In order to mitigate liquidity risks, the Group regularly stress-tests its three-year liquidity forecast to validate the appropriate 
level of committed unsecured bank facilities held. On 15 July 2014 the Group completed the renewal negotiations of the 
liquidity facility with a syndicate of three banks. In doing so, the Group has maintained the size of the overall facility at 
£200.0 million. Of the total committed banking facility, £120.0 million is available for a period of one year and £80.0 million is 
available for three years respectively from the facility signing date. The drawings made under the Group’s facility in the year 
ended 31 May 2014 are disclosed in note 19(c). 
Additionally, the Group’s Japanese business, IG Securities Limited, has a ¥300.0 million liquidity facility as at 31 May 2015 (2014: 
¥300 million).
The following notes have been provided to further explain the derivation of liquid assets, own funds, available liquid assets, net 
available liquidity and total available liquidity. The generation of own funds is disclosed in note 19(d).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 136 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 19(A)  LIQUID ASSETS AND OWN FUNDS
‘Liquid assets’, stated net of borrowings, and ‘own funds’ are the key measures the Group uses to monitor the overall level of 
liquidity available to the Group. The derivation of both liquid assets and own funds are shown in the following table:
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
Note £m £m
 Cash and cash equivalents
(1)
18 148.8 101.5
 Amounts due from brokers
(2)
17 239.2 303.9
 Financial investments – held at brokers
(3.1)
21 25.3 –
 Financial investments – liquid asset buffer
(3.2)
21 83.1 82.5
 Other amounts due to the Group
(4)
17, 22 27.6 20.4
 Liquid assets 524.0 508.3
 Less:
   Drawdown of committed banking facility – –
   Client funds held on balance sheet
(5)
22 (16.9) (21.0)
 Own funds 507.1 487.3
(1) 
Cash and cash equivalents represent cash held on demand with financial institutions (please refer to note 18). 
(2) 
Amounts due from brokers represent balances with brokers where the combination of cash held on account and the valuation of financial derivative open positions 
results in an amount due to the Group. These positions are held to hedge client market exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk management policy.
(3.1) 
During the year ended 31 May 2015 the Group purchased an additional UK Government Gilt which is held at brokers as collateral to support the hedging of client 
market exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk management policy (refer to note 21). 
(3.2) 
The UK Government securities held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset buffer’ against potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12. 
(4) 
Other amounts due to the Group include balances that will be transferred to the Group’s own cash from segregated client funds on the following working day in 
accordance with the FCA ‘CASS’ rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. This also includes amounts due from banking 
counterparties or held within segregated client funds in relation to monies transferred by clients to the Group that remain unsettled at the year-end. The Group is 
required to segregate these client funds at the point of client funding and not at cash settlement.
(5) 
Client funds held on balance sheet include both Title Transfer funds and client monies deposited with the Group’s Swiss banking subsidiary. These are recognised on 
the Group’s statement of financial position with an associated payable to clients. 
137 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 19. LIQUIDITY ANALYSIS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
19(B) THE GROUP’S LIQUIDITY REQUIREMENTS
The Group requires day-to-day liquidity for each of: the full segregation of client monies; the funding of regulatory and working 
capital in overseas businesses; the funding of margin requirements at brokers to hedge the underlying client positions under 
both normal and stressed conditions; the funding of a liquid asset buffer; and amounts associated with general working capital.
The available liquid assets measure excludes cash amounts tied up in both the requirement to segregate client funds and in the 
regulatory and working capital of overseas businesses, as they are not considered to be available for the purposes of central 
market and liquidity risk management. 
These requirements are analysed in the following table:
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
Note £m £m
Liquid assets 19(a) 524.0 508.3
Less: amounts required to ensure appropriate client money segregation 17, 22 (27.6) (20.4)
Less: amounts required for regulatory and working capital of overseas businesses
(1)
(58.8) (28.8)
Available liquid assets 437.6 459.1
 Less broker margin requirement
(2)
17 (204.8) (285.1)
 Net available liquidity 232.8 174.0
 Of which is:
Held as a liquid assets buffer
(3.1)
21 83.1 82.5
Drawdown of committed banking facility
(3.2)
– –
(1) 
In the year ended 31 May 2015 the Group made a regulatory capital injection into its United Arab Emirates and Swiss subsidiaries. The Group’s regulated 
subsidiaries in Australia, Japan, Singapore, South Africa, Switzerland, United Arab Emirates and the US all have minimum cash holding requirements associated 
with their respective regulatory capital requirements. Additionally, the Group’s regulated business or subsidiaries in Australia, Singapore, Japan, South Africa, 
United Arab Emirates and the US are required to segregate individual client funds in segregated client money bank accounts. This daily segregation requirement 
occurs prior to the release of funds from the UK (note: market risk management is performed centrally for the Group in the UK) in relation to the associated hedging 
positions held at external brokers. Accordingly, cash balances are held in each of the overseas businesses in order to ensure client money segregation obligations 
are met. Both the regulatory working capital amounts and customer deposits are not available to the Group for the purposes of central market risk management. 
(2) 
Positions are held with external brokers in order to hedge client market risk exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk management policies. 
(3.1) 
The liquid assets buffer is not available to the Group in the ordinary course of business, however utilisation is allowed in times of liquidity stress and therefore it is 
considered as available for the purposes of overall liquidity planning. 
(3.2) 
The short term banking facility was undrawn at 31 May 2015 and 31 May 2014.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 138 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 19(C)  LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT AND LIQUIDITY RISK
Liquidity risk is managed centrally and on a group-wide basis. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure it will 
have sufficient liquidity to meet its broker margin requirements and other financial liabilities when due, under both normal 
circumstances and stressed conditions. The Group has carried out an Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment (‘ILAA’) during 
the year, and while this applies specifically to the Group’s FCA regulated entities, it provides the context in which liquidity is 
managed on a continuous basis for the whole Group.
The Group does not have any material liquidity mismatches with regard to liquidity maturity profiles due to the very short-term 
nature of its financial assets and liabilities. Liquidity risk can, however, arise as individual client funds are required to be placed in 
segregated client money accounts in all jurisdictions with the exception of Switzerland where the entity has a banking licence. A 
result of this is that short-term (less than one week) liquidity ‘gaps’ can potentially arise in periods of very high client activity or 
significant increases or falls in global financial market levels. 
During periods of significant market movements the Group may be required to fund margin payments to brokers prior to the 
release of funds from segregation, and in periods of significant market increases or increased client activity, the Group may 
be required to fund higher margin requirements at brokers to hedge increased underlying client positions. These additional 
requirements are funded from the Group’s available liquid assets while these individual client positions are open, as individual 
client funds remain in segregated client money bank accounts.
In order to mitigate this and other liquidity risks, the Group regularly stress-tests its three-year liquidity forecast to validate the 
appropriate level of committed unsecured bank facilities held.
These facilities were drawn to a maximum of £25.0 million for a period of 7 days in January 2015, £50.0 million for a period of 
30 days in March 2015 and £25.0 million for a further 7 days in May 2015. On all three occasions, the drawdown was to fund 
relatively high levels of broker margin due to changes in market conditions. In the year ended 31 May 2014 the facilities were 
drawn down to a maximum of £50.0 million for a period of 30 days but partially repaid down to £25.0 million for a further 32 
days in October to December 2013, and for £30.0 million for 28 days during February and March 2014 following the reduction in 
available liquidity after payment of dividends and at a time of relatively high levels of broker margin.
As well as the three-year liquidity forecast, the Group also produces more detailed short-term liquidity forecasts and detailed 
stress-tests such that appropriate management actions or liquidity facility drawdown can occur prior to a period of expected 
liquidity requirements. 
A number of measures are used by the Group for managing liquidity risk, one of which is the level of total available liquidity. 
For this purpose, total liquidity is calculated as set out in the following table inclusive of the undrawn committed facility.
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
£m £m
 Liquid assets 524.0 508.3
 Undrawn committed banking facility
(1)
200.0 200.0
 Total liquidity (including facilities)
(2)
724.0 708.3
(1) 
Draw down of the committed banking facility is capped at 80% of the actual broker margin requirement on the draw down date. The maximum available draw down 
was £163.8 million at 31 May 2015 (2014: £200.0 million) based on the broker margin requirements on those dates, of which £nil was drawn down as at 31 May 2015 
(31 May 2014: £nil).
(2) 
Stated inclusive of the liquid assets buffer of £83.1 million (2014: £82.5 million) that is held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset 
buffer’ against potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12. Utilisation of the liquid assets buffer is allowed in times of liquidity stress and therefore it is considered as 
available for the purposes of overall liquidity planning.
The Group’s total liquidity enables the funding of large broker margin requirements when required – the total available liquidity 
that can be utilised for market risk management at 31 May 2015 should be considered in light of the intra-period high broker 
margin requirement of £293.7 million (2014: £290.3 million), the requirement to hold a liquid assets buffer, the continued growth 
of the business (both for client trading and geographic expansion), the Group’s commitment to segregation of individual clients, 
money as well as the declared final dividend for the year ending 31 May 2015, all of which draw upon the Group’s liquidity. 
139 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 19. LIQUIDITY ANALYSIS AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
19(D)  OWN FUNDS GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
The following cash flow statement summarises the Group’s generation of own funds during the year and excludes all cash flows 
in relation to monies held on behalf of clients. Additionally, both amounts due from brokers and financial investments have been 
included within ‘own funds’ in order to provide a clear presentation of the Group’s cash resources. The derivation of own funds 
is explained in note 19(a), and is stated net of amounts drawn on the Group’s committed banking facility. A narrative explanation 
of the key cash flows disclosed in the following cash flow statement is provided within the Operating and Financial Review.
Year ended
 31 May 2015
Restated*
 Year ended 
31 May 2014
£m £m
Operating activities
Profit before tax 169.5 194.9
Depreciation and amortisation (note 5) 10.7 9.7
Other non-cash adjustments (0.5) 3.8
Income taxes paid (42.9) (47.8)
Own funds generated from operations 136.8 160.6
Movement in working capital 7.9 (3.3)
Inflow/(outflow) from investing activities
Interest received 0.8           1.5
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (12.4)         (11.5)
Outflow from financing activities
Interest paid (1.9)   (2.0)
Equity dividends paid to owners of the parent (112.8) (84.8)
Total outflow from investing and financing activities (126.3) (96.8)
Increase in own funds 18.4 60.5   
Own funds at 1 June 487.3 429.3
Exchange gains/(losses) on own funds 1.4 (2.5)
Own funds at 31 May 507.1 487.3
* As outlined in the Group Accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in 
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information.
19(E)  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
As at 31 May 2015, the Group had £200.0 million in revolving credit facility from a syndicate of three UK banks. The Group has 
undertaken a review of its contingent liquidity requirements and, upon approval from the Executive Risk Committee, concluded 
to reduce the facility to £160.0 million and include a fourth bank in the syndicate. The inclusion of a fourth bank in the syndicate 
offers the Group further bank diversification. This new facility has £100.0 million available for up to a 1-year term (with an option 
to extend for a further year) and £60.0 million available for up to 3 years and was signed on 17 July 2015 (refer to note 39).
A final dividend of 19.70p per share amounting to £71.8 million was proposed by the Board on 15 July 2015. 
In the Directors’ opinion the Group has sufficient liquidity available to meet operational requirements under both normal and 
stressed conditions. Liquidity management is also dependent on credit risk management subsequently described in note 36(ii). 
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 140 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 20. CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
Group Company
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Restated* 
Year ended 
31 May 2014
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Year ended 
31 May 2014
Note £m £m £m £m
Operating activities
Operating profit/(losses) 169.6 195.4 (6.3) (2.3)
Adjustments to reconcile operating profit to net cash 
flow from operating activities:
  
Net interest income on segregated client funds (4.5) (5.5) – –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 5.7 4.7 – –
Amortisation of intangible assets 14 5.0 5.0 0.2 –
Non-cash foreign exchange losses/(gains) in 
operating profit
(6.2) 8.6 – –
Share-based payments 5.3 6.6 5.3 6.6
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 32.8 (40.9) 2.9 80.5
Increase in trade and other payables 2.7 2.6 110.7 1.0
Cash generated from operations 210.4 176.5 112.8 85.8
* As outlined in the Group Accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in 
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information.
21. FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS 
Group
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
£m £m
UK Government securities:
At 1 June 82.5 50.5
Purchase of securities 76.4 91.3
Maturity of securities and coupon receipts (51.3) (59.6)
Accrued interest 0.5 0.2
Net gains transferred to equity 0.3 0.1
At 31 May
(1)
108.4 82.5
Less non-current portion (75.5) (32.2)
Current portion 32.9 50.3
(1) 
The balance is made up as follows:
 Group
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
£m £m
Liquid asset buffer
(1.1)
83.1 82.5
Collateral at broker
(1.2)
25.3 –
(1.1) 
The UK Government securities are held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset buffer’ against potential liquidity stress under 
BIPRU 12. 
(1.2) 
During the year ended 31 May 2015 the Group purchased a £25.7m (carrying value of £25.3 million at 31 May 2015) UK Government Gilt which is held at brokers as 
collateral to support the hedging of client market exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk management policy. 
The effective interest rates of securities held at the year-end range from 0.41% to 1.01%.
Financial investments are shown as current assets when they have a maturity less than one year and are held as ‘available-
for-sale’. The fair value of securities held is based on closing market prices at the year end as published by the UK Debt 
Management Office. Please refer to note 36(i)(c) for a maturity profile.
141 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 22. TRADE PAYABLES 
Group
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
£m £m
Client funds held on balance sheet
(1)
16.9 21.0
Amounts due to clients
(2)
0.8 0.8
Other trade payables – 0.1
17.7 21.9
(1) 
Client funds held on balance sheet include both Title Transfer funds and client monies deposited with the Group’s Swiss banking subsidiary. These are recognised on 
the Group’s statement of financial position with an associated payable to clients. 
(2) 
Amounts due to clients represent a combination of balances that will be transferred from the Group’s own cash into segregated client funds on the following working 
day in accordance with the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) ‘CASS’ rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. 
23. OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
31 May 2015
Restated* 
31 May 2014
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
£m £m £m £m
Accruals 55.3 54.1 6.9 7.2
Other taxes and social security 5.9 4.3 – –
Amounts due to Group companies (Note 34b) – – 119.6 0.5
61.2 58.4 126.5 7.7
Included within accruals are amounts in relation to employee bonuses.
* As outlined in the Group Accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in  
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information.
24. PROVISIONS  
The Group and Company had no material provisions at 31 May 2015. (31 May 2014: £nil).
25. CONTIGENT LIABILITIES  
From time to time the Group may be involved in disputes in the ordinary course of business. Provision is made for all claims 
where costs are likely to be incurred and there are currently no contigent liabilities expected to have a material adverse financial 
impact on the Group’s consolidated results or net assets. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 142 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 26. REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES 
Company and Group
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
£m £m
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
40,000 preference shares of £1 each – –
The preference shares are entitled to a fixed non-cumulative dividend of 8% paid in preference to any other dividend. 
Redemption is only permissible in accordance with capital distribution rules or on the winding up of the Company where the 
holders are entitled to £1 per share plus, if the Company has sufficient distributable reserves, any accrued or unpaid dividends. 
The preference shares have no voting rights, except that they are entitled to vote should the Company fail to pay any amount 
due on redemption of the shares. The effective interest rate on these shares is 8% (2014: 8%).
27. SHARE CAPITAL 
COMPANY AND GROUP
Number of shares Share capital
Share premium 
account
£m £m
Allotted and fully paid:
(i) Ordinary shares (0.005p)
At 1 June 2013 364,894,924 – 206.8
Issued during the year 859,707 – –
At 31 May 2014 365,754,631 – 206.8
Issued during the year 403,145 – –
At 31 May 2015 366,157,776 – 206.8
(ii) B shares (0.001p)
At 31 May 2015 65,000
At 31 May 2014 65,000 – –
During the year to 31 May 2015, 403,145 (2014: 859,707) ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of £20 (2014: £43) were 
issued following the exercise of Sustained Performance Plan and Value Share Plan awards for a consideration of £20 (2014: £43).
Except as the ordinary shareholders have agreed or may otherwise agree, on a winding up of the Company, the balance of 
assets available for distribution after the payment of all of the Company’s creditors and subject to any special rights attaching to 
other classes of shares are distributed among the shareholders according to the amounts paid up on shares by them.
B shares
The B shares carry no entitlement to dividends and no voting rights. To the extent not already received by them the B 
shareholders shall, on a winding up of the Company be entitled to receive, from the trustee, a consideration equal to the 
amount realised by the sale by the trustee of approximately 122 ordinary shares for every B share held. 
143 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 28. OWN SHARES HELD IN EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUSTS  
The movements in own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts in respect of employee share plans during the year were  
as follows:
Company and Group
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
£m £m
At the beginning of the year:
1,046,727 (2014: 1,223,411) ordinary shares of 0.005p each 1.1 1.5
Purchased during the year:
48,169 (2014: 4,968) ordinary shares of  0.005p each 0.3 –
Exercised/re-allocated during the year:
124,561 (2014: 181,652) ordinary shares of 0.005p each (0.2) (0.4)
At the end of the year:
970,335 (2014: 1,046,727) ordinary shares of 0.005p each 1.2 1.1
The Group has a UK-resident Employee Benefit Trust in order to hold shares in the Company in respect of awards under the 
Group’s HM Revenue and Customs approved Share Incentive Plan (SIP). At 31 May 2015, 320,192 ordinary shares (2014: 389,725) 
were held in the trust and at the year-end have reduced shareholders’ equity by £2.5 million (2014: £2.3 million). These include 
35,956 ordinary shares (2014: 151,711) which were not allocated to employees and are available for future SIP awards. The 
market value of the shares held conditionally at the year-end was £0.3 million (2014: £0.9 million).
The Group has a Jersey resident Employee Benefit Trust which holds shares in the Company. At the 31 May 2015, the trust held 
512,075 (2014: 512,075) ordinary shares which are available to satisfy awards under the long-term share plans and Directors’ 
deferred bonus award. The shares held at the year-end have reduced shareholders’ equity by £26 (2014: £26). The market value 
of the shares held conditionally at the year-end was £4.0 million (2014: £3.1 million).
The Group has an Australian resident Employee Equity Plan Trust in order to hold shares in the Company in respect of awards 
under a SIP . At 31 May 2015, 15,126 ordinary shares (2014: 9,790) were held in the trust and at the year-end have reduced 
shareholders’ equity by £0.1 million (2014: £0.1 million). 
Upon flotation of the Company on 4 May 2005, 5,861,497 ordinary shares and cash of £2.4 million were transferred to the Jersey 
Employee Benefit Trust by institutional shareholders in order to satisfy their obligations to holders of 48,059 B shares and 16,941 
B shares respectively. During the year ended 31 May 2015, 100 (2014: 33) B shares were sold by B shareholders to the Trust. 
The Trust sold 12,195 (2014: 4,025) ordinary shares in order to realise the funds necessary to purchase these B shares. The Trust 
unconditionally held 63,992 (2014: 63,892) B shares at the year-end. The Trust also held 1,008 (2014: 1,108) B shares and 122,940 
(2014: 135,137) ordinary shares which it may sell in order to satisfy its obligations to B shareholders, all of whom are current or 
former employees.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 144 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 29. OTHER RESERVES
The share-based payment reserve relates to the estimated cost of equity-settled employee share plans based on a straight-
line basis over the vesting period and the associated taxation. The foreign currency translation reserve includes amounts in 
relation to the translation of overseas subsidiaries. The available-for-sale reserve includes unrealised gains or losses in respect of 
financial investments.
Share-
based
payments
(Note 30)
Foreign
currency
translation
Own shares 
held in 
Employee
Benefit
Trusts
(Note 28)
Transactions 
with non-
controlling 
interests
Available 
for sale
reserve
Total
other
reserves
Group £m £m £m £m £m £m
Restated* at 1 June 2013 33.3 55.4 (1.5) (2.1) – 85.1
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 6.6 – – – – 6.6
Excess of tax deduction benefit on share-based 
payments recognised directly in equity (Note 10)
– – – – – –
Foreign currency translation on overseas subsidiaries – (6.5) – – – (6.5)
Exercise of US share incentive plans – – – – – –
Exercise of UK share incentive plans (0.2) – 0.2 – – –
Utilisation of own shares 0.1 (0.2) 0.2 – – 0.1
Purchase of own shares – – – – – –
Gain on financial investments – – – – 0.1 0.1
At 31 May 2014 39.8 48.7 (1.1) (2.1) 0.1 85.4
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 5.3 – – – – 5.3
Excess of tax deduction benefit on share-based 
payments recognised directly in equity (Note 10)
0.5 – – – – 0.5
Foreign currency translation on overseas 
subsidiaries
– 0.6 – – – 0.6
Exercise of US share incentive plans – – – – – –
Exercise of UK share incentive plans (0.2) – 0.2 – – –
Utilisation of own shares – – – – – –
Purchase of own shares – – (0.3) – – (0.3)
Gain on financial investments – – – – 0.3 0.3
At 31 May 2015 45.4 49.3 (1.2) (2.1) 0.4 91.8
* As outlined in the Group Accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in  
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information.
Share-based
payments
(Note 30)
Own shares held 
in Employee 
Benefits Trusts
(Note 28)
Total other 
reserves
Company £m £m £m
At 1 June 2013 28.9 (1.5) 27.4
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 6.6 – 6.6
Excess of tax deduction benefit on share-based payments recognised 
directly in equity (Note 10)
– – –
Exercise of UK share incentive plans (0.2) 0.2 –
Utilisation of own shares 0.1 0.2 0.3
At 31 May 2014 35.4 (1.1) 34.3
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 5.3 – 5.3
Excess of tax deduction benefit on share-based payments recognised 
directly in equity (Note 10)
– – –
Exercise of UK share incentive plans (0.2) 0.2 –
Purchase of own shares – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 May 2015 40.5 (1.2) 39.3
145 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 30. EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS 
The Company operates four employee share plans: a Sustained Performance Plan (SPP), a Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), a 
Value-Sharing Plan (VSP) and a Share Incentive Plan (SIP), all of which are equity-settled. The expense recognised in the income 
statement in respect of share-based payments (including associated social security costs) was £6.3 million (2014: £7.1 million).
30(A)   CURRENT SCHEMES
Sustained Performance Plan (SPP) 
The SPP award was introduced in the year ended 31 May 2014 to replace the VSP award for the Group’s executive directors and 
other selected senior employees. The Remuneration Committee approves any awards made under the plan and is responsible 
for setting the policy for the operation of the plan, agreeing performance targets and participation.
The legal grant of awards under the SPP occurs post the relevant performance period. At the outset of the financial year 
the Remuneration Committee approves, and communicates to the participants, performance conditions and a pre-defined 
maximum monetary award in terms of multiple of salary. The grant of awards, in the form of equity settled par value options, is 
based upon three performance conditions: Total Shareholder Return (TSR), diluted earnings per share and operational non-
financial performance. Awards subsequently vest in tranches over the long-term (up to seven years), so the participant retains an 
ongoing substantial stake in the share price performance of the Company.
The following table shows the number of options awarded in relation to performance for the year ended 31 May 2014: 
Award date
Share price 
at award
Expected 
full vesting 
date
At the start 
of the year
Awarded 
during the 
year
Lapsed 
during the 
year
Exercised 
during the 
year
Dividend 
equivalent 
awarded 
during the 
year
At the end 
of the year
(number) (number) (number) (number) (number) (number)
4 Aug 2014 609.90p 4 Aug 2020 – 919,119 (104,073) (200,217) 29,220 644,049
Total – 919,119 (104,073) (200,217) 29,220 644,049
Of the above SPP exercised during the year ending 31 May 2015, the average share price at exercise was:
Award date Average share price at exercise
4 Aug 2014 615.56p
The weighted average exercise price of all SPP awards is 0.005p.
As a ‘shared understanding’ under IFRS2 is established between the Company and participants at the scheme outset, the costs 
associated with the SPP are accounted for as share-based payments from this time.
Further information on the Company’s SPP awards is given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The awards for the current year SPP will be granted post year-end following the approval of actual performance against targets 
set by the Remuneration Committee. A ten-day share price averaging period that will commence after the Company’s closed 
period is utilised to convert notional salary awarded into a number of options (refer to the Directors’ Remuneration Report for 
performance conditions).
The table below details the number of option awards expected to be awarded for the year ended 31 May 2015:
Award date Share price at 29 May 2015
(1)
 Expected full vesting date
Awards expected during the 
year ending 31 May 2016
(number)
4 Aug 2015 781.5p 4 Aug 2020 504,832
Total 504,832
(1) 
Closing share price on 29 May 2015.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 146 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
The LTIP award has been made available to senior management who are not invited to participate in the SPP . 
LTIP awards allow the award of nominal cost options, which vest when specific performance targets are achieved, conditional 
upon continued employment at the vesting date. For each award a minimum performance target has to be achieved before any 
shares vest and the awards vest fully once the maximum performance target is achieved. 
The awarded LTIP vests after three years with a predefined number of shares allocated pro-rata based on achieving diluted 
earnings per share growth of between zero and 9% for the awards made in the year ended 31 May 2014, and between zero and 
13% for the the year ended 31 May 2015, with straight line vesting in between.
The maximum number of LTIP awards that can vest under the awards made are:
Award date
Share price 
at award
Expected 
vesting date
At the start of 
the year
Awarded during 
the year
Lapsed during 
the year
Exercised during 
the year
At the end 
of the year
(number) (number) (number) (number) (number)
28 Nov 2013 584.00p 28 Nov 2016 437,733 – (31,321) – 406,412
5 Aug 2014 618.50p 5 Aug 2017 – 454,665 (8,403) – 446,262
Total 437,733 454,665 (39,724) – 852,674
The weighted average exercise price of all LTIP awards is 0.005p.
Share Incentive Plan (SIP)  
SIP awards are made available to all UK, Australian and US employees. The Executive Directors have responsibility for setting 
the terms of the award which are then approved by the Remuneration Committee.
The UK and Australian awards invite all employees to subscribe for up to £1,800/A$3,000 (2014: £1,500/A$3,000) of partnership 
shares, with the Company typically matching on a two-for-one (2014: one-for-one) basis. All matching shares vest after three 
years as long as the employee remains employed with the Group for the term of the award. Shares awarded under the scheme 
are held in trust in accordance with local tax authority rules. Employees are entitled to receive dividends on the shares held in 
trust for as long as they remain employees. 
The US award invites employees to invest a maximum of 5% of their salary bi-annually to the award. The award runs for a 
six-month period and at the end of this period, the employees are invited to purchase shares in IG Group Holdings plc at a 
discount of 15% to the scheme price, being the lower of the opening share price and the closing share price for the period.
The maximum number of SIP shares that can vest based on the awards made are:
Country  
of award Award date
Share 
price at 
award
Expected 
vesting date
At the start 
of the year
Awarded 
during the year
Lapsed during 
the year
Exercised 
during the year
At the end 
of the year
(number) (number) (number) (number) (number)
UK 28 July 2011 4.4374 28 July 2014 47,627 – (563) (47,064) –
Australia 1 August 2011 4.4477 1 August 2014 2,706 – – (2,706) –
UK 27 July 2012 4.5600 27 July 2015 73,153 – (9,257) (2,628) 61,268
Australia 22 August 2012 4.3200 22 August 2015 3,304 – – – 3,304
UK 26 July 2013 5.8000 25 July 2016 56,457 – (5,720) (1,034) 49,703
Australia 15 July 2013 5.7250 15 July 2016 3,780 – – (324) 3,456
UK 25 July 2014 6.0580 25 July 2017 – 195,238 (19,596) (2,376) 173,266
Australia 15 July 2014 5.9970 15 July 2017 – 8,366 – – 8,366
Total 187,027 203,604 (35,136) (56,132) 299,363
147 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 30. EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS (CONTINUED) 
30(A)   CURRENT SCHEMES (CONTINUED)
Of the above SIP awards exercised during the year ending 31 May 2015, the average weighted share price at exercise was:
Country of award Award date
Average share 
price at exercise
UK 28 Jul 2011 598.00p
Australia 1 Aug 2011 607.00p
UK 27 July 2012 639.77p
UK 26 Jul 2013 630.18p
Australia 15 July 2013 575.50p
UK 27 July 2014 701.50p
The weighted average exercise price of all SIP awards during the year ending 31 May 2015 is 605.16p.
30(B)  FAIR VALUE OF EQUITY-SETTLED AWARDS
The fair value of the equity-settled share-based payments to employees is determined at the date at which a shared 
understanding of the terms and conditions of the arrangement is reached between the Company and the participants. 
The weighted average fair value of the equity-settled awards granted or deemed as such under IFRS2 during the year was 
£8.9 million (2014: £11.2 million). 
For SIP awards, the fair value is determined to be the share price at the grant date, without making an adjustment for expected 
dividends, as awardees are entitled to dividends over the vesting period. 
For LTIP awards, the fair value at grant date is determined by taking the share price at grant date. An adjustment for the present 
value of future dividends is not required as dividend equivalents are awarded on options granted under the LTIP .
For potential SPP awards made under the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) criteria, fair value is calculated using an option pricing 
model prepared by advisers. For the SPP awards made under the earnings per share and non-financial operational measures 
the fair value is determined by taking the share price at deemed grant date less the present value of future dividends for the 
duration of the performance period. Dividend equivalents accrue under the SPP on awarded but unvested options post the 
performance period. Post vesting (minimum holding period) dividend equivalents cease to accrue on unexercised options. 
The inputs below were used to determine the fair value of the TSR element of the SPP awards granted on 12 September 2014:
Date of grant 12 September 2014
Share price at grant date (pence) 599.00p
Expected life of awards (years) 1
Risk-free sterling interest rate (%)
(1) 
–
IG expected volatility (%)
(2) 
19.78%
Benchmark index correlation (%) 18.08%
Interim dividend estimate
(3)
8.45p
(1) 
Due to minimal exercise price the risk-free rate has no impact on the fair value calculation.
(2) 
Based on historical TSR volatility of IG Group Holdings plc measured daily over a period prior to the date of grant and commensurate with the remaining 
performance period.
(3) 
The dividend paid in the period from the deemed grant date to the end of the performance period, from which date dividend equivalents accrue on awarded but 
unvested options.
The weighted average fair values per award granted are as follows:
At the beginning 
of the year
Awarded during 
the year
Lapsed during 
the year
Exercised during 
the year
At the end  
of the year
Year ended 31 May 2015 262.45p 526.33p 242.96p 419.82p 534.09p
Year ended 31 May 2014 266.93p 583.42p 287.95p 254.55p 262.45p
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 148 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 30(C)  LEGACY SCHEMES
Value Sharing Plan (VSP) 
The VSP award was an annual award introduced during the year ended 31 May 2011. In the year ended 31 May 2014, however, 
the VSP awards were replaced by the SPP for executives and selected senior management and LTIP awards for other senior 
management. VSP awards were conditional awards made available to Executive Directors and other senior staff. Participants do 
not pay to receive awards or to exercise options. The VSP performance period is over three years with a pre-defined number 
of shares allocated, for each £10 million of surplus shareholder value created over the three-year period above a hurdle. Half 
of the shares vest after three years and can be exercised at that date, with the remaining half being deferred for a further 
year, conditional upon continued employment at the vesting date. The VSP is based upon two performance conditions, 
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and profit before taxation.
The maximum number of VSP shares that can vest based on the awards made are:
Award date
Share 
price at 
award
Expected 
vesting 
date
At the start 
of the year
Awarded during 
the year 
Lapsed during  
the year 
Exercised during 
the year
At the end of 
the year 
(number) (number) (number) (number) (number)
29 Oct 2010 528.50p 29 Oct 2013 17,057 –   – (17,057) –
29 Oct 2010 528.50p 29 Oct 2014 121,893 –   (705) (96,213) 24,975
20 Jul 2011 450.00p 31 Jul 2014 100,214 –   (9,261) (89,640) 1,313
20 Jul 2011 450.00p 31 Jul 2015 98,864 –   (17,227)                 –   81,637
1 Aug 2012 449.70p 31 Jul 2015 3,491,992 –   (3,491,992)                 –   –
1 Aug 2012 449.70p 31 Jul 2016 3,482,189 –   (3,482,189)                 –   –
Total 7,312,209 – (7,001,374) (202,910) 107,925
Of the above VSP exercised during the year ending 31 May 2015, the average share price at exercise was: 
Award date Average share price at exercise
29 Oct 2010 602.89p
20 Jul 2011 627.38p
The weighted average exercise price of all VSP awards is 0.005p.
Legacy Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
The historic LTIP awards were made available to Executive Directors and other senior staff in the years ended 31 May 2005 to 
31 May 2010 and were then replaced by the VSP award. 
These historic LTIP awards allowed the award of nil cost or nominal cost shares which were legally classified as options and 
vested when specific performance targets were achieved, conditional upon continued employment at the vesting date. For 
each award a minimum performance target had to be achieved before any options vested and the awards vested fully once the 
maximum performance target was achieved. 
The remaining number of LTIP awards that can be exercised is:
Award date
Share 
price at 
award
Expected 
vesting 
date
At the start 
of the year
Awarded during 
the year
Lapsed during 
the year
Exercised during 
the year
At the end of 
the year
(number) (number) (number) (number) (number)
23 Jul 2007 312.25p 23 Jul 2010 15,952 – – – 15,952
Total 15,952 – – – 15,952
The weighted average exercise price of all LTIP awards is 0.005p.
149 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 31.  CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
The Group and Company had £0.4 million capital expenditure contracted for at year end but not yet incurred 
(2014: £0.9 million). 
32. OBLIGATIONS UNDER LEASES  
Operating lease agreements  
The Group and Company have entered into commercial leases on certain properties. Future minimum rentals payable under 
non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
Group £m £m
Future minimum payments due:
Not later than one year 5.3 4.9
After one year but not more than five years 15.9 16.4
After more than five years 12.1 17.9
33.3 39.2
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
Company £m £m
Future minimum payments due:
Not later than one year 2.3 2.3
After one year but not more than five years 9.5 9.6
After more than five years 10.5 15.3
22.3 27.2
The Group’s main lease on its UK headquarters and several of its smaller offices include annual inflationary rent increase clauses.
33. TRANSACTIONS WITH DIRECTORS
During the year ended 31 May 2015 the Group paid £13,200 (inclusive of VAT) to Promontory Financial Group (UK) Limited 
(Promontory) for financial advisory services. The services provided were made in the ordinary course of business on similar terms 
as those prevailing for transactions with other persons unconnected with the Group. S Tymms is a Non-Executive Director for 
the Group and a managing director for Promontory. The Group had no other transactions with its Directors other than those 
disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 150 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 34. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
34(A) GROUP
The Directors and other members of management classified as ‘persons discharging management responsibility’ in accordance 
with the Financial Services and Markets Act are considered to be the key management personnel of the Group in accordance 
with IAS 24. The Directors’ Remuneration Report discloses all benefits and share-based payments made during the year and the 
preceding year to the Directors. The total compensation for key management personnel together with their connected parties 
was as follows:
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
Company £m £m
Short-term employee benefits 2.8 2.7 
Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.3
Share-based payments 3.2 4.0
6.3 7.0
34(B) COMPANY
The Company had the following amounts outstanding with subsidiaries at the year-end:
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
£m £m
Loans to related parties 201.8 133.0
Loans from related parties 119.6 0.5
All amounts remain outstanding at the year-end and are repayable on demand. A number of intercompany amounts were 
subject to offset arrangements during the year. 
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
Accounting classifications and fair values – Group
The table below sets out the classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values (excluding 
accrued interest). The Group considers the carrying value of all financial assets and liabilities to be a reasonable approximation 
of fair value and represents the Group’s maximum credit exposure without taking account of any collateral held or other 
credit enhancements.
‘Trade receivables – due from brokers’ represent balances with brokers where the combination of cash held on account 
(disclosed as loans and receivables) and the valuation of financial derivative open positions (disclosed as held for trading) 
results in an amount due to the Group. These positions are held to hedge client market exposures and hence are considered 
to be held for trading and are accordingly accounted for at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL). These transactions are 
conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard margin trading activities and are reported net in the Group 
Statement of Financial Position as the Group has both the legal right and intention to settle on a net basis. 
‘Trade payables due to clients’ represent balances where the combination of client cash held on account and the valuation of 
financial derivative open positions results in an amount payable by the Group. Trade payables – due to clients are reported net 
in the Group Statement of Financial Position as the Group adjusts the gross amount payable to clients (ie monies held on behalf 
of clients) for profits or losses incurred on a daily basis consistent with the legal right and intention to settle on a net basis.
151 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
The Group’s financial instruments are classified as follows: 
Group Note
FVTPL – 
Held for 
trading
Loans and 
receivables
Other 
amortised 
cost
Available- 
for-sale
Total 
carrying 
amount Fair value
As at 31 May 2015 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 18 – 148.8 – – 148.8 148.8
Financial investments
(1) 
 21 – – – 108.4 108.4 108.4
Trade receivables – due (to)/from brokers:
Non-exchange traded instruments (9.7) 176.2 – – 166.5 166.5
Exchange-traded instruments 0.8 71.9 – – 72.7 72.7
Total trade receivables – due (to)/from brokers (8.9) 248.1 – – 239.2 239.2
Trade receivables – due from clients 17 – 2.0 – – 2.0 2.0
Trade receivables – other amounts due from clients 17 – 28.4 – – 28.4 28.4
 (8.9) 427.3 – 108.4 526.8 526.8
Financial liabilities
Trade payables – Client funds held on balance sheet 22 – – 16.9 – 16.9 16.9
Trade payables – Amounts due to clients 22 – 0.8 – – 0.8 0.8
Redeemable preference shares 26 – – – – – –
– 0.8 16.9 – 17.7 17.7
(1) 
The balance is made up of £83.1 million (2014: £82.5 million) of UK Government securities held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid 
asset buffer’ against potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12, and a £25.3 million (2014: £nil) UK Government Gilt which is held at brokers as collateral to support the 
hedging of client market exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk management policy (refer to note 21).
Group Note
FVTPL – 
Held for 
trading
Loans and 
receivables
Other 
amortised 
cost
Available- 
for-sale
Total 
carrying 
amount Fair value
As at 31 May 2014
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 18 – 101.5 – – 101.5 101.5
Financial investments
(1) 
 21 – – – 82.5 82.5 82.5
Trade receivables – due (to)/from brokers:
 Non-exchange traded instruments 12.3 175.9 – – 188.2 188.2
 Exchange-traded instruments (35.7) 151.4 – – 115.7 115.7
Total trade receivables – due (to)/from brokers (23.4) 327.3 – – 303.9 303.9
Trade receivables – due from clients 17 – 2.3 – – 2.3 2.3
Trade receivables – other amounts due to the Group 17 – 21.3 – – 21.3 21.3
 (23.4) 452.4 – 82.5 511.5 511.5
Financial liabilities
Trade payables – Client funds held on balance sheet 22 – – 21.0 – 21.0 21.0
Trade payables – Amounts due to clients 22 – 0.8 – – 0.8 0.8
Redeemable preference shares 26 – – – – – –
– 0.8 21.0 – 21.8 21.8
(1) 
£82.5 million of UK Government securities held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset buffer’ against potential liquidity stress 
under BIPRU 12 (refer to note 21).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 152 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Financial instrument valuation hierarchy  
The hierarchy of the Group’s financial instruments carried at fair value is as follows:
 Level 1
(1)
Level 2
(2)
Level 3
(3)
Total fair 
value
Group £m £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2015
Financial assets:
Trade receivables – due from/(to) brokers 0.8 (9.7) – (8.9)
Financial investments
(4)
108.4 – – 108.4
(1) 
Valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments. This category includes the Group’s exchange-traded open 
hedging positions. 
(2) 
Valued using techniques where a price is derived based significantly on observable market data. For example, where an active market for an identical financial 
instrument to the product offered by the Group to its clients or used by the Group to hedge its market risk does not exist. 
(3) 
Valued using techniques that incorporate information other than observable market data that is significant to the overall valuation. 
 There have been no changes in the valuation techniques for any of the Group’s financial instruments held at fair value in the year (2014: none). During the year 
ended 31 May 2015, there were no transfers (2014: none) between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair value 
measurements (2014: none).
(4) 
The balance is made up of £83.1 million (2014: £82.5 million) of UK Government securities held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid 
asset buffer’ against potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12, and a £25.3 million (2014: £nil) UK Government Gilt which is held at brokers as collateral to support the 
hedging of client market exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk management policy (refer to note 21). 
 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Total fair 
value
Group £m £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2014
Financial assets:
Trade receivables – due (to)/from brokers (35.7) 12.3 – (23.4)
Financial investments
(5)
82.5 – – 82.5
(5) 
£82.5 million of UK Government securities held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset buffer’ against potential liquidity stress 
under BIPRU 12 (refer to note 21).
153 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
Reconciliation of the movement in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy
 
At 1 June 
2014
Gains or 
losses in 
revenue
(1)
Cash 
settled 
positions 
(2)
Transfers
At 31 May 
2015
(3)
Group £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets:
Trade receivables – due from clients (Note 3(a)) – 36.2 (36.2) – –
(1) 
Disclosed in trading revenue in the income statement. This represents client positions that have closed in the year as well those open at the year end.
(2)
 Value of client positions that have cash settled in the year. 
(3)
 Value of open, unsettled client positions at the yearend disclosed in trading revenue in the income statement. 
 
At 1 June 
2013
Gains or 
losses in 
revenue
Cash 
settled 
positions Transfers
At 31 May 
2014
Group £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets:
Trade receivables – due to clients (Note 3(a)) – 26.8 (26.8) – –
The impact of a reasonably possible alternative valuation assumption on the valuation of trade receivables – due from clients 
reported within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy is not significant. 
Accounting classifications and fair values – Company
 
FVTPL – 
Held for 
trading
Loans and 
receivables
Other 
amortised 
cost
Available- 
for-sale
Total 
carrying 
amount Fair value
Company £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2015
Financial assets:
Cash and cash equivalents – – – – – –
Amounts due from Group companies (Note 34(b)) – 201.8 – – 201.8 201.8
– 201.8 – – 201.8 201.8
Financial liabilities:
Amounts due to Group companies (Note 34(b)) – – 119.6 – 119.6 119.6
Redeemable preference shares – – – – – –
– – 119.6 – 119.6 119.6
 
FVTPL – 
Held for 
trading
Loans and 
receivables
Other 
amortised 
cost
Available- 
for-sale
Total 
carrying 
amount Fair value
Company £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2014
Financial assets:
Cash and cash equivalents – – – – – –
Amounts due from Group companies (Note 34(b)) – 133.0 – – 133.0 133.0
– 133.0 – – 133.0 133.0
Financial liabilities:
Amounts due to Group companies (Note 34(b)) – – 0.5 – 0.5 0.5
Redeemable preference shares – – – – – –
– – 0.5 – 0.5 0.5
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 154 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Items of income, expense, gains or losses – Group
Gains and losses arising from financial assets and liabilities classified as fair value through the profit and loss, held for trading, 
amounted to net gains of £388.4 million (2014: £370.4 million).
Finance income (refer to note 8) totalled £1.8 million (2014: £1.5 million). An amount of £1.8 million (2014: £1.5 million) represents 
interest income on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss and includes interest receivable in respect of non-
segregated client balances, part of which is held with broker and interest receivable calculated using the Effective Interest Rate 
methodology for financial investments. 
Finance costs (refer to note 9) totalled £1.9 million (2014: £2.0 million). An amount of £1.8 million represents interest expense 
on financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss (2014: £0.4 million). The remainder, £0.1 million (2014: £1.6 million) 
represents fee expense arising from maintaining the Group’s committed bank facilities. 
Financial instruments subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements and similar arrangements
Within the Group’s terms and conditions with individual clients and brokers are standard netting agreement clauses. The effect 
of these netting arrangements, including rights of set-off associated within the Group’s recognised financial assets and financial 
liabilities is as follows: 
 
Gross amounts 
before offsetting
Amounts set off in 
the balance sheet
Net amounts presented 
in the balance sheet
Group Note £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2015
Financial assets
Financial investments
(1)
21 108.4 – 108.4
Trade receivables – due from brokers
(2)
17 320.9 (81.7) 239.2
Trade receivables – due from clients
(3)
17 264.5 (236.1) 28.4
Trade receivables – other amounts due to the Group 17 2.0 – 2.0
695.8 (317.8) 378.0
Financial liabilities
Trade payables – due to brokers
(2)
81.7 (81.7) –
Trade payables 22 253.8 (236.1) 17.7
335.5 (317.8) 17.7
(1) 
The balance is made up of £83.1 million (2014: £82.5 million) held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset buffer’ against 
potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12, and a £25.3 million (2014: £nil) UK Government Gilt which is held at brokers as collateral to support the hedging of client 
market exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk management policy (refer to note 21).
(2) 
‘Trade receivables - due from brokers’ and ‘Trade payables – due to brokers’ represent balances with brokers where the combination of cash held on account 
(disclosed as loans and receivables) and the net valuation of financial derivative open positions (disclosed as held for trading) results in an amount due to/from 
the Group. The net financial derivative open positions have been presented gross according to whether individual positions held at brokers are in a profit or 
loss position.
(3) 
‘Trade receivables - due from clients’ represent balances with clients where the combination of cash held on account (disclosed as loans and receivables) and the net 
valuation of financial derivative open positions (disclosed as held for trading) results in an amount due to the Group. The net financial derivative open positions have 
been presented gross according to whether individual positions held with clients are in a profit or loss position.
155 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | Financial instruments subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements and similar arrangements (continued)
 
Gross amounts 
before offsetting
Amounts set off in 
the balance sheet
Net amounts 
presented in the 
balance sheet
Group Note £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2014
Financial assets
Financial investments
(1)
21 82.5 – 82.5
Trade receivables – due from brokers 17 379.5 (75.6) 303.9
Trade receivables – due from clients 17 282.0 (279.7) 2.3
Trade receivables – other amounts due to the Group 17 21.3 – 21.3
765.3 (355.3) 410.0
Financial liabilities
Trade payables – due to brokers 75.6 (75.6) –
Trade payables 22 301.6 (279.7) 21.9
377.2 (355.3) 21.9
(1) 
£82.5 million of UK Government securities held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset buffer’ against potential liquidity stress 
under BIPRU 12 (refer to note 21 for details).
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Responsibility for risk management, including financial risks, resides at all levels within the Group, starting with the Board of 
Directors. Our Corporate Governance structure, including details of how the Board delegates responsibility for internal control 
and risk management to our Audit and Risk committees, is described in detail in the Corporate Governance section of the 
Annual Report. 
The Group’s Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment (ILAA), while 
applying specifically to the Group’s FCA entities, provide an on-going assessment of the risks the Group considers to have 
the potential to have a significant detrimental impact on its financial performance and future prospects and describes how the 
Group mitigates these risks subject to the Group’s risk appetite.
Financial risks arising from financial instruments are analysed into market, credit, concentration and liquidity risks, and these are 
discussed below. 
(i)  Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices will affect the Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial 
instruments. This is analysed into market price, currency and interest rate risk components.
The Group’s market risk is managed under the ‘Market Risk Policy’ on a group-wide basis and exposure to market risk at 
any point in time depends primarily on short-term market conditions and the levels of client activity. The Group utilises 
market position limits for ‘operational efficiency’ and does not take proprietary positions based on an expectation of market 
movements. As a result not all net client exposures are hedged and the Group may have a residual net position in any of the 
financial markets in which it offers products up to the market risk limit. 
The Group’s Market Risk Policy incorporates a methodology for setting market position limits, consistent with the Group’s risk 
appetite, for each financial market in which the Group’s clients can trade, as well as certain markets which the Board considers 
to be correlated. These limits are determined with reference to the expected liquidity and volatility of the underlying financial 
product or asset class and represent the maximum long and short client exposure that the Group will hold without hedging the 
net client exposure.
The Group’s real-time market position monitoring system allows it to monitor its market exposure against these limits 
continuously. If exposures exceed these limits, the policy requires that hedging is undertaken to bring the exposure back within 
the defined limit. 
There is a significant level of ‘natural’ hedging arising from the Group’s global client base pursuing varying trading strategies 
which results in a significant portfolio hedging effect. This reduces the Group’s net market exposure prior to the Group hedging 
any residual net client exposures. 
Where the Group has residual positions in markets for which it has not been possible or cost-effective to hedge, the Executive 
Risk Committee determines the appropriate action and reviews these exposures regularly, subject to the risk management 
framework approved by the Board.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 156 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Binary bets and options are typically difficult or not cost-effective to hedge and there is often no direct underlying market which 
can be utilised in setting the price which the Group quotes. The Group normally undertakes no hedging for these markets, but 
can hedge specific positions if considered necessary. The Group aims to reduce the volatility of revenue from these markets 
by offering a large number of different betting opportunities, the results of which should, to some extent, offset each other 
irrespective of the underlying market outcome. The overwhelmingly short-term nature of these contracts means that risk on 
these markets at any point in time is not considered to be significant.
A)  MARKET PRICE RISK
This is the risk that the fair value of a financial instrument fluctuates as a result of changes in market prices other than due to the 
effect of currency or interest rate risks.
Equity market price risk:
The most significant market risk faced by the Group is on equity positions, including shares and indices which are highly 
correlated and managed on a portfolio basis. 
During the year, following further development of the back-end risk management systems, a detailed analysis of the risk 
limits market-by-market was undertaken. This resulted in increasing certain risk limits, as well as making the main regional and 
global equity limits dynamic by responding intraday when the market is open and most liquid, when client activity increases or 
decreases and reducing the limit approaching market closing. Accordingly, the intraday limit will fluctuate but with a maximum 
limit set at £100.0 million. 
At 31 May 2015 the exposure limit was £30.0 million (2014: £20.0 million) and the Group’s equity exposure was £2.8 million 
(2014: £2.7 million). The average equity exposure limit during the year was £26.4 million (2014: £18.2 million). As noted earlier in 
this section, the Group’s market risk policy requires that when the exposure exceeds the exposure limit, hedging is undertaken 
to bring the exposure back within that limit as soon as practical. 
The Group has no significant concentration of market risk. 
No sensitivity analysis is presented for equity market price risk as the impact of reasonably possible market movements on the 
Group’s net trading revenue and equity are not significant, being less than the Group’s average daily net trading revenue from 
financial instruments. Changes in market risk variables have no direct impact on the Group’s equity as the Group has no financial 
instruments designated in hedging relationships.
Other market price risk:
The Group also has market price risk as a result of its trading activities (offering bets and Contracts for Difference (CFDs) on 
interest rate derivatives and commodities) that is hedged as part of the overall market risk management. The exposure is 
monitored on a Group-wide basis and is hedged using exchange-traded futures and options. Exposure limits are set by the 
Executive Risk Committee for each product, and also for groups of products where it is considered that their price movements 
are likely to be positively correlated. 
The exposure to interest rate derivatives and commodities at the year-end are as follows:
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
£m £m
Interest rate derivatives 11.0 11.2
Commodities 7.4 4.7
No sensitivity analysis is presented for other market price risk as the impact of reasonably possible market movements on the 
Group’s net trading revenue are not significant. Changes in risk variables have no direct impact on the Group’s equity as the 
Group has no financial instruments designated in hedging relationships.
157 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
B) FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK
The Group is exposed to two sources of foreign currency risk.
i) Translational foreign currency risk
Translation exposures arise from financial and non-financial items held by an entity with a functional currency different from 
the Group’s presentation currency. The functional currency of each company in the Group is that denominated by the country 
of incorporation as disclosed in note 15. The Group does not hedge translational exposures as they do not have a significant 
impact on the Group’s capital resources. 
ii)  Transactional foreign currency risk
Transactional foreign currency exposures represent financial assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the 
functional currency of the transacting entity. Transaction exposures arise in the normal course of business and the management 
of this risk forms part of the risk policies outlined above. Limits on the exposures which the Group will accept in each currency 
are set by the Executive Risk Committee and the Group hedges its exposures as necessary with market counterparties. Foreign 
currency risk is managed on a group-wide basis, while the Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk is not considered by the 
Directors to be significant.
The Group monitors transactional foreign currency risks including currency statement of financial position exposures, equity, 
commodity, interest and other positions denominated in foreign currencies and bets and trades on foreign currencies. The 
Group’s net exposure to foreign exchange risk based on notional amounts at each year-end was as follows:
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
£m £m
US dollar (4.9) (2.4)
Euro (9.1) (1.8)
Australian dollar (2.3) 0.9
Yen (2.7) (8.8)
Other (3.9) 3.6
No sensitivity analysis is presented for foreign exchange risk as the impact of reasonably possible market movements on the 
Group’s net trading revenue are not significant. Changes in risk variables have no direct impact on the Group’s equity as the 
Group has no financial instruments designated in hedging relationships.
C)  NON-TRADING INTEREST RATE RISK
The Group also has interest rate risk relating to financial instruments not held at fair value through profit or loss. These 
exposures are not hedged.
The interest rate risk profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities as at each year-end was as follows:
Within 1 year
Between  
2 and 5 years More than 5 years Total
 
31 May 
2015
31 May 
2014
31 May 
2015
31 May 
2014
31 May 
2015
31 May 
2014
31 May 
2015
31 May 
2014
Group £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate
Redeemable preference shares – – – – – –
Financial investments
(1)
32.9 50.3 75.5 32.2 – – 108.4 82.5
Floating rate 
Cash and cash  equivalents 148.8 101.5 – – – – 148.8 101.5
Trade receivables – due from brokers 239.2 303.9 – – – – 239.2 303.9
Trade payables – client funds held on 
balance sheet
(16.9) (21.0) – – – – (16.9) (21.0)
 404.0 434.7 75.5 32.2 – – 479.5 466.9
(1) 
Financial investments are made up of £83.1 million (2014: £82.5 million) held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset buffer’ 
against potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12, and a £25.3 million (2014: £nil) UK Government Gilt which is held at brokers as collateral to support the hedging of 
client market exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk management policy (refer to note 21). 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 158 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument. Please refer to note 21 for 
effective interest rates received.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year. Trade receivables and 
payables include client and broker balances upon which interest is paid or received based upon market rates. 
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
A non-traded interest rate risk sensitivity analysis has been performed on net interest income on segregated client funds, based 
on the value of client funds held at the year-end, on the basis of a 0.25% (2014: 0.25%) per annum fall and a 0.5% (2014: 0.5%) 
rise in interest rates, at the beginning of the year, as these are considered ‘reasonably possible’. The impact of such a fall in 
interest rates would reduce net interest income on segregated client funds by approximately £2.2 million (2014: £1.6 million) 
per annum. The impact of such a rise in interest rates would increase net interest income on segregated client funds by 
approximately £4.5 million (2014: £3.3 million) per annum. Changes in risk variables have no material impact on the Group’s 
equity as the Group has no financial instruments designated in hedging relationships.
(ii)  Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty fails to perform its obligations, resulting in financial loss. The principal sources of credit 
risk to our business are from financial institutions and individual clients.
The Group’s credit risk is managed on a group-wide basis.
A) FINANCIAL INSTITUTION CREDIT RISK
Financial institution credit risk is managed in accordance with the Group’s ‘Counterparty Credit Management Policy’. 
Financial institutional counterparties are subject to a credit review when a new relationship is entered into and this is updated 
semi-annually (or more frequently as required eg on a change in the financial institution’s corporate structure). Proposed 
maximum exposure limits for these financial institutions are then reviewed and approved by the Executive Risk Committee.
As part of its management of concentration risk, the Group is also committed to maintaining multiple brokers for each 
asset class. Where possible, the Group negotiates for its funds to receive client money protection which can reduce direct 
credit exposure. 
In respect of financial institution credit risk, the following key metrics are monitored on a daily basis:
• Balances held with each counterparty group, against limits approved by the Executive Risk Committee; and
• Any change in short- and long-term credit rating.
The Group is responsible under various regulatory regimes for the stewardship of client monies. These responsibilities are 
defined in the Group’s Counterparty Credit Management Policy and include the appointment of and periodic review of 
institutions with which client money is deposited. The Group’s general policy is that all financial institutional counterparties 
holding client money accounts must have minimum short- and long-term ratings of A-2 and A- respectively, although in some 
operating jurisdictions where accounts are maintained to provide local banking facilities for clients it can be problematic to 
find a banking counterparty satisfying these minimum ratings requirements. In such cases the Group will seek to use a locally 
systemically important institution. These criteria also apply for the Group’s own bank accounts held with financial institutions. 
The Group also actively manages the credit exposure to each of its broking counterparties settling or recalling balances at each 
broker on a daily basis in line with the collateral requirements. 
In addition, the majority of deposits are made on an overnight or breakable term basis which enables the Group to react 
immediately to any deterioration in credit quality, and deposits of an unbreakable nature or requiring notice are only held with 
a subset of counterparties which have been approved by the Executive Risk Committee. At 31 May 2015 there were no deposits 
held on an unbreakable basis (2014: £nil).
159 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
B)  CLIENT CREDIT RISK
The Group operates a real-time mark-to-market trading platform, with client profits and losses being constantly updated on 
each client’s account.
Client credit risk principally arises when a client’s total funds deposited with the Group are insufficient to cover any trading 
losses incurred. In addition, a small number of clients are granted credit limits to cover open losses and margin requirements as 
described below.
In particular, client credit risk can arise where there are significant, sudden movements in the market i.e. due to high general 
market volatility or specific volatility relating to an individual financial instrument in which the client has an open position.
We mitigate, but do not eliminate, client credit risk in a number of ways, including the real time monitoring of client positions 
via our ‘close-out monitor’, the ability of clients to set a level in advance at which the deal will be closed (the ‘stop’ level or 
‘guaranteed stop’ level) and the use of tiered margining. 
Credit risk is also mitigated in part through increased margin requirements on larger positions, our client suitability criteria, and 
is supported by an extensive training programme that aims to educate clients in all aspects of trading and risk management 
which encourages them to collateralise their accounts at an appropriate level in excess of the minimum requirement.
The principal types of client credit risk exposure are managed under the Group’s ‘Client Credit Management Policy’ and depend 
on the type of account and any credit offered to clients as follows: 
Clients subject to the Group’s ‘close-out monitor’
The ‘close-out monitor’ (COM) is an automated liquidation process whereby accounts which have broken the liquidation 
threshold are automatically identified. Where client losses are such that their total equity falls below the specified liquidation 
level positions will be liquidated, resulting in reduced credit risk exposure for the Group. 
Both the ‘close-out monitor’ and client initiated ‘stops’ result in the transfer of market risk to the Group. Market risk arises 
following the closure of the underlying client position as the Group (subject to the market risk limits, discussed in the ‘Market 
risk’ section with regards to market risk), may hold a corresponding hedging position that will, assuming sufficient market 
liquidity, be unwound. 
In addition a subset of clients has what are known as ‘Limited Risk’ accounts. For such accounts a level is set in advance (the 
‘guaranteed stop’ level) at which the deal will be closed, meaning a maximum client loss can be calculated at the opening of 
the trade. Clients placing trades with guaranteed stop levels pay a small premium on each transaction. The maximum loss is 
then the amount the client is required to deposit to open the trade, meaning that in most circumstances the client can never 
lose more than their initial margin deposit. Although no longer offered to new clients, the Group still has a significant number of 
clients with this type of account. This type of account results in the transfer of an element of market risk to the Group, which is 
managed under the Group’s Market Risk Policy, and only a subset of more liquid products are available to trade. Clients with any 
type of account may still choose to use guaranteed stops (where available and on payment of the premium).
The majority of client positions are monitored on the Group’s real-time COM system or are limited risk accounts with 
guaranteed ‘stop-losses’. As at 31 May 2015, 99.85% (2014: 99.81%) of financial client accounts are subject to the automatic 
COM procedure or are ‘limited risk’ accounts. 
Credit accounts
Clients holding other types of accounts are permitted to deal in circumstances where they may be capable of suffering losses 
greater than the funds they have deposited on their account, or in limited circumstances are allowed credit. The Group has a 
formal credit policy which determines the financial and experience criteria which a client must satisfy before being given an 
account which exposes the Group to credit risk, including trading limits for each client and strict margining rules. 
The Group may offer credit limits with the result that any ‘open loss’ can be paid subject to agreed credit terms. These accounts 
typically only create a credit exposure when the client’s loss exceeds their initial margin deposit. 
In addition to the waiver of payment of open losses on a trade, the Group may also offer clients credit in respect of their 
initial margin. This is a permanent waiving of initial margin requirements while the limit is active on the account subject to the 
credit limit.
Credit limits are only granted following provision by the client of evidence of their available financial resources and credit 
accounts limits are continuously reviewed by the Group’s Credit Department. Each client with a credit limit is also assigned 
a liquidation level, breach of which will result in closure of positions. Credit accounts are small in number, are not actively 
promoted and in general they are not made available to new clients.
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 160 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Risk-based tiered margins
The Group applies a tiered-margin requirement for equities and other instruments with risk-adjusted margin requirements 
dependent on several factors including the volatility and liquidity of the underlying instrument. 
This has resulted in potential margin requirement of up to 75% of the value of the notional client position for large client 
positions but a reduced margin requirement for smaller client positions.
These tiered margins, in addition to the COM discussed earlier, contribute to the further mitigation of the Group’s client 
counterparty credit risk exposure.
Management of client collateral 
The Group also accepts collateral from a small number of its stockbroking clients in the form of shares or other securities which 
mitigate the Group’s credit risk. Clients retain title to the securities lodged while their trading account is operating normally, 
but are required to sign a collateral agreement which will allow the Group to take title and sell the securities in the event of the 
client defaulting on any margin obligations.
The collateral value assigned to the client account is updated in real time, and each security is assigned a ‘haircut’ value eg a 
client is typically allowed to use 90% of a major FTSE 100 current market value.
The analysis of neither past due nor impaired credit exposures in the following table excludes individual client funds held in 
segregated client money accounts or money market facilities established under the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
‘CASS’ rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. Under these rules, client money 
funds held with trust status are protected in the event of the insolvency of the Group.
Cash and cash equivalents
Trade receivables –  
due from brokers
Trade receivables –  
due from clients
 31 May 2015 31 May 2014 31 May 2015 31 May 2014 31 May 2015 31 May 2014
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Group (note 18) (note 17) (note 17)
Individually impaired
Gross exposure – – – – 22.7 11.4
Allowance for impairment – – – – (21.7) (10.6)
– – – – 1.0 0.8
Past due but not impaired
Ageing profile:
0-3 months – – – – 0.1 0.3
> 6 months – – – – 0.2 –
– – – – 0.3 0.3
Neither past due nor impaired
Credit rating:
AA+ & above 7.0 – – – – –
AA to AA- 6.5 9.1 16.9 55.1 – –
A+ to A- 125.7 86.7 219.2 247.4 – –
BBB+ to BBB- 8.7 5.1 0.2 0.1 – –
BB+ to B 0.2 0.1 – – – –
CCC – – – – – –
Unrated
(1)
0.7 0.5 2.9 1.3 0.7 1.2
148.8 101.5 239.2 303.9 0.7 1.2
Total carrying amount 148.8 101.5 239.2 303.9 2.0 2.3
(1) 
Amounts due from brokers are primarily related to the Group's operations in South Africa. Unrated amounts due from clients relate to open positions. Prepayments 
and other receivables are all unrated (2014: all unrated). 
161 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
B)  CLIENT CREDIT RISK (CONTINUED)
The Financial investments are UK Government securities held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a 
‘liquid asset buffer’ against potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12 and as such they are rated as AA+.
Impairment of trade receivables due from clients
The Group records specific impairments of trade receivables due from clients in a separate allowance account. Impairments are 
recorded where the Group determines that it is probable that it will be unable to collect all amounts owing according to the 
contractual terms of the agreement. There are no collective impairments taken, and no other assets are considered impaired. 
Below is a reconciliation of changes in the separate allowance account during the year:
31 May 2015 31 May 2014
Group £m £m
 Balance at 1 June 10.6 10.8
 Impairment loss for the year
 – gross charge for the year 18.0 2.9
 – recoveries (2.8) (1.3)
 Write-offs (4.1) (1.5)
 Foreign exchange – (0.3)
 Balance at 31 May 21.7 10.6
Included in the ‘gross charge for the year’ line is £15.1million and £2.8 million in the ‘recoveries’ line in the table above, in 
relation to the Swiss franc event (see note 2, for details). 
The recovery of the outstanding debts associated with the Swiss franc is dependent on the ultimate recovery from a small 
number of debts. The Group’s approach remains that for clients whom are considered to be well positioned and with resources 
to pay their debts the Group will continue to employ resources to recover the debts. 
Credit risk – Company
Held within prepayments and other receivables in the Statement of Financial Position of the Company are amounts payable 
to the Company from related parties that are unrated. Refer to note 34(b). The Company is not otherwise exposed to material 
amounts of credit risk. 
(iii)  Concentration risk
Concentration risk is defined as all risk exposures with a loss potential which is large enough to threaten the solvency or the 
financial position of the Group. In respect of financial risk, such exposures may be caused by credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk 
or a combination or interaction of those risks.
The following table analyses the Group’s credit exposures, at their carrying amounts, by geographical region and excludes 
individual client funds held in segregated client money accounts established under the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
‘CASS’ rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. 
Analysis of credit exposures at carrying amount by geographical segment: 
UK Europe Australia Rest of World Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2015
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 71.8 0.5 5.7 70.8 148.8
Financial investments
(1) 
108.4 – – – 108.4
Trade receivables – due from brokers 44.9 44.9 29.1 120.3 239.2
Trade receivables – due from clients 2.0 – – – 2.0
Other amounts due to the Group 22.2 – – 6.2 28.4
Total financial assets 249.3 45.4 34.8 197.3 526.8
(1) 
Financial investments are made up of £83.1 million (2014: £82.5 million) held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset buffer’ 
against potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12, and a £25.3 million (2014: £nil) UK Government Gilt which is held at brokers as collateral to support the hedging of 
client market exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk management policy (refer to note 21).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 162 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 UK Europe Australia Rest of World Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2014
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 74.3 1.2 6.5 19.5 101.5
Financial investments 82.5 – – – 82.5
Trade receivables – due from brokers 92.5 51.8 52.2 107.4 303.9
Trade receivables – due from clients 2.0 0.2 0.1 – 2.3
Other amounts due to the Group 14.2 – 1.7 5.4 21.3
Total financial assets 265.5 53.2 60.5 132.3 511.5
The Group’s largest credit exposure to any one individual broker at 31 May 2015 was £91.2 million (A- rated) (2014: £79.0 million, 
A- rated). Included in cash and cash equivalents, the Group’s largest credit exposure to any bank at 31 May 2015 was 
£54.1 million (A rated) (2014: £61.5 million, AA+ rated). The Group has no significant exposure to any one particular client or 
group of connected clients. 
All of the Company’s credit exposures arise in the UK at both 31 May 2015 and 31 May 2014. 
(iv)  Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations arising from its financial liabilities that are 
settled by delivering cash or other financial assets. For further details refer to note 19.
Derivative and non-derivative cash flows by remaining contractual maturity – Group
The following tables present the undiscounted cash flows receivable and payable (excluding interest payments) by the Group 
under derivative and non-derivative financial assets and liabilities allocated to the earliest period in which the Group can be 
required to pay although the remaining contractual maturities may be longer. 
Amounts payable on demand:
Derivative Non-derivative Total
As at 31 May 2015 £m £m £m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents – 148.8 148.8
Financial investments
(1)
– 108.4 108.4
Trade receivables – due (to)/from brokers (8.9) 248.1 239.2
Trade receivables – due from clients – 2.0 2.0
Trade receivables – other amounts due to the Group – 28.4 28.4
 (8.9) 535.7 526.8
Financial liabilities
 Trade payables – Client funds held on balance sheet – (16.9) (16.9)
 (8.9) 518.8 509.9
(1) 
Financial investments are made up of £83.1 million (2014: £82.5 million) held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset buffer’ 
against potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12, and a £25.3 million (2014: nil) UK Government Gilt which is held at brokers as collateral to support the hedging of 
client market exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk management policy (refer to note 21).
Derivative trade receivables disclosed in the table above represent the Group’ s open positions with brokers. Non-derivative trade 
receivables and payables disclosed in the table above represent cash margin held at brokers, UK Government securities and client 
debtors. Derivative and non-derivative cash flows are presented alongside each other in the table above as they result from the same 
underlying trading relationship and as the Group has both the legal right and intention to settle on a net basis.
Trade receivables are disclosed as repayable on demand as when client positions are closed the corresponding positions relating to 
the hedged position are closed with brokers. Accordingly the Group releases cash margin, which is repaid by brokers to the Group 
on demand. 
163 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
B)  CLIENT CREDIT RISK (CONTINUED)
Derivative and non-derivative cash flows by remaining contractual maturity – Group (continued)
Amounts payable on demand:
Derivative Non-derivative Total
As at 31 May 2014 £m £m £m
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents – 101.5 101.5
Financial investments
(1)
– 82.5 82.5
Trade receivables – due (to)/from brokers (23.4) 327.3 303.9
Trade receivables – due from clients – 2.3 2.3
Trade receivables – other amounts due to the Group – 21.3 21.3
 (23.4) 534.9 511.5
 Financial liabilities
 Trade payables – Client funds held on balance sheet – (21.0) (21.0)
 (23.4) 513.9 490.5
(1) 
£82.5 million of UK Government securities held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset buffer’ against potential liquidity stress 
under BIPRU 12 (refer to note 21 for details).
Amounts payable over 5 years:
The Group has non-derivative cash flows payable over 5 years in relation to the redeemable preference shares at 31 May 2015 
and 2014, as disclosed in note 26.
Derivative and non-derivative cash flows by remaining contractual maturity - Company
There were no Company derivative cash flows as at 31 May 2015 (2014: £nil).
At 31 May 2015 the Company held cash and cash equivalents of £724 (2014: £194) available on demand and redeemable 
preference shares of £40,000 (2014: £40,000) the terms of which are disclosed in note 26.
37. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND RESOURCES
Capital management
The Group is supervised on a consolidated basis by the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The Group’s operations 
in Australia, Japan, Singapore, South Africa, Switzerland, United Arab Emirates and the United States, are also regulated. 
Individual capital requirements in these jurisdictions are taken into account when managing the Group’s capital resources.
The Group’s regulatory capital resources management objective is to ensure that the Group complies with the regulatory capital 
resources requirement set by the FCA and other global regulators in jurisdictions in which the Group’s entities operate. 
The Group’s capital management policy aims to maximise returns on equity while maintaining a strong capital position to 
enable the Group to take advantage of growth opportunities, whether organic or by acquisition. The Group does not seek to 
generate higher returns on equity by introducing leverage through, for example, the use of long-term debt finance.
The Group’s 2014 ICAAP was approved by the Board in December 2014. There have been no capital requirement breaches 
during the financial and prior year. The Group also regularly undertakes three-year stress and scenario testing of its main 
financial and operational risks to project its future capital and liquidity adequacy requirements. 
The disclosures required of the Group under the Capital Requirements Regulation (Pillar III) will be made on the Group’s 
corporate website iggroup.com. These will provide additional information which will allow market participants to assess key 
pieces of information on a firms capital, risk exposures, risk assessment process and hence the capital adequacy of the firm. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 164 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Return on Assets
In accordance with the Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV)
(1)
 and the IFPRU prudential regulations the Group is required 
to disclose a return on assets metric. This has been calculated as ‘profit for the year’ divided by ‘shareholders equity’:
31 May 2015
Restated* 
31 May 2014
£m £m
Return on assets 22.3% 26.0%
Capital resources
The Group had significant surplus regulatory capital resources over the Pillar 1 regulatory capital resources requirement 
throughout the year. An analysis of the Group’s consolidated capital resources and capital resources requirement is provided in 
the Operating and Financial Review.
The following table summarises the Group’s capital adequacy on a consolidated basis. 
£m 31 May 2015
Restated* 
31 May 2014
Shareholders’ equity per audited financial statements 591.4 565.9
Investment in own shares 1.2 1.1
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital 592.6 567.0
Less:  Intangible assets (124.0) (122.7)
Less: Investment in own shares (1.2) (1.1)
Less: Deferred tax asset
(1)
(7.1) (7.1)
Total capital resources (CR) 460.3 436.1
(1) 
The new CRD IV requirements which came into force on 1 January 2014 require deferred tax assets relating to future profitability to be deducted from Tier 1 Capital 
in the determination of  capital resources for the Group. 
* As outlined in the Group Accounting policies on page 168, comparative periods have been restated to reflect the change in timing of recognition of the FSCS levy in 
accordance with IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’. See note 38 for additional information.
165 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 38.  IMPACT OF ADOPTING NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
Restatement of comparatives – IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’
As outlined in the Group’s accounting policies on page 168, during the year ended 31 May 2015, the Group adopted IFRIC 21 
‘Levies’ and has accordingly restated the prior periods. 
The following tables reflect the impact on the Group’s financial statements at 31 May 2015 of IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’ at 1 June 2014. 
IFRIC 21 Levies
Income statement  –  year ended 31 May 2015 £m
Administrative expenses 5.3
Profit before tax 5.3
Taxation credit
(1)
(1.4)
Profit for the year 3.9
Basic and diluted loss per share (cent) 1.53p and 1.52p
Consolidated statement of financial position 31 May 2015 (lines impacted by IFRIC 21)
Deferred tax 1.4
Other payables
(1)
(7.0)
Retained earnings – current year 3.9
(1) 
Tax impact was calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 20% (2014: 20%) on the FSCS levy charge for the year ending 31 March 2016 before adjustments made 
to prior year charges.
The following tables set out the impact of IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’ on the comparative amounts for the year ended 31 May 2014.
Consolidated income statement (lines impacted by IFRIC 21)
As originally 
published
IFRIC 21  
Levies Restated
Year ended 31 May 2014 £m £m £m
Administrative expenses (179.0) 0.2 (178.8)
Operating profit 195.2 0.2 195.4
Profit before taxation 194.7 0.2 194.9
Tax expense (47.7) – (47.7)
Profit for the period 147.0 0.2 147.2
Consolidated statement of financial position (lines impacted by IFRIC 21)
As originally 
published
IFRIC 21 
Levies Restated
31 May 2014 £m £m £m
Assets
Deferred tax assets 5.7 1.4 7.1
Current liabilities
Other payables 53.3 5.1 58.4
Equity 
Retained earnings 277.4 (3.7) 273.7
As originally 
published
IFRIC 21  
Levies Restated
1 June 2013 £m £m £m
Assets
Deferred tax assets 9.5 1.4 10.9
Current liabilities
Other payables 53.8 5.3 59.1
Equity 
Retained earnings 215.2 (3.9) 211.3
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 166 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity (lines impacted by IFRIC 21)
As originally 
published
IFRIC 21 
Levies Restated
31 May 2014 £m £m £m
Retained earnings 
Balance at the beginning of the period/year 215.2 (3.9) 211.3
Profit for the year 147.0 0.2 147.2
Balance at the end of the period/year 277.4 (3.7) 273.7
Consolidated cash flow statement (lines impacted by IFRIC 21)
As originally 
published
IFRIC 21 
Levies Restated
Year ended 31 May 2014 £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities 
Profit before tax 194.7 0.2 194.9
Other non-cash items 3.9  (0.2) 3.7
Cash generated from operations 176.5 – 176.5
39. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
As at 31 May 2015, The Group had £200.0 million in revolving credit facility from a syndicate of three UK banks. The Group has 
undertaken a review of its contingent liquidity requirements and upon approval from the Executive Risk Committee, concluded 
to reduce the facility to £160.0 million and include a fourth bank in the syndicate. The inclusion of a fourth bank in the syndicate 
offers the Group further bank diversification. This new facility has £100.0 million available for up to a 1 year term (with an option 
to extend for a further year) and £60.0 million available for up to 3 years and was signed on 17 July 2015. 
40. AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND STATEMENT OF  
COMPLIANCE WITH IFRS
The financial statements of IG Group Holdings plc (the Company) and its subsidiaries (together the Group) for the year 
ended 31 May 2015 were authorised for issue by the Board of the Directors on 21 July 2015 and the statements of financial 
position signed on the Board’s behalf by Tim Howkins and Christopher Hill. IG Group Holdings plc is a public limited company 
incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange. 
The Company’s registered address is 25 Dowgate Hill, London, United Kingdom, EC4R 2YA.
The Group and Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and IFRIC interpretations as they apply to the financial statements 
of the Group and of the Company for the year ended 31 May 2015 and applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006. The Group and Company financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, 
as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets and liabilities (including derivatives) at fair 
value through profit or loss.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and the Company are set out in note 41.
167 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 41. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
41.1 Basis of preparation
The accounting policies which follow have been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2015.
As permitted by Section 408(1)(b), (4) of the Companies Act 2006, the individual income statement of IG Group Holdings plc 
(the Company) has not been presented in these financial statements. The amount of profit for the year dealt with in the financial 
statements of IG Group Holdings plc is £62.7 million (2014: £85.8 million). A statement of comprehensive income for IG Group 
Holdings plc has also not been presented in these financial statements. No items of other comprehensive income arose in the 
year (2014: £nil).
Comparatives restatement
IFRIC 21 ‘Levies’
Comparative periods have been restated to reflect the impact of the adoption of IFRIC Interpretation 21: Levies.
The adoption of IFRIC 21 impacts the accounting for the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) levy for the year 
commencing 1 June 2014. FSCS levies are raised in respect of the financial year of the FSCS that runs from 1 April to the 
following 31 March. The levy is payable in its entirety if the Group is in operation under its Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
licence on 1 April, being the obligating event, and is levied relating to revenues of the Group’s prior year. IFRIC 21 requires 
the levy to be recognised in full in the income statement on 1 April each year. The existence of relevant activity in the previous 
period is necessary, but not sufficient, to create a present obligation, neither does the future operation of the business after 1 
April result in the charge being spread over the FSCS financial year, this being the previous accounting treatment adopted by 
the Group. Therefore, for each financial year presented the levy has been expensed to the income statement in full on 1 April. 
Prior year comparatives have been restated under the IFRIC with an equity reserves adjustment recognised for the FSCS levy as 
at 1 April 2013. Full detail of the restatement is provided in note 38.
Before the adoption of IFRIC 21, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) levy was recognised on an accrual basis in 
accordance with the IAS 37, ‘Provisions, contigent liabilities and contingent assets’.
Presentation in £’m
In presenting the amounts used in these financial statements the level of rounding has been changed from thousands, which 
were used in the comparative periods, to millions. In accordance with the requirements of IAS 8, this level of rounding does not 
omit material information.
41.1.1 Going concern
The Directors have prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis that requires the Directors to have a reasonable 
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
41.2 Basis of consolidation 
(a)  Subsidiaries
The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of IG Group Holdings plc and the entities it controls (its 
subsidiaries) made up to the reporting date as listed in note 15.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and 
continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership 
of voting rights; currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights; or by way of contractual agreement. The results, 
cash flows and final positions of the subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared 
for the same reporting year as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting policies. All inter-company balances 
and transactions between Group entities, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated on consolidation.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date 
of acquisition. The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of consideration paid including an estimate of any 
contingent or deferred consideration. Contingent or deferred consideration is re-measured at each statement of financial 
position date with periodic changes to the estimated liability recognised in the consolidated income statement. Acquisition 
related costs are expensed as incurred. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets 
acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets 
acquired (discount on acquisition) is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the 
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into 
line with those used by other members of the Group. 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 168 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 (b)  Non-controlling interests
Where the Group and a non-controlling shareholder enter into a forward contract (symmetrical put and call options) under which 
the Group is required to purchase the non-controlling interest for its fair value (formulae-based valuation), at the forward date, 
the Group continues to recognise the non-controlling interest at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets, 
until expiry of the arrangement. The forward liability is also recognised for management’s best estimate of the present value of the 
redemption amount with a corresponding entry in equity. The accretion of the discount on the liability is recognised as a finance 
charge in the consolidated income statement. The liability is re-measured to the final redemption amount with any periodic 
changes to the estimated liability recognised in the consolidated income statement. On expiry of the forward, the liability is 
eliminated as paid and any difference in the value of the non-controlling interest to the exercise price deducted from equity. 
On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis non-controlling interests are measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling 
interest proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. 
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group. For purchases from 
non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of 
the non-controlling interest is recorded in equity. 
Losses applicable to the non-controlling shareholder in a consolidated subsidiary’s equity may exceed the non-controlling 
interest in the subsidiary’s equity. The excess and any further losses applicable to the non-controlling shareholder, are allocated 
against the majority interest, except to the extent that the non-controlling shareholder has a binding obligation and is able 
to make an additional investment to cover the losses. If the subsidiary subsequently reports profits, such profits are allocated 
to the majority interests until the non-controlling shareholder‘s share of losses previously absorbed by the majority has 
been recovered.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is 
presented within equity in the consolidated statement of financial position, separately from parent shareholders’ equity. 
41.3 Foreign currencies
The functional currency of each company in the Group is that of the country of incorporation (as disclosed in note 15) as this 
is consistent with the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. The Group’s most significant functional 
currency is sterling. Transactions in other currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying spot exchange 
rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each statement of financial position date, monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange prevailing on the same date. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates 
prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Gains and losses arising on translation are taken to the income 
statement, except for exchange differences arising on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the Group’s net 
investment in a foreign operation. These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they 
are recognised in profit or loss.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations are translated into sterling at exchange rates 
prevailing on the statement of financial position date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates 
for the period. Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and are taken directly to a translation reserve. Such 
translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of. Goodwill 
and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate.
41.4 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost 
comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes 
costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended. 
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual 
value based upon estimated useful lives. Estimated residual value and useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis and residual 
values are based on prices prevailing at the statement of financial position date. Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis 
over the expected useful lives as follows:
Leasehold improvements   – over the lease term of up to 15 years
Office equipment, fixtures and fittings   – over 5 years
Computer and other equipment   – over 2, 3 or 5 years
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances 
indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount. 
169 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 41. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
41.4 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to 
arise from the continued use of the asset. The gain or loss arising on derecognition of an asset is determined as the difference 
between the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is included in the income statement in the period 
of derecognition.
41.5 Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition (fair value of consideration paid) over 
the Group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a business at the date 
of acquisition. Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is allocated to cash-generating units for purposes of impairment 
testing. Cash-generating units represent the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely 
independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method. Any excess of the cost of the business combination 
over the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in 
the statement of financial position as goodwill and is not amortised. To the extent that the net fair value of the acquired 
entity’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised 
immediately in the income statement. Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included 
within the cost of those entities.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being 
reviewed for impairment, at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value 
may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by management. 
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment 
loss is recognised in the income statement.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on 
disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it. 
41.6 Intangible assets
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried initially at cost. An intangible asset acquired as part of a 
business combination such as a trade name or customer relationship is recognised at fair value outside goodwill if the asset is 
separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably. Expenditure on internally 
developed intangible assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the income statement in the year in which it is incurred. 
Development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after all the following criteria are met:
• The project’s technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated
• The availability of adequate technical and financial resources and an intention to complete the project have been confirmed and 
• The correlation between development costs and future revenue has been established.
Following initial recognition, the historic cost model is applied, with intangible assets being carried at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised over their expected useful lives, as follows:
Development costs – straight-line basis over 3 years
Software and licences – straight-line basis over the contract term of up to 5 years
Trade names – sum of digits method over 2 years
Client lists and customer relationships –  sum of digits method over 3 years
Domain names and generic top-level domains – straight-line basis over 10 years
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the 
carrying value may not be recoverable. In addition, the carrying value of capitalised development expenditure is reviewed for 
impairment annually before being brought into use.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 170 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 41.7 Impairment of non-financial assets
At least annually, or when impairment testing is required, the Directors review the carrying amounts of the Group’s property, 
plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered 
an impairment loss. If any such indication exists (or at least annually for goodwill), the recoverable amount of the asset is 
estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that 
are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the 
asset belongs. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling costs and value-in-use. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount rate. This rate reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money as well as the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have 
not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is 
reduced to its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised as an expense immediately. 
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment 
losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously 
recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s 
recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is 
increased to its recoverable amount. That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised 
as income immediately, although impairment losses relating to goodwill may not be reversed.
41.8 Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
41.9 Financial instruments 
41.9.1 Classification, Recognition and Measurement 
The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition in accordance with the categories 
outlined below and re-evaluates this designation at each financial year-end. When financial instruments are recognised initially, 
they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets and financial liabilities not at 
fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs. Financial instruments are disclosed in note 35 to the 
financial statements. 
(a) Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, or designated as such on inception, are included in this 
category and relate to the financial derivative open positions included in trade receivables – due from brokers and trade 
payables – due to clients as shown in the statement of financial position and related notes. Financial instruments are classified 
as held for trading if they are expected to settle in the short term. The Group uses derivative financial instruments in order to 
hedge derivative exposures arising from open client positions, which are also classified as held for trading.
All financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value with 
gains or losses recognised in revenue in the consolidated income statement.
Determination of fair value
Financial instruments arising from open client positions and the Group’s hedging positions are stated at fair value and disclosed 
according to the valuation hierarchy required by IFRS 7. Fair values are predominantly determined by reference to third-party 
market values (bid prices for long positions and offer prices for short positions) as detailed below:
Level 1: Valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments. 
Level 2: Valued using techniques where a price is derived based significantly on observable market data. For example, where 
an active market for an identical financial instrument to the product offered by the Group to its clients or used by the Group to 
hedge its market risk does not exist. 
Level 3: Valued using techniques that incorporate information other than observable market data that is significant to the 
overall valuation. 
171 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 41. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
41.9.1 Classification, Recognition and Measurement (continued)
(b) Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period. 
These are classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise ‘trade receivables’, ‘cash and cash 
equivalents’ and ‘trade payable ‘amounts due to title transfer clients.
(c) Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any other 
categories. They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or management intend to dispose of it within 
12 months of the end of the reporting period. The Group’s available-for-sale assets comprise ‘financial investments’.
41.9.2 Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expired. 
(a) Financial assets
A financial asset is derecognised where the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; the Group retains the right 
to receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party 
under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either (a) 
has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the 
risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset. Where the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash 
flows from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred 
control of the asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement in the asset. Continuing 
involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying 
amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
(b) Financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. Where an 
existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing 
liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the 
recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred 
are recognised in profit or loss.
41.10 Trade receivables and trade payables
Assets or liabilities resulting from profit or losses on open positions are carried at fair value. Amounts due from or to clients and 
brokers are netted against other assets and liabilities with the same counterparty where a legally enforceable netting agreement 
is in place and where it is anticipated that assets and liabilities will be netted on settlement.
Trade receivables represent balances with counterparties and clients where the combination of cash held on account and the 
valuation of financial derivative open positions result in an amount due to the Group. A provision for impairment is established 
where there is objective evidence of non-collectability. Reference is made to an aged profile of debt and the provision is subject 
to management review.
Trade payables represent balances with counterparties and clients where the combination of cash held on account and the 
valuation of financial derivative open positions results in an amount payable by the Group.
41.11 Prepayments and other receivables
Prepayments and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as fair value through profit or loss. Such 
assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant. Gains and losses 
are recognised in income when the receivables are derecognised or impaired, and when economic benefit is consumed. A 
provision for impairment is established where there is objective evidence of non-collectability.
41.12 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits which may be accessed without penalty. Cash equivalents comprise short-
term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant 
risk of changes in value. For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, net cash and cash equivalents consist of cash 
and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 172 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 The Group holds money on behalf of clients in accordance with the client money rules of the UK Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and other regulatory bodies. Such monies are classified as either ‘cash and cash equivalents’ or ‘segregated client funds’ 
in accordance with the relevant regulatory requirements. Segregated client funds comprise individual client funds held in 
segregated client money accounts or money market facilities. Segregated client money accounts hold statutory trust status 
restricting the Group’s ability to control the monies and accordingly such amounts and are not held on the Group’s statement of 
financial position. 
The amount of segregated client funds held at year-end is disclosed in note 18 to the financial statements. The return received 
on managing segregated client funds is included within net operating income.
Title transfer funds are held by the Group under a Title Transfer Collateral Arrangement (TTCA) by which a client agrees that full 
ownership of such monies is unconditionally transferred to the Group. Title transfers funds are accordingly held on the Group’s 
statement of financial position with a corresponding liability to clients within trade payables.
Cash and cash equivalents also includes client monies deposited with the Group’s Swiss banking subsidiary (refer to note 18).
41.13 Financial investments
Financial investments are held as available-for-sale and are non-derivative financial assets that are not classified as held for 
trading, designated at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and receivables. Financial investments are recognised on a trade 
date basis. They are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related transactions costs. They are subsequently carried at fair 
value. Fair value is the quoted market price of the specific investments held.
Financial investments available-for-sale are carried at fair value. Unrealised gains or losses are reported in equity (in the available 
for sale reserve) and in other comprehensive income, until such investments are sold, collected or otherwise disposed of, or 
until any such investment is determined to be impaired. On disposal of an investment, the accumulated unrealised gain or 
loss included in equity is recycled to the income statement for the period and reported in other income. Gains and losses on 
disposal are determined using the average cost method.
Interest on financial investments is included in interest using the Effective Interest Rate (EIR) method.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected 
life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period to the net-carrying amount of the financial asset or 
financial liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms 
of the financial instrument (for example, prepayment, call and similar options) but shall not consider future credit losses. The 
calculation includes all fees and points paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective 
interest rate (see IAS 18 Revenue), transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts.
At the year-end date the Group considers whether there is objective evidence that a financial investment is impaired. In case 
of such evidence, it is considered impaired if its cost exceeds the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount for a quoted 
financial investment is determined by reference to the market price. A quoted financial investment is considered impaired if 
objective evidence indicates that the decline in market price has reached such a level that recovery of the cost value cannot be 
reasonably expected within the foreseeable future.
If a financial investment is determined to be impaired, the cumulative unrealised loss previously recognised in equity is recycled 
to profit for the period. 
41.14 Other payables
Non-trading financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate 
method if the time value of money is significant. 
41.15 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable 
that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated.
41.16  Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at their issue proceeds less transaction costs incurred. Subsequently, taking into 
consideration the term of the borrowings, an assessment is made whether to state at amortised cost, with any difference 
between net proceeds and the redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings 
using the effective interest rate method.
All borrowing costs are expensed as they are incurred.
173 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 41. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
41.17 Employee Benefits
(a) Pension obligations
The Group operates defined contribution schemes. Contributions are charged to the income statement as and when they 
become payable according to the rules of the schemes. Once the contributions have been paid the group has no legal or 
constructive obligations to pay further contributions.
(b) Bonus schemes
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses based on formulae that take into consideration the 
revenue or earnings attributable to the Group’s shareholders after certain adjustments and also based on operational 
non-financial measures. 
(c) Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when an employment contract is terminated by the Group. The Group recognises termination 
benefits when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits.
41.18 Taxation
The income tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable and movements in deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes 
items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates in the respective 
jurisdictions that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
Deferred tax is accounted for on all temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit. In principle, deferred tax liabilities are 
recognised for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
profits will be available, against which deductible temporary differences may be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not 
recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill (or negative goodwill) or from the initial recognition (other than in a 
business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, 
except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each statement of financial position date and reduced to the extent 
that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the 
related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of 
financial position date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items credited or 
charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the 
Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
41.19  Share capital
(a) Classification of shares as debt or equity
When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial liability of the Group is presented as a liability in the statement 
of financial position; measured initially at fair value net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished 
on conversion or redemption. The corresponding dividends relating to the liability component are charged as interest expense 
in the income statement. 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Equity instruments 
are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that 
evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
(b) Own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts
Shares held in trust by the Company for the purposes of employee share schemes are classified as a deduction from 
shareholders’ equity and are recognised at cost. Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, 
with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and the original cost being taken to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is 
recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 174 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 (c) Share-based payments
The Company operates three employee share plans: a Share Incentive Plan and a Sustained Performance Plan and a Long Term 
Incentive Plan. Previously the company operated a Value-sharing Plan, that was all equity settled. 
For market-based vesting conditions, the cost of these awards is measured at fair value calculated using option pricing models 
(refer to the share based payment note for additional detail of the models and assumptions used for the various award schemes) 
and are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the 
Company’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
For non-market-based vesting conditions, at each statement of financial position date before vesting the cumulative expense is 
calculated representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement 
or otherwise of non-market conditions determining the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The movement 
in cumulative expense since the previous statement of financial position date is recognised in the income statement as part of 
administrative expenses, with a corresponding entry in equity.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to employees of the subsidiary undertakings in the Group is 
treated as a capital contribution. The fair value of the employee services received is recognised over the vesting period as an 
increase in the investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity. 
41.20 Revenue recognition
Trading revenue represents gains and losses arising on client trading activity, primarily in financial spread betting, contracts for 
difference or binary options as well as the transactions undertaken to hedge the risk associated with client trading activity. Open 
client and hedging positions are carried at fair market value and gains and losses arising on this valuation are recognised in 
revenue as well as gains and losses realised on positions that have closed. The policies and methodologies associated with the 
determination of fair value have been discussed previously under Financial Instruments. 
Trading revenue also includes:
- spread, commission and funding charges made to clients in respect of the opening, holding and closing of financial spread 
bets, contracts for difference or binary options;
- commission earned from the execution-only stockbroking service after deducting contracting and trade settlement fees 
payable to third-party brokers. Revenue is stated net of sales taxes and is recognised in full on the date of trade being placed; 
and
- member fees charged by the Group’s regulated futures and options exchange.
The Group acts in a non-advisory capacity to match buyers and sellers under the execution-only stockbroking service, does not 
act as principal when providing this service and only receives and transmits orders between counterparties. 
Trading revenue is reported gross of introducing partner commission as these amounts are directly linked to trading revenue. 
Introducing partner commission, along with betting duties and financial transaction taxes paid, is disclosed as an expense in 
arriving at net operating income. 
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group and the 
revenue can be reliably measured.
Finance revenue or interest income on segregated client funds is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal 
outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. The effective interest rate is the rate which exactly discounts estimated 
future cash receipts over the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount. Interest income on 
segregated client funds is disclosed within revenue and therefore operating profit, as this is consistent with the nature of the 
Group’s operations. 
Net trading revenue, disclosed on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement and in the Notes to the Financial Statements, 
represents trading revenue from financial instruments carried at fair value through profit or loss and has been disclosed net 
of introducing partner commission as this is consistent with the management information received by the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker. 
Dividends receivable are recognised when the shareholder’s right to receive the payment is established.
41.21 Operating profit
Operating profit is the sum of the results of the principal activities of the Group after charging depreciation of property, plant 
and equipment, amortisation of intangible assets, operating lease rentals on land and buildings, foreign exchange differences, 
profit or loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and other administrative expenses. 
175 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | 41. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
41.22 Use of non-GAAP measures
The Group believes that the presentation of underlying results provides additional useful information to shareholders on the 
underlying trends and comparable performance of the Group over time. These terms are not defined under IFRS and may 
therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies. They are not intended to be 
a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures. The term ‘underlying’ refers to the relevant profit, earnings or taxation being 
reported excluding exceptional items.
Exceptional items are those items of income and expense that the Group considers are material one-off in nature and of 
such significance that they merit separate presentation in order to aid the reader’s understanding of the Group’s financial 
performance. Such items would include profits or losses on disposal of businesses and costs associated with acquisitions and 
disposals; major restructuring programmes; significant goodwill or other asset impairments; other particularly significant or 
unusual items. 
Other non-GAAP measures used in these financial statements are return on assets (refer to note 37), capital resources (refer to 
note 37) and own funds generated from operations (refer to note 19(d)).
41.23 Finance costs and interest expense on segregated client funds
Finance costs and interest expense on segregated client funds are accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal amount 
charged at the effective interest rate applicable. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the future expected 
cash flows to the carrying amount of the liability. Issue costs are included in the determination of the effective interest rates.
Interest expense on segregated client funds is disclosed within operating profit as this is consistent with the nature of the 
Group’s operations.
41.24 Dividends
Dividend distribution to the company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period 
in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
41.25 Operating leases
Leases are classified as operating leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset. 
Lease payments under an operating lease are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless 
another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern of the user’s benefit.
41.26 Segment information
The Group’s segmental information is disclosed in a manner consistent with the basis of internal reports regarding components 
of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), who for the Group are the Executive 
Directors, in order to assess the performance and to allocate resources to those ‘operating segments’. The Group has therefore 
determined its operating segments based on the management information received on a regular basis by the Executive 
Directors of the IG Group Holdings plc Board as they are considered to be the CODM. Operating segments that do not meet 
the quantitative thresholds required by IFRS 8 are aggregated.
The Group envisages that the reportable segments may change as overseas businesses move towards operational maturity, 
breaking through the quantitative thresholds of IFRS 8. The segments are therefore subject to annual review and the 
comparatives restated to reflect any reclassifications within the segmental reporting. 
41.27 Changes in accounting policies
With the exception of the adoption of IFRIC 21, the accounting policies adopted in the preparation of financial statements are 
consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Group’s Annual Report for the year ended 31 May 2014.
41.27.1 New accounting standards and interpretations
Effective from 1 June 2014, the Group adopted the following interpretation and amendments to standards:
(a) New standards,  amendments and interpretations adopted by the Group
In addition to IFRIC 21 (described in Note 41.1), the following amendments to standards have also been implemented but have 
not had a material effect on the Group’s results:
• IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial statements’ (effective 1 January 2013) (EU endorsed from 1 January 2014)
• IFRS 11,’Joint arrangements’ (effective 1 January 2013) (EU endorsed from 1 January 2014)
• IFRS 12, ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’ (effective 1 January 2013) (EU endorsed from 1 January 2014)
• IAS 27 (revised 2011), ‘Separate financial statements’ (effective 1 January 2013) (EU endorsed from 1 January 2014)
• IAS 28 (revised 2011), ‘Associates and joint ventures’ (effective 1 January 2013) (EU endorsed from 1 January 2014)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
| 176 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 • Amendments to IFRS 10, 12 and IAS 27 on consolidation for investment entities (effective 1 January 2014)
• Amendment to IAS 32, ‘Financial instruments: Presentation’, on asset and liability offsetting (effective 1 January 2014)
• Amendment to IAS 36, ‘Impairment of assets’ on recoverable amount disclosures (effective 1 January 2014)
• Amendment to IAS 39, ‘Financial instruments’: recognition and measurement’ on novation of derivatives (effective 1 
January 2014)
• Annual improvements 2012 (effective 1 July 2014) 
• Annual improvements 2013 (effective 1 July 2014) 
• Amendment to IAS 19, ‘Employee benefits’ regarding employee or third-party contributions to defined benefit plans 
(effective 1 July 2014)
Amendment to IAS 32, ‘Financial instruments:Presentation’ on offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities. This 
amendment clarifies that the right of set-off must not be contingent on a future event. It must also be legally enforceable for all 
counterparties in the normal course of business, as well as in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy. The amendment 
also considers settlement mechanisms. The amendment did not have a significant effect on the Group financial statements.
(b) New standards, amendments and interpretations adopted by the Group
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning 
after 1 June 2014, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements. With the exception of the 
following new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations below, there are no others which are expected to 
have a material impact: 
IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial 
liabilities. The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014. It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the 
classification and measurement of financial instruments. IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and 
establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through OCI and fair value 
through P&L. The basis of classification depends on the entity’s business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics 
of the financial asset. Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss with 
the irrevocable option at inception to present changes in fair value in OCI not recycling. There is now a new expected credit 
losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39. For financial liabilities there were no changes 
to classification and measurement except for the recognition of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for 
liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss. IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge effectiveness by replacing 
the bright line hedge effectiveness tests. It requires an economic relationship between the hedged item and hedging 
instrument and for the ‘hedged ratio’ to be the same as the one management actually uses for risk management purposes. 
Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is different to that currently prepared under IAS 39. The standard is 
effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Early adoption is permitted subject to EU endorsement. 
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 9’s full impact.
IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful 
information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising 
from an entity’s contracts with customers. Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus 
has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service. The standard replaces IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ and 
IAS 11 ‘Construction contracts’ and related interpretations. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2017 and earlier application is permitted subject to EU endorsement. The Group is yet to assess the full impact of 
IFRS 15.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on 
the Group. The list below includes those which will have an immaterial impact on the Group: 
• Amendment to IFRS 11, ‘Joint arrangements’ regarding acquisition of an interest in a joint operation (effective 1 January 2016)
• Amendment to IAS 16, ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and IAS 38, ‘Intangible assets’ regarding depreciation and 
amortisation (effective 1 January 2016) 
• Amendments to IAS 16, ‘Property, plant and equipment’ and IAS 41, ‘Agriculture’ regarding bearer plants (effective 1 January 
2016) (not EU endorsed at the time of going to print)
• Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 regarding the sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint 
venture (effective 1 January 2016) 
• Amendment to IAS 27, ‘Separate financial statements’ regarding the equity method (effective 1 January 2016) 
• IFRS 14, ‘Regulatory deferral accounts’ (effective 1 January 2016) 
• Annual improvements 2014 (effective 1 January 2016) 
177 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | FIVE-YEAR  
SUMMARY
GROUP INCOME STATEMENT
2015 2014
(2)
2013
(3)
2012 
(3)
2011
(1) (3)
For the year ended 31 May £m £m £m £m £m
Net trading revenue 388.4 370.4 361.9 366.8 312.7
Other net operating income (1.2) 3.8 6.1 2.4 5.9
Net operating income 387.2 374.2 367.9 369.2 318.6
Administrative expense (206.9) (169.1) (163.8) (172.9) (145.1)
Depreciation, amortisation and amounts written off PPE (10.7) (9.7) (12.2) (10.8) (10.3)
Operating profit 169.6 195.4 191.9 185.5 163.2
Finance income 1.8 1.5 2.0 2.5 2.4
Finance costs (1.9) (2.0) (1.8) (2.3) (2.4)
Profit before tax 169.5 194.9 192.2 185.7 163.2
Amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation – – – – (150.7)
Profit before taxation from continuing operations 169.5 194.9 192.2 185.7 12.5
Tax expense (37.6) (47.7) (50.5) (48.6) (32.8)
Loss from discontinued operations – – – (0.4) (5.0)
Profit/loss for the year (131.9) 147.2 141.7 136.8 (25.3)
OTHER METRICS
2015 2014
(2)
2013
(3)
2012 
(3)
2011
(1) (3)
Own funds generated from operations £136.8m £160.6m £154.3m £140.7m £137.7m
Earnings per share (EPS)
Basic earnings per share 36.13p 40.35p 39.02p 37.90p 32.86p
Diluted earnings per share 35.99p 40.22p 38.80p 37.54p 32.57p
Dividend per share
Interim dividend per share 8.45p 5.75p 5.75p 5.75p 5.25p
Final dividend per share 19.70p 22.40p 17.50p 16.75p 14.75p
Total dividend per share 28.15p 28.15p 23.25p 22.50p 20.00p
Dividend payout ratio (against diluted EPS) 78.22% 69.99% 59.92% 59.94% 61.41%
Profit margin
Profit before taxation margin 43.64% 52.61% 53.10% 50.60% 52.20%
| 178 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 CLIENT METRICS 
2015 2014
(2)
2013
(3)
2012 
(3)
2011
(1) (3)
Average revenue per client £2,854 £2,937 £2,659 £2,560 £2,341
Number of active clients 136,111  126,108  136,063  143,304  133,580 
Number of clients opened 70,967  54,957  55,889  67,593  71,344 
Number of clients trading for the first time 40,932  33,709  37,914  48,029  12,958 
GROUP STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
2015 2014
(2)
2013
(3)
2012 
(3)
2011
(1) (3)
As at 31 May £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 13.3  13.0  14.5  15.6  16.8 
Intangible assets 124.0 122.7  120.5  115.4  117.2 
Financial investments 75.5 32.2  –    –    –   
Deferred tax assets 7.1  7.1  9.5  11.9  11.3 
 219.9  175.0  144.4  142.8  145.2 
Current assets
Trade receivables 269.6  327.5  300.6  222.3  270.1 
Prepayment and other receivables 12.2  12.2  10.3  9.7  8.2 
Cash and cash equivalent 148.8  101.5  98.3  228.2  124.5 
Financial investment 32.9  50.3  50.5  –    –   
 463.5  491.5  459.7  460.2  402.8 
Total assets 683.4  666.5  604.1  603.1  548.1 
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade payables 17.7  21.9  19.0  61.1  83.5 
Other payables 61.2  58.5 53.8  64.8  45.1 
Provisions – –    –    1.4  1.4 
Income tax payable 13.1  20.3  24.3  28.7  37.1 
 92.0  100.6  97.1  155.9  167.1 
Non current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities –    –    –    –    –   
Provisions –    –    –    –    2.0 
Redeemable preference shares –   – – – –
 –   – – – 2.0 
Total liabilities 92.0 100.6  97.2  155.9  169.2 
Capital and reserves
Total shareholders' equity 591.4  565.9  507.0  447.0  378.7 
Non-controlling interest –    –    –    0.1  0.2 
Total equity 591.4  565.9  507.0  447.1  378.9 
Total equity and liabilities 683.4  666.5  604.1  603.1  548.1 
(1) 
 The profit before tax and diluted earnings per share figures FY11 exclude both the amortisation and impairment of goodwill and customer relationships associated 
with our Japanese business, IG Securities (formerly FXOnline), and of the Group’s Sport Business.
(2) 
FY14 has been restated following the adoption of IFRIC 21. Please refer to note 38 of the financial statements.
(3) 
FY11, FY12 and FY13 have not been restated following the adoption of IFRIC 21 on a materiality basis.
179 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | EXAMPLES
In the following pages we have 
illustrated detailed examples 
for Contracts for difference, 
Spread Betting and Stockbroking.
SELLING A CFD
In this example, on day one you decide to sell a CFD for 20,000 shares in B plc (assumed to be a FTSE 100 company) as you 
expect B plc’s share price to fall. This is known as ‘going short’. On day two the share price has indeed fallen, and you decide to 
close your position.
As long as your contract is open, your account will show any ‘running’ profit or loss on your open CFD position (not illustrated 
below). You must have deposited sufficient funds to cover any running losses.
You cannot place a trade without having any money in your account. In this example, we assume you have £1,000. It is important 
to note that you can make losses in excess of your initial deposit requirement (referred to as ‘margin requirement’ in CFD 
trading), if the market moves against you.
STEP 1 – DAY ONE – OPENING THE POSITION
The quoted bid/offer price for B plc is 80.25p/80.35p.
STEP 2
When you open the position, you are required to have enough funds in your account to cover the initial margin plus commission 
on the trade. In this example the margin requirement is £803.00 and the commission is £16.05, so the available funds in your 
account will fall from £1,000.00 to £180.95 (ie £1,000.00-£803.00-£16.05). It is important to note that the £803.00 is held as a 
margin requirement against the risk of the open position and will be released on the closing of the position: it is still your money 
but is not available for withdrawal from the account while the position is open.
(1) 
 The margin percentage (and therefore margin requirement) depends on the size of your CFD position and other factors such as the volatility and liquidity of the 
underlying share. In this example we have used a margin requirement of 5%.
(2) 
Commissions are variable, but for UK FTSE 100 CFDs (as assumed for B plc), this was 0.10% on 31 May 2015.
Expecting the market will 
fall, you sell at the
BID PRICE
GOING SHORT
TRADE 
DETAILS
SIZE (SHARES) 
20,000
BID PRICE
80.25p INITIAL MARGIN REQUIREMENT
 (1) 
£803.00
20,000 (number of shares) x 80.30p (the mid-price) 
x 5% (the margin percentage)
COMMISSION
(2) 
£16.05
20,000 (number of shares) x 80.25p (the bid price) 
x 0.10% (commission)
B plc  
80.30p 80.35p 80.25p OFFER 
PRICE
MID
 PRICE
BID 
PRICE
| 180 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 STEP 3
Traditionally, clients who held long positions overnight would need to pay a funding 
charge, while clients with short positions would receive interest if held overnight. 
This charge or interest is calculated as the one-month sterling LIBOR rate +/- a 
spread. However, with current market interest rates lower than the spread, clients 
with short positions also incur a charge. As at 31 May 2015, the current LIBOR rate 
was 0.49%, while the spread was 2.50%, resulting in a net financing charge of 2.01% 
for short CFD positions held overnight (which for UK CFDs means those open at 
10pm UK time). A corresponding long CFD position would incur a charge of 2.99%. 
This is re-calculated daily.
STEP 4
In this example we have kept things simple and assumed no corporate actions occur. However, we will also reflect the impact of 
any corporate action on the underlying share, such as a dividend or a rights issue, on your positions. For more details, please 
see our website, IG.com.
STEP 5 – DAY TWO – CLOSING THE POSITION
On day two, the share price has fallen and you decide to close the position.
STEP 6 – CALCULATING THE PROFIT OR LOSS
ITEM CLIENT IG
(2)
Selling commission (Step 1) (£16.05) £16.05
Financing charge (Step 3) (£0.89) £0.89
Buying commission (Step 5) (£15.67) £15.67
Gross profit (Step 5) £380.00 (£380.00)
IG hedging gain
(2)
N/A £380.00
Net gain £347.39 £32.61
When you open your position you may 
choose to add a stop. If you choose 
a guaranteed stop (only available for 
certain products), we guarantee that 
your position will be closed at this level 
and your maximum loss is therefore 
fixed. There is a small charge for a 
guaranteed stop, which will be added 
to the transaction cost. You may also 
choose to add a non-guaranteed stop, 
which will trigger a closing order when 
this level is breached. Non-guaranteed 
stops are free, but you may not be 
closed at this level, particularly if the 
market gaps.
(1) 
Commissions are variable, but for UK FTSE 100 CFDs (as assumed for B plc), this was 0.10% on 31 May 2015. 
(2) 
 This simple example assumes IG is 100% hedged on the client trade and makes an equal and opposite gain on our broker position to the amount paid to the 
client. The cost of our hedging with the broker has been ignored for simplicity. Thus our net profit is £32.61, which is recorded in trading revenue and consists of the 
commission and financing charges levied on the client.
Of course, had the market moved in the opposite direction, you 
would have made a loss of £100 for every penny the share price 
gained, which may have exceeded your initial margin outlay.
The market has fallen – you 
buy at the IG OFFER PRICE
CLOSING POSITION
TRADE 
DETAILS
SIZE (SHARES) 
20,000
OFFER PRICE
78.35p COMMISSION
(1) 
£15.67
20,000 x 78.35p x 0.10%
PROFIT PER SHARE
1.9p
Difference between opening bid and closing offer prices
(80.25p-78.35p)
GROSS PROFIT ON TRADE
£380.00
20,000 x 1.9p
B plc   
78.30p 78.35p 78.25p OFFER 
PRICE
MID
 PRICE
BID 
PRICE
80.75p END-OF-DAY 
PRICE 
(DAY ONE)
DAILY INTEREST CHARGED
£0.89
20,000 x 80.75p x 2.01%/365 days
181 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | STEP 1 – OPENING THE POSITION
A plc is trading in the market at 144.5p/144.7p and our quote for A plc on a daily funded bet is 144.3p/144.9p. You decide
to buy £100 per point at 144.9p, our offer price. In this example one point represents a 1p movement in the underlying share
price, so your £100 per point bet is equivalent to buying 10,000 shares in A plc.
BUYING A SPREAD BET
In this example, you decide to buy A plc (assumed to be a FTSE 100 company) 
at £100 per point, as you expect that A plc’s share price will rise. This is known as 
‘going long’. Later in the day the share price has indeed risen and you decide to 
close your position by selling A plc at our then current bid price. 
Your profit is the difference between the buying and selling prices, plus or minus 
any funding charges or other costs (discussed in Steps 3 and 5). 
As long as your bet is open, your account will show any ‘running’ profit or loss on 
your open position (not illustrated below). You must have deposited sufficient funds 
to cover any running losses. 
You cannot place a bet without having any money in your account. In this example, 
we assume you have £1,000. It is important to note that you can make losses in 
excess of your initial deposit, if the market moves against you.
STEP 2
When you open the position, you are required to have the initial £723 deposit requirement in your account. The available funds 
in your account will therefore fall from £1,000 to £277 (ie £1,000-£723). The available funds remaining in your account need to be 
enough to cover any running losses you may incur, or you run the risk of being closed out of the bet. It is important to note that 
the £723 is held as a deposit against the risk of the open position and will be released on the closing of the position: it is still 
your money but is not available for withdrawal from the account while the position is open.
At this stage you may choose to add a stop to your position. If you choose a guaranteed stop (only available for certain products), 
we guarantee that your position will be closed at this level and your maximum loss is therefore fixed. There is a small charge 
for a guaranteed stop, which will be added to the transaction cost. You may also choose to add a non-guaranteed stop, which 
will trigger a closing order when this level is breached. Non-guaranteed stops are free, but you may not be closed at this level, 
particularly if the market gaps.
(1) 
 The deposit factor (and therefore deposit requirement) depends on your account type and other factors such as the volatility and liquidity of the underlying share.
(2) 
 Our dealing spread varies depending on the market and asset class traded and can be variable, especially in volatile market conditions. For examples please see 
our website, IG.com.
Expecting the market will 
rise, you open the bet at the 
OFFER PRICE
GOING LONG
BET 
DETAILS
SIZE (£ PER POINT)
£100.00
OFFER PRICE
144.9p INITIAL DEPOSIT REQUIREMENT
 (1) 
£723.00
£100.00 (bet size) x 144.6p (the mid-price) x 5% (the deposit factor)
SPREAD
(2) 
£20.00
Difference between the market price and our quote 
(144.9p-144.7p) x £100.00 per point
A plc  
144.5p /144.7p 144.9p 144.3p IG OFFER 
PRICE
UNDERLYING 
SHARE PRICE
IG BID 
PRICE
EXAMPLES
(CONTINUED)
| 182 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015  
(1) 
 This simple example assumes IG is 100% hedged on the client trade and makes an equal and opposite gain on our broker position to the amount paid to the client. 
The cost of our hedging with the broker has been ignored for simplicity. Therefore our net profit is £40.00, which is recorded in trading revenue and is equivalent to 
the spread included in our quoted prices.
STEP 3
In this example we have kept things simple and assumed no corporate actions occur. However, we will also reflect the impact of 
any corporate action on the underlying share, such as a dividend or a rights issue, on your positions. For more details, please 
see our website, IG.com.
STEP 4 – CLOSING THE POSITION
Later that day, the A plc share price has indeed risen and you decide to close the position, realising your profit on the bet. 
At this point A plc is trading in the market at 148.6p/148.8p and our daily quote is 148.4p/149.0p.
Of course, had the market moved in the opposite direction, you would have made a loss of £100 for every penny the share price fell, 
which may have exceeded your initial deposit.
STEP 5 – CALCULATING THE PROFIT OR LOSS
For many markets (eg index futures), we build funding charges into the quote price. For share daily funded bets we make funding 
adjustments each day at 10pm. We apply funding at the rate of one-month LIBOR +/- a spread (generally 2.5%). 
ITEM CLIENT IG
(1)
Buying spread (Step 1) (£20.00) £20.00
Selling spread (Step 4) (£20.00) £20.00
Gross profit (Step 4) £390.00 (£390.00)
IG hedging gain
(1)
 N/A £390.00
Net gain £350.00 £40.00
In the example above, if the bet had 
remained open at 10pm, and assuming 
one-month LIBOR of 0.49%, a funding 
charge of £1.23 would have been applied 
against the client account and recorded 
as revenue for IG (calculated as (£100 
x 150.0p assumed end-of-day price x 
2.99%) / 365 = £1.23).
BET 
DETAILS
SIZE (£ PER POINT) 
£100.00
BID PRICE
148.4p GROSS PROFIT
£390.00
Calculated as the market price movement of the share 
(148.6p-144.7p) x £100.00 per point)
Calculated at 148.6p-148.4p x £100.00 per point
SPREAD
£20.00
The market has risen –  
you sell at the IG BID PRICE
CLOSING POSITION
A plc  
148.6p /148.8p 149.0p 148.4p IG OFFER 
PRICE
UNDERLYING 
SHARE PRICE
IG BID 
PRICE
183 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | STEP 1 - PRICE DISCOVERY
Most traditional stockbrokers only provide a ‘request for quote’ or ‘at quote’ service that delivers a fixed price, which is only 
valid for a short period of time. With us, you can trade ‘at quote’ or ‘on exchange’, allowing you to interact directly with the 
order book in the underlying market. Dealing ‘on exchange’ offers you live visibility of prices and full market depth allowing you 
to make an informed decision. Choose between ‘at quote’ or ‘on exchange’ to execute your order at the best available price.
If you place an ‘on exchange’ order we use our Smart Order Router (SOR) to seek out the best price and size available. Our SOR 
searches for liquidity across multiple venues, starting with ‘dark pools’ that offer mid-point matching – the best possible chance 
of getting price improvements. If there is no improvement available on ‘dark’ venues the SOR goes to a market maker, again 
looking for size or price improvements. Finally, if neither of the above sources provides price or size improvements, SOR sends 
orders to ‘lit’ venues, where they will be visible on an exchange.
STEP 2 – EXECUTING YOUR TRADE
Once you have decided whether you would like to deal ‘at quote’ or ‘on exchange’, you can place your trade directly from your 
platform. Once the appropriate price has been identified, your trade is executed.
When you buy your shares you are required to have sufficient funds on your account to make the purchase and cover the cost 
of commission, as well as currency conversion fees (if the share is priced in a foreign currency). In this example, we assume you 
have also been active on your CFD account, which means you automatically qualify for our lowest commission rate
(1)
, which is 
£6. The available funds in your account will therefore fall by the value of the shares you have bought plus the commission. In 
this example, you purchase 100 shares priced at 775GBp (the best available price), which will reduce your cash balance to £219 
(i.e. £1000 – £775 – £6). Unlike our margined products, you own your shares outright, meaning that you do not need to make any 
additional payments to maintain your stockbroking position.
A PLC
1,000 shares
SOR looks for the best available price at execution
Potential price improvement
EXAMPLES
(CONTINUED)
STOCKBROKING WITH IG
In this example, you decide to buy A plc (assumed to be a FTSE 100 company) at the 
offer price on your stockbroking account, as you wish to own shares in the company. 
You have linked your stockbroking account to your CFD account so you have access 
to IG’s collateral feature. After a few months, the share price has risen and you 
decide to close your position by selling A plc at the current bid price. 
Your profit is the difference between the buying and selling prices, plus any 
dividends and minus any commission or other costs (discussed in Steps 2 and 5). 
You cannot place a trade without having any money in your account. In this example, 
we assume you have £1,000. It is important to note that the value of shares, ETFs 
and ETCs bought through any stockbroking or stocks and shares ISA account can 
fall as well as rise, which could mean getting back less than you originally deposited. 
If you expect the market 
to rise, you ‘buy’ at the 
OFFER PRICE
GOING LONG
TRADE
DETAILS
SIZE (SHARES)
100
OFFER PRICE
775p COST
£775.00
100 (number of shares) x 775p (the IG offer price) 
COMMISSION
£6.00
777p TRADITIONAL 
STOCKBROKER
OFFER PRICE
771p IG BID 
PRICE
IG OFFER 
PRICE
775p 768p TRADITIONAL 
STOCKBROKER
BID PRICE
At quote
Interact with market makers
Get fixed price by RSP
Fixed price: 777p
On exchange
Interact directly with order book
Place order in the book
Order to buy
SOR looks for the best 
available price - venue 1
775p
SOR looks for the best 
available price - venue 2
778p
| 184 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 STEP 3 – USING YOUR SHARES AS COLLATERAL
You can make the most of your shareholdings with IG using our collateral service. The collateral service allows you to use up to 
95% of the value of your shareholdings as initial margin against your spread bets or CFD positions.
(2)
In this example, we assume that you have a position on your CFD account in B plc, another FTSE 100 listed company, which 
has a margin requirement of £300. The fact that you are holding the physical shares in A plc, and have linked your accounts 
for collateral means that you can use up to 95%
(2)
 of the value of this position (that is, £775 x 95% = £736) to cover your margin 
requirement on B plc. This will free up any additional funds on your CFD account, which you can then use to open further CFD 
positions or as a buffer against adverse market movements. 
It is important to note that the collateral value is real-time. This means the collateral value of your assets will fluctuate according 
to movements in the price of the stock(s) you hold on your stockbroking account.
Your shareholdings remain intact and retain their full value;
(3)
 you simply use a percentage of their value as collateral to fund 
shorter-term trades. Importantly, you can only use your shareholdings to cover the initial margin on your spread bets or CFDs. 
Any running losses will need to be covered by the available cash in your CFD account. For more details, please see our 
website, IG.com.
STEP 4 – CORPORATE ACTIONS
In this example we have kept things simple and assumed no corporate actions occur. However, as the owner of the equity we 
will also reflect the impact of any other corporate actions on your shares, such as a rights issue, on your positions. For more 
details, please see our website, IG.com.
STEP 5 – SELLING YOUR SHARES
As the objectives of your portfolio change, you can divest all or parts of your shareholding using our superior execution 
technology. Once your sale is confirmed, your account will be credited with the equivalent cash. As before, we assume that you 
qualify for our lowest commission rate as a holder of active stockbroking and margined accounts, so the commission is £6. If the 
price of your shares in A plc has risen from 775p to 846p, your account balance will rise to £1,059 (i.e. £219 + £846 - £6).
STEP 6 – TRANSPARENT TRADING
As well as buying new shares you can conveniently keep your shares portfolio in one place, by transferring in your existing 
shareholdings to us, free from IG charges. Once your shares are transferred you will have access to the full range of features on 
IG’s platform including our collateral service and our superior execution.
You will also have access to our range of over 6,000 international shares, which are offered in their local denomination, 
regardless of the currency on your account. This means you’ll know exactly what you’re paying, with our fee of just 0.3% to 
convert to your base currency. 
Obtaining live prices for international stocks from an exchange can incur a monthly fee, but we will refund this charge in full 
if you place a minimum number of trades in the previous month. However, unlike some other stockbrokers, this is the only 
other fee – besides commission – we will charge you, meaning you are only charged when you trade and not just for holding 
your portfolio.
(1) 
Commissions are variable, but if your stockbroking account is accessible under the same login as your active spread betting or CFD account, you automatically 
qualify for our lowest commission rate by placing at least one spread bet or CFD trade in the previous calendar month. This was £6 on 31 May 2015.
(2) 
 Generally you can use 75% - 95% of the value of your portfolio as collateral, depending on the liquidity of shareholdings. For more details, please see our 
website, IG.com.
(3) 
 We do all we can to make sure you have the opportunity to cover any realised spread betting or CFD losses with cash. If you do not deposit additional funds to 
cover a losing leveraged trade, we will follow our normal process of closing the trade and informing you that your account is in debit. We will only take control of 
your shares if your account remains in debit. For more details, please see our website, IG.com.
COMMISSION
£6.00
GROSS PROFIT ON TRADE
£71.00
The market has risen –  
you sell at the IG BID PRICE
CLOSING POSITION
TRADE
DETAILS
SIZE (SHARES)
100
BID PRICE
846p PROFIT PER SHARE
71p Difference between opening offer price and closing bid price 
(846p - 775p)
852p TRADITIONAL 
STOCKBROKER
OFFER PRICE
846p IG BID 
PRICE
IG OFFER 
PRICE
850p 844p TRADITIONAL 
STOCKBROKER
BID PRICE
185 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS
TERM NOTES
ABI Association of British Insurers
AGM Annual General Meeting 
Basel III The comprehensive set of reform measures designed to strengthen regulation, supervision and risk 
management in the banking sector
Binary bet A special form of spread bet with only two outcomes at expiry: if a specified result is achieved, the 
bet is closed at a level of 100. If the result is not achieved, the bet closes at 0
CFTC The US Commodities Futures Trading Commission
CGU Cash Generating Unit
Close-out monitor 
(COM)
The Group’s automatic real-time position-closing system (see the Managing Our Business Risk 
section in the Strategic Report and note 36 to the Financial Statements)
Contract for 
difference (CFD)
A CFD is a contract to exchange the difference in the price of an asset between the time the contract 
is opened and the time it is closed. An example is shown on page 180
COREP Capital and Liquidity Reporting
CSR Corporate social responsibility
DEPS Diluted Earnings Per Share
DFSA Dubai Financial Services Authority
Direct market access 
(DMA) 
DMA enables clients to interact directly with the market, including participating in the order book of 
a stock exchange
DTRs The FCA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules
EBA European Banking Authority
EPS Earnings per share
EQA External Quality Assessment
ESMA European Securities and Markets Authority
ETF Exchange-traded fund
Exposure monitor Our real-time technology solution which constantly measures our financial exposure to all  
traded instruments
FCA Financial Conduct Authority (UK regulator)
FINMA The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority
FRC Financial Reporting Council
FSB Financial Services Board (South Africa) 
FSCS Financial Services Compensation Scheme
FTT Financial Transaction Tax
Fugitive emissions Greenhouse gas emissions caused by intentional or unintentional releases, eg equipment leaks or 
hydrofluorocarbon emissions from the use of refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment
GHG emissions Greenhouse gas emissions
Goodwill An intangible asset representing the additional value that arises as a result of the acquisition of the 
acquired company by another at a value greater than that of the target company’s assets
| 186 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 TERM NOTES
GTLDs Generic top-level domains – represented by the characters following the dot at the end of an 
internet domain name, eg .com, .net
IAS International Accounting Standard
ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process. The ICAAP is an internal document which identifies 
the controls we use to mitigate risks to the Group’s capital and assesses and quantifies our capital 
requirements 
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
IIA Institute of Internal Auditors
ILAA Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment. The ILAA is an internal document which identifies the 
controls we use to mitigate liquidity risks and assesses and quantifies our liquidity requirements
IOSCO  International Organization of Securities Commissions
ISA International Standards on Auditing
ISS Institutional Shareholder Services Inc
JFSA Japanese Financial Services Agency  
KPIs Key Performance Indicators
KRIs Key Risk Indicators
LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio
LIBOR London inter-bank offered rate – a benchmark interest rate published by leading London banks
LTIP Long-term incentive plan
MAS The Monetary Authority of Singapore
MiFID Markets in Financial Instruments Directive – EU law covering financial regulation in all  
member states
Multilateral trading 
facility (MTF)
A non-exchange financial-trading venue providing an alternative to traditional stock exchanges
Nadex The North American Derivatives Exchange, our US-based retail derivatives exchange business
Net Promoter Score 
(NPS)
NPS is calculated by asking respondents how likely they are to recommend a company to a friend 
or colleague. Respondents reply on a 0-10 scale, with the final NPS calculated as the percentage of 
promoters (those answering 9 or 10) minus the percentage of detractors (those answering 0-6)
NSFR Net Stable Funding Ratio
OTC ‘Over the counter’ refers to non-exchange-traded financial instruments
PRIPs Packaged Retail Investment Products
Regulatory capital 
resources 
The total capital available to the Group, as calculated under the EU Capital Requirements Regulation 
and the Financial Conduct Authority’s IFPRU 3 rules
Rest of World One of our four reporting segments, consisting of our operations in Japan, Singapore,  
South Africa and the US
RREV Research Recommendations Electronic Voting
Scope 1/2/3 
emissions
The three classifications of emissions required to be considered under the mandatory  
GHG reporting
SIP Share-incentive plan
SPP Sustained performance plan
Spread bet A bet on whether a financial market (the underlying market) will rise or fall. We offer two prices on 
every market, and the difference is known as the bid/offer spread. If you think a market is set to 
rise you ‘buy’ at the higher (offer) price, and if you think it will fall you ‘sell’ at the lower (bid) price. 
Your subsequent gain or loss on the bet will be determined by the direction and degree of any 
movement in the underlying market. An example is shown on page 182 
Tiered margins We use a system of margin tiers that reflect the degree of risk involved in client trades. Generally, 
the riskier the traded instrument or the larger the trade size, the higher the level of margin required, 
up to 100%
Title Transfer 
Collateral 
Arrangement (TTCA)
A financial agreement to transfer money to cover obligations, such that that money will not be 
regarded as client money, which must be segregated, although IG retains the liability to repay the 
client
TSR Total Shareholder Return
UK Corporate 
Governance Code 
(the Code)
The Code sets out standards of good practice in board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, 
accountability and relations with shareholders. Provision B7.1 states that all directors of FTSE 350 
companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders
Up/down binary bet A specific type of binary bet where the outcome is expressed as being above or below the current 
market value (ie the market has moved up or the market has moved down)
Volatility-based 
binary bet
A category of binary bet where the achievement of a specific outcome is directly related to the 
volatility of the underlying market
VSP Value-sharing plan
187 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | LONDON 
(HEADQUARTERS)
IG (IG Index Limited and  
IG Markets Limited) 
Cannon Bridge House 
25 Dowgate Hill 
London
EC4R 2YA 
UNITED KINGDOM
+44 (0)20 7896 0011
helpdesk.uk@ig.com
IG.com
EUROPE (EXCLUDING UK)
AMSTERDAM
IG Markets Limited
World Trade Center Amsterdam
Strawinskylaan 387
1077 XX Amsterdam 
NETHERLANDS
+31 (0)20 794 6610
info.nl@ig.com 
IG.com/nl
 
DUBLIN
IG (IG Index Limited and  
IG Markets Limited)
72 Charlemont Street
Dublin 2
REPUBLIC OF IRELAND
+353 1 526 6061
dublinoffice@ig.com
IG.com/ie
DÜSSELDORF
IG Markets Limited
Berliner Allee 10 
40212 Düsseldorf
GERMANY
+49 (0)211 882 370 00
info.de@ig.com
IG.com/de
LUXEMBOURG
IG Markets Limited 
15 rue du fort Bourbon 
L1249 
LUXEMBOURG
+352 24 87 11 17
info.lu@ig.com
IG.com/lu
MADRID
IG Markets Limited 
Paseo de la Castellana 13 
Planta 1a Derecha 
28046 Madrid
SPAIN
+34 91 787 61 61
info.es@ig.com 
IG.com/es
MILAN
IG Markets Limited 
Via Paolo da Cannobio, 33 
7° Piano
20122 Milano 
ITALY
+39 02 0069 5595
italiandesk@ig.com
IG.com/it
OSLO
IG Markets Limited 
Akersgata 20 
0158 Oslo
NORWAY
+47 22 400 200
info.no@ig.com 
IG.com/no
PARIS
IG Markets Limited 
17 Avenue George V 
75008 Paris 
FRANCE
+33 (0)1 70 98 18 18
info.fr@ig.com
IG.com/fr
STOCKHOLM
IG Markets Limited 
Stureplan 2 
114 35 Stockholm 
SWEDEN
+46 (0)8 505 15 000
info.se@ig.com 
IG.com/se
SWITZERLAND
IG Bank S.A 
42 Rue du Rhone 
Geneve
1204 
SWITZERLAND
+41 22 888 10 12
support@igbank.ch
IG.com/en-ch 
GLOBAL OFFICES
| 188 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 ASIA PACIFIC
MELBOURNE
IG Australia Pty Limited
Level 15
55 Collins Street
Melbourne VIC 3000
AUSTRALIA
+61 (0)3 9860 1799
helpdesk.au@ig.com
IG.com/au
SINGAPORE
IG Asia Pte Limited
9 Battery Road
#01-02 Straits Trading Building
SINGAPORE 049910
+(65) 6390 5133
helpdesk@ig.com.sg
IG.com.sg
TOKYO
IG Securities Limited 
Shiodome City Center 10F
1-5-2 Higashi-shinbashi
Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-7110
JAPAN
+81 (0)3 6704 8500
info.jp@ig.com
IG.com/jp
NORTH AMERICA
CHICAGO
North American  
Derivatives Exchange, Inc
311 South Wacker Drive
Suite 2675
Chicago, IL 60606
US
+1 312 884 0100
customerservice@nadex.com
nadex.com
SOUTH AFRICA
JOHANNESBURG
IG Markets South Africa Limited
The Place
1 Sandton Drive
Sandton, Gauteng
2196 Johannesburg
SOUTH AFRICA
+27 (0)10 344 0051
helpdesk.za@ig.com
IG.com/za
MIDDLE EAST
DUBAI
IG Limited
Office 2 &3
level 27 
Currency House – Tower 2
Dubai International Financial Centre 
P O Box – 506968
DUBAI, UAE
+971 45 59 2000
helpdesk.ae@ig.com
IG.com/ae
189 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | RECEIVING SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
BY EMAIL
You can opt to receive shareholder information from us by 
email rather than by post. We will then email you whenever we 
add shareholder communications to the Company website. 
To set this up, please visit investorcentre.co.uk/ecomms and 
register for electronic communications (e-comms).
If you subsequently wish to change this instruction or revert 
to receiving documents or information by post, you can do so 
by contacting the Company’s registrars at the address shown 
in the Company Information opposite. You can also change 
your communication method back to post by logging in to 
your Investor Centre account and go to ‘update my details’ 
followed by ‘communication options’.
The Registrar can also be contacted by telephone on 
0371 495 2032. Calls to this number cost no more than a 
national rate from any type of phone or provider. These prices 
are for indication purposes only; if in doubt, please check the 
cost of calling this number with your phone line provider. Lines 
are open 8.30am – 5.30pm, Mon-Fri excluding bank holidays.
SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES
If you have any queries relating to your shareholding, 
dividend payments or lost share certificates, or if any of your 
details change, please contact Computershare by visiting 
investorcentre.co.uk or by using the contact details above.
AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (ADRs)
The company has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary 
Receipt (ADR) programme, with Citibank N.A. acting as the 
depositary bank, which enables US investors to invest in IG 
shares though an ADR, denominated in US dollars. IG’s ADR 
programme trades in the US over-the-counter (OTC) market, 
under the symbol IGGHY. Each ADR currently represents one 
ordinary share.
E: citiadr@citi.com W: citi.com/dr
T: UK +44 (20) 7508 2708 US +1 (212) 723 5435
DIVIDEND DATES
(1) 
Ex-dividend date 01 October 2015
Record date 02 October 2015
Last day to elect for  
dividend reinvestment plan  09 October 2015 
Annual General Meeting  15 October 2015 
Final dividend payment date 30 October 2015
2016 interim dividend  February 2016
ANNUAL SHAREHOLDER CALENDAR
(1)
 
Company reporting
Final results announced 21 July 2015
Annual Report published 15 September 2015
Annual General Meeting 15 October 2015
INTERIM REPORT 
As part of our e-comms programme, we have decided not to 
produce a printed copy of our Interim Report. We will instead 
publish the report on our website, where it will be available 
around mid-January each year. 
SHAREHOLDER 
INFORMATION
(1)  
Please note that these dates are provisional and subject to change.
| 190 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT 
Certain statements included in our 2015 Annual Report, or 
incorporated by reference to it, may constitute ‘forward-
looking statements’ in respect of the Group’s operations, 
performance, prospects and/or financial condition. 
By their very nature, forward-looking statements involve 
uncertainties because they relate to events, and depend 
on circumstances, that will or may occur in the future. If 
the assumptions on which the Group bases its forward-
looking statements change, actual results may differ from 
those expressed in such statements. The forward-looking 
statements contained herein reflect knowledge and 
information available at the date of this Annual Report 
and the Group undertakes no obligation to update these 
forward-looking statements except as required by law.
This report does not constitute or form part of any offer or 
invitation to sell, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase 
any shares or other securities in the Company and nothing in 
this report should be construed as a profit forecast. 
MARKET SHARE
Market share data has been provided by Investment Trends 
Pty Limited (website: investmenttrends.co.uk).  
Contact: Pawel Rokicki (email: pawel@investmenttrends.co.uk). 
Unless stated, market share data is sourced from the following 
current reports:
• Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report  
(released October 2014) 
• Investment Trends Australia CFD Report  
(released September 2014)  
• Investment Trends Singapore CFD and FX Report  
(released November 2014)
• Investment Trends Germany CFD and FX Report  
(released June 2015)
• Investment Trends France CFD and FX Report  
(released July 2015)
191 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | DIRECTORS 
Executive Directors 
T A Howkins (Chief Executive) 
P G Hetherington 
C F Hill 
Non-Executive Directors 
A J Green (Chairman) 
S G Hill
J A Newman
S J Tymms
R P Yates (Senior Independent Director) 
COMPANY SECRETARY
B E Messer 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants  
and Statutory Auditors
7 More London Riverside
London
SE1 2RT
BANKERS 
Lloyds Banking Group plc 
10 Gresham Street 
London 
EC2V 7AE 
Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 
280 Bishopsgate 
London 
EC2M 4RB 
HSBC Bank plc
8 Canada Square
London 
E14 5HQ 
SOLICITORS 
Linklaters 
1 Silk Street 
London 
EC2Y 8HQ
REGISTRARS 
Computershare Investor Services plc
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol 
BS99 6ZZ
BROKERS
Barclays Bank Plc
5 The North Colonnade
Canary Wharf
London
E14 4BB
Numis Securities Limited 
10 Paternoster Square 
London 
EC4M 7LT 
REGISTERED OFFICE 
Cannon Bridge House 
25 Dowgate Hill 
London 
EC4R 2YA 
REGISTERED NUMBER
04677092
COMPANY  
INFORMATION
| 192 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 NOTES
193 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | INDEX
Accounting policies 168
Active clients 6, 17
Amortisation 130
Assets and liabilities 112
Audit Committee 94
Auditors’ remuneration 98, 123
Auditors’ report  106
Binaries 16
Board of Directors 56
Broker margin 138
Capital expenditure 129, 130
Cash flow 115
Charitable donations 35
Client money 31, 47, 135, 136
Contracts for difference (CFDs) 14, 180
Depreciation 129
Diluted earnings per share 28, 128
Dividend 9, 29, 128
Dividend – key dates 190
Employees 31, 32
Financial calendar 191
Five-year summary 178
Generic top-level domains (gTLDs) 13
Key Performance Indicators 28
Liquidity 136
Nadex 16, 40
Net Promoter Score (NPS) 29
Nomination Committee 66
Offices 188
Operating costs 42
Political donations 103
Regulatory risk 52
Remuneration 68
Revenue per client 28, 38
Risk  48, 156
Shareholder information 190
Shareholders – major interests 104
Spread betting 15, 182
Strategic objectives 20, 22
Stockbroking 15, 184
Subsequent events 104, 140
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 91
Trading revenue 28, 120
| 194 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 THANK YOU!
Special thanks to everyone for their valuable contribution  
to producing this report:
Maria Abidi
Vinaykumar Ahir
Dionysis Alexopoulos
Chris Alfred
Ryan Arnold
Sruti Bajoria
Carrie-Jo Baker
Hui Shan Beh
Dan Boneham
Jackie Bornor
Burger Botes
Paul Brooking
Harold Burr
Mark Chesterman
Fabian Chui
Lizzie Counihan
Sean Dwyer
Michelle Eardley
Huw Ellis
Fabrizio Ferraro
Johnathan Fung
Ivan Gowan
Paul Gyles
Ali Hine
Robert Hollamby
Harriet Keilthy
Himanshu Kher
Harry Lewis
Lesley Lorraine
Paul Lucas
Natalia Maslicov
Joe McCaughran
Kieran McKinney
Phillip Moon
Jake Mulaikal
Tony Nicol
Helen Nolan
Elisa Ormaechea
Lucy Parry
Lucy Read
Shingai Rupanga
Gary Sanders
Carmel Sargent
Paula Smith
Josh Springthorpe
Paul Stevens
Ellen Taylor
Anne Vasey
Anthony von den Driesch
Sara Walker
Dewi Walters
Andrew Weddell
Johan Wiese
Bunmi Williams-Likinyo
The wider Finance team and all our employees across our offices
Designed by  
www.ab-uk.com
195 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | IG Group Holdings plc
Cannon Bridge House
25 Dowgate Hill
London
EC4R 2YA
T : +44 (0)20 7896 0011
F: +44 (0)20 7896 0010
W: iggroup.com
INVESTOR 
RESOURCES
