 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CONTENTS AT A GLANCE
This report is fully accessible online at: 
iggroup.com/ar2016
COMPANY OVERVIEW
At a Glance 2
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 4
STRATEGIC REPORT 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 6
Our Business 10
Our Product Suite 12
Our Clients and Business Model 14
Our People 16
Our Strategic Objectives 20
Our Operational Strategy in Action 22
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 28
Business Conduct and Sustainability 30
Operating and Financial Review 36
Managing Our Risks 44
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 
Chairman’s Introduction to Corporate Governance 56
Corporate Governance Statement 57
The Board 58
Nomination Committee 68
Directors’ Remuneration Report 70
Audit Committee 90
Board Risk Committee 95
Directors’ Report 98
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 101
Independent Auditors’ Report 102
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Group Income Statement 108
Statements of Financial Position 109
Cash Flow Statements 112
Notes to the Financial Statements 113
INVESTOR RESOURCES
Five-Year Summary 166
Examples 168
Glossary 174
Global Offices 177
Shareholder and Company Information 178
’2016 was another 
record year for IG, 
with revenue up 14% 
to £456.3 million. 
Our investments in 
improving online 
marketing, developing 
new offices and 
extending our product 
set are beginning to 
pay off.’
Peter Hetherington
Chief Executive Officer
19 July 2016 REVENUE
(1)
5.6%
PROFIT 
BEFORE TAX
2.9%
OWN FUNDS 
GENERATED FROM 
OPERATIONS
8.9%
(1) Throughout this report Revenue refers 
to net trading revenue (ie excluding 
interest on segregated client funds 
and after taking account of introducing 
partner commissions).
REVENUE
(1)
PROFIT BEFORE TAX OWN FUNDS GENERATED 
FROM OPERATIONS
DILUTED EARNINGS  
PER SHARE
DILUTED 
EARNINGS 
PER SHARE
4.4%
TOTAL DIVIDEND   
PER SHARE
TOTAL 
DIVIDEND 
PER SHARE
8.7%
FOUR-YEAR 
COMPOUND 
ANNUAL 
GROWTH RATES
£366.8m
£361.9m
£370.4m
£400.2m
£388.4m
FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15
FY16
£456.3m
37.54p
38.80p
40.22p
41.07p
35.99p
FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15
FY16
44.58p
22.50p
23.25p
28.15p
28.15p
28.15p
FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15
FY16
31.40p
£185.7m
£192.2m
£194.9m
FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15
FY16
£207.9m
£193.2m
£169.5m
£140.7m
£154.3m
£160.6m
FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15
FY16
£197.9m
£159.2m
£136.8m
 The shaded area indicates the underlying 
performance in financial year 2015.
 Movement based on statutory figures with 
underlying movement included in narrative. CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
In my second annual statement to you as Chairman of IG, I am pleased to report on a year 
of strong growth for the Company in revenue and profit, with both hitting new highs. 
Andy Green
Chairman
The good financial results are driven primarily 
by improving performance from our digital and 
mobile marketing in our more established markets, 
supported by reasonably volatile financial markets, 
and our investments in Switzerland, Dubai and 
Nadex beginning to produce returns.
This year has produced a challenging backdrop 
against which to execute our strategy. As you know, 
our previous Chief Executive Officer (CEO) retired 
and our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) resigned 
during the first half of this financial year. After a 
thorough process, the Board appointed Peter 
Hetherington as CEO in December last year. Earlier 
this month, we also appointed Paul Mainwaring 
as CFO, subject to FCA approval. The succession 
process has gone smoothly, thanks to the skill and 
dedication of Peter and his Executive team.
We remain committed to growing our business 
within our current global footprint and beyond, 
as opportunities allow. We set out a vision some 
time ago to be the default choice for active traders 
globally. At the half-year results in January, we 
expanded upon this to include non-leveraged 
products such as execution-only stockbroking 
(share dealing) and portfolio-based investing 
(IG Investments). This will allow us to appeal to 
sophisticated and active investors across a range of 
their needs and in different stages of their lives.
Our strategic clarity is coupled with a total 
commitment to operational efficiency. This 
ranges from the strides we are making in online 
marketing, through the incremental improvements 
to our client onboarding process, to the 
enhancements to execution and risk management 
practices that are allowing us to extract increasing 
value from every client trade.
Our people are core to our operational success. 
Recent attrition levels in our London office have 
been too high, due to competition for the scarce 
skills we require to prosper. In response, we have 
increased some salary levels to help retain key 
staff. At the same time, we are expanding our 
presence in Krakow and Bangalore to access key 
skills competitively. We expect our London office to 
remain at the core of our operations.
Shortly after the year-end the UK electorate 
voted to leave the EU. I continue to be impressed 
by how the broader team in IG handles such 
volatile events.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
4
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016  The team prepared meticulously for what turned out to be a 
night of severe and sudden movements in financial markets. I am 
very pleased to report that they steered the business through 
unscathed. They concentrated on the interests of our clients 
leading up to and throughout the period, with clear client 
communications and margin-setting policy. The result, however, 
does throw up new challenges for IG, and will divert some 
resources over the next couple of years, as we decide on the best 
course of action to secure the future of our European business. In 
doing this, we will also consider any relevant elements of other 
forthcoming legislation in this area.
Regulatory compliance remains a key tenet of IG’s operating model. 
We are regulated in 17 jurisdictions across the world. While we 
can never guarantee we will not fall foul of a specific regulation, 
our intention is always to comply and we continue to invest in our 
capability here, with the aim of maintaining our good track record.
’Our strategic clarity is coupled 
with a total commitment to 
operational efficiency.’
DIVIDEND
This has been another strong year for cash generation at IG. 
In line with the Board’s previously stated intention to pay out, 
as an ordinary dividend, approximately 70% of the Group’s 
annual earnings, the Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 22.95 pence per share, taking the full-year dividend to 31.40 
pence per share, 11.5% ahead of the prior year. 
The Board will maintain a capital structure and cash position 
in the business to enable it to withstand any changes in the 
regulatory environment or structural shocks in the financial markets, 
while providing sufficient headroom to take advantage of any 
investment opportunities.
BOARD
The Board structure has changed significantly in the past year. In my 
statement last year I noted the retirement and acknowledged the 
great contribution of our CEO, Tim Howkins. In October, Chris Hill, 
CFO, stepped down from the Board and left IG, to take up a CFO 
role elsewhere. As I said at the time, we were sorry to lose Chris but 
understood his decision.
In December, following a thorough search process, the Board 
appointed Peter Hetherington as the new CEO. Peter was 
previously Chief Operating Officer and has been a member of the 
IG Board since 2002. The Board was delighted to confirm Peter as 
CEO, and believes he brings the right mix of business knowledge 
and fresh thinking to the CEO role. In July 2016, we announced 
that Paul Mainwaring had been selected by the Board as CFO, 
subject to FCA approval. Paul was previously CFO of Tullett Prebon 
plc and we are looking forward to welcoming him to the Board in 
due course.
In September, June Felix joined the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director. June is currently president of Verifone in Europe 
and brings with her significant international experience along 
with knowledge of product innovation in the financial and 
digital sectors. Also in September, Malcolm Le May joined the 
Board as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Malcolm brings to the Board deep knowledge of the financial 
services and investments sectors and a wealth of experience on 
the boards of publicly listed businesses. I would like to welcome 
them both to IG. Following these changes, your Board continues to 
comply with provision B.1.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance 
Code (‘the Code’).
The intention again this year is to put every Board Director up for 
election or re-election at the AGM, in compliance with paragraph 
B.7.1 of the Code.
REMUNERATION 
In response to the attrition levels mentioned earlier, this year we 
carried out a targeted salary benchmarking exercise, to ensure 
our overall remuneration structure enables us to recruit and retain 
high-quality people. We also introduced a flexible benefits scheme, 
which allows our employees to choose the mix of benefits which 
suits their individual circumstances. This will increase our overall 
remuneration costs, but I believe makes us increasingly competitive 
in a tough labour market. In determining the remuneration of the 
CEO and CFO, the Remuneration Committee took into account 
the growth of the business and the competitiveness of salaries at 
all levels of the Company, and benchmarked these roles against 
companies of comparable size and complexity in financial services 
and the FTSE 250.
IG’S PEOPLE
Once again, I and the rest of the Board want to thank all the 
people who work at IG for delivering another record year for the 
Company. We were extremely impressed, if not surprised, by the 
way our people pulled together during the uncertainty caused by 
the CEO and CFO’s departures during the first half of the year, and 
by the way they have rallied behind Peter, as new CEO. We are in 
no doubt that our people remain our key asset.
LOOKING FORWARD
We have been investing heavily over the last few years in 
transitioning IG, from a very successful but relatively narrow 
specialist, to a broader-based business, through product extension, 
geographic expansion and platform development. We are 
now coming towards the end of this particular project investment 
phase. This year, as well as delivering results from those 
investments, we have a number of important initiatives planned, 
which Peter considers in more detail in his statement, as we 
seek new opportunities to grow and to expand our knowledge 
and experience across an emerging range of exciting digital 
financial products.
The Board is committed to delivering on the strategy we have 
agreed, to the benefit of all our stakeholders. IG’s success is built 
on placing clients at the heart of our business and we aim to further 
enhance our leadership position by providing them with even 
better technology and continuous improvements to their overall 
experience. With our recent investments beginning to bear fruit 
and exciting plans for the year ahead, I am increasingly confident 
about the future.
Andy Green
Chairman
19 July 2016
5
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
This is my first opportunity to present full-year financial results, and I am pleased to 
be reporting on such a strong outcome. Revenue was ahead by 14% at £456.3 million 
(2015 underlying: £400.2 million). Performance was strong across the board, with each 
half-year setting a new high. 
Peter Hetherington
Chief Executive Officer
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
6 The year was particularly marked by sharp market movements in 
our first and third quarters, which presented short-term trading 
opportunities for our clients. However, I am particularly pleased by 
the continued strategic and operational progress we made in the 
year, which I will expand upon later.
Profit before tax rose by 7.6% to £207.9 million (2015 underlying: 
£193.2 million), with a £6.4 million negative impact year-on-year in 
betting duty and net interest on client funds and a 17% increase 
in operating costs. Cost increases reflected targeted investment 
in advertising and marketing, where the payback remains 
compelling, increased data fees due to the growth in client 
numbers, higher employee costs due to the impact of headcount 
increases through the prior year and higher discretionary 
remuneration following the improved business performance. Profit 
after tax was up by 9% at £164.3 million (2015 underlying: £150.7 
million). Diluted earnings per share was up by 8.5% at 44.58 pence 
(2015 underlying: 41.07 pence).
Revenue in the year was ahead in all of our geographic regions. 
The UK contributed almost 51% of the Group revenue in the year, 
up 9% at £231.1 million, with a similar sequential half-on-half 
growth rate. The pattern was similar in Australia, where revenue 
was ahead of the prior year by 8% at £64.0 million. Revenue in 
Europe was ahead by 22%, at £98.6 million, with all countries 
in this region ahead of the prior year and a strong year-on-year 
performance in Switzerland, where the office opened part way 
through the prior year; the sequential half-on-half growth rate here 
was 16%. The Rest of World segment was ahead of the prior year 
by 30%. Once again all countries were ahead of the prior year, 
with a particularly strong revenue performance in the US and an 
excellent start in the new Dubai office.
As our Chairman, Andy Green, mentioned, just after the end of 
our financial year, we experienced a real-world test of our systems, 
processes and risk management with the UK’s EU Referendum. 
This sort of event brings out the best in IG’s people. We prepared 
meticulously, providing regular communications and adjustments 
for our clients to ensure they understood the potential for market 
moves and stress testing our technology even more than normal. 
As it turned out, the event was more dramatic than most people 
anticipated, with some of the most extreme movements we have 
seen in financial markets. I am delighted with the way IG handled 
the event itself and the immediate aftermath. While IG avails itself 
of the ‘passporting’ regime in using its UK licence to operate 
across the EU, the decision to leave the EU does not change 
much in the short-term. We will put plans in place to deal with this 
outcome, as we monitor the progress in political discussions, and 
be ready to act if required to ensure we can continue to operate 
in Europe.
MiFID II is currently scheduled to come into force in January 
2018. This provides enhanced intervention rights for individual 
state regulators. Ahead of this, as we announced in March, the 
French regulator, the AMF, stated its intention to restrict electronic 
advertising of derivative products to retail clients. Although this 
intention is not yet law, it appears there is sufficient will to ensure 
this happens and therefore we assume this comes into force 
sometime during this calendar year. The precise extent of the 
restriction is not yet clear but it is likely to adversely impact new 
client acquisition for the French business, which accounted for 5% 
of this year’s revenue and new accounts.
STRATEGIC AND 
OPERATIONAL PROGRESS
In my first-half statement in January, I clarified my approach to 
taking IG forward. We are concentrating on three key levers 
for growth:
 ❚ Product diversification
 ❚ Geographic development
 ❚ Maximising the current opportunity
 – Optimising marketing efficiency and client conversion
 – Increasing client activity and retention
 – Maximising client value
PRODUCT DIVERSIFICATION
Having grown to be a clear market leader in certain of our more 
mature markets, the UK and Australia in particular, we see great 
value in being able to offer clients a broader suite of trading 
and investment products, which fulfil a greater portion of their 
needs throughout their life. This also allows us to reach out with 
the IG brand to a broader range of potential clients through a 
product set they understand well, with some of those clients, 
those for whom it’s entirely appropriate, ultimately choosing 
also to use a leveraged product. In September 2014, we took 
our first step outside our core leveraged-product arena, with the 
launch of execution-only stockbroking in the UK. We evolved 
our offering early in 2016, in response to a slightly disappointing 
take-up, including altering our pricing structure and renaming it 
share dealing. These changes coincided with the ISA season in 
the UK, so it is difficult to understand their precise impact, but 
we have seen an uplift in the account opening rates. At the end 
of the year we had over 11,000 funded accounts and, perhaps 
more importantly, we had around 2,900 active clients in May. 
We continue to see around 15% of new clients going on to use 
the leveraged product set and initial indications suggest they 
are valuable clients. We rolled out this product to Australia in 
early July and hope to build here on the learnings from our UK 
experience to date.
’I am particularly pleased by 
the continued strategic and 
operational progress we made 
in the year.’
We are close to launching a portfolio-based investment product 
through IG Investments, in partnership with BlackRock, the biggest 
asset manager in the world. Initially this will be UK only but we 
expect to expand it to Australia over time. This is the next natural 
extension of the IG brand and provides us with another route to 
market. Over the longer term, this allows us to build a separate, 
more predictable revenue stream. The model portfolios we will 
offer will be built on exchange traded funds (ETFs), which lend 
themselves to one of IG’s core competencies, namely real-time 
trade execution. ETFs are low-fee products, which will enable us 
to offer a low-cost service to clients, based on market-leading 
technology and transparency. We plan to add a customisation 
ability for clients, which we anticipate will appeal to more 
sophisticated clients. 
7
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW CONTINUED
GEOGRAPHIC DEVELOPMENT
We will adjust our approach to suit the opportunity. Over time we 
believe there will be opportunities to expand our business into 
fresh geographies. Recent examples of this are Switzerland and 
Dubai. These two offices are performing ahead of plan, with a 
particularly strong finish to this year in Dubai. Unlike other offices, 
the revenue in these countries is coming from fewer, larger-value 
clients, particularly in Dubai, which leads us to expect growth to 
be strong but unpredictable from month to month. Both of these 
countries required a lengthy licensing process, a relatively material 
infrastructure and local regulatory capital.
We will seek to address certain adjacent or proximate markets 
without the overhead of a local presence. These markets will be 
targeted by the most relevant sales office, with the assistance 
of our improved online marketing capabilities, a new affiliates 
programme, slim local language websites and the required local 
language skills. This approach is central to our recent decision 
to pursue a hub strategy in Europe, where we are centralising 
our capabilities in specific strategic countries. As part of this, we 
closed our offices in Norway and the Netherlands and will now 
serve our current clients and build these businesses from Sweden, 
Germany and the UK. 
There remains significant opportunity within our current 
geographic footprint. As global leader in our market, there are 
many countries where our market share does not reflect this. 
We see this as an opportunity, rather than a disappointment. 
We may seek to extend our product set where there are specific 
local circumstances which support that, but generally, in countries 
where our market share is not reflective of our aspirations, we will 
focus on the core leveraged product and progressing towards a 
market-leading position.
This year, we launched an affiliates programme to market 
our product through a range of partners. This is still early stage, 
but the progress to date has been encouraging in some countries. 
This provides us with an entrepreneurial route to market, with a 
very transparent cost per account. We will continue to progress 
this positively, while remaining protective of our record of 
regulatory compliance.
MAXIMISING THE CURRENT OPPORTUNITY
In the short to medium term, there is a real opportunity for IG 
to improve at all the things we already do. As the business grew 
rapidly through the past 10-15 years, inefficiencies crept in to 
some of our processes, particularly around the way we market, 
onboard and engage clients through their life with IG. We 
are making progress in extracting increasing value from every 
client opportunity.
Optimising marketing efficiency and client conversion
Over the last couple of years, we have overhauled our online 
marketing, recognising its growing importance, through personnel 
and process change. We have centralised our marketing 
spend in regional hubs and now use a data-based algorithmic 
methodology. In the last financial year we opened just over 
100,000 accounts, 42% ahead of the prior year, and the second 
half of this year was 35% ahead of the first half. So, we are making 
great progress at targeting new clients. These figures do however 
belie the fact that there is still considerable friction, and therefore 
opportunity, in the application process. We have put in place 
many changes this year, accompanied by a strict testing regime 
and feedback loop where possible, to improve the conversion rate 
for prospective clients who begin the application process. Many 
of these are almost imperceptible, but incremental. However, the 
more significant ones include: taking advantage of electronic ID 
verification databases in countries where these were previously 
unavailable, particularly in Europe; enabling ID document upload 
through the mobile app; redesigning our mobile application form; 
establishing a dynamic verification routine within the application 
which shows clients clearly what documentation they require at 
each stage of the account opening process and much improved 
client communications.
Our conversion rate from opened accounts to trading accounts 
has dropped a little in the year. In absolute terms, it is still a strong 
picture, with first trades ahead of the prior year by 29%, and the 
second half of this year 24% ahead of the first half. Part of the 
decline in the conversion rate is due to the increasing proportion 
of applications commencing on mobile devices – for the last few 
months of the year, this has been running at around 50% of all 
applications; currently these do not convert as well as those that 
come through the web-based platform, either into valid open 
accounts or into trading accounts. It is also due in part to the 
magnitude of the uplift in applications – a good problem to have – 
and the reassurance we require before allowing someone to trade; 
this often includes a direct conversation and we are employing 
more client-facing staff to assist clients to get through to trading.
Less successful at this stage has been our acquisition of generic 
top-level domains (gTLDs), where we have decided to write-off the 
investment this year. We have launched some websites using our 
gTLDs, for example news.markets, and licensed many domains to 
third parties, but this is moving slower than we initially anticipated. 
We continue to believe that our ownership of certain gTLD strings 
positions us well as the internet structure evolves, but we have 
trimmed our short-term ambitions and we are focusing on using 
the small number of sites we have at this stage to broaden IG’s 
presence and attract clients.
’In the UK and Australia in 
particular, we see great value 
in being able to offer clients a 
broader suite of trading and 
investment products, which 
fulfil a greater portion of their 
needs throughout their life.’
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
8 Increasing client activity and retention
Our desire is to delight our clients with our technology and our 
service and to retain them for as long as possible. There is an 
overlap in this growth lever with our product diversification, a 
mechanism for deepening our relationships with clients. However, 
there are a number of other initiatives which will differentiate 
IG. This year, we rolled out our market movement notifications 
service, primarily via push alert to a mobile device. This allows 
a client to move seamlessly from a timely trading idea to the 
dealing platform and is individually targeted to each client’s 
interests. During July 2016, we will launch our limited risk trading 
account, an important step in helping some clients to manage 
better the risk/reward balance in their trading. This guarantees a 
client cannot incur debt, and may enable us to attract additional 
clients, previously concerned by the nature of the trading risks.
We are in the middle of the testing our new web trading platform, 
the mainstay of IG and our industry. Our current platform could be 
described as visually a little tired, but it remains technologically 
cutting-edge. It is also very familiar to many of our clients and 
therefore we will approach the changeover carefully and include a 
long period of dual-running. As long as the testing feedback is 
positive, we continue to expect to roll out the initial version in 
2016. We will then iterate this to ensure all current functionality is 
available, along with the suite of new features we are planning.
Maximising client value
We continue to optimise our risk management within 
our technology suite and with strong governance as we approach 
specific events. This year we increased our absolute risk limits and 
made them dynamic, where they rise and fall as markets open and 
close to take advantage of liquidity and client volume. Although 
we intend to retain our low-variability revenue stream – IG has 
only had three negative revenue days in the past five years – we 
continue to run back-testing simulations of various scenarios to 
get increasingly close to the optimal position, while remaining 
neutral on market direction. We overlay this technological risk 
management with manual oversight. 
This was extremely successful at the time of the EU Referendum, 
where we prioritised long-term value over short-term gain, raising 
client margin rates significantly and encouraging our clients to 
consider carefully the merits of holding a position through such 
uncertainty. This approach protected both clients and IG.
’We continue to optimise 
our risk management within 
our technology suite and with 
strong governance as we 
approach specific events.’
OUTLOOK
We made good progress in 2016, strategically, operationally 
and financially. The business starts this year in good shape, and 
we are delivering a number of initiatives which should continue 
to support future growth. The launch of limited risk accounts 
is a key step in providing current and prospective clients with 
increased choice and will allow us to broaden our reach. We aim 
to improve retention of existing clients and to appeal to new 
clients by releasing our investments product in the UK in the first 
half of this financial year; this will be an important achievement in 
the evolution of IG and continues our repositioning in our more 
mature markets. We are also approaching the end of the testing 
phase for our new web trading platform, and expect to release it 
before the end of this calendar year.
Demand for our products and application numbers remain strong. 
Given this demand, and the improvements we have made to 
our online targeting capability, we intend to increase marketing 
investment again significantly this year, as long as the payback 
remains compelling. Including the impact of the remuneration 
changes at the end of the financial year, and modest increases in 
other operating costs, we currently expect the overall absolute 
rise in operating costs in the 2017 financial year to be in line with 
the increase last year, on an underlying basis. However, given the 
nature of this cost growth, it will be increasingly discretionary and 
more closely aligned with revenue.
In summary, 2016 was a successful year for IG, and the business is 
in robust health. I am delighted to be leading such an energised 
team, and we remain confident that we can deliver further 
attractive growth going forward.
’The business starts this year in good shape, and we are 
delivering a number of initiatives which should continue to 
support future growth.’
Peter Hetherington
Chief Executive Officer
19 July 2016
9
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT OUR VISION
We aim to be the default financial platform for active traders and sophisticated investors in 
our chosen markets.
OUR BUSINESS
BUILDING ON OUR HERITAGE
IG is a global leader in online trading and the trusted partner 
for 152,600 active traders. A FTSE 250 company with market 
capitalisation of £3.0 billion
(1)
, we have a long history of 
profitability and financial strength.
In 1974 we began life as the UK’s original spread betting provider, 
introducing a completely new, accessible way for people to trade 
on gold, by defining it as an index. Since then, our innovative, 
client-focused approach has enabled us to grow and expand our 
business and product range internationally, and today we are the 
world’s No.1 CFD provider as well as maintaining our considerable 
UK market leadership in spread betting.
(2)
As we look to the future, as well as continuing to grow our number 
of clients globally, there is an opportunity to strengthen and 
extend our relationship with them by offering a wider spectrum 
of products, beyond our original leveraged trading services. Our 
hallmark transparency, financial security and platform technology 
underpin new initiatives that will enable us to attract clients at 
different stages of their investment lifecycle. We began this 
process with the successful introduction of our share dealing 
service in September 2014, which is now exposing our brand to a 
broader audience and bringing valuable new clients to our entire 
product suite.
We are shortly to launch, in the UK, a sophisticated and innovative 
portfolio-based product, for longer-term investment purposes, in 
partnership with BlackRock, the world’s leading asset manager.
By providing a broader range of products that cater for differing 
investment objectives and risk appetites, we seek to forge 
longer-lasting relationships with our clients, remaining their partner 
of choice as their needs change over time.
Meanwhile, we continue to focus on optimising our core offering. 
A completely new, cutting-edge trading platform will give our 
clients a faster, more responsive, personalised trading experience. 
We have also invested heavily in improving the client recruitment 
process, using a number of techniques to create a broader, 
smoother pathway for prospects interested in using our products.
Throughout the past four decades, our operating model and risk 
management strategy have been thoroughly tested and have 
proved highly resilient. Our business has continually adapted to 
a changing world and the technological and economic backdrop, 
and we will continue to innovate as we look to the next phase of 
our growth.
(1) Based on the share price at 19 July 2016.
(2) Based on number of active UK financial spread betting accounts (Investment Trends 
UK Leveraged Trading Report, September 2015); for CFDs, based on revenue 
excluding FX (published financial statements, September 2015).
KEY DATES
1974
IG Index was founded, becoming the UK’s first spread 
betting company.
1982
We were the first company in the UK to offer spread 
betting on the FT30.
1995
IG Index became the first UK company to allow spread 
betting on individual shares.
1998
The company became the first to launch an online 
dealing platform for financial spread betting.
2002
IG Markets Australia became the country’s first 
CFD provider.
2003
Our product range expanded as binary betting 
was introduced.
2006
New offices opened in Germany and Singapore.
2007
Our browser-based trading platform was launched. New 
offices opened in the US, Spain and France.
2008
The Group opened an office in Italy. The Group 
launched the UK’s first dedicated spread betting 
iPhone app.
2009
Nadex.com was launched in the US. IG Markets 
introduced PureDMA. Offices opened in Sweden 
and Luxembourg.
2010
We acquired the Ideal CFDs business in South Africa. 
CFD iPhone app launched.
2012
Our Insight, news and analysis centre launched. New 
office opened in Dublin.
2013
Spread betting and CFD offerings brought together 
under IG.com. Introduction of forex trading via Meta 
Trader 4 platform.
2014
Introduced execution-only stockbroking as part of our 
comprehensive share trading package. New office 
opened in Switzerland.
2015
Sunday trading was launched and IG designed the 
first trading app for Apple Watch. New office 
opened in Dubai.
2016
IG expands its stockbroking offering into ISAs and SIPPs. 
Enters into a partnership with BlackRock, the biggest 
asset manager in the world, to launch a portfolio-based 
investment product.
IG RETAIL BRANDS
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
10 -
DUBAI
MELBOURNE
DÜSSELDORF
JOHANNESBURG
SINGAPORE
MILAN
LUXEMBOURG
PARIS
MADRID
LONDON GENEVA
DUBLIN
STOCKHOLM
CHICAGO
TOKYO
SALES OFFICES OPERATIONAL HUBS HQ
KRAKOW
BANGALORE
OUR GLOBAL OPERATIONS
We have sales offices across Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Australia, Asia and the US, and our growing expertise in online 
marketing, search engine optimisation and multi-language client service enables us to extend our reach into countries where we have 
no physical presence. Using a centralised marketing strategy, we now target prospects and serve clients in 156 countries, efficiently and 
cost-effectively. 
Our UK headquarters in the City of London is supported by two major growing operational hubs in Krakow, Poland, and Bangalore, 
India. These are positioned to take advantage of local pools of talent in a variety of disciplines.
UK
 ❚ Introduced the first financial 
spread betting product 
in 1974
 ❚ Offices located in the City 
of London and Dublin 
(Republic of Ireland)
 ❚ Annual revenue of 
£231.1 million in the 
2016 financial year, with 
64,500 active clients trading
EUROPE
 ❚ Entered the market in 
Germany in 2006, with 
rapid expansion across 
Europe from 2007
 ❚ Offices located in 
France, Germany, Italy, 
Luxembourg, Spain, 
Sweden and Switzerland
 ❚ Annual revenue of 
£98.6 million in the 
2016 financial year, with 
35,000 active clients trading
AUSTRALIA
 ❚ Entered the market in 2002
 ❚ Office located 
in Melbourne
 ❚ Annual revenue of 
£64.0 million in the 
2016 financial year, with 
19,800 active clients trading
REST OF WORLD
 ❚ Began expansion in 2006 
in Singapore
 ❚ Offices located in Dubai, 
Japan, Singapore, South 
Africa and the US
 ❚ Annual revenue of 
£62.6 million in the 
2016 financial year, with 
33,300 active clients trading
857
EMPLOYEES
210
EMPLOYEES
1,408
TOTAL EMPLOYEES
76
EMPLOYEES
265
EMPLOYEES
11
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PRODUCT SUITE
We provide our clients with a broad product set, both in terms 
of markets to trade and the number of platforms available. Our 
market-leading technology enables fast, flexible trading on an 
extensive range of global indices, shares, forex, commodities and 
other instruments.
At the core of our product range is leveraged trading. Most 
of our global revenue comes from CFDs and financial spread 
betting (in the UK and Ireland), with an increasing proportion 
generated by binaries trading, including our US retail derivatives 
exchange, Nadex.
Our aim is to anticipate and respond to our clients’ changing 
needs. As part of this process, in the UK and Australia, we are 
developing a comprehensive product range that will suit shifting 
risk appetites and investment objectives throughout a lifetime. 
This includes a suite of unleveraged products, starting with the 
introduction of share dealing and ISAs in the UK last year and the 
recent addition of SIPPs this year.
We are also launching, in the UK, a new wealth management 
offering, in partnership with market-leading exchange traded 
fund (ETF) provider BlackRock. We believe that the long-term 
investment market is already beginning to experience disruption, 
and we can take advantage here through the exceptional strength 
of our technology combined with BlackRock’s product and 
portfolio construction expertise. 
Together, our range of leveraged and unleveraged products will 
help us attract and serve both active traders and sophisticated 
investors, broadening our reach into new target audiences and 
extending the lifetime of our clients with us.
Together, our range of 
leveraged and unleveraged 
products will help us attract 
and serve both active traders 
and sophisticated investors.
(1) Based on revenue excluding FX, from published Financial Statements, 
September 2015.
(2) Tax laws are subject to change and depend on individual circumstances. Tax law may 
differ in a jurisdiction other than the UK.
(3) Based on number of active UK spread betting accounts (Investment Trends Ltd UK 
Leveraged Trading Report, September 2015).
(4) Investment Trends Ltd UK Leveraged Trading Report, July 2015.
CONTRACTS FOR DIFFERENCE (CFDS)
CFDs are derivatives contracts that enable clients to take 
advantage of changes in an asset’s price, without owning the 
asset itself.
 ❚ We are the world’s No.1 CFD provider
(1)
 ❚ We offer CFDs in more than 17 countries globally
We explain how a CFD works on page 168. 
SPREAD BETTING
Financial spread betting, available in the UK and Ireland, is a 
tax-free
(2)
 alternative to trading, enabling clients to bet on the 
price movement of an asset. Like a CFD, it enables clients to 
capitalise on changes in an asset’s price without owning the asset 
itself. The size of a client’s win or loss depends on the magnitude 
and direction of the price movement.
 ❚ We are the UK’s largest and longest-running spread 
betting provider
(3)
 ❚ We hold 44% of the UK financial spread betting market
(4)
We explain how spread betting works on page 170.
NADEX
Nadex is our US derivatives exchange, enabling US and 
overseas investors to trade options on global financial markets in 
retail-sized contracts.
The main product we offer is the binary option, which provides 
a flexible way for clients to trade with limited risk, although the 
spread product, also limited risk, is becoming more popular.
 ❚ Nadex is the first and largest US-based 
retail-oriented exchange
 ❚ The business has seen a two-year compound growth of 89%
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
12 BINARIES
Our pioneering binary contracts are based on a single question: 
‘will the underlying market behave in a specific way before the 
contract expires?’. Clients use their knowledge of the markets to 
decide whether the answer will be yes or no.
Binary contracts are unrestricted by low volatility, giving clients the 
opportunity to trade in even the flattest markets. They are also a 
limited-risk product, where the maximum potential gain or loss 
is known at the outset. Our binary offering also includes ‘sprint 
markets’ – short-term, fixed-risk trades.
This product forms a key part of our ongoing strategy to provide a 
range of services for clients throughout their lifetime.
 ❚ Our binaries have seen a CAGR of 34% over the past 
three years
 ❚ Binaries now represent 11% of our overall revenue, up from 
9% in the prior year
SHARE DEALING, ISAs AND SIPPs
Our online, execution-only share dealing service is powered by 
the same market-leading technology as our spread betting and 
CFD services. Clients have access to live, streaming prices and a 
transparent execution process, as well as a cost-effective way to 
trade international equities. At the start of 2016, we reduced and 
simplified our charging structure to give clients even better value 
for money. We also allow clients to use their stock portfolio as 
collateral to initiate leveraged trading, and those clients who use 
both products benefit from lower, preferential fees on their share 
dealing account. Following the recent launch of SIPPs in the UK, 
we believe we now have a market-leading proposition.
Share dealing is an important part of our product offering in the 
UK and will become so soon in Australia, two countries where we 
are market leaders for leveraged trading, and it offers us a new 
and exciting route to growth. We also launched the service in 
Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and Ireland, but the main thrust 
in these countries remains developing our leveraged market share.
 ❚ The market in the UK for online, execution-only stockbroking is 
around ten times the size of the market for leveraged products
 ❚ Around 70% of clients opening share dealing accounts are 
new to IG, and around 15% of these clients have subsequently 
started using our leveraged products
WEALTH MANAGEMENT
The building block of our new wealth management offering 
is the exchange traded fund (ETF) – a passive investment 
vehicle that is rapidly increasing in popularity and becoming 
much more mainstream in the UK and Europe, following a 
pattern set by the US.
On its own, an ETF gives clients a low-fee way of tracking 
an index geography or a sector. Because ETFs trade on 
recognised exchanges, clients can do this through the share 
dealing platform. We will be enabling clients in the UK 
to choose from a range of model ETF-based investment 
portfolios with different risk profiles. These portfolios are 
constructed and regularly rebalanced by the IG Investments 
portfolio team. Clients benefit from IG’s world-class 
technology, execution and customer service, combined with 
BlackRock’s market-leading expertise in asset allocation. We 
believe our offering is extremely well placed to challenge 
the traditional high-fee approach to wealth management, 
and will provide investors with a low-cost, transparent and 
flexible solution. 
We consider the wealth management sector to be a 
significant long-term opportunity, and our marketing 
initiatives will include educational programmes to continue 
raising awareness and understanding of ETFs within 
the market.
 ❚ The ETF market is currently growing at 
around 18% per annum
 ❚ BlackRock is the world’s largest ETF provider, with 
over 760 exchange traded products (ETPs) listed 
on exchanges worldwide and over 36% market 
share globally
13
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CLIENT ACQUISITION
Acquiring a new client begins with a highly targeted global marketing effort, with 
offline activity managed locally by each office and our increasingly sophisticated online 
marketing effort controlled from regional hubs. By using an algorithmic approach, and 
continuously testing this through a feedback loop, we are able to determine which 
advertising and search terms have been most valuable for client recruitment in each country. 
This enables us to reach larger numbers of the right prospects more efficiently. 
As well as marketing our products directly, we provide a number of education, news and 
analysis services which encourage people to engage with IG and learn about our products. 
These include the learn.spreadbetting website and IG Academy app, launched this year, 
as well as the IG Live TV channel and a suite of YouTube videos. These assets reinforce our 
commitment to transparency, ensuring our new and existing clients are well informed about 
our services.
THE CONVERSION JOURNEY
Once a prospect has decided to become an IG client, our focus shifts to ensuring the 
journey is as smooth as possible, removing any obstacles or areas of friction, while ensuring 
we comply fully with all our regulatory requirements. 
This involves constantly iterating online and mobile application forms in response to 
client progress rates. We are also making better use of electronic verification methods 
that check a client’s identity against government data in real-time, where available. This is 
dramatically shortening the typical timescale to open an account in countries where the 
facility exists, cutting it from three days to within the same day in Germany and Austria, for 
example. For occasions when further security checks are still required, we have introduced a 
new way for clients to quickly upload photographs of their documents from their phone or 
computer to our website.
OUR CLIENTS AND BUSINESS MODEL
We currently have 152,600 active clients around the world, and 
the majority of these engage directly with us.
OUR CLIENTS
INTRODUCED BUSINESS
The mainstay of our institutional division has historically been introduced business. In 
this case our clients are regulated entities who do not have their own front-end offering 
and want to take advantage of our award-winning dealing technology and expertise. 
They introduce their clients to us and we handle all trading activity and provide back-end 
support. The introducer manages the client relationship.
We can also provide a white-labelled version of our platform with the client’s own branding. 
This enables clients to integrate our trading facilities seamlessly with their other services and 
maintain consistency throughout their marketing assets. 
DIRECT INSTITUTIONS
Increasingly, small asset managers, hedge funds, broker dealers and competitors lack 
sufficient scale to gain direct access to the major hedging counterparties. Balance-sheet 
constraints have recently forced banks who might previously have offered a source of 
liquidity for these clients to withdraw from the market. IG is taking advantage of this 
growing segment of the market by taking on these clients and providing them with a forum 
to trade. This business is profitable and growing. 
We carefully assess the risk and potential returns from each client and only partner 
with reputable institutions that are committed to the same rigorous standards of regulatory 
compliance as ourselves, and that fit our risk profile. We usually provide a price feed to 
the client’s own platform or offer the facility to connect to us via a direct API (application 
programming interface), with the client paying spread or commission depending on 
what they trade. This enables clients to fully integrate their trading strategies with the IG 
infrastructure via their own front end or a number of third-party solutions.
RETAIL CLIENTS 
Our core focus continues to be the active 
trader – a knowledgeable, demanding 
and valuable client who expects highly 
sophisticated technology and uses it 
frequently, often placing large trades. 
However, investment requirements 
and appetite for risk can change over 
time, affected by factors such as family 
or financial commitments or the need 
to plan for retirement, and this offers 
us the opportunity to broaden our 
product set to also appeal to relatively 
sophisticated investors.
Our 42-year heritage and integrity has 
developed our brand strength to a point 
where we have sufficient credibility to 
broaden our range of products in the 
UK and Australia into stockbroking and 
investment portfolios, including ISAs and 
SIPPs. By doing so, we will be able to 
deepen and lengthen our relationship 
with our clients by catering for their 
evolving needs. 
INSTITUTIONAL CLIENTS
IG also provides a number of services 
to corporate entities. These range from 
purely supplying price feeds to operating 
full white-label platforms. Accounting for 
8% of our revenue, the institutional sector 
is a significant part of our business, but 
is currently significantly smaller than our 
strong retail division. However, it is an 
area where we have the potential to grow 
without any substantial increase in our 
cost base.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
14 TECHNOLOGY 
AND INNOVATION
 ❚ Industry-leading apps, 
charts and tools
 ❚ Secure, stable platform
 ❚ Fast, reliable execution
 ❚ Continuous improvement
 ❚ Responsive to client needs
BRAND STRENGTH
 ❚ Global leader in online trading 
 ❚ Reputation for authority  
and integrity
 ❚ 42-year heritage
 ❚ Robust balance sheet
 ❚ Access to over 10,000 markets
EXPERT SERVICE 
 ❚ High-calibre client service staff
 ❚ Dedicated 24h telephone support
 ❚ Sophisticated interaction- 
management system
 ❚ Products designed in response  
to client feedback
1
DISCOVERING IG VIA OUR 
CAREFULLY TARGETED 
MARKETING 
 ❚ Optimised global 
online acquisition
 ❚ Transparent, targeted advertising 
 ❚ Accessible educational tools
 ❚ Market news and expert insight
2
BECOMING A 
CLIENT QUICKLY 
AND EASILY 
 ❚ Full compliance with FCA and 
other regulators’ requirements 
 ❚ Fast, smooth application process
 ❚ Electronic ID verification
 ❚ Secure, simple document upload
3 
ACCESSING FINANCIAL 
MARKETS THROUGH A 
SUITE OF PRODUCTS FOR 
CHANGING NEEDS
 ❚ Spread betting
 ❚ CFDs 
 ❚ Binaries
 ❚ Share dealing
 ❚ ISAs
 ❚ SIPPs
 ❚ ETF portfolios
BUSINESS MODEL
CLIENT JOURNEY
42 YEARS
       
HOW WE ADD VALUE
       
HOW WE GENERATE REVENUE
Our principal revenue sources on our core leveraged products are the dealing spreads or commission charges we apply to each 
transaction, according to the asset and product type being traded net of our hedging costs. As clients are trading on margin, we also 
levy a financing charge for positions held overnight. Our share dealing offer charges a flat fee commission per trade in UK shares.
We derive our earnings from the volume of our clients’ dealing transactions, which is influenced by the level of activity in the underlying 
financial markets. Since our clients can choose to ‘buy’ or ‘sell’, dealing volumes can be maintained, and we are able to profit, 
irrespective of the direction in which markets are moving.
Our centralised operating model enables us to consolidate the market risk associated with client trades from around the globe, which 
lessens our requirement to hedge, due to the net impact of clients buying and selling the same asset, and so reduces risk and cost.
15
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PEOPLE
 ❚ We are a global employer 
with people in 17 countries
 ❚ We employ over 1,400 staff
 ❚ Over 90% of employees feel 
that there is a strong sense 
of teamwork and cooperation 
in IG
 ❚ We have been certified 
as one of Britain’s Top 
Employers for nine 
consecutive years
Our people are the lifeblood of the service we deliver to our clients. Their skills and 
passion drive our success in all aspects of our business, from designing and building 
innovative products and cutting-edge platforms to handling client queries professionally 
and resolving issues.
OUR VALUES
 ❚ Hallmark quality
 ❚ Passion for progress
 ❚ Transparency in dealing
 ❚ Meritocratic opportunity
Our success is founded on offering unparalleled access to financial 
markets, through market-leading platforms, tools, products and 
services, and presenting them with absolute clarity and integrity. 
We take extremely seriously our responsibility to ensure that 
clients fully understand the technical nuances and the potential 
risks as well as the rewards of our products. 
By focusing on quality, transparency and fairness, we are able 
to build long-term relationships with the people who use our 
services. We continually seek ways to further assist and engage 
with current or prospective clients.
We recognise that the strength of our team is pivotal in forging 
rewarding, enduring relationships with our clients, and we 
are committed to recruiting the right talent and providing the 
best environment, culture, training and support for our people 
to flourish.
In 2016, IG was recognised as one of Britain’s Top Employers 
for the ninth year running. This is testament to our positive 
workplace culture.
The Top Employer certification is awarded only to organisations 
that meet the highest standards in human resource management, 
and we are very proud to be a long-standing recipient. The 
award, by the Corporate Research Foundation, is based on 
a strong performance in each of the audited categories: pay 
and benefits, training and development, corporate culture and 
career development.
PEOPLE  
STRATEGY
CLARITY AND
MEASUREMENT PERFORMANCE
AND REWARD
ENVIRONMENT
WORKING
AND GROWTH
TALENT
OUR PEOPLE STRATEGY
To ensure that we have the right people in place at every level 
of the organisation, with the right skills and in the right locations, 
we have developed a five-year strategy. This encompasses 
recruitment, training, career development and retention. 
The strategy is in its first year, but is already yielding significant 
benefits. 
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
16 CLARITY AND MEASUREMENT
We have established mechanisms to collect data that will help us 
manage our people more effectively, and to communicate that 
data in clearer, more meaningful ways.
For example, following the analysis of our attrition data, we were 
able to adjust some salaries to ensure our offer was attractive 
in the market. In addition, we adjusted our performance 
evaluation process to align people more closely with business 
and personal performance KPIs and provide more regular, 
meaningful feedback.
Our goal is to align people with the overall organisational 
structure more effectively.
Eoin McCoy
Head of IG Poland
PERFORMANCE AND REWARD
Our goal is to align people with the overall organisational structure 
more effectively. This involves ensuring that we have the right 
staff, in the best department structure and the optimum locations, 
to deliver the levels of product quality and customer service our 
clients demand. 
During the year, therefore, we have determined the five key pillars 
for our business success: 
 ❚ Clients
 ❚ Delivery
 ❚ Returns
 ❚ Control
 ❚ People 
We have aligned the organisation to these pillars, with clear 
executive-level accountability. We have also begun to expand our 
teams in Bangalore and Krakow to take advantage of local pools 
of talent, creating centralised hubs of expertise in IT, marketing 
and client service to support the global business.
In order to attract and retain the right people, we offer a 
competitive reward package to recognise performance and 
encourage our key talent to be part of our future. We believe that 
working together as a team is vital to our global success. 
Therefore, as well as offering a market-related salary structure 
that is regularly benchmarked, we include the majority of our 
employees in a group bonus scheme. Bonus levels are linked to 
the financial success and ongoing stability of IG, and are based on 
both company and individual performance, as discussed during 
the annual appraisal process. Bonuses are distributed at the end of 
each financial year. 
The remainder of our employees who are not part of the main 
bonus scheme are included in specific sales-related bonus 
schemes. We also reward our high-potential employees through 
long-term incentive plans. 
We offer our employees in the UK, Australia and the US 
the chance to share in our success via our tax-advantaged 
share-purchase schemes. An average of 37% of eligible employees 
took part in our share plans in 2016.
To complement these direct financial rewards, this year we are 
also introducing flexible benefits across the UK. 
TALENT AND GROWTH
Having recruited good people, we also invest in them by ensuring 
that they have the appropriate training and gain the experience 
required to perform their jobs effectively and help deliver the 
Group’s strategy and business plan. Staff at all levels and in 
all functions across IG are supported and developed through 
effective appraisal reviews and career planning sessions.
Our newly introduced people strategy will ensure that in-house 
coaching expertise and mentoring supports our employees at all 
stages of their career, from induction to role transition, gaining 
technical knowledge and building leadership skills.
As an international company, we are also able to offer overseas 
development opportunities for selected individuals. 
’Our team in Krakow is 
selected from the local 
pools of talent, and we’ve 
grown rapidly to become a 
key resource supporting the 
global business.’
17
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT This year we recognised the increasing need to introduce a more 
transparent and formal succession-planning process. This is both 
for the benefit of employees, making our people fully aware of 
the career opportunities available to them, and also to ensure 
continuity for the business when a key member of our team 
moves on.
’When the opportunity for 
a secondment to London 
came up, I was excited and 
the decision was easy. The 
experience and knowledge I’ve 
gained during my secondment 
are invaluable for my personal 
and professional development.’
Hui Shan Beh
Group Accountant
Finance (on secondment from Melbourne)
We continue to support our managers in their career progression 
with our Inspirational Development programme, which focuses 
on the outcomes of 360° feedback and the behaviours associated 
with generating high performance. All of our strategic and senior 
management team attend at least one structured programme, 
and our more junior managers attend a Transition to Leadership 
programme, which specifically targets the process of developing 
from a technical specialist to a leader of people.
WORKING ENVIRONMENT
FLEXIBLE WORKING
We believe that a vibrant, dynamic yet supportive culture is 
central to employee engagement. We aim to provide the right 
environment for our employees to thrive so they can give their  
best performance. 
This year we will manifest this in major updates to the physical 
office facilities and our working practices, introducing a hot-desk 
system. With laptops replacing fixed desktop devices, our people 
will enjoy a new flexibility to work in different project teams, at the 
office or remotely, according to their needs and preferences. 
EMPLOYEE FEEDBACK
We believe that understanding our employees’ perceptions, 
motivations or concerns and gathering their feedback is crucial to 
help us formulate our people strategy and decide which employee 
engagement initiatives to take forward, so this year we again 
partnered with IBM to deliver our employee engagement survey, 
and were delighted to achieve an 89% response rate. 
Highlights include the finding that over 90% of our employees  
feel that there is excellent cooperation and a strong sense of 
teamwork within their departments. They also report that IG shows 
a strong commitment to ethical business conduct, that managers 
treat their teams with respect and that the senior leadership team  
is committed to providing high-quality products and services   
to clients. 
In terms of development areas, we still have more to do in clearly 
setting out career structures and advancement opportunities, and 
in improving reward and recognition. 
Our HR team has used the insights provided by the survey to 
develop our new people strategy, which we believe will address the 
areas where improvement is needed. 
EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
We maintain our commitment to equality and diversity, recognising 
that a broad workforce is fundamental to our business. We 
welcome individuals who bring different approaches, perspectives 
and ideas. By challenging customs and encouraging creativity, 
these people can support the business in successfully achieving  
its goals. 
Commercially and for every other best-practice reason, we are an 
equal-opportunities employer. We strongly believe that to succeed 
as a global business, we need to make the most of the potential 
of the workforce in every country where we operate. We have 
extensive human resource policies in place to ensure that we attract 
the right people, and that those who join us can develop without 
experiencing discrimination or harassment. We continuously 
reinforce the need to treat all employees fairly, working to create 
an environment free from bullying, where people of all grades or 
positions enjoy dignity and respect. 
We fully consider and encourage applications for employment 
from disabled persons with aptitudes and abilities in line with 
our requirements. Where existing employees become disabled, 
temporarily or permanently, our policy is to provide continuing 
employment wherever practicable in the same or an alternative 
position. Appropriate training and/or graduated back-to-work 
programmes, in conjunction with the occupational health 
professionals, help achieve this aim.
WELLBEING AND SAFETY
We are fully committed to our employees’ health and wellbeing, 
providing private medical cover, permanent health insurance and 
life assurance as benefits for all staff. To help our people enjoy 
healthy lifestyles, our flexible benefits include reduced-price 
gym membership. We also offer savings on bicycles under the 
government-backed cycle-to-work initiative, as well as providing 
free-of-charge bicycle parking at our London office. A confidential 
employee-assistance programme is available to all our Head Office 
employees and their immediate families, offering a 24/7 telephone 
counselling service for impartial advice on all matters, from housing 
to personal finance. 
We are committed to offering each employee a safe and healthy 
working environment. By providing key members of staff with 
the relevant external training, and all other staff with appropriate 
in-house training, we ensure that we comply with all statutory 
health and safety requirements.
COMMUNICATION
To recruit the talent we need, it is important for us to project the 
right messages about who we are and what we stand for as a 
business. These messages must also be clear and accurate, to 
ensure we set the right expectations for our new joiners. We are 
constantly evaluating perceptions of IG as an employer, looking at 
ways to communicate more effectively with our present and future 
staff in the different countries where we operate.
Initiatives have included the launch of a new, improved intranet and 
the appointment of company-wide ‘engagement champions’ who 
can facilitate two-way communication between staff and the human 
resources and senior management teams.
OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
18 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
We are keen to encourage our people to engage in activities 
that both help their own development and contribute to local 
communities, so we are proud to support a wide variety of charities 
that are close to our employees’ hearts. We match any funds our 
employees have raised for sponsored events. 
To make the most of charitable donations, we continue to work 
with the Charities Aid Foundation, allowing our employees to 
operate a charity fund and make contributions to selected charities 
from gross earnings, directly from their monthly pay. Not only do 
we support charities with gifts of money, but also by providing 
time and resources. Our absence-management policy offers the 
opportunity for our people to take up voluntary work, for which we 
grant additional leave on a like-for-like basis up to a maximum of 
five matched days per annual leave year.
In terms of gender, our workforce is made up as follows at 31 May 2016:
BOARD
FEMALE 2
MALE 5
PERCENTAGE FEMALE 29%
PERCENTAGE MALE 71%
SENIOR LEADERSHIP 
TEAM
FEMALE 3
MALE 17
PERCENTAGE FEMALE 15%
PERCENTAGE MALE 85%
SENIOR 
MANAGEMENT TEAM
FEMALE 17
MALE 68
PERCENTAGE FEMALE 19%
PERCENTAGE MALE 81%
TEAM MEMBERS
FEMALE 368
MALE 928
PERCENTAGE FEMALE 28%
PERCENTAGE MALE 72%
TOTAL
FEMALE 390
MALE 1018
PERCENTAGE FEMALE 28%
PERCENTAGE MALE 72%
Lidia Oosthuizen
Technical team lead
‘Joining IG as a developer, I didn’t 
see my leadership potential. I’ve 
been empowered and given training, 
mentoring and support, and now I 
head a software engineering team. 
IG helped me grow in my career.’
19
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
OBJECTIVE PRIORITIES FOR 2016/2017 PROGRESS IN 2015/2016
ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF ACTIVE 
TRADERS AND SOPHISTICATED 
INVESTORS
Our goal is to build lasting, valuable relationships with 
our clients. Having previously targeted active traders, 
who are attractive because they tend to deal frequently 
and in large sizes, we have now widened our product 
range to appeal additionally to sophisticated investors. 
These clients select providers who offer the best tools 
and products and the highest standards of integrity to 
manage their long-term finances. IG is ideally positioned 
to fulfil their needs, and so to enhance client loyalty and 
improve retention.
 ❚ Launch new self-directed wealth management platform 
with a suite of model ETF portfolios, in partnership 
with BlackRock
 ❚ Launch completely new trading platform, with 
technology developed to place us at the forefront of 
the industry
 ❚ Focus on continued improvements to our educational 
offering, including an extensive new suite of concise 
video guides
 ❚ Successfully re-launched online share dealing. 70% of clients are new to IG and around 
15% subsequently begin trading leveraged products
 ❚ Further refined our share dealing service to focus on both price and product leadership
 ❚ Expanded our shares service to include a SIPP account
 ❚ Launched IG Academy app, an educational tool for potential new customers, receiving 
five-star ratings across Apple and Android app stores
 ❚ Launched learn.spreadbetting, an educational website covering the essentials a new 
spread bettor needs to know
 ❚ Launched five additional specialised websites offering tailored content on subjects 
such as forex trading and spread betting
 ❚ Developed limited-risk accounts for clients requiring a greater degree of protection 
launching in July 2016
ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN OR EXTEND 
LEADERSHIP IN OUR CHOSEN 
MARKETS
Our market leadership in CFDs and spread betting 
reflects the unrivalled service, products and platform 
technology we provide. We will continue to strengthen 
our position in these core products, while also creating 
competitive new offerings in the stockbroking and wealth 
management fields. These initiatives will be founded 
on our existing strengths – cutting-edge technology, 
transparency, integrity and expert client service – helping 
to drive the long-term profitability of our business.
 ❚ Continue to recruit clients and grow revenue in share 
dealing, as well as promoting our leveraged and 
other products
 ❚ Further enhance the application process to maximise 
completion rates
 ❚ Maintained our position as UK market leader for CFDs and spread betting
 ❚ Continued to lead the CFD market in Australia
 ❚ Created a smoother, faster account-opening process for new applicants, including 
electronic ID verification and easy document upload, resulting in a 42% uplift in 
number of opened accounts
STRENGTHEN OUR 
GLOBAL REACH
Having initially executed our international expansion 
by establishing a network of local offices, we are now 
in a position where we can also grow the footprint of 
our business without the need for a physical presence 
in each new country. The strength of our single, global 
brand, combined with our expertise in online marketing 
techniques, enables us to expand across borders and 
recruit new clients in a highly cost-effective way.
 ❚ Continue to develop our newly opened operations in 
Switzerland and Dubai, both of which performed above 
our expectations
 ❚ Continue to launch further localised websites focused on 
new client acquisition
 ❚ Launched an additional five new localised websites for client acquisition
 ❚ Rolled out share dealing platform to Australia in July 2016
 ❚ Focused on growing the profitability of Switzerland and Dubai
DELIVER QUALITY SERVICE TO 
OUR CLIENTS
By maintaining absolute integrity, delivering excellent 
customer service and fast and reliable execution with 
transparent pricing, we strive to make our clients feel 
secure and confident in trading with us. This results in a 
longer, more mutually profitable relationship.
 ❚ Further improve and personalise our service to clients, 
taking a more proactive approach based on data and 
alerts from our contact management tool
 ❚ Improve the efficiency of payments in and out of client 
accounts, including introducing more payment methods 
and working to smooth issues with local banking 
procedures and regulations in certain territories
 ❚ Create a new charting team to cover Europe
 ❚ Benchmark our customer support against companies 
in other sectors, via membership of the Institute of 
Customer Service
 ❚ Introduced new interactive contact management system, delivering each of the 240 
interactions we receive every hour to the right client service representative, in the right 
location, to handle it most effectively
 ❚ Saw an increase in Live Chat conversations from 2,000 to 7,000 per month
 ❚ Created a new technical support team for charting in APAC, providing 
around-the-clock service in combination with London
 ❚ Launched an online peer-to-peer support community, which now has 3,000 members 
and receives over 30,000 views each month
 ❚ Trained our client service team in relationship management skills and focused on 
recruiting new staff who display talent in this area
 ❚ Empowered our client service staff to make appropriate concessions when handling 
client issues and complaints 
SUSTAIN OUR TECHNOLOGY 
LEADERSHIP
The market-leading functionality, speed and security 
of our platform and its proven resilience are essential 
to maintaining client satisfaction, enhancing client 
acquisition and retention. We will continue to invest in 
our core online platform to stay at the forefront of the 
market, while also focusing on improving the functionality 
we offer on mobile devices.
 ❚ Launch our new trading platform and continue to 
introduce further enhancements
 ❚ Invest further resources to reduce the timescale between 
account application and trading
 ❚ Introduce further improvements in charting, 
personalisation and functionality for mobile apps
 ❚ Launch new market movement service, alerting clients to 
specified behaviour patterns in markets on their watchlist
 ❚ Developed new online trading platform, now undergoing final testing
 ❚ Partially rolled out My IG account dashboard in the UK, with more than 4,000 clients 
now logging in daily
 ❚ Launched IG Academy educational app on iPhone and Android devices, the first time 
we have designed content initially for the mobile environment only
 ❚ Enhanced our mobile platform with the introduction of an economic calendar, Signal 
Centre and a major market moves alert service, as well as improved charting
 ❚ Redesigned the account application process with the introduction of electronic ID 
verification and document upload tools
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
20 OBJECTIVE PRIORITIES FOR 2016/2017 PROGRESS IN 2015/2016
ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF ACTIVE 
TRADERS AND SOPHISTICATED 
INVESTORS
Our goal is to build lasting, valuable relationships with 
our clients. Having previously targeted active traders, 
who are attractive because they tend to deal frequently 
and in large sizes, we have now widened our product 
range to appeal additionally to sophisticated investors. 
These clients select providers who offer the best tools 
and products and the highest standards of integrity to 
manage their long-term finances. IG is ideally positioned 
to fulfil their needs, and so to enhance client loyalty and 
improve retention.
 ❚ Launch new self-directed wealth management platform 
with a suite of model ETF portfolios, in partnership 
with BlackRock
 ❚ Launch completely new trading platform, with 
technology developed to place us at the forefront of 
the industry
 ❚ Focus on continued improvements to our educational 
offering, including an extensive new suite of concise 
video guides
 ❚ Successfully re-launched online share dealing. 70% of clients are new to IG and around 
15% subsequently begin trading leveraged products
 ❚ Further refined our share dealing service to focus on both price and product leadership
 ❚ Expanded our shares service to include a SIPP account
 ❚ Launched IG Academy app, an educational tool for potential new customers, receiving 
five-star ratings across Apple and Android app stores
 ❚ Launched learn.spreadbetting, an educational website covering the essentials a new 
spread bettor needs to know
 ❚ Launched five additional specialised websites offering tailored content on subjects 
such as forex trading and spread betting
 ❚ Developed limited-risk accounts for clients requiring a greater degree of protection 
launching in July 2016
ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN OR EXTEND 
LEADERSHIP IN OUR CHOSEN 
MARKETS
Our market leadership in CFDs and spread betting 
reflects the unrivalled service, products and platform 
technology we provide. We will continue to strengthen 
our position in these core products, while also creating 
competitive new offerings in the stockbroking and wealth 
management fields. These initiatives will be founded 
on our existing strengths – cutting-edge technology, 
transparency, integrity and expert client service – helping 
to drive the long-term profitability of our business.
 ❚ Continue to recruit clients and grow revenue in share 
dealing, as well as promoting our leveraged and 
other products
 ❚ Further enhance the application process to maximise 
completion rates
 ❚ Maintained our position as UK market leader for CFDs and spread betting
 ❚ Continued to lead the CFD market in Australia
 ❚ Created a smoother, faster account-opening process for new applicants, including 
electronic ID verification and easy document upload, resulting in a 42% uplift in 
number of opened accounts
STRENGTHEN OUR 
GLOBAL REACH
Having initially executed our international expansion 
by establishing a network of local offices, we are now 
in a position where we can also grow the footprint of 
our business without the need for a physical presence 
in each new country. The strength of our single, global 
brand, combined with our expertise in online marketing 
techniques, enables us to expand across borders and 
recruit new clients in a highly cost-effective way.
 ❚ Continue to develop our newly opened operations in 
Switzerland and Dubai, both of which performed above 
our expectations
 ❚ Continue to launch further localised websites focused on 
new client acquisition
 ❚ Launched an additional five new localised websites for client acquisition
 ❚ Rolled out share dealing platform to Australia in July 2016
 ❚ Focused on growing the profitability of Switzerland and Dubai
DELIVER QUALITY SERVICE TO 
OUR CLIENTS
By maintaining absolute integrity, delivering excellent 
customer service and fast and reliable execution with 
transparent pricing, we strive to make our clients feel 
secure and confident in trading with us. This results in a 
longer, more mutually profitable relationship.
 ❚ Further improve and personalise our service to clients, 
taking a more proactive approach based on data and 
alerts from our contact management tool
 ❚ Improve the efficiency of payments in and out of client 
accounts, including introducing more payment methods 
and working to smooth issues with local banking 
procedures and regulations in certain territories
 ❚ Create a new charting team to cover Europe
 ❚ Benchmark our customer support against companies 
in other sectors, via membership of the Institute of 
Customer Service
 ❚ Introduced new interactive contact management system, delivering each of the 240 
interactions we receive every hour to the right client service representative, in the right 
location, to handle it most effectively
 ❚ Saw an increase in Live Chat conversations from 2,000 to 7,000 per month
 ❚ Created a new technical support team for charting in APAC, providing 
around-the-clock service in combination with London
 ❚ Launched an online peer-to-peer support community, which now has 3,000 members 
and receives over 30,000 views each month
 ❚ Trained our client service team in relationship management skills and focused on 
recruiting new staff who display talent in this area
 ❚ Empowered our client service staff to make appropriate concessions when handling 
client issues and complaints 
SUSTAIN OUR TECHNOLOGY 
LEADERSHIP
The market-leading functionality, speed and security 
of our platform and its proven resilience are essential 
to maintaining client satisfaction, enhancing client 
acquisition and retention. We will continue to invest in 
our core online platform to stay at the forefront of the 
market, while also focusing on improving the functionality 
we offer on mobile devices.
 ❚ Launch our new trading platform and continue to 
introduce further enhancements
 ❚ Invest further resources to reduce the timescale between 
account application and trading
 ❚ Introduce further improvements in charting, 
personalisation and functionality for mobile apps
 ❚ Launch new market movement service, alerting clients to 
specified behaviour patterns in markets on their watchlist
 ❚ Developed new online trading platform, now undergoing final testing
 ❚ Partially rolled out My IG account dashboard in the UK, with more than 4,000 clients 
now logging in daily
 ❚ Launched IG Academy educational app on iPhone and Android devices, the first time 
we have designed content initially for the mobile environment only
 ❚ Enhanced our mobile platform with the introduction of an economic calendar, Signal 
Centre and a major market moves alert service, as well as improved charting
 ❚ Redesigned the account application process with the introduction of electronic ID 
verification and document upload tools
KPIs  (SEE PAGE 28)
 
REVENUE
REVENUE PER CLIENT
ACTIVE CLIENTS
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
DILUTED EARNINGS
PER SHARE
CASH GENERATION
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
PLATFORM UPTIME
NET PROMOTER SCORE
 
KEY RISKS (SEE PAGE 46)
 
REGULATORY
OPERATIONAL AND IT
MARKET
CREDIT
COMPETITOR
LIQUIDITY
CONDUCT
REPUTATIONAL
PEOPLE
 
21
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT OUR OPERATIONAL 
STRATEGY IN ACTION
In the Chief Executive Officer’s Review we discussed the three 
key levers that would enable us to grow the business and 
achieve our priorities, both in 2017 and going forward:
 ❚ PRODUCT DIVERSIFICATION
 ❚ GEOGRAPHIC DEVELOPMENT
 ❚ MAXIMISING 
THE CURRENT OPPORTUNITY
In this section we will highlight some examples of this work in 
action, to give a feel for the progress we are making, as well as 
new initiatives that we have undertaken. 
The value of investments can fall as well as rise 
and you may get back less than you initially invested. 
INDICES  |  SHARES  |  FOREX  |  COMMODITIES
IG.com/isa
* From 1 March until 30 April 2016, there will be no commission charged on the purchase or sale of any ISA-eligible 
  exchange traded product (ETP) available in an IG ISA. After 30 April 2016, usual commission rates will apply. Please 
  read the ETP’s prospectus or key investor information document (KIID) before investing. Tax laws are subject to change.
 CO MMISSION-FRE E 
INVESTING IN OUR ISA
 Buy and sell exchange traded funds (ETFs) for free until 30 April 2016. 
*
 
 Open your ISA at IG.com/isa
INDICES  |  SHARES  |  FOREX  |  COMMODITIES
IG.com/isa
 INVEST IN ETFs COMMISSION 
FREE WITH OUR ISA
 Buy and sell exchange traded funds (ETFs) with zero commission until 30 April 2016.
 *
 
 Open your ISA at IG.com/isa
’The online share dealing 
market represented a 
huge opportunity for 
us with around 1 million 
potential clients in the 
UK alone, compared with 
less than 100,000 for 
leveraged products.’
Ian Peacock
Head of UK and Ireland
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
22 In September 2014 we launched our execution-only 
stockbroking service in the UK and Ireland, later extending it 
to the Netherlands, Germany and Austria. This was our first 
significant diversification from leveraged trading and a key 
part of our strategy to broaden our product range and reach a 
new, larger audience in the countries where we were already 
market leaders.
The launch was a qualified success with 70% of the clients 
signing up for the service being new to IG and approximately 
15% of those, for whom it was appropriate, then going on to 
trade using leveraged products. It also proved that IG was 
capable of marketing its products to a more mainstream, 
potentially less active client group. Despite these encouraging 
aspects the number of new clients and therefore the revenue 
generated was lower than had been anticipated.
Therefore, earlier this year Ian Peacock, Head of UK and Ireland, 
and his team worked on reviewing the strategy:
’We are very clear that the online share dealing market 
represented a significant opportunity for us with around 
one million users of this product in the UK alone, compared 
with less than 100,000 for leveraged products. So I knew if we 
could get the offer right, the prize was to open up the entire 
IG offering to a far larger client base. But we weren’t achieving 
the volume of clients and trades that we had expected. We 
therefore conducted a fundamental review of the strategy, 
centered on client feedback.’
This feedback showed that the product was very popular 
among clients, with a platform that, thanks to IG’s core 
technological competence, was seen as industry leading. 
However, it was only possible to understand the superiority 
of the platform by using it, and our price offering wasn’t 
compelling enough to encourage people to switch from 
their current provider and experience it. As a result we were 
acquiring fewer clients than we had forecast.
Ian Peacock:
’We realised fairly quickly that, given the importance of being 
able to offer the broader product set to this new market, our 
strategy would be best served by focusing on acquiring clients 
through a combination of both product and price leadership.’
We also reviewed our regional plan, and decided that, 
rather than introducing the product in all countries where 
we offer spread betting or CFDs, it would be better 
to focus on the UK and Australia. Here we are already 
recognised as the market leader in leveraged products, and 
our stockbroking offering would act as a platform play to roll 
out our full product set. We would then have the opportunity to 
offer the product in other regions once we had achieved market 
leadership in leveraged products there.
We therefore re-launched the product in March of this year in 
the UK, under the name of share dealing, and had the initial 
launch in Australia in July.
Ian again:
’We now have one of the strongest offerings in the market 
from a product and price point of view. Early signs are that the 
improved price positioning is a success.’
We now have the opportunity to offer further products on the 
back of our improved market position, with our ISA product 
tripling its number of clients against this time last year in the 
critically important March and April time period. We have 
also launched a new SIPP offering in the UK during May this 
year. And although it is early days, the initial signs are that the 
uptake is positive.
Our next step is to extend into self-directed investment 
products with IG Investments due to be launched this year. 
Wealth management is a market that is ripe for disruption 
and we will seek to achieve this through the strength of 
our technology, coupled with a low and transparent pricing 
structure. We have therefore entered into a partnership with 
BlackRock, the largest exchange traded products (ETPs) 
provider in the world at 36% market share. BlackRock is 
creating a suite of model portfolios specifically for IG clients, 
with a range of risk profiles. 
Commenting on this, Ian said:
’The launch of our portfolio-based investment products is 
the logical next extension from our share dealing, ISA and 
SIPP offerings. Together, BlackRock and IG will have an 
investment proposition where IG provides the technology, the 
execution and the retail product, while BlackRock provides the 
asset-allocation expertise to create the right portfolios suited to 
our clients’ needs.’
Ian ended by saying:
‘I am confident our product will evolve to further strengthen IG’s 
position at the forefront of innovation in the trading, investing 
and wealth management space.’
’We now have one of the 
strongest offerings in the 
market from a product 
point of view. Early signs 
are that the improved price 
positioning is a success.’
PRODUCT DIVERSIFICATION 
SHARE DEALING, ISAs, SIPPs AND WEALTH MANAGEMENT
23
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT OUR OPERATIONAL 
STRATEGY IN ACTION 
CONTINUED
Until relatively recently, each IG region and office had its own 
marketing budget that was spent locally. This activity was driven 
by regional marketing departments and provided us with limited 
ability to determine which campaigns had been most effective. 
In 2013, we established our unified global IG brand, acquiring 
the IG.com domain. This pivotal event gave us the framework to 
consolidate our global web traffic through a single route in order 
to focus on online leadership – something that is increasingly 
important for acquiring, educating and providing a high level of 
service for clients in our industry.
Matthew Elliott, Head of Online Operations, and his team played 
a key role in implementing a new approach to online marketing at 
IG. He explains:
‘The need to manage online marketing in a more streamlined 
fashion, to become more efficient, was the catalyst for us to 
centralise spend. At the same time we also invested in building 
our search engine optimisation (SEO) capability and pooled our 
paid search budgets under the oversight of a new team.’
GEOGRAPHIC DEVELOPMENT
ONLINE MARKETING
‘The need to manage 
online marketing in a 
more streamlined fashion, 
to become more efficient, 
was the catalyst for us to 
centralise spend.’
Matthew Elliott
Head of Online Operations
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
24 ’The effect of every 
action we take now needs 
to be measurable, to inform 
future spend. The impact 
of non-digital advertising 
is, unfortunately, almost 
impossible to measure. 
It therefore plays a very 
limited role in our activity.’
Using this centralised, in-house marketing team and an algorithmic 
approach enables us to deploy our marketing spend in the most 
efficient way globally. We are able to react immediately to world 
events, creating campaigns rapidly and rolling them out to every 
relevant region, with local adjustments if necessary. Algorithms 
and tests determine the performance of different keywords and 
advertising creatives in each country, and then the marketing 
team can direct resources rapidly to those that have proved most 
effective locally. 
Having a centralised team means we have also built a centre 
of excellence, which allows us to attract and retain great 
talent, in turn helping us to keep improving and innovating in 
digital marketing.
We have also been particularly successful in SEO and now 
rank increasingly well in the majority of our local markets for the 
key words that define the industry. 
Ensure you understand the risks and costs involved with CFD and FX trading by reading the Risk Disclosure Statement at IG.com.sg. 
Issued by IG Asia Pte Ltd (Co. Reg. No.200510021K), regulated by MAS. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. Google Play is a 
trademark of Google Inc.
We not only offer decades of experience, but also 
the resources of almost 300 in-house developers 
who continually deliver innovation and enhancements 
to our CFD trading platforms.
TOP TRADERS CHOOSE THE ONLY 
PROVIDER WITH 40 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE
Losses can exceed your initial investment.
Find out more today at IG.com.sg
or call +65 6390 5118
Matthew comments:
’We spend our time constantly testing different creatives to see 
what works. We focus on the customer’s journey to the point 
where they sign up for an IG account. We get the feedback fast 
and can respond almost instantly.
’As our online capability has improved, we have had the 
confidence to spend more on acquiring customers, because we 
have a very clear idea of the timescale in which our investment 
pays back.’
This has driven a move away from non-digital advertising, with 
only 35% of IG’s total marketing spend being used for 
this medium.
Matthew explains:
’The effect of every action we take now needs to be 
measurable, to inform future spend. The impact of 
non-digital advertising is, unfortunately, almost impossible to 
measure. It therefore plays a very limited role in our activity.’
The development of our cross-border online marketing and 
SEO skills has also enabled us to attract clients in regions 
where we may not have a physical presence. As a result, we 
can now operate far more efficiently and cost-effectively across 
borders, through being excellent online. This promises to bring 
significant cost advantages going forward.
Ensure you understand the risks and costs involved with CFD and FX trading by reading the Risk Disclosure Statement at IG.com.sg. Issued by IG Asia Pte Ltd (Co. Reg. No.200510021K), regulated by MAS.
*World’s largest retail CFD provider by revenue (excluding FX). Source: Published ﬁ nancial statements. As at July 2014. App store is a service mark of Apple Inc. Google Play is a trademark of Google Inc.
25
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT OUR OPERATIONAL 
STRATEGY IN ACTION 
CONTINUED
During the past year, one of IG’s key priorities has been to speed 
up the process between a new client deciding to create an 
account and funding the account and trading.
Elaine Fahy, Interim Head of Onboarding Operations, and her 
team have been instrumental in driving the project: 
’Our focus has been on removing obstacles to account opening 
– creating a better experience for clients and consequently getting 
more of them, faster through the process.’
The team has made great progress in the year. For example, 
building on the proven success of our electronic ID (eID) 
verification processes in the UK and Australia, we have also 
introduced solutions in Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, 
Belgium, China and Hong Kong this year. The eID provider checks 
information such as name, date of birth and address to see if 
they match various data sets. This delivers significant benefits for 
clients as they can get through the application in real-time, greatly 
reducing the waiting period before they can use their account. 
There is also no need for IG personnel to manually chase follow-up 
information and approve applications. 
MAXIMISING THE 
CURRENT OPPORTUNITY
CLIENT ONBOARDING AND 
BETTER CONVERSION
’Our focus has been on 
removing obstacles to 
account opening – creating a 
better experience for clients 
and consequently getting 
more of them, faster through 
the process.’
Elaine Fahy
Interim Head of Onboarding Operations
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
26 NEW INITIATIVES
LIMITED-RISK ACCOUNTS AND TRADING
We take very seriously our responsibility to help clients 
understand the risk associated with trading and to provide 
them with tools to manage this. This is important not only from 
a regulatory perspective, but it also makes sound business 
sense: given our business model, it is in IG’s interest to develop 
long relationships with clients, and those who are more 
successful are likely to stay with us over the long-term and 
become more valuable.
In July we are introducing a new type of account focused 
particularly on clients who may have less experience of our 
products, who are less wealthy or who simply wish to take 
on less risk with each trade. These limited-risk accounts are 
set up so that the client knows the maximum potential loss 
at the outset and cannot lose more than they have on their 
account. This will give clients total certainty on the potential 
downside and enable them to feel more secure and more 
confident to trade.
Having a limited risk account type means that we may be able 
to attract additional clients who previously perceived the risk to 
be too high.
In addition, for all account types we have introduced a new, 
fairer way of charging for guaranteed stops. 
Matthew Brief, Head of Dealing, explains:
’We no longer charge a premium when a client adds a 
guaranteed stop to a position – the charge only applies if the 
stop is triggered. This innovation, along with a number of 
reductions in our guaranteed stop premiums, means that IG 
now offers the best value in the market for limited-risk trading 
on most major indices and FX pairs.’
Together, our new limited-risk trading facilities enable more 
clients to enjoy peace of mind by putting an absolute cap on 
loss, potentially free of charge.
Elaine commented:
’Thanks to eID verification, IG has seen a significant reduction in 
the time period between application and account opening – for 
example from three days to same day in Germany and Austria. 
This makes a huge difference to the experience for our clients and 
increases our conversion rate.’
Where the eID provider has questioned an element of the client’s 
application, we have introduced restricted accounts where funds 
cannot be withdrawn. This means we can open an account with 
restricted conditions with the proviso that the client provides the 
missing piece of identification within 30 days. If the information is 
not forthcoming in that timescale then we deactivate the account. 
Where further information is needed to verify a client’s identity, 
we have facilitated this process by introducing a secure 
document-upload service. Clients can photograph the required 
documents and upload them securely via a mobile device directly 
through our trading platform. Elaine explained:
’We are critically evaluating every possible bottleneck in the 
application process and seeking to remove it. So, for example, 
we have a new application form in the UK and Germany, where 
progress can be saved, so the client can exit and then return later 
and pick up where they left off. And once the form is complete, we 
have improved the journey to becoming an active trader by linking 
new clients directly through to our trading platform to explore the 
markets, fund their account or upload any required documents, 
depending on their preference.’
This client focus has had some pleasing results with the number of 
successful applications up 49%, the number of open accounts up 
42% and the number of first trades up 29%. Elaine concluded:
’The hard statistical measures have been very encouraging but 
we have also been delighted with our progress against the softer 
measures of success. Client satisfaction with the onboarding process 
was 10% higher in the latter two quarters of FY2016 than in the 
previous quarters.’
’Thanks to eID verification, IG 
has seen a significant reduction 
in the time period between 
application and account 
opening – for example from 
three days to same day in 
Germany and Austria. This 
makes a huge difference to the 
experience for our clients and 
increases our conversion rate.’
Matthew Brief
Head of Dealing
27
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (KPIs)
We use nine key financial and operational 
performance metrics, including the net 
promoter score to the right, to measure 
our performance and our progress against 
the short-term and long-term goals of 
the business.
The shaded area indicates the underlying performance.
 Movement based on statutory figures with underlying movement included 
in narrative.
 £400.2m
FY15 £388.4m
FY16 £456.3m
17%
REVENUE
Revenue performance demonstrates business growth in terms of 
global reach, range of products offered to clients, active clients 
and revenue per client, and is also a driver of the staff bonus pool. 
Statutory revenue grew by 17% to £456.3 million, while on an 
underlying basis this is up 14%. The strong performance is driven 
by a combination of improving results from our digital and mobile 
marketing, supported by reasonable volatility in the financial 
markets and good returns from our investments in Switzerland, 
Dubai and Nadex.
 £2,941
FY15 £2,854
FY16 £2,990
4.8%
REVENUE PER CLIENT
Revenue per client is calculated as total revenue divided by the 
number of active clients in the period, and is a measure of both 
client activity and quality. On a statutory basis, revenue per client 
is 4.8% higher than the prior year, while on an underlying basis it is 
up 1.7%. This was up across all regions.
 136,100
FY15 136,100
FY16 152,600
12%
ACTIVE CLIENTS
Active clients are those clients who have opened at least one trade 
in the period. Active clients in 2016 are up 12% from 136,100 to 
152,600, reflecting a record year for the onboarding of new clients 
and frequent market events that provided opportunities for our 
clients throughout the year.
 £193.2m
FY15 £169.5m
FY16 £207.9m
23%
PROFIT BEFORE TAX (PBT)
PBT is up 23% on the prior year’s statutory results and up 7.6% 
on an underlying basis, primarily driven by the strong revenue 
performance. A detailed commentary on our PBT performance 
is provided in the Operating and Financial Review section of 
this report.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
28  41.07p
FY15 35.99p
FY16 44.58p
24%
DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (DEPS)
DEPS includes all components of the Group’s performance based 
on profitability and capital structure. DEPS is a key measure in 
the award and vesting of our executive and senior management 
share plans. This year, DEPS increased by 24% on a statutory 
basis and 8.5% on an underlying basis, reflecting the growth in the 
after-tax profitability.
 £159.2m
FY15 £136.8m
FY16 £197.9m
45%
OWN FUNDS GENERATED FROM 
OPERATIONS
High profit-to-cash conversion gives us strong liquidity and 
supports our robust risk-management strategy and our dividend 
payment. Maintaining a high level of cash generation, after the 
required investment, is key to delivering strong shareholder 
returns. A detailed commentary on our own funds generated from 
operations can be found in the Operating and Financial Review 
section of this report.
 28.15
FY15 28.15
FY16 31.4
12%
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
Shareholder returns are central to our strategy and reflect the 
strength of our business, our capital position and our expectations 
of future performance. In line with the Board’s previously stated 
intention to an approximately 70% pay out, the Board has 
recommended a final dividend of 22.95 pence per share, resulting 
in a full-year dividend of 31.40 pence, up 12% on the prior year.
 99.95%
FY15 99.95%
FY16 99.99%
0.04%
PLATFORM UPTIME
The availability of the dealing platform is key to our clients’ 
confidence in trading with IG. Our system uptime percentage is 
99.99%, ahead of the 99.95% achieved in 2015. This is a record 
for our annual performance in this area and testament to our 
dedication and resilience.
NET PROMOTER SCORE 
(NPS)
(1)
To better understand how well we 
deliver quality services to our clients, 
we use NPS, as well as other measures 
of satisfaction, to assess the extent of 
client recommendations. During 2016, 
we improved our NPS scores in five out 
of six markets that Investment Trends 
measures and we continue to see 
an upward trend in overall customer 
satisfaction with IG as measured by our 
own client surveys.
(1)  All NPS data presented in this report is provided 
by Investment Trends Pty Limited (please refer 
to the Investor Resources section on page 
179 for further details). NPS is calculated 
by asking respondents: ’How likely are you 
to recommend this company to a friend or 
colleague?’ Respondents reply on a 0-10 scale, 
with the final NPS calculated as the percentage 
of promoters (those answering 9 or 10) minus the 
percentage of detractors (those answering 0-6).
INDUSTRY
AVERAGE
INDUSTRY
AVERAGE
IG’S MOST 
RECENT NPS
IG’S MOST 
RECENT NPS
20%
5%
UK SPREAD BETTING
INDUSTRY
AVERAGE
IG’S MOST 
RECENT NPS
27%
16%
AUSTRALIA
INDUSTRY
AVERAGE
INDUSTRY
AVERAGE
IG’S MOST 
RECENT NPS
IG’S MOST 
RECENT NPS
24%
7%
UK CFDs 29%
8%
GERMANY
INDUSTRY
AVERAGE
IG’S MOST 
RECENT NPS
-14%
-19%
SINGAPORE
35%
7%
FRANCE
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
29
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS CONDUCT AND SUSTAINABILITY
SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS
Our conduct as a business is driven by our values of hallmark 
quality, passion for progress, transparency in dealing and 
meritocratic opportunity. These values have been an organic 
and fundamental part of our historic growth and success. However, 
with growth comes the challenge of maintaining that culture and 
with it appropriate conduct. For this reason, we decided to define 
our values clearly and communicate them to staff, giving our 
people a strong framework and direction to help them realise our 
overall vision. In this way we have embedded sound corporate 
conduct in the culture of the business, so it is not simply a risk or 
regulatory requirement.
Conduct undoubtedly represents a real risk to all firms within the 
financial industry and our clients. For this reason we have actively 
engaged in the agenda and developed a risk management 
strategy, entrenching various quantitative and qualitative 
measures to identify, measure, manage and monitor conduct 
risk. Our strategic initiatives include producing monthly Key Risk 
Indicators (KRIs) and dashboards for conduct risk, with a rolling 
plan of thematic conduct risk reviews and formalised conduct 
consideration prior to project sign-off.
In this way we ensure effective communication of the tone 
from the top throughout the organisation. We apply high 
standards across our businesses, and specifically in our corporate 
governance – as set out in the Corporate Governance Report 
and the Directors’ Report in compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. The sections below demonstrate how we do 
this in practice.
COMMITMENT TO OUR CUSTOMERS
We aim to put our customers at the heart of everything we do, 
and we strive to ensure that we understand our clients’ needs 
and consistently deliver fair outcomes and positive experiences. 
We have a very low tolerance for poor consumer outcomes, and 
we are committed to investing in process, training and culture to 
prevent unsatisfactory customer experiences and to address root 
causes where any practice falls short. We maintain this policy even 
when it may have a negative impact on our own revenue or costs.
We ensure that commitment to our customers is embedded in 
our culture and strategic initiatives, and we regularly seek and 
review feedback from our clients. This enables us to develop our 
products and services specifically to meet the needs of active 
traders globally.
Central to our commitment to our customers is the quality of our 
order execution. We now process 100% of active client trades 
automatically. We never requote prices and, outside our set 
margin of tolerance, our innovative price-improvement technology 
enables customers to receive a better price if one becomes 
available as a trade is executed.
CLIENT SUPPORT AND EDUCATION
We provide extensive educational resources for our clients, 
including an introduction programme that promotes responsible 
trading, an interactive educational app and a wide range of 
seminars and webinars. We continually look to keep this content 
engaging and targeted towards our clients’ needs.
Based on client feedback, and following the launch of our 
in-house TV studio in 2014, we increased the amount of original 
video content we supply for this purpose. Clients can now get 
instant access to expert tutorials, which cover everything from 
fundamental trading concepts to risk management.
We also provide an extensive range of trading tools, such as 
regular free news, commentary and analysis on IG TV and via 
the News and Analysis section of our website. We offer charting 
packages and various technical analysis tools that enable our 
clients to screen markets for trading opportunities and to receive 
alerts when trading signals appear.
After over 40 years in business, we understand that sustainable long-term returns stem from 
good conduct. We seek to act with integrity towards our staff, our clients, our regulators 
and the markets, maintaining a reputation for professionalism and ethical practice.
IG Academy app
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
30 ’We are using sophisticated 
technology to make sure 
our clients get fast support, 
from the right person, 
whenever and however 
they contact us.’
Lizzie Counihan
Head of Operations
31
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS CONDUCT AND SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED
OUR COMMITMENT
A sense of responsibility manifests itself in everything we do. It has 
underpinned our conduct as a business since our inception, playing 
an instrumental role in the growth and success of IG Group.
PROTECTING OUR CLIENTS’ DATA AND FUNDS
We prioritise the security of our clients’ information and have 
achieved the ISO 27001:2005 certificate for information 
security management.
We fully segregate funds for retail individuals, in compliance with 
the regulations, and we hold segregated client money entirely 
separately from our own money across a diverse range of banks. 
This ensures that, in the event of our default, client funds would be 
returned to the clients rather than being treated as a recoverable 
asset by our general creditors.
We continue to engage PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to conduct 
ongoing independent reviews of our controls and procedures for 
client money calculation and segregation (ISAE 3000). In committing 
to this review process, we have taken an additional step, over 
and above standard audit checks and our regulators’ reporting 
requirements. This reflects our dedication to keeping our clients’ 
funds secure and delivering beneficial outcomes for customers.
CLIENT APPROPRIATENESS
Our products are not appropriate for everyone, and we recognise 
that good conduct is particularly vital in relation to marketing and 
client recruitment to prevent poor consumer outcomes. We have 
a number of procedures that ensure our advertising reaches the 
right audience, and that our clients appreciate the risks involved 
with our products and understand how our services work.
We follow strict guidelines to ensure that we only promote our 
products to a target audience within appropriate sectors and 
demographic groups. We also conduct rigorous checks to ensure 
that all promotions are clear, fair and not misleading, and that risks 
are not downplayed compared to the benefits of our products.
Before we allow a prospective client to open an account, we 
carry out an assessment to determine whether our products are 
appropriate for them. We actively question applicants and must be 
satisfied that clients have the necessary knowledge or experience 
to understand the risks involved. To further assess whether our 
products could produce poor outcomes, we ask clients for details 
of their income and savings, both at account opening and in 
rolling reviews. Based on the results of these assessments, we may 
choose to provide an applicant with a clear warning about the 
appropriateness of the product or restrict them to a type of account 
where risk is limited. We may also decline to open an account, or 
indeed close an account if it has already been opened.
LIMITING CLIENT LOSSES 
We have a number of services designed to help clients limit any 
losses they may make.
Our clients can choose to attach guaranteed stops to their positions, 
so that they know their maximum possible loss at the outset of 
a trade. This year we have introduced an innovative new charging 
system that encourages our clients to use guaranteed stops. No 
premium is payable for attaching a guaranteed stop unless it is 
triggered, so clients will frequently receive protection free of charge. 
IG is the first provider to offer guaranteed stops on this basis.
Our close-out monitor (COM), which seeks to automatically 
liquidate clients’ positions when their margin has been significantly 
eroded, is also a means by which we help protect clients. At 
31 May 2016, 99.91% of all client accounts were subject to the 
automatic COM procedure. Further details are set out in note 36 
to the Financial Statements.
In July 2016, we are also introducing a limited-risk account. This is 
the default account we offer to less experienced clients or clients 
towards the lower end of the wealth acceptance scale. Clients who 
are eligible for our other account types can also request a 
limited-risk account, if they so wish.
We prioritise the security of our 
clients’ information and have 
achieved the ISO 27001:2005 
certificate for information 
security management.
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
As a business that conducts nearly all of its client trades 
online and undertakes no industrial activities, we do not see 
ourselves as a significant emitter of environmentally harmful 
substances. However, we still take any necessary actions to 
ensure that we minimise the impact of our operations on the 
surrounding environment.
Running and maintaining our IT infrastructure comprises the 
main source of our environmental impact. This supports our 
award-winning platform and ensures we are able to consistently 
maintain our high level of platform uptime.
Powering and cooling our datacentres results in the majority of our 
power usage – as well as our energy costs. As such, we update our 
hardware and software as appropriate to save money and energy.
This year we continued to decommission and virtualise 240 
legacy rack-mounted servers, migrating onto a hyper-converged 
infrastructure which has a lower environmental impact. We 
recycled the legacy hardware in accordance with our internal 
recycling policy, ensuring that any data was securely destroyed 
before recycling the remaining components.
After our datacentres, our global offices are the second-largest 
consumer of energy. We apply a number of energy-saving 
processes and have a far-reaching recycling policy, which 
encompasses not only a proportion of our daily office waste, but 
also extends to our IT equipment when we replace hardware, 
while trying to ensure that we use any desktop equipment for its 
maximum useful life.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
32 Our Head Office building, where more than half of our employees 
are based, is also ISO 14001 certified, and we complement this 
environmental-management system with our own sensor-lighting 
to reduce our energy use. The rollout of our modern office project 
is also helping us to work in a more energy-efficient way and 
reduce our environmental impact. Employees are now able to 
work from home using laptops, which consume less power than 
desktop computers and reduce the need for work-related travel. By 
converting to a ’hot desk’ working environment, we will ultimately 
be able to use our office space more efficiently and cut costs. To 
date we have deployed laptops to 52% of our London staff and all 
of our Krakow employees.
The global nature of our business, with employees located in 
17 countries, results in the need for our people to travel around the 
globe to provide local support for staff and clients. We have taken 
further steps to minimise these journeys by installing state-of-the-art 
video-conferencing facilities. We use Skype for Business to 
provide environment-friendly video-conferencing, both from desks 
and in meeting rooms across our Head Office and seven of our 
global offices.
EMISSIONS DATA
We provide emissions data in respect of the financial year ended 
31 May 2016 in the Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Emissions Report 
and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Ratio tables below. In the 
tables, Scope 1 emissions are those incurred in air conditioning 
our offices and running back-up generators for our servers, while 
Scope 2 emissions are purchased energy such as electricity. For 
the most significant sources of energy consumption discussed 
above, we purchase electricity via our landlords. 
Basis of preparation
Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated on the basis of financial 
control, with the emissions data included for the companies 
consolidated in the Financial Statements, noting the Statement of 
Exclusions given below:
 ❚ We have based our methodology on the principles of the 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol
 ❚ We have reported on all the measured emissions sources 
required under The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and 
Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013, except where stated
 ❚ This includes emissions under Scope 1 and 2, except where 
stated, but excludes any emissions from Scope 3
 ❚ In line with the revised GHG Protocol, market-based factors 
have been identified and presented for the UK
Conversion factors for electricity, gas and other emissions are 
those published by the Department for Environment, Food and 
Rural Affairs for 2015-2016. Conversion factors for UK electricity 
(market-based methodology) are published by electricityinfo.org.
Statement of exclusions
Global diesel use (for vehicles) has been excluded from the report 
on the basis that it is not material to our carbon footprint.
The scope of reporting for our fugitive emissions has been 
restricted to the United Kingdom. Other regions have been 
excluded due to lack of data or immateriality.
MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORT
EMISSION TYPE 2014-15
CO
2
e TONNES
2015-16
CO
2
e TONNES
2015-16
CO
2
e TONNES
    LOCATION-BASED MARKET-BASED
Scope 1: operation of facilities 161.77 429.9 429.9
Scope 1: combustion 34.93 54.5 54.5
Total Scope 1 emissions 196.70 484.4 484.4
Scope 2: purchased energy 4,007.64 3,914.6 4,000.4
Total Scope 2 emissions 4,007.64 3,914.6 4,000.4
Total emissions 4,204.34 4,399.0 4,484.8
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INTENSITY RATIO
EMISSION TYPE TOTAL FOOTPRINT (SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2) – CO
2
e
  PREVIOUS YEAR 
(2014-15)
CURRENT YEAR 
(2015-16)
YEAR-ON-YEAR 
VARIANCE
Turnover (£) 388.4m 456.3m 17%
Intensity Ratio, location-based method (tCO
2
e/£100,000) 10.82 9.64 (11%)
Intensity Ratio, market-based method (tCO
2
e/£100,000) N/A 9.83 N/A
EMISSION CATEGORY EMISSION SOURCE
OPERATION OF FACILITY
PURCHASED ENERGY
COMBUSTION
ELECTRICITY
NATURAL GAS
LPG
OTHER DELIVERED FUELS
F-GAS
MANAGED VEHICLES
33
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
33
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 ’By focusing on in-depth data analysis, 
we’re able to optimise client recruitment 
and client value, ultimately enhancing our 
profitability as a business.’
Adam Dance
Director of Business Development
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
34 35
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW
IG has delivered record revenue in the year of £456.3 million, 14% 
up on the prior year on an underlying basis (2015: £400.2 million). 
The prior year results were affected by the Swiss franc de-pegging 
event in January 2015. The underlying results in 2015 exclude 
the impact of this event. We consider it appropriate to continue 
to report against the underlying comparatives to enable a clear 
indication of the year-on-year performance. 
Profit before tax was £207.9 million, 7.6% up on the prior year on 
an underlying basis (2015: £193.2 million). The Group effective tax 
rate reduced to 21.0% from 22.0% in the prior year (underlying), 
reflecting the full-year impact of the reduction in the UK 
corporation tax rates to 20%. Diluted earnings per share was 44.58 
pence, 8.5% ahead of the prior year on an underlying basis (2015 
underlying: 41.07 pence).
On a statutory basis, Group revenue was 17% ahead of the prior 
year (2015: £388.4 million), with profit before tax up 23% (2015: 
£169.5 million), profit after tax up 25% (2015: £131.9 million), and 
diluted earnings per share up 24% (2015: 35.99p).
Active client numbers continued to grow ahead of the prior year 
to 152,600 (12.1%) and the average revenue per client was up 
1.7% to £2,990. As in the previous year, the revenue was higher 
in the second half of the year at £241.5m compared to £214.8m 
in the first half. The second half included a record quarter for the 
Group in Q3 of £122.0m, driven by the high volatility caused by 
significant sell-offs in the financial markets at the start of 2016 
which triggered more trading opportunities for clients. 
IG remains highly cash-generative, supporting the dividend payout 
ratio of 70%, resulting in a full-year dividend of 31.40 pence per 
share, an increase of 12% on the prior year.
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
During 2016, IG has again demonstrated the strength of its business model, allowing it to 
grow revenue and profit in all locations. The Group continued to diversify its geographical 
spread by launching an office in Dubai, with revenues from outside the UK now 
representing 49% (2015: 47%) of the Group revenues. 
Underlying revenue
FY16 FY15
Revenue
£m
Clients
000s
Revenue
£m
Clients
000s
UK 231.1 64.5 211.9 60.4 2.1%
Europe 98.6 35.0 80.9 29.7 3.0%
Australia 64.0 19.8 59.2 18.7 1.9%
Rest of World 62.6 33.3 48.2 27.3 6.7%
Total 456.3 152.6 400.2 136.1 1.7%
Statutory revenue
FY16 FY15
Revenue
£m
Clients
000s
Revenue
£m
Clients
000s
UK 231.1 64.5 206.0 60.4 5.1%
Europe 98.6 35.0 76.9 29.7 8.6%
Australia 64.0 19.8 58.1 18.7 3.9%
Rest of World 62.6 33.3 47.4 27.3 8.4%
Total 456.3 152.6 388.4 136.1 4.8%
(1) The financial tables above contain numbers which have been rounded, while all year-on-year percentages are calculated from underlying unrounded numbers.
% change in 
revenue per 
client from FY15
(1)
% change in 
revenue per 
client from FY15
(1)
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
36 UNITED KINGDOM
The UK and Ireland, comprising the offices in both London and 
Dublin, had a 9.0% increase in revenue from the prior year at 
£231.1 million (2015: £211.9 million), with the second half of the 
year (£120.8 million) outperforming the first half (£110.4 million). 
The UK benefited through the year from particularly volatile 
periods in financial markets, in both August 2015 and in early 
2016, the latter contributing to the UK having record revenue 
in the third quarter. Active client numbers were up 6.8% from 
prior year at 64,500, with a 9% increase in the second half of the 
year, driven by both volatility and by the continuing success in 
acquiring new clients. Revenue per client for the year increased by 
2.1% from the prior year, at £3,585, with particular strength in the 
record third quarter. The UK segment accounted for 51% of Group 
revenue, against 53% in the prior year.
IG remained the clear market leader within spread bettors in the 
UK, increasing market share from 40% to 44% and within CFD 
traders, increasing market share from 26% to 29%.
(1)
 Drawing 
precise quantitative conclusions from market share research is 
increasingly difficult, given the measurement is based purely on 
the number of primary accounts and makes no allowance for the 
value of individual clients.
The execution-only stockbroking offering launched in September 
2014 in the UK. Client numbers have continued to grow steadily 
with over 11,000 funded accounts at the end of May, 67% of which 
are new to IG. A proportion of clients who began as share dealing 
clients, and for whom it is entirely appropriate, are going on to use 
the leveraged trading products.
IG remained the clear market 
leader within spread bettors in 
the UK, increasing market share 
from 40% to 44%.
EUROPE
Europe comprises revenues from Germany, France, Italy, Spain, 
the Netherlands, Sweden, Norway, Luxembourg and Switzerland 
offices. Revenue in Europe increased by 22% from the prior year 
to £98.6 million (2015: £80.9 million), with second half revenue 
of £53.0 million, up 16% on the first half. Active client numbers 
were 18% ahead of the prior year with growth across almost all 
countries in the region, and revenue per client was up 3.0% to 
£2,812 (2015: £2,730). The European segment accounted for 22% 
of Group revenue in the year, against 20% in the prior year.
During the second half of the year, annual market research studies 
were published for Germany, France and, for the first time, 
Spain. They concluded that IG’s market share of the retail CFD 
industry in Germany had slipped to 9%, in France it had fallen one 
percentage point to 27% and in Spain it was 7%.
(1)
AUSTRALIA
The Australia segment comprises the Melbourne office and also 
includes revenue from New Zealand and other countries in the 
Asia Pacific region. Revenue in Australia was up by 8.1% from 
the prior year, to £64.0 million (2015: £59.2 million). Revenue in 
Australia was stronger in the second half of the year, following 
the trend of the broader Group, delivering £33.6 million against 
£30.4 million for the first half, with the third quarter also being a 
record for this region. Enhancements in the client account opening 
journey and marketing strategy contributed to a 6% increase from 
the prior year in active client numbers, albeit with client numbers 
8.0% lower in the second half of the year compared to the first. 
Average revenue per client also improved 1.9% ahead of the 
prior year.
An annual market research study, released in June 2016, 
concluded that IG’s market share of the retail CFD industry had 
remained flat at 38%, having increased from 33% in the previous 
year.
(1)
 IG remained the clear industry leader. As with the UK, this 
measure is based on the number of primary accounts.
In July 2016 we launched the execution-only stockbroking offering 
in the Australia region.
REST OF WORLD
The Rest of World segment comprises the offices in Singapore, 
Japan, South Africa and Dubai, and our retail exchange, 
Nadex, in the US. Revenue for the period in the Rest of World 
region was ahead of the prior year by 30% at £62.6 million 
(2015: £48.2 million). All countries in the Rest of World segment 
experienced growth, with particularly strong results in the US, 
more than doubling prior year revenue and a strong contribution 
from the newly opened Dubai office, which outperformed in its 
first year. Active client numbers were 22% ahead of the prior year 
and revenue per client was up 6.7% to £1,882 (2015: £1,764). 
Revenue per client is lower in the region due to the nature of the 
product set in the US, but it has been boosted this year by the 
higher revenue per client in Dubai, which is attracting a higher 
average value client base. With the region growing at a fast pace, 
revenue was higher in the second half at £34.1 million compared 
to the first half of £28.5 million. The Rest of World segment 
accounted for 14% of Group revenue in the period, against 12% in 
the prior year.
REVENUE BY REGION
UK (51%)
EUROPE (22%)
AUSTRALIA (13%)
REST OF WORLD (14%)
(1) By number of active primary accounts. All market share data presented in this report 
is provided by Investment Trends Pty Limited (please refer to the Investor Resources 
section on page 179 for further details).
37
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
FACTORS IMPACTING REVENUE
The absence of proprietary trading by IG and the hedged nature 
of the business model – ie hedging with third parties to cover 
the residual risk above pre-set limits – delivers a more stable 
revenue stream, irrespective of the direction of underlying market 
movements. During the year we have made further improvements 
in optimising the revenue return on client trading activity and 
in maximising the value of natural client offset. More detail is 
provided in the Chief Executive Officer’s Statement.
ASSET MIX
IG has consistently benefited from the broad range of asset classes 
it enables clients to trade, resulting in a more stable revenue 
stream in different market conditions. This year we derived 50% 
of our underlying revenue from clients trading indices (2015: 48%) 
and had another strong year in shares trading, delivering 15% of 
Group revenue (2015: 17%). Client forex trading delivered 17% of 
Group revenue, down from 19% in the prior year, but marginally 
up at an absolute level. Commodities contributed 8% of Group 
revenue (2015: 7%), with binaries contributing the remaining 11%, 
up on 9% in the prior year with the strongest growth here coming 
from the US.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
SUMMARY GROUP INCOME STATEMENT
 
Year ended
31 May 2016
 
Year ended
31 May 2015
Underlying
(1)
Year ended
31 May 2015
Statutory
  £m £m £m
Net trading revenue
(2)
456.3 400.2 388.4
Net interest 
on segregated 
client funds
3.4 4.5 4.5
Betting duty 
and financial 
transaction taxes
(11.2) (5.9) (6.3)
Other operating 
income
0.6 0.6 0.6
Net operating income 449.1 399.4 387.2
Operating expenses (241.5) (206.1) (217.6)
Operating profit 207.6 193.3 169.6
Net finance income/
(expense)
0.3 (0.1) (0.1)
Profit before tax 207.9 193.2 169.5
Tax expense (43.6) (42.5) (37.6)
Profit for the year 164.3 150.7 131.9
Diluted earnings 
per share
44.58p 41.07p 35.99p
Total dividend 
per share
31.40p 28.15p 28.15p
(1) The term ‘underlying’ reflects the results before the impact of the Swiss franc event 
(refer to note 2 of the Financial Statements). 
(2) Net trading revenue excludes net interest on segregated client funds and is reported 
after taking account of introducing partner commissions.
Net operating income
Net trading revenue increased by 14% to £456.3 million (2015: 
£400.2 million) with growth experienced in all geographic 
locations. Net interest income on segregated client funds 
decreased by £1.1 million to £3.4 million (2015: £4.5 million), 
driven by a reduction in interest rates in countries where funds 
are held.
Betting duties paid by the Group, in relation to losses for UK 
spread betting and binaries clients, increased by £5.4 million to 
£10.9 million (2015: £5.5 million) following the heightened market 
volatility in August 2015 and early 2016. The Italian Financial 
Transaction Tax incurred by the Group decreased by £0.1 million 
to £0.3 million (2015: £0.4 million).
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
FY15 FY16
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Revenue (£m)
Equity Indices Commodities Binaries Forex Shares
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
38 Operating expenses 
Operating expenses increased by 17% to £241.5 million, partially 
driven by the increase in staff headcount related to strategic 
investments and the associated costs. This is largely the full-year 
impact of headcount increases in the prior year. There was a 
significant rise in variable marketing costs, as we increased 
our spend based on the fast payback it was delivering. There 
was also a rise in performance-related pay, linked to the strong 
financial performance.
Year ended
31 May 2016
Year ended
31 May 2015
Underlying
Year ended
31 May 2015
Statutory
£m £m £m
Employee 
remuneration costs
113.5 97.9 94.3
Advertising and 
marketing
49.7 37.8 37.8
Premises-related costs 12.1 11.1 11.1
IT, market data and 
communications
19.3 16.4 16.4
Legal and professional 6.8 5.9 5.9
Regulatory fees 5.7 7.1 7.1
Net charge for 
impaired trade 
receivables
1.8 1.1 16.2
Other costs 19.9 18.1 18.1
Depreciation, 
amortisation and 
impairment
12.7 10.7 10.7
Operating expenses 241.5 206.1 217.6
Employee remuneration costs
Employee remuneration costs increased by 16% to £113.5 million 
(2015: £97.9 million). This is largely the full-year impact of the 
headcount increases in the prior year together with inflationary 
pay rises, higher discretionary remuneration and higher market 
rates for new hires.
Year ended
31 May 2016
Year ended
31 May 2015
Underlying
Year ended
31 May 2015
Statutory
£m £m £m
Total salaries 83.3 74.0 74.0
Performance-
related bonuses and 
commissions
21.9 17.1 14.0
Share schemes 8.3 6.8 6.3
Employee 
remuneration costs
113.5 97.9 94.3
The movements in headcount are as follows: 
Year ended
31 May 2016
Year ended
31 May 2015
Average headcount 1,412 1,287
Year-end headcount 1,408 1,400
Advertising and marketing costs
Advertising and marketing costs increased by £11.9 million to 
£49.7 million (2015: £37.8 million). 
The Group remained focused on increasing its online marketing 
presence to drive client recruitment. The Group also recently 
moved to a centralised online marketing model which has 
resulted in a significant increase in the number of clients recruited. 
The Group is now in the third year of its three-year partnership 
with Harlequins Rugby Club and is one of three principal partners 
of the club. The partnership is consistent with the Group’s 
strategic approach to increase visibility of the IG brand and 
value proposition.
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment
Included in the charge is £2.7 million in respect of the write-off of 
the generic top-level domains (gTLDs).
Operating profit margins
The Group uses operating profit margin, which includes an 
allocation of central costs, as an indicator of regional performance.
Operating profit increased by 7.4% to £207.6 million (2015: 
£193.3 million). The Group operating profit margin (operating 
profit expressed as a percentage of net trading revenue) 
decreased to 45.5% (2015: 48.3%), reflecting the ongoing 
investment in strategic development, additional investment in 
the share dealing offering, along with the lagged impact of the 
increase in marketing spend.
The following table summarises operating profit margin by region:
Year ended
31 May 2016
Year ended
31 May 2015
Underlying
Year ended
31 May 2015
Statutory
UK 49.3% 57.2% 52.1%
Australia 59.4% 60.3% 59.2%
Europe 34.6% 27.6% 18.1%
Rest of World 34.5% 30.2% 29.5%
Group 45.5% 48.3% 43.7%
While revenue per client and the number of clients in all the 
locations has increased, operating profit margins declined in 
our largest regions. This reduction in profit margin is driven by 
a combination of direct costs such as increased investment in 
marketing the Group’s products, salaries and variable IT costs.
39
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Taxation expense
The effective rate of taxation for the year ended 31 May 2016 
decreased to 21.0% from the underlying rate of 22.0% for the 
prior year. The effective rate for the current year has continued to 
benefit from the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 20.0%. 
The Group’s effective tax rate remains dependent on the mix of 
geographic revenue and profitability as well as the tax rates levied 
in those geographies.
Following legislative changes, the Group was not caught by 
the Bank Corporation Tax surcharge introduced in the UK in 
January 2016.
The calculation of the Group’s tax charge involves a degree of 
estimation and judgement, in particular with respect to certain 
items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until 
agreement has been reached with the relevant tax authority (refer 
to note 10 of the Financial Statements).
Diluted earnings per share
Diluted earnings per share increased by 8.5% to 44.58 pence from 
41.07 pence in the year ended 31 May 2016. 
Diluted earnings per share is used as a primary measure of 
underlying profitability and as a financial measure in relation to the 
Executive Director and senior management share plans.
Dividend policy
IG remains highly cash-generative and we seek to reflect this 
in the direct cash returns to shareholders. IG has a progressive 
dividend policy and it remains the Board’s intention to pay out, 
as an ordinary dividend, approximately 70% of Group post-tax 
earnings. Accordingly, the Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 22.95 pence per share, giving a full-year dividend of 31.40 
pence per share.
In 2015, despite the impact of the Swiss franc event, the full-year 
dividend was held constant with the 2014 full-year dividend at 
28.15 pence. This equated to 78% of post-tax statutory earnings 
and 68% of post-tax earnings on an underlying basis.
CASH RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY
In order to provide a clear presentation of the Group’s liquid 
assets, both amounts due from brokers and financial investments 
have been treated as ‘cash equivalents’ and included within ‘own 
funds’. A detailed version of the cash flow and the derivation of 
own funds are provided in note 19 of the Financial Statements.
Cash generation remains strong with own funds generated from 
operations of £197.9 million (2015: £159.2 million). 
The cash conversion rate, calculated as own funds generated from 
operations divided by profit before tax, has remained high at 95% 
(2015: 82%). 
‘Own funds’ increased by £79.3 million (2015: £18.4 million) after 
adjustments for movements in working capital balances and the 
outflow from investing and financing activities principally including 
£13.7 million in relation to capital expenditure (2015: £12.4 
million) and £103.1 million (2015: £112.8 million) in relation to the 
final 2015 and interim 2016 dividend payments. 
REGULATORY CAPITAL RESOURCES
Throughout the year, the Group maintained a significant excess 
over the capital resources requirement, both on a consolidated 
and individual regulated entity basis. 
The Group considers there are significant benefits to being well 
capitalised at a time of continuing global economic uncertainty. 
The Group is well placed in respect of any regulatory changes 
which may increase our capital or liquidity requirements. Due to 
the nature of the business model, requiring IG to hedge residual 
risk, the Group considers that its liquidity requirements will 
continue to significantly exceed its regulatory capital requirements 
and therefore manages this carefully to ensure it is able to 
withstand extreme levels of volatility in financial markets.
The following table summarises the Group’s Pillar 1 capital 
adequacy on a consolidated basis:
  31 May 2016
Restated*
31 May 2015
  £m £m
Shareholders’ equity per audited 
financial statements
663.0 591.4
Less: Foreseeable dividend (84.0) (71.8)
Investment in own shares 1.8 1.2
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital 580.8 520.8
Less: Intangible assets (125.1) (124.0)
Less: Investment in own shares (1.8) (1.1)
Less: Deferred tax asset (7.2) (7.1)
Total capital resources 446.7 388.6
Total Risk Exposure Amounts – Pillar 1 (1,568.4) (1,401.3)
Total Capital Ratio 28.5% 27.7%
Capital conservation buffer (9.8) –
Counter-cyclical buffer – –
Total Capital Ratio (including 
combined buffer)
28.3% 27.7%
* Prior year capital ratios have been restated to reflect recognition of 
foreseeable dividends.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
40 BALANCE SHEET HIGHLIGHTS
The Group’s net assets at 31 May 2016 were £663.0 million 
(2015: £591.4 million).
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
  £m £m
Intangible assets 125.1 124.0
Financial investments 136.0 108.4
Cash and cash equivalents 218.8 148.8
Trade and other receivables 290.9 281.8
Trade and other payables (114.2) (78.9)
Other assets 6.4 7.3
Total net assets 663.0 591.4
Intangible assets
The Group continues to invest in technology to enhance client 
experience, to improve the capacity and resilience of dealing 
platforms and information security, all of which are critical to the 
success of the business. 
Intangible assets purchased during the year include £0.6 million 
(2015: £1.5 million), relating to domain names. 
Intangible assets also include goodwill of £107.1 million (2015: 
£107.1 million) of which £100.0 million arose on the acquisition of 
IG Group plc and its subsidiaries in 2003.
Financial investments
Financial investments are UK Government securities held by the 
Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a liquid 
asset buffer against potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12. 
At 31 May 2016 the Group held £82.6 million as liquid assets 
buffer and £53.4 million as collateral with brokers. The increase in 
financial investments of £27.6 million is mainly due to the purchase 
of two securities for £61.3 million and the maturity of one for 
£34.5 million.
Current assets
Trade and other receivables include amounts due from brokers, 
amounts due to be received from segregated client money 
accounts and prepayments. 
Amounts due from brokers increased by £6.3 million, driven by 
increased broker margin requirements at year-end.
Client money and assets
Total monies held on behalf of clients at year-end was £956.3 
million (2015: £930.5 million) of which £917.3 million (2015: 
£913.6 million) is segregated in trust bank accounts and treated as 
‘segregated client money’ and therefore excluded from the Group 
Statement of Financial Position. The remaining £39.0 million 
relates to ‘title transfer funds’ where the client agrees, under a 
Title Transfer Collateral Arrangement (TTCA), that full ownership 
of such monies is unconditionally transferred to the Group and 
customer deposits with our banking operation in Switzerland. 
Although the levels of client money can vary depending on the 
overall mix of financial products being traded by clients, the 
long-term increase in the level of client money placed by clients 
with the Group is considered a positive indicator of future client 
propensity to trade.
Liabilities
Trade and other payables include accruals and amounts due 
to clients in relation to both title transfer funds and customer 
deposits with the Group’s Swiss banking subsidiary. 
The increase in the trade and other payables is driven by the 
increase in title transfer funds and client monies deposited with 
the Group’s Swiss bank subsidiary together with accruals for 
performance-related pay. 
41
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT ’Ensuring fair outcomes 
for clients and the financial 
markets is at the heart of 
everything we do at IG.  
We are meticulous about 
compliance with regulations to 
ensure our customers get the 
levels of service and protection 
they deserve.’
Joe McCaughran
Chief Compliance Officer
42
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016  43
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
43
STRATEGIC REPORT
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 MANAGING OUR RISKS
EVALUATING PRINCIPAL RISKS 
AND SETTING OUR RISK APPETITE
The Board is responsible for the Group’s risk management and 
internal control processes. Risk management is an integral part 
of the Group’s activities. This starts with evaluating the principal 
risks to which the Group is exposed and determining the Board’s 
risk appetite.
The risk appetite defines the amount of risk the Board is prepared 
to accept, both on an individual risk and aggregate basis, in 
pursuit of its business objectives and strategic goals.
Risk is assessed across the Group using a clearly defined risk 
management framework which incorporates both internal and 
external factors.
The Group has a set of Key Risk Indicators (KRIs) which balance 
quantitative and qualitative measures to provide an indication of 
increasing or declining risk levels over an appropriate timescale 
and provides parameters within which the business can operate. 
To establish effective governance over risk, we have developed a 
Risk Management Framework to identify, measure, manage and 
monitor the risks faced by the business. 
It comprises our Risk Governance Framework and Risk 
Reporting Cycle.
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK 
The diagram to the right sets out the framework for the Board 
and Executive Committees, independent control functions and 
ongoing business operations that exercise governance over risk.
Our Risk Management 
Framework provides the 
Board with assurance that we 
have evaluated and managed 
our risks as far as possible, 
within appropriate predefined 
boundaries. 
Our strategy depends on the effective management of our business risks. By identifying 
the nature and potential impact of these risks, we can design and operate processes that 
ensure our risks are effectively controlled and mitigated. Over time, we have developed a 
robust and consistent Risk Management Framework that we continually seek to improve.
In this section we explain how we manage risk in accordance with our risk appetite which is underpinned by the Group’s Risk 
Management Framework. We also explain in detail the key risks we face, our governance structure for risk management and the 
reporting cycle that we use to monitor and report on risk.
REPORT/FORUM FREQUENCY CONTENT
EXECUTIVE RISK COMMITTEE 
DASHBOARD
WEEKLY Market, credit, liquidity and operational risk exposures 
including stress testing results, review of high risk clients and 
summary of operational incidents.
BOARD RISK REPORT MONTHLY Capital and liquidity metrics; summary of market, credit and 
operational risk profile; conduct and regulatory risk summary; 
information security and cyber risk.
ICAAP/ILAA REVIEW QUARTERLY Review of regulatory capital and liquidity position of the 
Group, including review of Pillar 2 risks and temporary capital 
add-ons held in respect of specific risk issues.
RISK REPORTING CYCLE
Risk monitoring and reporting in IG is undertaken daily with several daily reports covering key market, credit and liquidity metrics. 
Formal risk reporting comprises the following key risk reports:
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
44 BOARD RISK COMMITTEE
 ❚ Evaluates risks and determines risk 
management arrangements
 ❚ Considers the risk appetite and KRIs for the current 
and future strategy and recommends for approval by 
the Board
 ❚ Reviews and challenges the Internal Capital Adequacy 
Assessment Process (ICAAP), Internal Liquidity 
Adequacy Assessment (ILAA) and Recovery Plan
 ❚ Ensures rigorous stress-testing and scenario-testing of 
the Group’s business 
 ❚ Ensures a sufficient level of risk mitigation is in place
 ❚ Reviews the Group’s major risk exposures
 ❚ Considers the adequacy and effectiveness of 
the technology infrastructure and supporting 
documentation in the Risk Management Framework
 ❚ Provides input to the Remuneration Committee on 
the alignment of the remuneration policy to risk 
performance 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
 ❚ Reviews the structure and level of remuneration 
throughout the business and assesses the impact of 
remuneration on risk 
AUDIT COMMITTEE 
 ❚ Receives annual reporting from the Board Risk 
Committee on the Group’s internal controls and Risk 
Management Framework
 ❚ Reviews an assessment of the control environment, via 
internal audit reports, and progress on implementing 
both internal and external audit recommendations
 ❚ Monitors and reviews the internal audit function’s 
effectiveness in the overall context of the Group’s 
internal controls and risk-management systems 
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
 ❚ Identifies and recommends suitable candidates 
for appointment to the Board to ensure that its 
composition meets Group’s needs
 ❚ Ensures that succession plans are in place
 ❚ Evaluates risk and determines risk governance arrangements
 ❚ Sets and reviews the risk appetite and the key risk indicators
 ❚ Reviews and challenges updates from the Board 
Risk Committee
 ❚ Reviews and challenges the system of internal controls and 
risk management
 ❚ Reviews and challenges capital and liquidity stress-testing 
 ❚ Approves the Corporate Governance Report in the 
Annual Report
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
 ❚ Sets out IG’s Values
 ❚ Oversees the execution of the IG Strategy on behalf  
of the Board
 ❚ Agrees and recommends the Business Plan to the 
Board and manages the delivery of the agreed 
Business Plan
 ❚ Defines and allocates overall budgets and resources 
to ensure the organisation has the capabilities and 
resources to deliver the objectives in the Business Plan, 
and oversees the control of costs
 ❚ Ensures there is an effective management structure and 
organisation within the Group which is consistent with 
the effective delivery of the Business Plan
 ❚ Oversees performance across IG including performance 
against agreed Key Performance Indicators in all  
aspects of IG’s operations
 ❚ Reviews and approves major change and key  
investment initiatives and, where required, submits for 
Board approval
 ❚ Discusses any matter which any member of the 
Committee believes to be of such importance that it 
should be brought to the attention of the Committee
EXECUTIVE RISK COMMITTEE 
 ❚ Oversees the day-to-day risk management activity  
across the Group
 ❚ Evaluates the risks in the context of Group’s risk appetite
 ❚ Maintains the Risk Management Framework
 ❚ Receives, analyses and evaluates risk MI
 ❚ Deals with specific risk issues as they arise
 ❚ Analyses the regulatory environment for  
forthcoming changes
 ❚ Evaluates new business transactions
ICAAP AND ILAA COMMITTEE 
 ❚ Oversees the results of the ongoing stress-testing 
and scenario-testing process, ensuring that risks are 
continuously identified and assessed
 ❚ Considers the impact on capital and liquidity of changes 
in strategy or the operating environment
 ❚ Reviews the KRIs on a quarterly basis 
CLIENT MONEY COMMITTEE 
 ❚ Oversees the processes and controls over segregating 
client funds and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)’s 
client assets (CASS) operational oversight function
 ❚ Monitors and reviews the levels of prudent margin in the 
UK and buffers in client money pools outside the UK
THE BOARD
BOARD COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES
CONTROL FUNCTIONS
Additional levels of assurance are provided by control functions, which are independent of the business operations – namely finance, risk, 
compliance, legal and internal audit. The control functions provide periodic reporting to the Board and Executive Committees as appropriate.
INTERNAL AUDIT | FINANCE | RISK | COMPLIANCE | LEGAL
In addition to the control functions, we have embedded risk management into our underlying business operations. Heads of departments are 
responsible for maintaining risk registers and, where necessary, taking action to mitigate risks and enhance the control environment. The risk and 
compliance control functions use these registers in coordinating the identification, measurement and monitoring of risk across the business.
INTERNAL CONTROLS IMPLEMENTED BY MANAGEMENT
BUSINESS OPERATIONS
45
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company. This is a continual process particularly in 
the regulatory environment under which we operate. We prepare an ICAAP , ILAA and Recovery and Resolution Plan each year all of 
which focus on the risks we face, stress-testing of our business model and projections to ensure the business is solvent, liquid and viable. 
Our principal risks and the mitigation actions taken are detailed below:
KEY RISK MITIGATING ACTIONS LINK TO 
STRATEGY 
CHANGE FROM 
LAST YEAR
COMMENTARY
REGULATORY RISK
Regulatory risk is one of our most 
significant risks and we look at it from 
three different angles:
Change risk
is the risk that one of our regulators 
introduces new regulations or the 
regulatory environment itself changes 
impacting on the way we operate 
our business.
Expansion risk
is the risk that policy and regulation in 
jurisdictions where we do not currently 
operate remain onerous and closed to 
our business model.
Breach risk
is the risk that we breach a regulation 
that applies to our business, leading to 
a client or market detriment, sanctions, 
fines, reputational damage or, in 
extreme situations, loss of license.
 ❚ We engage with regulators and policymakers in the jurisdictions we operate or intend 
to expand our product offering into, as part of policy consultations and by investing 
in public relations programmes ensuring we have access to up-to-date information on 
regulatory change.
 ❚ We participate in discussions with regulators that are considering changing their regulations 
in order to allow retail derivative trading.
 ❚ Our compliance, legal and risk teams provide a robust line of defence, ensuring that our 
processes and controls are effective in ensuring compliance with regulatory obligations.
 ❚ We work closely with our regulators to ensure that we operate to the highest regulatory 
standards and can adapt quickly to regulatory change.
 ❚ We are committed to engaging proactively with regulators and industry bodies, continuing 
to support changes which promote protection for clients and greater clarity of the risks 
they face.
    ❚ The industry continues to witness increased levels of government and regulatory 
intervention in the financial sector with increasing regulatory rules and laws both in 
the UK and overseas affecting the Group’s operations. We are closely monitoring 
this and working with the respective regulators.
 ❚ As our business becomes more complex and geographically diverse, this risk also 
grows, and we remain committed to increasing our investment in our framework to 
manage risk controls.
 ❚ During the year, the Group has successfully undergone a number of external reviews 
into key areas such as client money and information security, giving us assurance 
that we are managing and controlling breach risk well.
 ❚ Details with respect to the results of the UK EU Referendum are also covered in the 
CEO’s statement.
 ❚ Further details and examples of our Change risks on pages 52 to 53.
OPERATIONAL AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT) RISK
This is the risk of financial loss, 
disruption or damage to our reputation 
due to inadequate or failed internal 
processes and IT systems.
These risks can also arise from human 
error or external events that we 
cannot influence.
Cyber risk is a constant threat in the 
modern online environment.
The reliability of our client trading 
platforms is key to delivering 
our strategy.
 ❚ We have designed and implemented a system of internal controls to manage operational 
risk in line with the Risk Appetite Statement and Risk Management Framework.
 ❚ We run a complete disaster recovery solution to ensure we provide clients with a consistent 
and uninterrupted level of service.
 ❚ We operate a fully functional secondary site with real-time replication of all systems across 
the two locations and fully independent power supplies. We support these systems with 
on-going business continuity planning and regular testing.
 ❚ We invest significantly in the technology infrastructure to ensure that these platforms are 
operationally stable, with system access being centrally controlled.
 ❚ Our investment supports the resilience and reliability of the platform, ensuring low levels 
of latency, maintaining and testing system capability under significant load and conducting 
penetration testing.
 ❚ The Executive Risk Committee reviews our Key Risk Indicators on a monthly basis, a process 
which includes monitoring levels of core system uptime and deal latency.
 ❚ We have a dedicated team which has implemented a robust, multi-layered system, 
providing round-the-clock monitoring and intruder-prevention controls.
    ❚ The aim of the Group’s operational risk management is to manage operational risks 
in line with pre-defined appetites, and to protect both customers and the Group 
whilst delivering sustainable growth.
 ❚ All our IT and data security systems conform to the ISO 27001:2005 Information 
Security Management System standards.
 ❚ IG is heavily dependent on technology to enable its processes to operate effectively 
as well as providing innovative products to its clients. Hence outages can have a 
negative impact. Core up-time over a rolling 12-month period is currently running at 
99.96% against a tolerance of 99.80%. This represents a total outage time over the 
previous 12 months of 1 hour 40 minutes.
 ❚ As with many companies we are periodically subject to attempts to gain access to 
our systems from the exterior including distributed denial of service (DDOS) attacks. 
Our systems are constantly monitored and tested by our cyber security team and we 
have withstood these attempts throughout the year.
 ❚ Each year we physically locate the UK office to our offsite disaster recovery location 
and this process continued to operate without issues again this year.
MARKET RISK
This is the risk that the fair value of 
financial assets and financial liabilities 
will change due to movements in 
market prices.
IG takes market risk in order to facilitate 
real-time client dealing and as such, 
taking market risk is inherent to 
delivering quality service to clients.
 ❚ This is managed on a real-time basis, monitoring all client positions against market risk 
limits set by the Board for ‘operational efficiency’.
 ❚ We hedge most of our residual market risk exposure, not taking proprietary positions 
based on an expectation of market movements. However, not all net client exposures are 
hedged and therefore the Group may have a residual net position in any of the financial 
markets in which it offers products up to the market risk limit.
 ❚ We invest in technology that enables real-time and constant monitoring of our market 
exposure. If exposures exceed our pre-agreed limits, our risk-management policy requires 
the positions hedged to bring the exposure back into line with these limits.
    ❚ Our market risk profile remains largely unchanged in the past year.
 ❚ Risk limits are reviewed regularly to ensure they remain appropriate, and real-time 
monitoring of compliance with risk limits is monitored by the Risk team, with 
escalation to the Executive Risk Committee for exceptions.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
46 KEY RISK MITIGATING ACTIONS LINK TO 
STRATEGY 
CHANGE FROM 
LAST YEAR
COMMENTARY
REGULATORY RISK
Regulatory risk is one of our most 
significant risks and we look at it from 
three different angles:
Change risk
is the risk that one of our regulators 
introduces new regulations or the 
regulatory environment itself changes 
impacting on the way we operate 
our business.
Expansion risk
is the risk that policy and regulation in 
jurisdictions where we do not currently 
operate remain onerous and closed to 
our business model.
Breach risk
is the risk that we breach a regulation 
that applies to our business, leading to 
a client or market detriment, sanctions, 
fines, reputational damage or, in 
extreme situations, loss of license.
 ❚ We engage with regulators and policymakers in the jurisdictions we operate or intend 
to expand our product offering into, as part of policy consultations and by investing 
in public relations programmes ensuring we have access to up-to-date information on 
regulatory change.
 ❚ We participate in discussions with regulators that are considering changing their regulations 
in order to allow retail derivative trading.
 ❚ Our compliance, legal and risk teams provide a robust line of defence, ensuring that our 
processes and controls are effective in ensuring compliance with regulatory obligations.
 ❚ We work closely with our regulators to ensure that we operate to the highest regulatory 
standards and can adapt quickly to regulatory change.
 ❚ We are committed to engaging proactively with regulators and industry bodies, continuing 
to support changes which promote protection for clients and greater clarity of the risks 
they face.
    ❚ The industry continues to witness increased levels of government and regulatory 
intervention in the financial sector with increasing regulatory rules and laws both in 
the UK and overseas affecting the Group’s operations. We are closely monitoring 
this and working with the respective regulators.
 ❚ As our business becomes more complex and geographically diverse, this risk also 
grows, and we remain committed to increasing our investment in our framework to 
manage risk controls.
 ❚ During the year, the Group has successfully undergone a number of external reviews 
into key areas such as client money and information security, giving us assurance 
that we are managing and controlling breach risk well.
 ❚ Details with respect to the results of the UK EU Referendum are also covered in the 
CEO’s statement.
 ❚ Further details and examples of our Change risks on pages 52 to 53.
OPERATIONAL AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT) RISK
This is the risk of financial loss, 
disruption or damage to our reputation 
due to inadequate or failed internal 
processes and IT systems.
These risks can also arise from human 
error or external events that we 
cannot influence.
Cyber risk is a constant threat in the 
modern online environment.
The reliability of our client trading 
platforms is key to delivering 
our strategy.
 ❚ We have designed and implemented a system of internal controls to manage operational 
risk in line with the Risk Appetite Statement and Risk Management Framework.
 ❚ We run a complete disaster recovery solution to ensure we provide clients with a consistent 
and uninterrupted level of service.
 ❚ We operate a fully functional secondary site with real-time replication of all systems across 
the two locations and fully independent power supplies. We support these systems with 
on-going business continuity planning and regular testing.
 ❚ We invest significantly in the technology infrastructure to ensure that these platforms are 
operationally stable, with system access being centrally controlled.
 ❚ Our investment supports the resilience and reliability of the platform, ensuring low levels 
of latency, maintaining and testing system capability under significant load and conducting 
penetration testing.
 ❚ The Executive Risk Committee reviews our Key Risk Indicators on a monthly basis, a process 
which includes monitoring levels of core system uptime and deal latency.
 ❚ We have a dedicated team which has implemented a robust, multi-layered system, 
providing round-the-clock monitoring and intruder-prevention controls.
    ❚ The aim of the Group’s operational risk management is to manage operational risks 
in line with pre-defined appetites, and to protect both customers and the Group 
whilst delivering sustainable growth.
 ❚ All our IT and data security systems conform to the ISO 27001:2005 Information 
Security Management System standards.
 ❚ IG is heavily dependent on technology to enable its processes to operate effectively 
as well as providing innovative products to its clients. Hence outages can have a 
negative impact. Core up-time over a rolling 12-month period is currently running at 
99.96% against a tolerance of 99.80%. This represents a total outage time over the 
previous 12 months of 1 hour 40 minutes.
 ❚ As with many companies we are periodically subject to attempts to gain access to 
our systems from the exterior including distributed denial of service (DDOS) attacks. 
Our systems are constantly monitored and tested by our cyber security team and we 
have withstood these attempts throughout the year.
 ❚ Each year we physically locate the UK office to our offsite disaster recovery location 
and this process continued to operate without issues again this year.
MARKET RISK
This is the risk that the fair value of 
financial assets and financial liabilities 
will change due to movements in 
market prices.
IG takes market risk in order to facilitate 
real-time client dealing and as such, 
taking market risk is inherent to 
delivering quality service to clients.
 ❚ This is managed on a real-time basis, monitoring all client positions against market risk 
limits set by the Board for ‘operational efficiency’.
 ❚ We hedge most of our residual market risk exposure, not taking proprietary positions 
based on an expectation of market movements. However, not all net client exposures are 
hedged and therefore the Group may have a residual net position in any of the financial 
markets in which it offers products up to the market risk limit.
 ❚ We invest in technology that enables real-time and constant monitoring of our market 
exposure. If exposures exceed our pre-agreed limits, our risk-management policy requires 
the positions hedged to bring the exposure back into line with these limits.
    ❚ Our market risk profile remains largely unchanged in the past year.
 ❚ Risk limits are reviewed regularly to ensure they remain appropriate, and real-time 
monitoring of compliance with risk limits is monitored by the Risk team, with 
escalation to the Executive Risk Committee for exceptions.
ADDRESS OUR CLIENTS’ 
NEEDS OVER THEIR 
LIFE CYCLE, BE THEY 
ACTIVE TRADERS 
OR SOPHISTICATED 
INVESTORS
ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN 
OR EXTEND MARKET 
LEADERSHIP IN  
OUR CHOSEN 
INVESTMENT NICHE
STRENGTHEN  
GLOBAL REACH
DELIVER QUALITY 
SERVICES TO OUR 
CLIENTS 
SUSTAIN 
TECHNOLOGY 
LEADERSHIP 
47
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT KEY RISK MITIGATING ACTIONS LINK TO 
STRATEGY 
CHANGE FROM 
LAST YEAR
COMMENTARY
CREDIT RISK
This is the risk that a counterparty 
fails to perform its obligations, 
resulting in financial loss to the Group. 
The principal sources of credit risk 
are from financial institutions and 
individual clients.
Individual client credit risk can arise 
where there are significant, sudden 
movements in the market, due to high 
general market volatility or specific 
volatility relating to an instrument in 
which the client has an open position. 
This can lead to a client’s deposited 
funds being insufficient to cover 
trading losses.
Financial institutions credit risk
 ❚ All financial institutions are subject to ongoing credit review.
 ❚ Exposure limits are set and approved by the Executive Risk Committee.
 ❚ We regularly monitor key metrics, including balances held and changes in short-term and 
long-term credit ratings.
Individual client credit risk
 ❚ Only clients that pass certain suitability criteria are accepted.
 ❚ We run training programmes to educate clients in aspects of trading and risk management, 
as well as encouraging them to collateralise their accounts to an appropriate level.
 ❚ We conduct a pre-deal credit check on every client order.
 ❚ We operate a number of risk management tools for clients to manage their exposures, 
including: guaranteed and non-guaranteed stops, limit orders, extended trading hours, 
trading via mobile platforms.
 ❚ Our overall credit risk exposure is managed through real-time monitoring of client positions 
via our ‘close-out monitor’ (COM) and through the use of tiered margining.
 ❚ The COM is an automated process whereby accounts which have fallen below the 
liquidation threshold are automatically identified and closed.
 ❚ We only grant credit against unrealised losses for a very small number of generally 
long-standing clients, with credit terms such that any losses arising are payable immediately 
on the closure of transactions.
 ❚ Our credit risk profile remains largely unchanged in the past year.
 ❚ Margin rates are regularly reviewed to ensure they appropriately reflect the risk of 
trading, while also remaining competitive.
 ❚ We continue to monitor our overall credit exposure against our risk appetite on a 
daily basis.
COMPETITOR RISK
This is the risk that the market 
proposition of our competitors is 
more compelling, leading to a loss 
of clients and revenue for the Group. 
Additionally, this is a risk that the 
actions of our competitors affects 
the way that our regulators view 
our industry.
 ❚ We recognise that we operate in a highly competitive industry and the emergence of 
smaller firms domiciled in less regulated environments brings a variety of risks.
 ❚ We continuously monitor our competitor activity, pricing and operations including through 
Investment Trends surveys.
 ❚ We monitor the potential impact of key innovation from our competitors as well as poor 
competitor activity which may have consequences with our regulators.
 ❚ Our market share of the leveraged business sector has remained strong in particular 
in our well established markets such as the UK and Australia: spread betting in UK 
at 44% (2015: 40%), CFD in the UK at 29% (2015: 26%) while in Australia our CFD 
market share remained flat at 38% (compared to data released in September 2015), 
having increased from 33%  in the previous year as per Investment Trends reports.
 ❚ During the past 18 months we have expanded our product offering becoming more 
appealing to a wider customer base and we continue to focus on strengthening our 
brand in those markets.
 ❚ The Group remains focused on the development of our leading market position, 
continuously investing in our products and services, and the infrastructure to 
support them.
LIQUIDITY RISK
This is the risk that we will be unable 
to meet payment obligations as they 
fall due.
 ❚ Due to the very short-term nature of our financial assets and liabilities, we do not have any 
material mismatches in our liquidity maturity profiles. Short-term liquidity ‘gaps’ can arise, 
due to our commitment to segregate all client funds.
 ❚ Total available liquidity is monitored on a daily basis, including the committed unsecured 
banking facilities.
 ❚ Daily stress tests are carried out and the level of committed unsecured bank facilities is 
validated by stress testing our three year liquidity forecast.
 ❚ Total available liquidity, including committed unsecured facilities and after 
accounting for broker margin, at 31 May 2016 was £786.7 million (2015: £724.0 
million). This includes the liquid assets buffer, which consists of £80.6 million of UK 
government securities held, as required by the FCA as part of the ILAA process, to 
provide a safeguard in times of stress.
 ❚ Our unsecured banking facilities amount to £160.0 million (2015: £200.0 million) at 
year-end. This was reduced from £200.0 million in July 2015 following an internal 
review of the Group’s required facility levels. In times of extreme market volatility we 
have drawn down the facility as a precautionary measure.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
48 KEY RISK MITIGATING ACTIONS LINK TO 
STRATEGY 
CHANGE FROM 
LAST YEAR
COMMENTARY
CREDIT RISK
This is the risk that a counterparty 
fails to perform its obligations, 
resulting in financial loss to the Group. 
The principal sources of credit risk 
are from financial institutions and 
individual clients.
Individual client credit risk can arise 
where there are significant, sudden 
movements in the market, due to high 
general market volatility or specific 
volatility relating to an instrument in 
which the client has an open position. 
This can lead to a client’s deposited 
funds being insufficient to cover 
trading losses.
Financial institutions credit risk
 ❚ All financial institutions are subject to ongoing credit review.
 ❚ Exposure limits are set and approved by the Executive Risk Committee.
 ❚ We regularly monitor key metrics, including balances held and changes in short-term and 
long-term credit ratings.
Individual client credit risk
 ❚ Only clients that pass certain suitability criteria are accepted.
 ❚ We run training programmes to educate clients in aspects of trading and risk management, 
as well as encouraging them to collateralise their accounts to an appropriate level.
 ❚ We conduct a pre-deal credit check on every client order.
 ❚ We operate a number of risk management tools for clients to manage their exposures, 
including: guaranteed and non-guaranteed stops, limit orders, extended trading hours, 
trading via mobile platforms.
 ❚ Our overall credit risk exposure is managed through real-time monitoring of client positions 
via our ‘close-out monitor’ (COM) and through the use of tiered margining.
 ❚ The COM is an automated process whereby accounts which have fallen below the 
liquidation threshold are automatically identified and closed.
 ❚ We only grant credit against unrealised losses for a very small number of generally 
long-standing clients, with credit terms such that any losses arising are payable immediately 
on the closure of transactions.
 ❚ Our credit risk profile remains largely unchanged in the past year.
 ❚ Margin rates are regularly reviewed to ensure they appropriately reflect the risk of 
trading, while also remaining competitive.
 ❚ We continue to monitor our overall credit exposure against our risk appetite on a 
daily basis.
COMPETITOR RISK
This is the risk that the market 
proposition of our competitors is 
more compelling, leading to a loss 
of clients and revenue for the Group. 
Additionally, this is a risk that the 
actions of our competitors affects 
the way that our regulators view 
our industry.
 ❚ We recognise that we operate in a highly competitive industry and the emergence of 
smaller firms domiciled in less regulated environments brings a variety of risks.
 ❚ We continuously monitor our competitor activity, pricing and operations including through 
Investment Trends surveys.
 ❚ We monitor the potential impact of key innovation from our competitors as well as poor 
competitor activity which may have consequences with our regulators.
 ❚ Our market share of the leveraged business sector has remained strong in particular 
in our well established markets such as the UK and Australia: spread betting in UK 
at 44% (2015: 40%), CFD in the UK at 29% (2015: 26%) while in Australia our CFD 
market share remained flat at 38% (compared to data released in September 2015), 
having increased from 33%  in the previous year as per Investment Trends reports.
 ❚ During the past 18 months we have expanded our product offering becoming more 
appealing to a wider customer base and we continue to focus on strengthening our 
brand in those markets.
 ❚ The Group remains focused on the development of our leading market position, 
continuously investing in our products and services, and the infrastructure to 
support them.
LIQUIDITY RISK
This is the risk that we will be unable 
to meet payment obligations as they 
fall due.
 ❚ Due to the very short-term nature of our financial assets and liabilities, we do not have any 
material mismatches in our liquidity maturity profiles. Short-term liquidity ‘gaps’ can arise, 
due to our commitment to segregate all client funds.
 ❚ Total available liquidity is monitored on a daily basis, including the committed unsecured 
banking facilities.
 ❚ Daily stress tests are carried out and the level of committed unsecured bank facilities is 
validated by stress testing our three year liquidity forecast.
 ❚ Total available liquidity, including committed unsecured facilities and after 
accounting for broker margin, at 31 May 2016 was £786.7 million (2015: £724.0 
million). This includes the liquid assets buffer, which consists of £80.6 million of UK 
government securities held, as required by the FCA as part of the ILAA process, to 
provide a safeguard in times of stress.
 ❚ Our unsecured banking facilities amount to £160.0 million (2015: £200.0 million) at 
year-end. This was reduced from £200.0 million in July 2015 following an internal 
review of the Group’s required facility levels. In times of extreme market volatility we 
have drawn down the facility as a precautionary measure.
ADDRESS OUR 
CLIENTS’ NEEDS OVER 
THEIR LIFE CYCLE, BE 
THEY ACTIVE TRADERS 
OR SOPHISTICATED 
INVESTORS
ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN 
OR EXTEND MARKET 
LEADERSHIP IN 
OUR CHOSEN 
INVESTMENT NICHE
STRENGTHEN 
GLOBAL REACH
DELIVER QUALITY  
SERVICES TO OUR  
CLIENTS 
SUSTAIN 
TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP
49
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT KEY RISK MITIGATING ACTIONS LINK TO 
STRATEGY 
CHANGE FROM 
LAST YEAR
COMMENTARY
CONDUCT RISK
This is the risk that the Group’s conduct 
poses to the achievement of fair 
outcomes for consumers or to the 
sound, stable, resilient and transparent 
operation of the financial markets.
 ❚ Our Group conduct risk strategy puts consumer and market outcomes at the heart of 
the business. All client calls are recorded and our compliance team monitor these on a 
regular basis.
 ❚ Training is being rolled out to fully embed the conduct risk strategy into the current 
business practices and culture of the Group.
 ❚ We evaluate suitability and only offer access to products where knowledge and wealth 
considerations have been evaluated.
    ❚ IG has a very low tolerance for poor customer outcomes and therefore we are 
committed to investing in process, training and culture to mitigate the risks. Where 
our monitoring system detects an unfair outcome, we will act swiftly to remedy and 
prevent reccurrence.
REPUTATIONAL RISK
This is the risk of damage to the 
perception of the Group by public 
opinion, its customers, investors or any 
other interested party.
 ❚ We actively monitor steps and changes being made by regulators and the industry ensuring 
that the Group remains compliant. This includes ongoing training for all employees.
 ❚ We have a dedicated investor relation team dealing with shareholders, journalists and 
the members of the public on all matters that may affect the reputation of the Group.
 ❚ We continue to embed a culture and tone from the top of doing the right thing for our 
clients, our staff and our industry.
    ❚ Given the diversity of sources from which it can arise, the Group’s objective is to 
identify these risks and ensure they are duly attended to so that their probability is 
reduced and the eventual impact is mitigated.
 ❚ The Group had no significant operational losses within the year.
PEOPLE RISK
This is the risk that the Group has 
an incorrect level and mix of people 
to execute its business strategy, 
combined with the inability to attract, 
develop, motivate and retain talented 
employees. 
 ❚ We regularly review the Group’s resource requirements, talent mapping and succession 
planning including the most appropriate locations to deploy our staff.
 ❚ We operate a remuneration system which is linked to revenue performance and a bi-annual 
appraisal system to provide regular assessment of individual performance and identification 
of training and development needs.
 ❚ Benchmarking of remuneration packages of all employees is undertaken annually.
 ❚ The Group invites all employees to participate in the annual employee survey to gauge 
employees’ satisfaction and feedback on improvements.
 ❚ We continue to invest in the development of our people with tailored training to meet 
their needs.
    ❚ The departure of previous CEO & CFO has resulted in the change of key-personnel 
within the business, but the swift appointment of a new internally experienced CEO 
and a newly appointed CFO has helped to reduce this risk.
 ❚ The responses from employees following the recent annual employee survey shows 
that flexible working and flexible benefits are highly rated. As a result, the Group 
is addressing these issues through a new flexible benefits scheme.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
50 KEY RISK MITIGATING ACTIONS LINK TO 
STRATEGY 
CHANGE FROM 
LAST YEAR
COMMENTARY
CONDUCT RISK
This is the risk that the Group’s conduct 
poses to the achievement of fair 
outcomes for consumers or to the 
sound, stable, resilient and transparent 
operation of the financial markets.
 ❚ Our Group conduct risk strategy puts consumer and market outcomes at the heart of 
the business. All client calls are recorded and our compliance team monitor these on a 
regular basis.
 ❚ Training is being rolled out to fully embed the conduct risk strategy into the current 
business practices and culture of the Group.
 ❚ We evaluate suitability and only offer access to products where knowledge and wealth 
considerations have been evaluated.
    ❚ IG has a very low tolerance for poor customer outcomes and therefore we are 
committed to investing in process, training and culture to mitigate the risks. Where 
our monitoring system detects an unfair outcome, we will act swiftly to remedy and 
prevent reccurrence.
REPUTATIONAL RISK
This is the risk of damage to the 
perception of the Group by public 
opinion, its customers, investors or any 
other interested party.
 ❚ We actively monitor steps and changes being made by regulators and the industry ensuring 
that the Group remains compliant. This includes ongoing training for all employees.
 ❚ We have a dedicated investor relation team dealing with shareholders, journalists and 
the members of the public on all matters that may affect the reputation of the Group.
 ❚ We continue to embed a culture and tone from the top of doing the right thing for our 
clients, our staff and our industry.
    ❚ Given the diversity of sources from which it can arise, the Group’s objective is to 
identify these risks and ensure they are duly attended to so that their probability is 
reduced and the eventual impact is mitigated.
 ❚ The Group had no significant operational losses within the year.
PEOPLE RISK
This is the risk that the Group has 
an incorrect level and mix of people 
to execute its business strategy, 
combined with the inability to attract, 
develop, motivate and retain talented 
employees. 
 ❚ We regularly review the Group’s resource requirements, talent mapping and succession 
planning including the most appropriate locations to deploy our staff.
 ❚ We operate a remuneration system which is linked to revenue performance and a bi-annual 
appraisal system to provide regular assessment of individual performance and identification 
of training and development needs.
 ❚ Benchmarking of remuneration packages of all employees is undertaken annually.
 ❚ The Group invites all employees to participate in the annual employee survey to gauge 
employees’ satisfaction and feedback on improvements.
 ❚ We continue to invest in the development of our people with tailored training to meet 
their needs.
    ❚ The departure of previous CEO & CFO has resulted in the change of key-personnel 
within the business, but the swift appointment of a new internally experienced CEO 
and a newly appointed CFO has helped to reduce this risk.
 ❚ The responses from employees following the recent annual employee survey shows 
that flexible working and flexible benefits are highly rated. As a result, the Group 
is addressing these issues through a new flexible benefits scheme.
ADDRESS OUR 
CLIENTS’ NEEDS OVER 
THEIR LIFE CYCLE, BE 
THEY ACTIVE TRADERS 
OR SOPHISTICATED 
INVESTORS
ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN 
OR EXTEND MARKET 
LEADERSHIP IN 
OUR CHOSEN 
INVESTMENT NICHE
STRENGTHEN 
GLOBAL REACH
DELIVER QUALITY  
SERVICES TO OUR  
CLIENTS 
SUSTAIN 
TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP
51
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CHANGE AND IMPACT ON GROUP IMPACT 
LEVEL 
STATUS AND 
MITIGATING 
ACTIONS 
UK/EU Referendum – a change to the UK’s membership in the European 
Union: The Group’s business in continental Europe is offered pursuant to the EU 
passporting regime for financial services. On 23 June 2016, the UK elected for the 
UK to leave the European Union. Any change to the UK’s membership status of the 
European Union could have an impact on how the Group is able to operate in the 
European Union.
HIGH
We expect there to be 
a period before any 
changes are effective, that 
will allow for alternative 
options to be considered 
and implemented. We 
continue to monitor 
developments carefully.
ESMA committee on speculative products: A committee of the European regulator 
ESMA (European Securities and Markets Authority) has been established to consider 
the marketing and selling of speculative products (CFDs, forex and binaries) to retail 
clients across the European Union under MiFID (Markets in Financial Instruments 
Directive). The intention of the committee is to ensure that there is regulatory 
convergence across the European Union. Guidelines on the marketing and selling of 
speculative products have been issued and we expect further clarifying practices to 
be issued. We do not consider that our interpretation of MiFID and its requirements 
is materially different to ESMA’s interpretation. However, any material change in 
interpretation or the introduction of any new requirements by ESMA in relation to how 
our industry should market or sell its products across the European Union may have a 
material impact on our European business.
MEDIUM
We have expended 
significant efforts 
throughout the year to 
understand the many 
stakeholders’ interests. 
We continue to monitor 
developments carefully.
French marketing restrictions and Belgian marketing and product restrictions: 
In France, there are proposed measures that would restrict the ability for our products 
to be advertised electronically to retail clients. A proposed law has been submitted 
for consideration and the impact will depend on whether the measures are introduced 
and, if so, the form in which they are introduced.
In Belgium, a regulation has been passed, but is yet to be approved, restricting 
the types of products that can be offered to retail clients and marketing practices 
in relation to those products. We believe the proposed restrictions are aimed at 
providers with a presence in Belgium and therefore will not impact our business.
MEDIUM
We have expended 
significant efforts 
throughout the year to 
understand the many 
stakeholders’ interests. 
We continue to monitor 
developments carefully.
Financial Transactions Tax (FTT) in the European Union: The Enhanced Cooperation 
FTT effort, involving 10 of the 28 member states, has continued this year. It remains 
unclear what the ultimate outcome of the Enhanced Cooperation FTT will be. Progress 
to this point has been extremely slow. There remains the political will within a group 
of member states for the introduction of an Enhanced Cooperation FTT, although this 
group has decreased in number since last year. The lack of detail makes the potential 
impact on our revenue from Europe difficult to assess.
MEDIUM
We continue to monitor 
developments carefully.
Markets in Financial Instruments II Directive (MiFID II): The MiFID II dossier has 
continued to develop this year. The MiFID II and Markets in Financial Investments 
Regulation (MiFIR) Level One texts have been adopted and the majority of the 
detailed Level Two texts will be finalised shortly. The application of MiFID II will be 
delayed by one year from January 2017 to January 2018. MiFID II provides new 
powers to regulators to intervene in certain circumstances and prohibit or restrict the 
marketing, distribution or sale of financial products. The exercise of these powers in 
relation to our products by a regulator would have a negative impact on our business. 
Other than the potential exercise of these powers, we remain of the view that MiFID II 
is unlikely to pose a threat to our UK and European businesses.
MEDIUM
We continue to monitor 
MiFID II carefully 
and to take part in 
industry consultations 
where appropriate.
REGULATORY CHANGE RISKS
As the regulatory environment continues to evolve, there are a number of events, policy initiatives and proposals in development that 
may impact or have already impacted our sector as described below.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
52 CHANGE AND IMPACT ON GROUP IMPACT 
LEVEL 
STATUS AND 
MITIGATING 
ACTIONS 
European Markets Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR): The main impact of this 
legislation on our business is increased reporting requirements to trade repositories. In 
the medium-to-longer term the risk mitigation measures for over the counter trading 
will increase slightly IG’s margin requirements with some of our hedging brokers.
LOW
The remaining rules are 
close to being finalised. 
The risk mitigation 
measures are not 
expected to impact us 
until September 2020.
Packaged Retail and Insurance Based Investments Products Regulation (PRIIPS): 
This will impose an obligation on us from January 2017 to provide our UK and 
European clients with information about our products in a standardised form. We do 
not anticipate this having a negative impact on our business.
LOW
We are putting together a 
Key Investor Information 
Document (“KIID”) which 
will be provided to UK 
and European clients from 
January 2017.
Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV) and Capital Requirements Regulation 
(CRR): The European Union began implementing these rules from 1 January 2014 and 
further requirements are to be introduced in the coming years. The most significant 
changes for IG relate to changes in capital requirements and liquidity requirements 
that are being phased in. There are also new corporate governance and remuneration 
obligations that are not expected to have a significant impact. 
LOW
We have modelled 
the impact of these 
changes through to 
full implementation of 
requirements in 2020 
and do not expect 
any significant impact 
to our capital or 
liquidity positions.
Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) regulatory framework for margined 
derivatives: As previously reported, in 2013 the MAS confirmed that it would push 
forward with its proposal to increase margin requirements for non-accredited investors 
on a forex trade from 2% to 5%, thereby reducing leverage from 50 times to 20 
times. Although these rules have not yet been introduced, we consider there is a 
good possibility they will be introduced in the future. If introduced, it is intended that 
the rules will not apply to accredited investors, defined by virtue of their wealth or 
income level.
LOW
We believe that the 
majority of IG’s revenue 
currently comes from 
clients who would qualify 
for accredited investor 
status. In addition, the 
use of guaranteed stops 
enables clients to further 
manage leverage levels.
Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS): The Organisation for Economic 
Cooperation and Development (OECD) has developed proposals to address 
perceived international tax avoidance by high profile multinationals. The final 
proposals for each focus area of the BEPS action plan have been agreed. Countries 
will now implement the proposals and have agreed to continue work on BEPS until 
2020. None of the action plans are expected to significantly impact the Group’s 
tax profile.
LOW
We will continue to 
monitor the impact of 
the implementation 
of the BEPS proposals 
in countries where 
we operate.
53
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT VIABILITY STATEMENT 
The Group believes it adequately manages and mitigates its 
principal risks through the arrangements described above. In 
addition, there are further relevant Group business planning and 
review processes that we operate. 
Business planning process
The Group’s formalised forecasting and planning cycle consists 
of a strategic plan, an annual budget for the current year and 
financial projections for a further two years. The three year 
forecasting period ending 31 May 2019 is the length of time over 
which the Board strategically assesses the business; the period of 
time the Board would typically look to payback of investments; 
and is the period over which the Group reviews its regulatory 
capital requirements.
The first year of the planning period has a greater degree of 
certainty and is, therefore, used to set detailed financial targets 
across the Group – it is also used by the Remuneration Committee 
to set targets for the annual incentive scheme. 
The three-year period provides less certainty of outcome, but 
provides a robust planning tool against which strategic decisions 
can be made and addresses the requirements for the ICAAP 
evaluation and reporting. These forecasts are also considered 
when setting targets for the executive and senior management 
share plans.
The key assumption underpinning the forecasts is the ongoing 
supportive regulatory environment in which the Group operates.
Stress testing
The Group undertakes stress testing to provide the Board with a 
robust assessment of the potential consequences of principal risks 
facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency and liquidity. 
The types of scenarios used include the collapse of a major 
financial services firm; major currency appreciation; cyber-attacks; 
and the loss of regulatory licences. Additionally, the Group has 
undertaken reverse stress testing to understand what scenarios 
break the business model. With appropriate management actions, 
the Group was resilient to all severe, but plausible, scenarios. 
Statement
Overall the Directors consider the Group is well placed to manage 
its business risks successfully, having taken into account the current 
economic outlook, the consequences of principal risks facing the 
business in severe but plausible scenarios, and the effectiveness of 
any mitigating actions. 
On the basis of these and other matters considered and reviewed 
by the Board during the year, the Directors have reasonable 
expectations that the Group will be able to continue in operation 
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period 
ending 31 May 2019.
The Directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the 
financial statements on the going concern basis as explained in 
note 40 to the accounts.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTENTS
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 56
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 57
Statement of Compliance 57
THE BOARD 58
Leadership 60
Effectiveness 63
Accountability 66
Remuneration 66
Engagement with shareholders 67
NOMINATION COMMITTEE 68
Chairman’s overview 68
Membership and attendance 68
Role of the Nomination Committee 68
Main activities during the financial year 68
Committee evaluation 69
Diversity statement 69
Committee allocation of time 69
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT 70
Chairman’s overview 70
Director’s remuneration policy 72
Annual report on remuneration (audited) 81
AUDIT COMMITTEE 90
Chairman’s overview 90
Role of the Audit Committee 90
Membership and attendance 91
Main activities during the financial year 91
Committee effectiveness 94
Committee allocation of time 94
BOARD RISK COMMITTEE 95
Chairman’s overview 95
Role of the Board Risk Committee 95
Membership and attendance 95
Main activities during the financial year 96
Committee allocation of time 97
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 98
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES 101
Responsibility statement 101
55
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The strength of the Board is enhanced by a strong relationship 
between the Chairman and CEO. Peter was appointed permanent 
CEO on 4 December 2015 following his period as Interim CEO 
and following a thorough search. We speak regularly outside of 
formal Board meetings and are developing a strong relationship 
which respects our complementary but different roles. After an 
extremely thorough search process for a permanent CFO, Paul 
Mainwaring joined the Group on 11 July 2016 as CFO designate, 
replacing Mark Ward as originally planned. Following regulatory 
approval, Paul takes up the role on a permanent basis and joins 
the Board. With Peter now established as CEO, in 2017 we will 
focus on executive level succession planning throughout IG. 
Further details of changes to the Board can be found in the 
Nomination Committee section on pages 68 to 69.
As Chairman, my primary role is to provide leadership of the 
Board and to ensure its effectiveness on all aspects of its role. 
This year, given the significant amount of change at Board level 
we once again undertook a questionnaire-based independent 
external evaluation of the Board and its Committees. Directors 
were encouraged to seek meetings with the external provider 
on any matter of specific concern. No such meetings were 
requested. In summary, the review concluded that the Board and 
its Committees continue to operate effectively. More information 
on the evaluation process and its findings can be found on pages 
65 to 66. 
No board can operate effectively or efficiently without a cohesive 
strategy. The executive management and the Board substantially 
improved our strategy process in 2016, which in turn improved 
the quality of the debate. We will continue to build on these 
improvements, including changing the timetable of our strategy 
discussions to better support our business planning and risk 
management processes.
The Board supported the introduction of a comprehensive 
programme to improve the quality of papers and management 
information used at Board meetings. In 2017 we will bed in these 
improvements and refine them further to support continued 
improvement in the quality of debate and decision making.
The way the Group has applied all aspects of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code is set out in the following Corporate 
Governance Report.
Our results are all the more creditable against a background of a significant amount of 
change at Board level and would not have been possible without Peter’s strong leadership, 
the support and dedication of all staff and an enduring governance culture which puts high 
ethical standards and fair client outcomes at the heart of all we do. 
CHAIRMAN’S INTRODUCTION TO 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Andy Green
Chairman
In his first year-end Chief Executive’s statement, Peter 
Hetherington reported on another strong set of results and the 
drive to generate continuous improvement and value from our 
existing business. 
The Board of Directors is committed to maintaining the highest 
standards in the way the Company is directed, governed and 
managed. We believe that good quality governance underpins 
IG’s ability to deliver sustainable future growth and long-term 
value creation for shareholders.
I would like to thank Board colleagues for their continued 
support in ensuring timely, robust and constructive challenge 
and debate around the Board table. Both June Felix, appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director on 4 September 2015 and 
Malcolm Le May who was appointed on 10 September 2015 
as a Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and Senior Independent Director, have brought fresh 
perspectives to the already diverse range of thought, skills and 
experience present on the Board. 
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
56 STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE
The UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’) sets out the standards of good practice in relation to how a company should be 
directed and governed. As we have a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Company reports in accordance with the 
Code published in September 2014. The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) and further information can be 
found on its website at frc.org.uk.
The Board considers that the Company has been compliant with its provisions for the year ended 31 May 2016.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
ICAAP and ILAA 
Committee
Executive Risk 
Committee
Executive
Committee
Client Money 
Committee
Senior  
management  
team
Five independent Non-Executive Directors (NEDs), Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Non-Executive Chairman
THE BOARD
SHAREHOLDERS
INDEPENDENT
EXTERNAL 
AUDITORS
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
BOARD COMMITTEES MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES
Elect the Board
Appoint the 
auditors
Board Risk 
Committee
(Four independent  
NEDs)
Nomination
Committee
(Five independent NEDs
and 
Non-Executive Chairman)
Remuneration 
Committee
(Three independent 
NEDs and Non-Executive 
Chairman)
Audit 
Committee
(Three independent  
NEDs)
OVERVIEW OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
57
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Andy has in-depth board experience and 
knowledge of major listed companies, having 
served as Group Chief Executive of Logica 
plc and having held board roles in BT Group 
including the role of CEO of Group Strategy 
and Operations. He was also a board member 
of the CBI. Andy’s other current roles enable 
him to bring to the Board a wide perspective on 
technology and digital development.
Other current appointments: 
Andy is the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director of ARM Holdings plc and Avanti 
Communications Group plc. He holds a number 
of other roles, including chairing DockOn AG 
and Digital Catapult. He is a trustee of Abesu Ltd 
and Tech Partnership Limited, President of 
UK Space and co-chairman of the Space 
Leadership Council.
Committee membership:
 ❚ Nomination Committee (Chair) 
 ❚ Remuneration Committee
THE BOARD
The Board is responsible for promoting and ensuring the long-term success of the 
Group through the creation and delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
Peter was an officer in the Royal Navy prior to 
joining IG Group as a graduate trainee in 1994. 
In 1999, he became Head of Financial Dealing, 
and in 2003, he joined the Board following 
his appointment as Chief Operating Officer. 
Within that role, Peter was responsible for IT 
as the company principally became an online 
business. His role developed to encompass the 
leadership of the sales and marketing functions. 
He was appointed Interim Chief Executive 
Officer in October 2015 and Chief Executive 
Officer in December 2015. Peter graduated 
from Nottingham University with a degree in 
economics, and from the London Business School 
with a masters in finance. Peter’s considerable 
experience, built over 20 years in the business, is 
invaluable in his role as Chief Executive Officer. 
Other current appointments: 
None
Committee membership:
None
Malcolm served as Senior Independent Director 
of Pendragon plc and was a Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of the Investment 
Committee at RSA Insurance Group plc. Prior 
to this, he held various executive roles at 
Morgan Grenfell plc, Drexel Burnham Lambert, 
Barclays de Zoete Wedd Holdings, UBS AG, 
ING Barings Ltd, Morley Fund Managers (now 
Aviva Investors), JER Partners Ltd where he 
was European President and Matrix Securities 
Limited. Malcolm’s broad experience and 
knowledge of the financial services and 
investment sectors, along with his extensive 
experience on the boards of publicly listed 
companies, is of immense value as the Company 
continues to deliver on its strategic initiatives.
Other current appointments:
Malcolm is the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee at Provident Financial 
plc and a Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee of Hastings 
Group Holdings plc. He is a partner at Opus 
Corporate Finance LLP and holds advisory roles 
at Juno Capital LLP and Heidrick & Struggles.
Committee membership:
 ❚ Audit Committee 
 ❚ Remuneration Committee (Chair) 
 ❚ Nomination Committee
Andy Green
Chairman
Appointed: 
9 June 2014 (Deputy Chairman) 
16 October 2014 (Chairman)
Peter Hetherington
Chief Executive Officer
Appointed: 
25 February 2003 (Chief Operating Officer) 
4 December 2015 (Chief Executive Officer)
Malcolm Le May
Senior Independent 
Non‑Executive Director
Appointed: 
10 September 2015
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
58 June has held various executive 
management positions at a 
number of large multi-national 
businesses, including Citibank 
where she was managing director 
of global healthcare, Citi Enterprise 
Payments and IBM Corporation, 
where she led their global Banking 
and Financial Markets business. 
She began her career at P&G in 
brand management marketing. 
June brings to the Board significant 
international experience and 
knowledge of the digital sector 
as well as experience in product 
innovation and delivery.
Other current appointments:
June is the president of Verifone, 
Europe and Russia, with 
responsibility for the operation of 
the Verifone business throughout 
Europe and Russia.
Committee membership: 
 ❚ Nomination Committee
 ❚ Board Risk Committee
Stephen brings significant and 
extensive board experience having 
previously served as the CEO of 
Betfair plc and holding managerial 
roles at Pearson plc, including 
the role of CEO of the Financial 
Times Group. He was Chairman 
of Interactive Data Corporation 
in the US as well as a member of 
the boards for Royal Sun Alliance 
Insurance Group plc, Psion 
plc, Channel 4 and Ofcom.
Other current appointments:
Stephen is Trustee and Chairman 
of the Royal National Institute for 
Deaf People – Action on Hearing 
Loss. He is also a member of the 
Advisory Board of the Cambridge 
Judge Business School and 
a Non-Executive Director of 
Applerigg Limited and Aztec 
Limited, a fund administration 
business. He was appointed 
Chairman of the Alzheimer’s Society 
effective 6 September 2016. 
Committee membership: 
 ❚ Board Risk Committee (Chair)
 ❚ Remuneration Committee 
 ❚ Nomination Committee  
A qualified Chartered Accountant, 
Jim was Finance Director for 
Resolution plc, having joined 
the company as Group Financial 
Controller. Jim spent ten years 
at Aviva, where he was Group 
Integration Director for the CGU/
Norwich Union merger and 
Finance Director of Norwich Union 
Life, Aviva’s UK life insurance 
business. He was formerly the 
Corporate Development Director 
for Friends Life Group, where his 
responsibilities included overseeing 
the final separation and integration 
of the UK life business acquired 
by Resolution plc, as well as the 
delivery of the overall group change 
portfolio and strategic corporate 
development. His in-depth 
knowledge and experience of the 
financial services sector, as well as 
his considerable experience both as 
a CFO and in the implementation 
of transformation programmes, is 
proving of considerable benefit to 
the Board. 
Other current appointments: 
None
Committee membership: 
 ❚ Audit Committee (Chair)
 ❚ Board Risk Committee
 ❚ Remuneration Committee 
 ❚ Nomination Committee
Sam began her career at the 
London Stock Exchange’s 
Surveillance Division, which over 
time became the Securities and 
Futures Authority and eventually 
the Financial Services Authority. 
During that time she held a range 
of supervisory roles and worked 
for two years in the Investigations 
and Enforcement Division. As a 
supervisor, she ran departments 
overseeing global investment 
firms, retail and investment banks 
and major insurance groups. 
Sam’s extensive experience in the 
regulatory field and her knowledge 
of compliance matters provide the 
Board with considerable insight into 
regulatory expectations.
Other current appointments:
Sam is a Managing Director at 
Promontory Financial Group, a 
leading strategy, risk management 
and regulatory compliance 
consulting firm, where she advises 
financial services businesses 
on a wide range of risk and 
regulatory matters.
Committee membership:
 ❚ Board Risk Committee
 ❚ Audit Committee
 ❚ Nomination Committee
Biographical details of Directors appointed following the date of this Annual Report can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
June Felix
Non‑ Executive Director 
Appointed: 
4 September 2015
Stephen Hill
Non‑ Executive Director 
Appointed: 
28 April 2011
Jim Newman
Non‑ Executive Director 
Appointed: 
1 October 2013
Sam Tymms 
Non‑ Executive Director 
Appointed: 
22 May 2013
59
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT LEADERSHIP
ROLE OF THE BOARD
The Board is collectively responsible for providing effective 
leadership to the Company by promoting and ensuring 
long-term success of the Group through the creation and delivery 
of sustainable shareholder value. It provides guidance and 
entrepreneurial leadership by setting the strategic direction of 
the Group and overseeing management’s implementation of the 
strategy within a framework of prudent and effective risk controls. 
The Board seeks to ensure that, while the ultimate focus is on 
long-term growth, management also delivers on short-term 
objectives and achieves the right balance between immediate and 
future goals. 
When setting the Group’s 
strategy and monitoring its 
implementation, the Board 
considers the impact its 
decisions may have on various 
stakeholders, such as suppliers, 
investors, employees and the 
environment as a whole. It is 
accountable for ensuring that, 
as a collective body, it has the 
appropriate skills, knowledge 
and experience to perform its 
role effectively.
The Board maintains and periodically reviews a list of matters 
that are reserved to, and can only be approved by the Board. 
These include setting Group strategy; approval of major 
acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure; approval 
of annual budgets; approval of changes to the Group’s capital 
structure including reduction of capital; approval of expansion 
plans into new business or geographies; reviewing operational 
and financial performance; appointment and termination of the 
Directors and Company Secretary; approval of policies related 
to Directors’ remuneration and severance of Directors’ contracts; 
ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and senior 
management; setting the risk appetite of the Group and approval 
of any changes to the Group’s risk management policy that 
materially increases the Group’s risk profile.
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board’s 
decision can be found on the Group’s website.
Specific matters have been delegated to Board Committees 
and each Committee has its own terms of reference, which are 
available on the Group’s website.
The matters that have not been specifically reserved for the 
Board Committees are delegated to the Executive Directors. 
These include the development, recommendation and 
implementation of the strategic plans for the Group; the 
development and implementation of the risk management 
systems, policies and procedure; the promotion of a good 
standard of corporate governance and shareholder engagement 
and monitoring the Group’s operating and financial results.
BOARD STRUCTURE
The Board is made up of the Chairman, Executive Directors, 
including the Chief Executive Officer, and independent 
Non-Executive Directors.
There is a division of responsibilities between the Chairman and 
the Chief Executive Officer.
Chairman
The Chairman, Andy Green, provides strong and effective 
leadership to the Board and ensures the Board is structured 
effectively. He sets the Board’s agenda, in consultation with 
the Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary, taking full 
account of Board members’ issues and concerns and the need to 
allow sufficient time for items on the agenda to be discussed. It 
is the Chairman’s responsibility to encourage and facilitate active 
engagement by Directors, drawing on their skills, knowledge and 
experience. The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring there is 
effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders, 
and that Directors are aware and maintain an understanding of 
their views. The Chairman works closely with the Chief Executive 
Officer, Peter Hetherington, to ensure that the strategies and 
actions agreed by the Board are effectively implemented.
Chief Executive Officer
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for recommending the 
Group’s strategy to the Board, implementing the agreed strategy 
and managing the day-to-day business of the Group. He leads, 
manages and develops the Group’s senior leadership team and 
ensures the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information. 
The Board has delegated this responsibility to him, and he is 
accountable to the Board. 
Executive Directors
The Executive Directors support the Chief Executive Officer 
in implementing the Group’s strategy and in the operational 
performance of the business.
Non-Executive Director
The Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and 
are considered by the Board to be free from any business or other 
relationships which could compromise their independence. Their 
role is to advise and constructively challenge management, along 
with monitoring management’s success in delivering the agreed 
strategy within the risk appetite and control framework set by 
the Board. They are also responsible for determining appropriate 
levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors.
THE BOARD CONTINUED
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
60 Senior Independent Director
Malcolm Le May is Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
and in this role he provides a sounding board for the Chairman 
and supports him in the delivery of his objectives. He serves as a 
trusted intermediary for the other Directors when necessary. He 
maintains an understanding of the major issues and concerns of 
major shareholders and informs the Board of these issues. The 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is also available to 
shareholders if they have concerns which communication via the 
normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other 
Executive Directors has failed to resolve, or when shareholders 
prefer to speak directly to him. He is responsible for evaluating the 
performance of the Chairman on behalf of the other Directors.
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary, Tony Lee, supports and works closely 
with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Board 
Committee Chairmen in setting agenda items for meetings of 
the Board and its Committees. He ensures that accurate, timely 
and high-quality information flows within the Board, the Board 
Committees and between Directors and senior management. In 
addition, he supports the Chairman in the designing and delivery 
of Director induction programmes. The Company Secretary 
also advises the Board on corporate governance issues and 
Board procedures.
HOW THE BOARD OPERATES
The Board meets regularly at least five times a year – and attends 
an additional off-site strategy day to review strategic options 
open to the Group in the context of the economic and regulatory 
environment. There were seven scheduled Board meetings this 
year, including the annual strategy day. 
The Board also meets when necessary to discuss important ad-hoc 
emerging issues that require consideration between scheduled 
Board meetings. Each Director committed an appropriate 
amount of time to their duties during the financial year, and the 
Non-Executive Directors met the time commitment specified in 
their letters of appointment. Where Directors are unable to attend 
meetings, they are encouraged to give the Chairman their views 
on the matters to be discussed. 
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet formally in the 
absence of the Executive Directors at least twice a year. There 
were three such meetings during the year.
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS
The number of full Board meetings attended by each Director 
during the year, including the Board strategy day, is set out below:
BOARD MEETINGS 
ELIGIBLE TO 
ATTEND
MEETINGS 
ATTENDED
CHAIRMAN
Andy Green 7 7
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
Stephen Hill
(1)
7 6
Roger Yates
(2)
2 1
Sam Tymms 7 7
Jim Newman 7 7
June Felix
(3)
6 6
Malcolm Le May
(4)
6 6
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS  
Tim Howkins
(5)
2 2
Christopher Hill
(6)
2 2
Peter Hetherington 7 7
(1) Stephen Hill did not attend one meeting due to illness.
(2) Roger Yates retired from the Board on 15 October 2015.
(3) June Felix was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 4 September 2015.
(4) Malcolm Le May was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 10 September 2015.
(5) Tim Howkins retired as the Chief Executive Officer on 15 October 2015.
(6) Christopher Hill resigned as the Chief Financial Officer on 30 October 2015.
BOARD ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR
The Board meeting agendas during the year included business 
across the key areas of strategy, governance, risk and financial 
performance, as highlighted in the following chart.
BOARD ALLOCATION OF TIME
QUARTERLY FORECAST AND 
BUDGET
STRATEGY
BUSINESS, OPERATIONAL 
HIGHLIGHTS AND CURRENT 
TRADING
RISK AND GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
OTHER
61
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD COMMITTEES
Certain governance responsibilities have been delegated by the Board to Board Committees to ensure that there is independent 
oversight of internal control and risk management and to assist the Board with carrying out its responsibilities. These Board Committees 
comprise independent Non-Executive Directors and, in some cases, the Chairman. Each Committee has agreed terms of reference 
approved by the Board, which are available on our corporate website, iggroup.com
A brief description of the roles of each Committee is set out below.
AUDIT 
COMMITTEE
BOARD RISK 
COMMITTEE
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
 ❚ Responsible for the integrity of 
the Financial Statements of the 
Group, including its Annual and 
Interim Reports
 ❚ Reviews and recommends to 
the Board the effectiveness 
of the Group’s Internal Audit 
function and risk management 
system, annual internal 
audit plan, appointment, 
re-appointment and removal of 
the external auditors
 ❚ Responsible for providing 
oversight and advice to the 
Board in relation to current 
and future risk exposures of 
the Group and promoting a 
risk awareness culture within 
the Group
 ❚ Recommends to the Board the 
design and implementation of 
risk management policy and 
measurement strategies across 
the Group, the Group’s risk 
profile, risk appetite and key risk 
indicators for the current and 
future strategy
 ❚ Responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board 
on the Group’s senior executive 
remuneration policy
 ❚ Reviews and recommends to the 
Board the Group’s remuneration 
policy which is consistent with 
effective risk management, the 
framework for the remuneration 
of the Company’s Chairman 
and Executive Directors 
and all share-based awards 
under the Group’s Employee 
Incentive Schemes
 ❚ Responsible for reviewing the 
composition of the Board and 
Board Committees to ensure 
that they are appropriately 
balanced in terms of knowledge, 
skills and experience
 ❚ Reviews and recommends to 
the Board appointments to 
the Board and to other senior 
management positions
THE BOARD CONTINUED
STRATEGY ❚ Reviewed and discussed the Group’s long-term strategy
 ❚ Discussed the strategic purpose of limited-risk accounts
 ❚ Analysed the health of the IG brand
 ❚ The Board engaged an external company Oliver Wyman to perform an 
analysis of the Group’s strategy in order to support the Board’s strategic 
decision-making process
 ❚ Evaluated the Company’s geographic strategy and options for proceeding with IG 
Investments and the portfolio-based investments offering
QUARTERLY FORECAST AND 
BUDGET
 ❚ The Board received updates as to how the business was tracking against 
budget. The Board was also alerted to material changes in budget assumptions
 ❚ Discussed the risks and opportunities for the FY16 Budget
 ❚ Reviewed and approved the budget for the next financial year
BUSINESS, OPERATIONAL 
HIGHLIGHTS AND 
CURRENT TRADING
 ❚ Regularly received updates on business progress and the issues and challenges 
faced by management
RISK AND GOVERNANCE ❚ Discussed IG’s risk management and internal control systems in accordance with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code
 ❚ Regularly received reports on key compliance issues identified during the year and 
any regulatory changes affecting IG
 ❚ Reviewed and approved the Individual Capacity Adequacy Assessment 
Process (ICAAP), the Individual Liquidity Adequuacy Assessment (ILAA) and 
the Group’s Recovery Plan prepared in line with the EU Business Recovery and 
Resolution Directive
 ❚ Received regular updates on developments in corporate governance
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ❚ Reviewed the financial performance of the Group and approved all financial 
results announcements, the Annual Report with the respective financial 
statements and dividends
 ❚ Reviewed a three-year forecast based on the existing core business
OTHER ❚ Undertook an external evaluation of its effectiveness and the effectiveness of each 
Board Committee and individual Directors
 ❚ Approved the appointments of new Non-Executive Directors, the Chief Executive 
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
62 The Chairman of each Board Committee reports to the Board on 
the matters discussed at Committee meetings. The minutes of 
each Committee meeting are made available to all Directors with 
the exception of Nomination Committee minutes which were not 
made available to Executive Directors during the CEO search. 
Reports from the Chairman of each Board Committee, including 
information on the Committee’s composition and activities in the 
year, can be found in the sections relating to each Committee 
within this Annual Report.
EFFECTIVENESS
BOARD COMPOSITION
The Board’s size and the skills and experience of its members, 
have a significant impact on its effectiveness. It aims to maintain 
a balance in terms of experience and skills of individual Board 
members. These factors are regularly reviewed to ensure that the 
Board has the right mix of skills and experience for constructive 
discussion and, ultimately, effective Board decisions. The breadth 
of skills and experience on the Board is set out below:
 ❚ Financial Services
 ❚ Finance and Accountancy
 ❚ Government and Regulatory
 ❚ Marketing
 ❚ PR
 ❚ Technology/Digital
 ❚ Chief Executive experience
There is an appropriate combination of Executive Directors and 
Non-Executive Directors such that no individual or small group of 
individuals can dominate the Board’s decision-making.
DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
The Company is, and following the appointment of the Chief 
Financial Officer, will continue to be fully compliant with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code, which requires that at least 
half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise 
Non-Executive Directors who are determined by the Board to be 
independent. 
The independence of the Non-Executive Directors is considered 
by the Board and reviewed on an annual basis, as part of the 
Board effectiveness review. The Board considers factors such 
as length of tenure and relationships or circumstances which 
are likely to affect or appear to affect the Director’s judgement 
in determining whether they remain independent. Following 
this year’s review, the Board concluded that all of the 
Non-Executive Directors continue to remain independent in 
character and judgement and are free from any business or 
other relationships which could materially affect the exercise of 
their judgement.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they 
may have interests that conflict with those of the Company, unless 
that conflict is first authorised by the Board. Directors are required 
to disclose both the nature and extent of any potential or actual 
conflicts with the interests of the Company. 
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company’s 
articles of association allow the Board to authorise potential 
conflicts that may arise, and to impose such conditions or 
limitations as it sees fit. During the year, potential conflicts 
were considered and assessed by the Board and approved 
where appropriate.
SUCCESSION PLANNING AND APPOINTMENTS TO 
THE BOARD 
The Board uses succession planning to ensure that Executives 
with the necessary skills, knowledge and expertise are in place to 
deliver our strategy, and that it has the right balance of individuals 
to be able to discharge its responsibilities. The Board regularly 
reviews its composition to keep it constantly refreshed. Any 
searches for Board candidates, and appointments made, are 
based on merit against objective criteria. 
The Nomination Committee has specific responsibility for the 
appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors and it 
recommends new appointments to the Board. It regularly reviews 
the structure, size and composition required of the Board and 
makes recommendation to the Board as appropriate. More 
information on the work of the Committee can be found in the 
report of the Nomination Committee on pages 68 to 69. The 
Board as a whole is also involved in overseeing the development 
of management resources across the Group. 
LENGTH OF TENURE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
0-3 YEARS
3-6 YEARS
3
3
63
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE BOARD CONTINUED
INDUCTION 
On appointment, each new Director receives a full and formal bespoke induction to familiarise them with their duties and the Company’s 
business operations, risk and governance arrangements. The induction programme, which is coordinated by the Company Secretary, 
includes briefings on regulatory matters relating to the Company, as well as meetings with senior management in key areas of the 
business, such as compliance, legal, IT, human resources, finance, risk, marketing and investor relations. These are supplemented by 
induction materials such as recent Board papers and minutes, organisation structure charts, history of the Group, industry and regulatory 
reports and relevant company policies. Newly appointed Directors also meet the company’s external auditors and attend a presentation 
led by Linklaters on the roles and responsibilities of a UK-listed company director. 
Inductions are tailored to each Director’s individual experience, background and areas of focus. 
Non-Executive Directors Induction
Both Malcolm Le May and June Felix’s induction programme were comprehensive and covered among other things, the following:
COMPANY STRUCTURE, HISTORY, 
STRATEGY AND BUSINESS
 ❚ Briefing on Group history and management structure
 ❚ Group strategy including opportunities and threats
 ❚ Strategy and Business Model (including peer comparison and what could 
break the business)
 ❚ Material business lines and markets, including international markets
 ❚ Growth trajectory, strengths, challenges and future plans
GOVERNANCE AND REGULATORY ❚ Board and Board Committee Terms of Reference
 ❚ Board and Committee procedures
 ❚ Share dealing and market abuse responsibilities
 ❚ Listing obligation for directors
 ❚ Regulatory framework and proposals impacting the business
 ❚ Key responsibilities for regulated activities and financial crime issues 
and challenges
RISK MANAGEMENT, CAPITAL AND 
LIQUIDITY
 ❚ Market Risk, Credit Risk, Operational Risk, Remuneration Risks and other key 
risks and priorities
 ❚ Risk appetite and assessment of its effectiveness
 ❚ Key current aspects of the liquidity regime and regulatory expectations
 ❚ Stress testing including reverse stress testing for capital and liquidity
PRODUCTS, FINANCE, MARKETING 
AND SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
 ❚ IG’s various products and markets in which clients can trade
 ❚ Business plan, standalone and consolidated balance sheets, budgeting 
process and financial projections
 ❚ Overview of marketing plans and marketing budgets
 ❚ Overview of the share register and key institutional shareholders
IT, HR AND REMUNERATION ❚ Current and future strategic projects
 ❚ Key strategies to mitigate personnel risk and reduce staff turnover
 ❚ Remuneration strategy
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
64 ONGOING PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Given the rapidly changing environment in which the Group 
operates, all Directors are given regular updates on changes 
and developments in the business. The Company Secretary on 
a regular basis updates the Board on any relevant legislative, 
regulatory and governance changes. 
Training opportunities are provided through internal meetings, 
presentations and briefings by internal advisers, business heads as 
well as external advisers. During the year, the Directors attended 
briefing sessions on strategic foundations, the Group’s Investments 
Business Plan, cyber security, the EU Market Abuse Regulation and 
a briefing to further increase the Directors’ understanding of the 
Group’s business model.
The Directors also attended workshops on the Group’s stress 
testing exercises (i.e. testing whether the Group’s financial position 
and risk profile provide sufficient resilience to withstand the impact 
of severe economic stress) to gain a better insight into the risks 
and stress scenarios facing the Company.
The Chairman ensures that the Directors continually update and 
refresh their skills and knowledge, and independent professional 
advice is provided when required, at the Company’s expense. 
INFORMATION PROVIDED TO THE BOARD
The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to 
enable it to perform its duties effectively. The Company Secretary 
ensures appropriate and timely information flows within and to 
the Board and its Committees, enabling the Board to exercise its 
judgement and make fully informed decisions when discharging its 
duties. All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring 
that Board procedures are followed and compliance with applicable 
rules and regulations is observed. The Company Secretary supports 
the Chairman in setting the Board agenda, and Board papers are 
distributed to all Directors in advance of Board meetings via a 
secure electronic system. The Company Secretary is also responsible 
for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate 
governance matters. Directors receive financial and risk information 
on the company on a regular basis, and they receive briefings from 
the Chief Executive Officer in the periods between meetings.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that all directors 
of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by 
shareholders. Each Director and the Board as a whole underwent a 
performance evaluation during the course of the year. All Directors 
will stand for election or re-election at the AGM. 
BOARD EVALUATION
Each year, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board is 
conducted. In 2016, an external evaluation was carried out by 
Lintstock Limited as part of a three-year programme which began 
in 2015.
Lintstock has no other connection with the Company.
Following recent changes to the composition of the Board, 
and upon the recommendation of Lintstock, it was agreed that 
the 2016 evaluation would again be survey based. In addition, 
Directors were invited to seek meetings with Lintstock on any 
matter of specific concern. No such matters were raised or 
meetings sought.
As part of the review, consideration was given to areas identified 
following the 2015 review, where in-depth questions were 
provided on the succession planning process, time allocated to 
strategy and where it fits into the annual cycle and improvements 
in information provided to the Board.   
The first stage of the review involved Lintstock engaging 
with the Chairman and the Company Secretary to set the 
context for the evaluation, and to tailor the surveys used 
to the specific circumstances of IG Group while ensuring 
consistency of questioning to facilitate ongoing analysis of 
performance improvement.
The Board considered the focus of the review and, in addition to 
those areas identified in 2015, agreed to focus on how the Board 
Committees work with each other and the Board with a particular 
focus on the management of risk.
All Board members and the Company Secretary completed a 
web-based survey addressing the performance of the Board 
and its Committees, the Chairman and individual Director 
performance. The review addressed the following core areas of 
Board performance:
 ❚ The composition of the Board was assessed with the need to 
finalise the recruitment of the CFO highlighted
 ❚ The Board enjoyed a programme of continuing education 
through presentations and workshops held outside formal 
Board meetings. This programme would be enhanced during 
the 2017 financial year
 ❚ There had been improvements to Board agenda planning, time 
management at meetings, the quality of the papers provided 
and the interaction between Board Committees and the Board
 ❚ The evaluation of the approach to consideration of strategy 
and strategic priorities received detailed attention and 
comment. The Directors’ views as to the top strategic issues 
facing the Company were identified
 ❚ The level of the Board’s focus on risk was seen as appropriate 
and oversight of various specific aspects of risk received 
positive ratings
Lintstock subsequently produced a report of its findings that were 
discussed with the Chairman and provided to the Board. Overall, 
the results indicate that the Board is operating effectively with a 
number of areas reviewed and rated positively. 
During 2016, management and the Board undertook a thorough 
programme to improve the quality of Board papers and 
management information used at Board meetings. Significant 
progress was made on improving the consistency of papers 
provided. In 2017, we will refine and bed in these improvements 
to support continued improvement in the quality of debate and 
decision making.
With Peter Hetherington now established in his CEO role, we will 
be focusing on succession planning at executive level and 
throughout the business, including the induction of the new CFO.
Importantly, we continued to improve our strategy process in 2016 
and will build on that during the coming year. This will include 
changing the timetable of our strategy discussions to better 
drive our business planning and risk management processes 
while continuing to ensure that senior management provides 
active participation into Board discussions on strategy.
65
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Additional priorities for the Board in the coming year include:
 ❚ Further developing and embedding the Group’s 
people strategy
 ❚ Continuing to manage and enhance our understanding and 
management of cyber threats
 ❚ Ensuring that the Group’s risk timetable and various risk 
processes are driven holistically and reviewed in an efficient 
and timely manner
We will report on actions taken and progress made in next year’s 
Annual Report.
Led by Malcolm Le May, the Senior Independent Director, a review 
of the Chairman’s performance was carried out by the Board using 
a questionnaire completed by the Executive Directors and the 
Non-Executive Directors. The performance of the Chairman was 
discussed without the Chairman present. 
The evaluation of the performance and contribution of each 
Director was conducted with reference to a self-performance 
review questionnaire completed by each Director.
The reviews concluded that each Director continues to perform 
effectively and demonstrate commitment to the role.
TIME COMMITMENT
Following the Board evaluation process detailed above, the Board 
is satisfied that each of the Directors is able to allocate sufficient 
time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively. 
Externally, there has been no increase in the other significant 
commitments of the Chairman of the Company during the year 
which would impact the time he has to fulfil the role.
ACCOUNTABILITY
FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING
The Strategic Report on pages 7 to 29 describes the business 
model and strategy whereby the Company generates and 
preserves value over the long-term and delivers the objectives of 
the Company.
A statement of the Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the 
Financial Statements is set out on page 101 and a statement 
regarding the use of the going-concern basis in preparing these 
Financial Statements is provided in the Directors’ report on 
page 100.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Group is exposed to a number of business risks in providing 
products and services to its clients. The Board is responsible for 
establishing the overall appetite for these risks, which is detailed 
and approved in the Risk Appetite Statement. The Board has 
responsibility for ensuring the maintenance of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control systems and for annually 
reviewing them.  
The framework under which risk is managed in the business is 
supported by a system of internal controls designed to embed 
the management of business risk throughout the Group. The 
risk management  and internal controls systems are designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Through reports from the Board Risk Committee and the Audit 
Committee, consideration of the ICAAP , ILAA and Recovery 
Plan, the Board regularly reviews and monitors the Group’s risk 
management and internal controls systems and principal risks 
faced by the Group via a three-line defence structure.
A robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group has 
been carried out, including those that would threaten its business 
model, future performance, solvency and liquidity. We outline 
the risks to which the Group is exposed and our framework under 
which risk is managed, including a description of its system of 
internal controls, in the ‘Managing Our Risks’ section on pages 44 
to 54.
An annual formal review of the effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of risk management and internal controls has been 
carried out by the Board to support the statements included 
in the Annual Report and Accounts. The review focused upon 
the overall risk governance framework, the setting of IG’s risk 
appetite, the key risk assessment and monitoring activities across 
the firm, the processes and controls in place to manage risks 
and for escalating exceptions highlighted by risk management 
processes. No weaknesses or control failures significant to the 
Group were identified.
There are risk management and internal controls systems in place 
for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks facing 
the Group in accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management, 
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting 
published by the Financial Reporting Council.
Throughout the year and up to the date of this Report, the 
Group has operated a system of internal controls that provides 
reasonable assurance of effective operations covering all controls, 
including financial and operational controls and compliance with 
laws and regulations.
INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER 
FINANCIAL REPORTING
The Group’s financial reporting process has been designed to 
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of the 
financial reporting and preparation of financial statements, 
including consolidated financial statements, for external purposes 
in accordance with IFRS. The annual review of the effectiveness of 
the Group’s system of internal controls included reviews of systems 
and controls relating to the financial reporting process.
Internal controls over financial reporting include procedures and 
policies that:
 ❚ Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposals of 
the Group’s assets
 ❚ Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded 
as necessary to permit the preparation of Financial Statements 
and that receipts and expenditures are being made only 
in accordance with authorisations of management and 
respective Directors
 ❚ Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely 
detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposal of 
Group assets that could have a material effect on the Group’s 
Financial Statements
REMUNERATION
The responsibility for the determination of remuneration 
arrangements for the Chairman, and Executive Directors has been 
delegated to the Remuneration Committee. Information on the 
Remuneration Committee and the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
can be found on pages 70 to 89.
THE BOARD CONTINUED
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
66 ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good 
communication with the Company’s shareholders, and we have a 
comprehensive programme to facilitate this each year.
Our Annual Report is an important medium for communicating 
with shareholders setting out detailed reviews of the business and 
its future developments in the Chairman’s Statement, the Chief 
Executive Officer’s Review and the Strategic Report.
In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop 
an understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is 
regular dialogue with institutional investors and shareholders, 
presentations by management and Investor Roadshows around the 
time of the Group’s year-end and half-year results announcements. 
These are coordinated by our Investor Relations team. We 
make these presentations available in real-time on the Group’s 
website, which also provides a wide range of other information to 
shareholders and prospective shareholders. We also respond to 
ad-hoc requests from shareholders on a very regular basis.
Meetings with the Company’s largest institutional shareholders and 
market analysts are held to discuss governance, business strategy 
and financial performance by the Chairman and the Executive 
Directors. Non-Executive Directors are also available to meet and 
hear the views of the institutional shareholders when required.
Following all investor presentations and meetings, feedback 
is passed to the Board on any opinions or concerns expressed 
by shareholders. The Directors receive regular updates on 
shareholder views, roadshow feedback as well as analysts’ reports 
on market perception of the Group’s performance and strategy, 
and are made aware of the financial expectations of the Group 
from the outside market. The Board also receives an Investor 
Perception study to identify shareholders’ concerns and actions 
undertaken for its resolution. 
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 
are available to meet shareholders on request and ensure that 
the Board is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through 
other communication mechanisms. The Chairman and the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director provide feedback to the Board 
on any views or concerns expressed to them by shareholders.
AGM
The AGM provides the Board with the opportunity to 
communicate with private and institutional investors and we 
welcome and encourage their participation at the meeting. The 
Chairman aims to ensure that all the Directors, including the 
Chairmen of the Board Committees, are available at the AGM to 
answer questions. The 2015 AGM was a successful event attended 
by all the Directors. Roger Yates and Tim Howkins did not seek 
re-election and stepped down from the Board of the Company. 
All the proposed resolutions were passed with the percentage of 
votes in favour of each resolution ranging from 93.09% to 99.91%.
The 2016 AGM will be held on 21 September 2016. The Notice 
of the Meeting sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the 
meeting. A copy of the Notice is available on the Company’s 
website iggroup.com. We send the Annual Report and notice 
of the AGM to shareholders, or make them available on the 
Group’s website, at least 20 working days before the date of the 
meeting. The Notice of AGM sets out a clear explanation of each 
resolution to be proposed at the meeting. Shareholders have the 
opportunity to ask questions and, if they are unable to attend, can 
submit written queries in advance of the meeting. At the meeting, 
we will make available to shareholders full details of the proxy 
votes received on each resolution, and we will publish these on 
the Company’s website on the same day. 
67
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Andy Green
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
For the Company to achieve its objectives and long-term strategy, 
it is essential that the Board is progressively refreshed and 
well balanced in terms of structure, skill, experience, diversity 
and knowledge. The Nomination Committee is tasked with 
the responsibility for identifying and recommending suitable 
candidates for appointment to the Board to ensure that its 
composition in this regard meets the Company’s needs.
MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE
The Committee consists of independent Non-Executive Directors 
and meets as necessary to discuss appointments to the Board. The 
Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the Committee and 
the Company Secretary acts as the Secretary of the Committee. 
The Chief Executive Officer also attends, but is not involved in 
decisions relating to his own succession.
During the year the Committee met eight times to consider Board 
composition and succession planning.
  MEETINGS ELIGIBLE 
TO ATTEND
MEETINGS 
ATTENDED
Andy Green 9 9
Stephen Hill 9 9
Roger Yates
(1)
5 3
Sam Tymms
(2)
9 8
Jim Newman
(3)
9 8
June Felix
(4)
6 4
Malcolm Le May
(5)
6 6
(1) Roger Yates stepped down as a member of  the Committee from 15 October 2015.
(2) Sam Tymms was unable to attend one meeting called at short notice due to 
prior commitments.
(3) Jim Newman was unable to attend a meeting called at short notice due to 
prior commitments.
(4) June Felix joined the Committee on 25 September 2015. She was unable to attend 
two meetings called at short notice due to prior commitments.
(5) Malcolm Le May joined the Committee on 25 September 2015.
ROLE OF THE NOMINATION 
COMMITTEE
The principal role and responsibilities of the Committee include: 
 ❚ Reviewing the composition of the Board and Board 
Committees to ensure that they are appropriately balanced in 
terms of skills, knowledge diversity and experience
 ❚ Ensuring that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent 
procedure for the appointment of new Directors
 ❚ Identifying and nominating for approval by the Board, suitable 
candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise
 ❚ Ensuring that plans are in place for orderly succession, 
for appointments to the Board and to other senior 
management positions
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the 
Group’s website, iggroup.com.
MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE 
FINANCIAL YEAR
The Committee’s main focus has been on overseeing the selection 
process and appointment to the roles of Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer following the departure of Tim Howkins 
and Christopher Hill from the Board respectively.
In July 2015, we announced that Tim Howkins would be retiring 
from the Board as Chief Executive Officer at the Company’s AGM 
the following October. Peter Hetherington, the Chief Operating 
Officer, was appointed interim Chief Executive Officer and the 
Committee commenced the search for a permanent successor to 
Tim Howkins. Russell Reynolds, an executive search firm which has 
no other connection with the Company, was engaged following a 
selection process to assist with the search for a suitable candidate. 
The Committee agreed and prepared a candidate specification 
based on objective criteria, setting out the knowledge, skill, 
experience and attributes required. These include, among others: 
 ❚ Having the ability to lead the Group in meeting its strategic 
objectives and responding positively to the immediate and 
strategic challenges facing the Group and the industry
 ❚ A track record of guiding a business/division through periods 
of transformation to meet growth and diversification objectives
 ❚ A track record of increasing shareholder/stakeholder value from 
within a growth-oriented, highly competitive industry
 ❚ Having a strong business acumen and experience of an 
international consumer-focused online and mobile platform  
business model
From the candidate specification, a longlist of potential external 
and internal candidates was drawn up from which a shortlist was 
compiled. Candidates on the shortlist were interviewed by me, 
following which a proposal was made to the Committee on the 
candidates. Briefing reports on the shortlisted candidates were 
reviewed by the Committee and the candidates were interviewed 
by members of the Committee. 
After a series of interviews, extensive discussion and a thorough 
search process by the Committee, Peter Hetherington emerged as 
the preferred candidate and his appointment as Chief Executive 
Officer was recommended to the Board, with the appointment 
taking effect from 4 December 2015.
Andy Green, Chairman of the Nomination Committee, gives his review of the Committee’s 
activities during the financial year.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
68 During the year, the Committee also commenced the search 
for a new Chief Financial Officer. Spencer Stuart and Russell 
Reynolds, executive search firms, with no other connection to the 
Company, were engaged following a selection process to assist 
with the search of a suitable candidate. As with the search for a 
replacement Chief Executive Officer, a position and candidate 
specification was prepared, taking into account the desired skills, 
knowledge and experience required for the role. These include, 
among others:
 ❚ Having outstanding finance and leadership credentials 
gathered in a high-quality, regulated, financial services business
 ❚ Having proven operational/commercial and functional change 
management skills
 ❚ Having broad and relevant sector knowledge from retail 
financial services, asset management, insurance or the broker 
dealer sector
Following a number of interviews and extensive discussions, Paul 
Mainwaring was appointed as Chief Financial Officer designate on 
11 July 2016. Following regulatory approval Paul takes up the role 
on a permanent basis and joins the Board.
During the year, Roger Yates stepped down from the Board as 
Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and Malcolm Le May was appointed to the Board in 
September 2015 as his successor. For his appointment, the Board 
took into account his broad experience and knowledge of the 
financial services and investment sectors. 
Last year, we also reported that following a discussion around 
long-term Board composition and required skills, the Committee 
had commenced the search for a Non-Executive Director 
with digital experience. In September 2015, the Committee 
recommended to the Board the appointment of June Felix as 
a Non-Executive Director of the Company. June brings to the 
Board significant international experience and knowledge of the 
digital sector.
We reported on the search and selection process for both 
Malcolm and June’s positions in our 2015 Annual Report.
In addition to overseeing appointments to the Board, the 
Committee reviewed membership of the Board Committees. 
Following the Committee’s recommendation, and with the Board’s 
approval, June Felix and Malcolm Le May joined the Board Risk 
Committee and the Audit Committee respectively and also 
became members of the Nomination Committee. In addition, Jim 
Newman joined the Remuneration Committee in September 2015. 
COMMITTEE EVALUATION
During the year, an evaluation of the performance of the 
Committee and its members was undertaken in line with the 
Committee’s Terms of Reference. The evaluation process was 
externally facilitated by Lintstock Limited as part of the overall 
annual Board effectiveness review, details of which can be found 
on pages 65 to 66. The performance of the Committee was 
positively rated overall and the evaluation concluded that the 
Committee operates effectively. 
DIVERSITY STATEMENT
As a business, we are committed to maintaining a diverse 
workforce at all levels across the Company, and more information 
on how we do this can be found in the Our People section, 
starting on page 16. 
The Directors recognise the importance of gender diversity on 
the Board and understand the significant benefits that come with 
having a diverse Board. However, we believe that diversity is a 
wider issue and includes variations in experience, skills, personal 
attributes and background. Nonetheless, we set an aspirational 
target to achieve 25% female representation on the Board.
We will continue to appoint on merit, based on the skills and 
experience required for membership of our Board, while giving 
consideration to gender diversity when the Committee reviews 
the Board’s composition. For appointments to the Board, we use 
executive search firms who have signed up to the voluntary code 
of conduct setting out the key principles of best practice in the 
recruitment process. These principles include a recommendation 
that search firms should consider gender diversity and we insist 
on having both male and female candidates when drawing up 
longlists and shortlists of candidates.
COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME
BOARD COMPOSITION
SUCCESSION PLANNING
OTHER
Andy Green
Chairman, Nomination Committee
19 July
69
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Remuneration Committee’s objective is to ensure remuneration encourages, reinforces 
and rewards the delivery of shareholder value.
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 May 2016 comprising 
this statement, the Remuneration Policy Report and the Annual 
Report on Remuneration.
In this year’s report, we have sought to refine the disclosures. 
However, the overall structure of the executive remuneration 
package and the principles that underpin it remain unchanged. 
We continue to operate under the Directors’ Remuneration Policy 
that has been in place since June 2013 and which was approved 
in a binding vote by over 96% of our shareholders at the AGM 
in 2014.
There will be a single advisory vote at this year’s AGM with regards 
to this annual statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration 
that details both amounts paid in respect of the year ended 31 
May 2016 and the intended operation of the remuneration 
policy for the coming year. I hope you agree that how we have 
rewarded our Executives is commensurate with the Group’s 
performance and that you will support this year’s resolution at the 
forthcoming AGM.
THE BUSINESS CONTEXT IN 2016
As noted within the Operating and Financial Review section of the 
Annual Report on pages 36 to 41, the Group delivered another 
strong financial performance in 2016. Revenue increased by 
14% on 2015’s underlying results to £456.3 million, while diluted 
earnings per share (DEPS) increased by 8.5% against last year’s 
underlying results to 44.58 pence per share. 
Over the past year, IG has expanded its core leverage business 
seeing growth in all locations including Switzerland and Dubai, 
which have both delivered ahead of expectations. Our product 
offering has also seen growth: the share dealing platform 
continues to attract new customers supporting our overall 
strategy. We have also opened our Poland office as an IT and 
Operations hub.
INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR 2016
Since 2013, the Company’s Executive Directors have participated 
in a single incentive scheme, the sustained performance plan (SPP) 
which measures performance over annual and trailing three-year 
periods. This Plan replaced both the previous annual bonus and 
long-term incentive plans.
The year to 31 May 2016 is therefore the third year of the 
Executive’s variable remuneration being awarded under the plan. 
Similar to the prior years’ SPP , the 2016 award is driven by three 
metrics: diluted earnings per share (DEPS), total shareholders’ 
return (TSR) and non-financial metrics presented in more detail in 
the Remuneration Policy section on pages 83 to 84.
In respect of the strong annual and trailing three-year performance 
for the period ended 31 May 2016, the Committee has awarded 
90% of the maximum potential award under the SPP compared 
with 41% in the prior year.
The overall SPP outcome is higher than last year as a result of the 
strong performance in 2016 against all metrics. The results of 2015 
were negatively impacted by the Swiss franc event in January 2015 
on both the EPS and the non-financial performance measures.
Our remuneration report covers the remuneration of the 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors of IG Group Holdings 
plc (the Company and the Group) and is organised into the 
following main sections:
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW 70
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY 72
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 81
 Statement of implementation of remuneration policy 
in 2016 and Single Figure of Remuneration 81
Malcolm Le May
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
70 The Company has set out an extensive explanation of the 
judgements it has made in determining the above awards. 
This disclosure is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration 
on page 81.
MANAGEMENT CHANGES
After 16 years with the Company, Tim Howkins retired from his 
position as Chief Executive Officer with effect from 15 October 
2015. Tim received no payment in lieu of notice and was treated 
in line with our policy for retirees. Full details can be found on 
page 81.
Peter Hetherington was appointed Interim Chief Executive Officer 
from 15 October 2015. Subsequently, he was appointed Chief 
Executive Officer on 4 December 2015. Peter’s salary has been 
set at £575,000 and reflects the skills, knowledge and experience 
that Peter brings to the role and the increased complexity of the 
business as it has expanded its product offering in new territories. 
Having conducted a thorough search process, the Committee 
is comfortable that Peter’s salary reflects the normal market 
rate for the role. The Committee, as a secondary consideration, 
also conducted a benchmarking exercise looking at CEOs in 
companies of broadly similar scale and complexity. Having 
considered the result, the Committee is further reassured that the 
new salary reflects the market rate for this position in a company 
of this size and complexity.
Christopher Hill resigned from his position as Chief Financial 
Officer and served notice on 10 August 2015. Christopher 
continued his role and ceased to be a director on 30 October 
2015. Christopher was on gardening leave for the remainder of his 
six months notice period and received salary, pension and benefits 
during this time. Christopher’s outstanding share awards lapsed in 
line with our remuneration policy.  Further details can be found on 
page 82. 
Mark Ward was appointed Interim Chief Financial Officer on 15 
January 2016, although this was not in an executive capacity. 
Following the Board’s search for a permanent Chief Financial 
Officer, Paul Mainwaring was appointed as Chief Financial Officer 
designate. Following Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) approval, 
Paul takes up the role on a permanent basis and joins the Board.
Paul will receive a basic salary of £400,000. He will be eligible to 
participate in IG’s sustained performance plan details of which are 
set out on page 74. The maximum award will be four times base 
salary for ’stretch performance’ and an anticipated award of two 
times base salary at ’target performance’. Paul will also receive a 
pension and a benefits allowance totalling 17% of base salary.
 ❚   SCHEDULED 
MEETINGS ELIGIBLE 
TO ATTEND
SCHEDULED 
MEETINGS 
ATTENDED
Malcolm Le May
(1)
4 4
Roger Yates
(2)
3 2
Stephen Hill
(3)
6 5
Andy Green 6 6
Jim Newman
(4)
3 3
(1) Malcolm Le May joined the Committee on 10 September 2015.
(2) Roger Yates stepped down as Chairman of the Committee on 15 October 2015.
(3) Stephen Hill did not attend one meeting due to illness.
(4) Jim Newman joined the Committee on 25 September 2015.
COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME
POLICY REVIEW AND REGULATORY CHANGE
The current Remuneration Policy has a three-year life and a vote 
on a new or revised Remuneration Policy will be required at 
the 2017 AGM. Therefore, over the course of the next year the 
Committee will be reviewing the current remuneration structure 
and will consult with shareholders once that review has concluded. 
The Committee will continue to monitor and review potential 
legislative changes to remuneration regulations that could impact 
the current policy and it is prepared to act accordingly if such 
changes affect the Group.
IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY IN 2016/17
The Committee has determined that Peter’s base salary remains 
unchanged at the 1 June 2016 review date.
Starting 1 June 2016, we introduced flexible benefits for all 
employees in the UK. This provides a personal benefits pot, similar 
in value to the Group’s pension matching offering, which allows 
staff members to manage and decide whether to have this paid 
into their pension plan, used for other benefits or taken as cash. 
The impact on the Executive Directors pay-out will be minimal 
as the Company’s pension contribution will remain at 15% of 
salary and there will continue to be the opportunity to receive the 
pension contribution as a cash supplement. 
For 2017, the Committee will use the same SPP metrics described 
above, with the same weightings. Accordingly, annual DEPS will 
drive 45% of the maximum potential award, with relative TSR 
(measured over the trailing three years) and annual non-financial 
metrics accounting for 35% and 20% respectively.
In relation to the DEPS targets, as with past years, the Committee 
has used a set of internal and external reference points to set 
targets. The target range will be disclosed and explained in next 
year’s remuneration report.
I hope that you will support the advisory vote on the remuneration 
resolution at the AGM.
SALARY AND BONUS SCHEME 
ARRANGEMENTS
INCENTIVE AWARDS
REMUNERATION REGULATION
REMUNERATION REPORTING
REMUNERATION POLICY
OTHER
Malcolm Le May
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
19 July 2016
71
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
The Directors’ Remuneration Policy describes the framework, 
principles and structures that guide the Remuneration 
Committee’s decision-making process in the area of Executive 
Directors’ remuneration in line with the Committee’s objective to 
ensure that remuneration encourages, reinforces and rewards the 
growth of shareholders’ value.
The policy was unanimously approved at the 2014 Annual General 
Meeting and there is no vote on the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy at the 2016 Annual General Meeting as it is unchanged. 
The role of the Remuneration Committee and the objective of the 
remuneration policy are described below.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE’S ROLE
 ❚ Makes recommendations to the Board on the Group’s senior 
executive remuneration policy
 ❚ Determines an overall remuneration package for the Executive 
Directors in order to attract and retain high-quality Directors 
capable of achieving the Group’s objectives
 ❚ Sets and agrees with the Board a competitive and transparent 
remuneration framework which is aligned to the Group’s 
strategy and is in the interest of both the Company and 
its shareholders
 ❚ Determines the contractual terms, remuneration and other 
benefits for the Executive Directors
 ❚ Determines and reviews the Group’s remuneration policy, 
ensuring it is consistent with effective risk management across 
the Group, and considers the implications of this remuneration 
policy on risk
 ❚ Determines and agrees the policy for the remuneration of the 
Board Chairman and the Executive Directors
 ❚ Reviews pay, benefits and employment conditions and the 
remuneration trends across the Group
 ❚ Approves all share-based awards under the Group’s employee 
incentive schemes, to determine each year whether awards will 
be made and, if awards are made, to monitor their operation, 
the size of such awards and the performance targets to be used 
 ❚ Monitors regulatory developments, including those affecting 
UK-listed companies and financial services firms, to ensure the 
Company’s remuneration policy is consistent with these
 ❚ Establishes the selection criteria, appoints and sets the terms 
of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise 
the Committee
The Committee’s terms of reference can be found on our 
corporate website at iggroup.com.
PURPOSE AND LINK TO 
STRATEGY
OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE 
METRICS
RECOVERY OR 
WITHHOLDING
BASE SALARY
Provides a sound basis on which to 
recruit and retain key employees of 
appropriate calibre to deliver the 
strategic objectives of the Company.
Reflects the market value of the role 
and the postholder’s experience, 
competency and performance within 
the Company.
Base salaries are normally reviewed by the Committee annually, and are usually fixed for 12 
months commencing 1 June. Any salary increase may be influenced by:
 ❚ Scale, scope and responsibility of the role
 ❚ Experience of the individual and his or her performance
 ❚ Average change in wider workforce pay
 ❚ Business performance and prevailing market conditions
 ❚ Commercial need
 ❚ Periodic benchmarking of similar roles at comparable companies selected on the basis of 
comparable size, complexity, geographic spread and business focus
The general policy is to pay around mid-market levels, with annual increases typically in 
line with the wider workforce.
Increases beyond the percentage increases granted to the wider workforce may be 
awarded in exceptional circumstances, such as:
 ❚ Where there is a change in the individual’s responsibility
 ❚ Where the salary set at initial appointment was below the level expected once the 
individual gains further experience and a track record of performance in the role
An above-market positioning may be appropriate in exceptional circumstances, to 
reflect the criticality of the role and the individual’s experience and performance.
Base salary levels for the financial year ending 31 May 2017 are:
Chief Executive Officer – £575,000; Chief Financial Officer – £400,000
No performance 
metrics apply to 
base salary.
No recovery or 
withholding applies 
to base salary.
BENEFITS
Competitive, cost-effective 
benefits to help recruit and retain 
Executive Directors.
Benefits may include, for example, private medical insurance, discounted health club 
membership and life assurance.
Cash alternatives may be provided for any or all of these benefits, depending on 
individual circumstances.
Relocation and related benefits may be offered where a Director is required to relocate.
The aim is to provide market-competitive benefits, and their value may vary from year 
to year, depending on the cost to the Company from third-party providers.
Benefits constitute a small percentage of total remuneration.
No performance 
metrics apply to 
base salary.
No recovery or 
withholding applies 
to base salary.
PENSION
Market-competitive, cost-effective 
retirement benefits attract and retain 
Executive Directors.
The Group contributes to Executive Directors’ personal pension plans. Executives have the 
option to receive part, or all, of their pension contribution as a cash allowance in lieu of 
Company pension contributions.
The Company may contribute up to 15% of base salary to pension, an equivalent cash 
allowance in lieu, or a mixture of both.
No performance 
metrics apply to 
base salary.
No recovery or 
withholding applies 
to base salary.
KEY ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
72
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED OBJECTIVES OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY
The remuneration policy is set to ensure that remuneration has 
the ability to attract and retain senior executives of a high calibre, 
remains competitive and provides appropriate incentive for 
performance. 
The Committee has agreed that all matters relating to 
remuneration of Group employees should: 
 ❚ Align with the best interests of the Company’s shareholders 
and other stakeholders
 ❚ Recognise and reward good and excellent performance of 
employees that helps drive sustainable growth of the Group
 ❚ Focus on retaining high-performing senior management
 ❚ Be consistent with regulatory and corporate 
governance requirements
 ❚ Be designed to achieve effective risk management
 ❚ Be straightforward, easy for shareholders and employees to 
understand and easy for the Group to monitor
 ❚ Not be used to reward behaviour that inappropriately increases 
the Group’s exposure to risks
The Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy 
needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes 
in the Company’s business environment and in remuneration 
practice. There must be transparency and alignment to the 
delivery of strategic objectives at both a Company and an 
individual level. There must also be scope to reward for 
exceptional effort and achievement that delivers value both for 
the Company and the shareholders. Likewise, failure to achieve, 
individually or at Company level, will not be rewarded. 
The Committee is also mindful of ensuring that there is an 
appropriate balance between the level of risk and reward for the 
individual, the Company and for shareholders.
When setting levels of variable remuneration, the degree of 
stretch in performance conditions and the balance of equity 
and cash within a package, consideration is given to obtaining 
the appropriate balance of each so as not to encourage 
unnecessary risk-taking. As well as financial risk, the Committee 
also ensures that there is an appropriate focus on regulatory and 
governance matters.
The total remuneration package is structured so that a significant 
proportion is linked to performance conditions, and it is the 
Company’s policy to ensure that a high proportion of the potential 
remuneration package is provided via share-based instruments. 
This ensures that Executives have a strong ongoing alignment with 
shareholders through the Company’s share price performance. 
The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy 
for the Executive Directors, explaining how each element operates 
and how each part links to the corporate strategy.
PURPOSE AND LINK TO 
STRATEGY
OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE 
METRICS
RECOVERY OR 
WITHHOLDING
BASE SALARY
Provides a sound basis on which to 
recruit and retain key employees of 
appropriate calibre to deliver the 
strategic objectives of the Company.
Reflects the market value of the role 
and the postholder’s experience, 
competency and performance within 
the Company.
Base salaries are normally reviewed by the Committee annually, and are usually fixed for 12 
months commencing 1 June. Any salary increase may be influenced by:
 ❚ Scale, scope and responsibility of the role
 ❚ Experience of the individual and his or her performance
 ❚ Average change in wider workforce pay
 ❚ Business performance and prevailing market conditions
 ❚ Commercial need
 ❚ Periodic benchmarking of similar roles at comparable companies selected on the basis of 
comparable size, complexity, geographic spread and business focus
The general policy is to pay around mid-market levels, with annual increases typically in 
line with the wider workforce.
Increases beyond the percentage increases granted to the wider workforce may be 
awarded in exceptional circumstances, such as:
 ❚ Where there is a change in the individual’s responsibility
 ❚ Where the salary set at initial appointment was below the level expected once the 
individual gains further experience and a track record of performance in the role
An above-market positioning may be appropriate in exceptional circumstances, to 
reflect the criticality of the role and the individual’s experience and performance.
Base salary levels for the financial year ending 31 May 2017 are:
Chief Executive Officer – £575,000; Chief Financial Officer – £400,000
No performance 
metrics apply to 
base salary.
No recovery or 
withholding applies 
to base salary.
BENEFITS
Competitive, cost-effective 
benefits to help recruit and retain 
Executive Directors.
Benefits may include, for example, private medical insurance, discounted health club 
membership and life assurance.
Cash alternatives may be provided for any or all of these benefits, depending on 
individual circumstances.
Relocation and related benefits may be offered where a Director is required to relocate.
The aim is to provide market-competitive benefits, and their value may vary from year 
to year, depending on the cost to the Company from third-party providers.
Benefits constitute a small percentage of total remuneration.
No performance 
metrics apply to 
base salary.
No recovery or 
withholding applies 
to base salary.
PENSION
Market-competitive, cost-effective 
retirement benefits attract and retain 
Executive Directors.
The Group contributes to Executive Directors’ personal pension plans. Executives have the 
option to receive part, or all, of their pension contribution as a cash allowance in lieu of 
Company pension contributions.
The Company may contribute up to 15% of base salary to pension, an equivalent cash 
allowance in lieu, or a mixture of both.
No performance 
metrics apply to 
base salary.
No recovery or 
withholding applies 
to base salary.
73
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT PURPOSE AND LINK TO 
STRATEGY
OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS RECOVERY OR 
WITHHOLDING
ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES
     
All employees including Executive 
Directors are encouraged to 
become shareholders through the 
operation of an HMRC-approved 
Share Incentive Plan (SIP) and/
or such other all-employee share 
plans as the Company may adopt 
in the future.
The SIP is a flexible, tax-efficient, all-employee plan. Partnership, Free, Dividend and Matching 
shares may be granted under the SIP .
If other HMRC-approved all-employee plans are introduced, they will operate in accordance with 
HMRC guidance and limits.
Similar non-UK plans may be operated to enable non-UK employees and Directors to participate.
HMRC or non-UK 
plan equivalent limits 
will apply to any 
all-employee schemes 
that may be introduced.
This currently constitutes 
a small proportion of 
Executive Directors’ 
total remuneration.
No performance metrics apply to base salary. No recovery or 
withholding applies to 
base salary.
SHARE OWNERSHIP POLICY
     
This aligns the interests of 
management and shareholders and 
promotes a long-term approach to 
performance and risk management.
A share ownership policy was introduced from the financial year ended 31 May 2014.
Under this policy, the Chief Executive Officer is required to hold shares to the value of a minimum of 
200% of base salary, and for other Executive Directors a requirement of 100% of base salary applies.
Only shares owned outright by the Executive Director are included in the guideline, which must be 
achieved within five years of the introduction of the policy or, if later, from the date of appointment 
to the Board.
The Committee will review progress annually, with an expectation that Executive Directors will make 
progress towards achieving the shareholding policy each year.
SUSTAINED PERFORMANCE PLAN (SPP)
     
Approved by shareholders at the 
2013 AGM, the SPP provides 
a single incentive plan for 
Executive Directors rather than 
having separate annual and 
long-term plans.
It provides a simple and 
competitive incentive mechanism 
that encourages and rewards both 
annual and sustained long-term 
performance, linked to the 
Company’s strategic objectives.
The SPP encapsulates traditional 
annual bonus and long-term 
incentive plans. It is entirely 
share-based, encouraging 
executives to build up a 
substantial stake in the Company, 
thereby aligning the interests of 
management with shareholders.
We are initially operating the SPP by reference to five consecutive ‘plan years’. The first plan year 
was the financial year which ended 31 May 2014.
Awards of shares (either in the form of par value options, nil cost options or conditional awards), 
known as ‘plan contributions’ are made after the announcement of results relating to each plan year.
Plan contributions are granted by reference to achievement against applicable performance targets 
and accumulate within a participant’s ‘plan account’.
Each year, a percentage of the accumulated balance in the plan account vests (i.e. options or 
awards are released to participants).
Therefore, a participant’s plan account will comprise the sum of the plan contribution (if any) being 
made in relation to the relevant plan year plus the accumulated awards registered in the plan 
account from previous plan years.
In the first five plan years, a participant’s plan account vests as follows:
Following Financial year ending % of cumulative shares in plan account vesting
Plan year 1 31 May 2014 40.0%
Plan year 2 31 May 2015 40.0%
Plan year 3 31 May 2016 33.3%
Plan year 4 31 May 2017 33.3%
Plan year 5 31 May 2018 33.3%
If the SPP is closed following plan year 5, unvested awards remaining in the plan account will vest in 
tranches of 50%, 25% and 25% on the first, second and third anniversaries of the SPP’s closure. The 
same principles will apply on a later termination of the plan.
Participants may receive a payment at the time of delivery of vested shares of an amount equivalent 
to the dividends that would have been paid on those shares while in the plan account (adopting a 
first-in, first-out basis). This amount may assume dividend reinvestment. Dividends will not accrue on 
vested but unexercised awards.
The maximum plan 
contribution in respect 
of a plan year is an 
award of shares with 
a market value of no 
more than 500% of an 
executive’s annual rate 
of salary.
The quantum of any awards granted is dependent on performance against the 
targets set by the Committee for each relevant financial year.
Performance targets may comprise, for example, diluted earnings per share (DEPS) 
targets, Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and non-financial measures. Performance 
is measured over single plan years (financial years) except for TSR (from plan year 
2 – awards in respect of financial year ending 31 May 2015). We currently intend to 
apply the following performance criteria:
 ❚ DEPS – a sliding scale of targets will apply for each plan year. The targets 
will be set at the start of each plan year. Targets and performance will be 
disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant 
financial year-end.
 ❚ Relative TSR – the Company’s share price (plus dividends reinvested) 
performance is measured against an appropriate comparator group. For the first 
plan year, performance was based on that plan year alone; for the second plan 
year, performance was based on plan years 1 and 2. For plan years thereafter 
performance is measured over three plan years ending with the plan year being 
reported on. The Committee retains the discretion to scale back the level of 
award if it feels the Company’s underlying financial performance does not 
warrant the level of award resulting from TSR performance alone.
 ❚ Non-financial – these may comprise strategic goals, operational and client 
satisfaction measures for each plan year. Targets and performance will be 
disclosed retrospectively.
Where possible, a sliding scale of targets will be set. For the DEPS and relative TSR 
measures, no more than 25% will be payable for achieving threshold performance, 
rising to full pay-out for achieving a more challenging target.
The scorecard of financial, share price and non-financial metrics may vary from year to 
year in accordance with strategic priorities and the regulatory environment.
At the time of determining the contribution for plan year 5, in the event that the 
Committee feels the Company’s underlying financial performance over the first 
five plan years has not been satisfactory, the Committee may scale back the final 
balance of the plan account.
The Committee 
may decide within 
three years of a plan 
contribution that the 
underlying award will 
be subject to clawback. 
This may happen 
where there has been a 
material misstatement 
in the Company’s 
financial results or 
an error in assessing 
any applicable 
performance condition. 
It may also be 
triggered if there has 
been substantial failure 
of risk management, 
or if the participant’s 
employment is 
terminated for serious 
misconduct. The 
clawback may be 
satisfied by a reduction 
in the amount of 
any subsisting plan 
account, a reduction 
in the vesting of any 
subsisting vested 
awards or future 
share awards and/or a 
requirement to make 
cash payment.
KEY ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
74
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PURPOSE AND LINK TO 
STRATEGY
OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS RECOVERY OR 
WITHHOLDING
ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES
     
All employees including Executive 
Directors are encouraged to 
become shareholders through the 
operation of an HMRC-approved 
Share Incentive Plan (SIP) and/
or such other all-employee share 
plans as the Company may adopt 
in the future.
The SIP is a flexible, tax-efficient, all-employee plan. Partnership, Free, Dividend and Matching 
shares may be granted under the SIP .
If other HMRC-approved all-employee plans are introduced, they will operate in accordance with 
HMRC guidance and limits.
Similar non-UK plans may be operated to enable non-UK employees and Directors to participate.
HMRC or non-UK 
plan equivalent limits 
will apply to any 
all-employee schemes 
that may be introduced.
This currently constitutes 
a small proportion of 
Executive Directors’ 
total remuneration.
No performance metrics apply to base salary. No recovery or 
withholding applies to 
base salary.
SHARE OWNERSHIP POLICY
     
This aligns the interests of 
management and shareholders and 
promotes a long-term approach to 
performance and risk management.
A share ownership policy was introduced from the financial year ended 31 May 2014.
Under this policy, the Chief Executive Officer is required to hold shares to the value of a minimum of 
200% of base salary, and for other Executive Directors a requirement of 100% of base salary applies.
Only shares owned outright by the Executive Director are included in the guideline, which must be 
achieved within five years of the introduction of the policy or, if later, from the date of appointment 
to the Board.
The Committee will review progress annually, with an expectation that Executive Directors will make 
progress towards achieving the shareholding policy each year.
SUSTAINED PERFORMANCE PLAN (SPP)
     
Approved by shareholders at the 
2013 AGM, the SPP provides 
a single incentive plan for 
Executive Directors rather than 
having separate annual and 
long-term plans.
It provides a simple and 
competitive incentive mechanism 
that encourages and rewards both 
annual and sustained long-term 
performance, linked to the 
Company’s strategic objectives.
The SPP encapsulates traditional 
annual bonus and long-term 
incentive plans. It is entirely 
share-based, encouraging 
executives to build up a 
substantial stake in the Company, 
thereby aligning the interests of 
management with shareholders.
We are initially operating the SPP by reference to five consecutive ‘plan years’. The first plan year 
was the financial year which ended 31 May 2014.
Awards of shares (either in the form of par value options, nil cost options or conditional awards), 
known as ‘plan contributions’ are made after the announcement of results relating to each plan year.
Plan contributions are granted by reference to achievement against applicable performance targets 
and accumulate within a participant’s ‘plan account’.
Each year, a percentage of the accumulated balance in the plan account vests (i.e. options or 
awards are released to participants).
Therefore, a participant’s plan account will comprise the sum of the plan contribution (if any) being 
made in relation to the relevant plan year plus the accumulated awards registered in the plan 
account from previous plan years.
In the first five plan years, a participant’s plan account vests as follows:
Following Financial year ending % of cumulative shares in plan account vesting
Plan year 1 31 May 2014 40.0%
Plan year 2 31 May 2015 40.0%
Plan year 3 31 May 2016 33.3%
Plan year 4 31 May 2017 33.3%
Plan year 5 31 May 2018 33.3%
If the SPP is closed following plan year 5, unvested awards remaining in the plan account will vest in 
tranches of 50%, 25% and 25% on the first, second and third anniversaries of the SPP’s closure. The 
same principles will apply on a later termination of the plan.
Participants may receive a payment at the time of delivery of vested shares of an amount equivalent 
to the dividends that would have been paid on those shares while in the plan account (adopting a 
first-in, first-out basis). This amount may assume dividend reinvestment. Dividends will not accrue on 
vested but unexercised awards.
The maximum plan 
contribution in respect 
of a plan year is an 
award of shares with 
a market value of no 
more than 500% of an 
executive’s annual rate 
of salary.
The quantum of any awards granted is dependent on performance against the 
targets set by the Committee for each relevant financial year.
Performance targets may comprise, for example, diluted earnings per share (DEPS) 
targets, Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and non-financial measures. Performance 
is measured over single plan years (financial years) except for TSR (from plan year 
2 – awards in respect of financial year ending 31 May 2015). We currently intend to 
apply the following performance criteria:
 ❚ DEPS – a sliding scale of targets will apply for each plan year. The targets 
will be set at the start of each plan year. Targets and performance will be 
disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant 
financial year-end.
 ❚ Relative TSR – the Company’s share price (plus dividends reinvested) 
performance is measured against an appropriate comparator group. For the first 
plan year, performance was based on that plan year alone; for the second plan 
year, performance was based on plan years 1 and 2. For plan years thereafter 
performance is measured over three plan years ending with the plan year being 
reported on. The Committee retains the discretion to scale back the level of 
award if it feels the Company’s underlying financial performance does not 
warrant the level of award resulting from TSR performance alone.
 ❚ Non-financial – these may comprise strategic goals, operational and client 
satisfaction measures for each plan year. Targets and performance will be 
disclosed retrospectively.
Where possible, a sliding scale of targets will be set. For the DEPS and relative TSR 
measures, no more than 25% will be payable for achieving threshold performance, 
rising to full pay-out for achieving a more challenging target.
The scorecard of financial, share price and non-financial metrics may vary from year to 
year in accordance with strategic priorities and the regulatory environment.
At the time of determining the contribution for plan year 5, in the event that the 
Committee feels the Company’s underlying financial performance over the first 
five plan years has not been satisfactory, the Committee may scale back the final 
balance of the plan account.
The Committee 
may decide within 
three years of a plan 
contribution that the 
underlying award will 
be subject to clawback. 
This may happen 
where there has been a 
material misstatement 
in the Company’s 
financial results or 
an error in assessing 
any applicable 
performance condition. 
It may also be 
triggered if there has 
been substantial failure 
of risk management, 
or if the participant’s 
employment is 
terminated for serious 
misconduct. The 
clawback may be 
satisfied by a reduction 
in the amount of 
any subsisting plan 
account, a reduction 
in the vesting of any 
subsisting vested 
awards or future 
share awards and/or a 
requirement to make 
cash payment.
75
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE
The performance measures that are used in the sustained performance plan (SPP) are a subset of the Company’s Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs).
METRIC RATIONALE AND LINK TO THE 
STRATEGIC KPIS
HOW PERFORMANCE MEASURES 
ARE SET
Total Shareholder Return 
(TSR) relative to a suitable 
benchmark group
TSR measures the total return to IG Group’s shareholders, 
both through share price growth and dividends paid, and 
as such it is aligned to shareholder interests.
TSR is influenced by how well IG Group performs on a 
range of other metrics, including financial indicators such 
as revenue, profit, cash generation and dividends, and 
non-financial indicators such as client satisfaction and 
operational performance.
The Committee sets the requirements for 
each plan year. The current benchmark 
group comprises the constituents 
of the FTSE 350 index (excluding 
investment trusts).
Diluted earnings per 
share (DEPS)
DEPS is a key indicator of the profits generated for 
shareholders, and a reflection of both revenue growth 
and cost control.
The Committee determines appropriate 
performance targets each year, taking 
account of the annual and longer-term 
business plans. DEPS is calculated on such 
adjusted basis as the Committee reasonably 
selects (e.g. adjusting for the effects of any 
share buybacks).
Non-financial performance
Specific 
non-financial measure
Specific non-financial criteria include system reliability, 
customer satisfaction, effective risk management, 
sustaining the Company’s excellent reputation and 
maintaining a good standing with regulators. Each of 
these measures has a direct impact on a number of 
the Group’s KPIs, for example, system reliability is a 
key measure of the resilience of our trading platforms, 
which is an essential element of revenue generation and 
client satisfaction.
Customer satisfaction is also measured using the Net 
Promoter Score (NPS) data supplied by Investment 
Trends. NPS is a measure of whether clients would 
recommend IG Group.
The basket of measures chosen is considered to provide 
a broader assessment of executive delivery than financial 
metrics alone.
The Committee approved, in advance, a 
basket of non-financial measures for the 
year-ended 31 May 2016.
Following the end of the year the 
Committee assesses performance relative 
to prior years, internal targets and sector 
averages. Assessment is undertaken ‘in 
the round’, taking account of activities and 
achievements during the year.
For example, for NPS, performance is 
assessed through comparison of the 
Group’s performance against other 
companies in the sector, with the aim of 
maintaining a high NPS score relative to the 
sector average.
Execution and delivery of 
key strategic initiatives
The delivery of the Group’s strategic initiatives is key 
to the delivery of the strategy and will, over time, drive 
financial performance and growth.
As part of the Board’s strategy planning, 
there is a clear plan of strategic initiatives 
provided to the Remuneration Committee 
at the start of the year, which details the 
underlying projects set for delivery in the 
short-to-medium term. The Remuneration 
Committee uses this plan to judge 
performance and management’s execution 
and delivery of key strategic initiatives.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
76
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual DEPS targets and non-financial performance measures, 
where used, are likely to be too sensitive to disclose in advance for 
commercial reasons. We will, however, disclose the measures and 
targets (where applicable) used, and the extent to which we have 
achieved them, on a retrospective basis, at the end of the relevant 
performance period. 
Incentive plan discretions
The Committee will operate the current SPP (and other share 
plans still in operation) according to their respective rules and the 
policy set out above, and in accordance with the Market Abuse 
Regulations, Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant. Copies 
of the SPP rules are available on request from the Company 
Secretary. As is consistent with market practice, the Committee 
retains discretion over a number of areas relating to operating and 
administrating these plans. These include (but are not limited to) 
the following:
 ❚ Who participates in the plans
 ❚ The timing of grant of award and/or payment
 ❚ The size of an award and/or a payment within the plan limits 
approved by shareholders
 ❚ The choice of (and adjustment of) performance measures 
and targets in accordance with the policy set out above and 
the rules of each plan (including the treatment of delisted 
companies for the purpose of the TSR Comparator Group) 
 ❚ Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the 
event of a change of control or reconstruction
 ❚ Determination of a good leaver (in addition to any specified 
categories) for incentive-plan purposes, based on the rules of 
each plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules
 ❚ Adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights 
issues, corporate restructuring, special dividends and on a 
change of control)
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be 
explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration. As appropriate, 
it might also be the subject of consultation with the Company’s 
major shareholders.
Legacy arrangements
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy, the Company has authority to honour any 
commitments entered into with current or former Directors that 
have been disclosed to shareholders previously. This includes 
awards made under the value-sharing plan (VSP) and any other 
share plans operated by the Company described in more detail in 
the following section.
ILLUSTRATING THE APPLICATION 
OF REMUNERATION POLICY
As a result of the Company’s remuneration policy, a 
significant proportion of the remuneration received by 
Executive Directors depends on the Group’s performance. 
The chart below shows how total pay for the Chief Executive 
Officer varies under three different performance scenarios: 
minimum, target and maximum:
Minimum: This comprises the fixed elements of pay, being 
base salary, benefits and pension. Base salary and pension 
are effective as at 1 June 2016 and the benefits value is the 
actual value for the year ended 31 May 2015. 
Target: This comprises fixed pay and the target value of SPP 
(250% of salary). 
Maximum: This comprises fixed pay and the maximum value 
of SPP (500% of salary).
No account has been taken of share price growth, 
or of dividend shares awarded in respect of the 
deferred element of bonus and SPP awards over the 
deferral/performance periods.
£4,000
£3,500
£3,000
£2,500
£2,000
£1,500
£1,000
£500
£-
     Minimum              Target             Maximum
P G Hetherington
£000s
81%
SPP    Fixed Pay
68%
19% 32% 100%
77
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ SERVICE CONTRACTS
Executive Directors are employed under a service contract with IG 
Group Limited (a wholly-owned intermediate holding company) 
for the benefit of the Company and the Group.
The period of notice for existing Executive Directors does 
not exceed six months and, accordingly, Executive Directors’ 
employment contracts can be terminated on six months’ notice by 
either party.
In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Director’s 
service contract other than in accordance with the terms of his or 
her contract, the Committee will act in the best interests of the 
Company and ensure there is no reward for failure. All service 
contracts are continuous, and contractual termination payments 
relate to the unexpired notice period. 
On a Director’s departure, the Company may at its sole discretion 
pay base salary and the value of any benefits (including pension) 
that would have been receivable in lieu of any unexpired period 
of notice. In the event of termination for gross misconduct, the 
Company may give neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice. 
Where the Company, acting reasonably, believes it may have a 
right to terminate employment due to gross misconduct, it may 
suspend the executive from employment on full salary for up to 30 
days to investigate the circumstances prevailing.
The Company may place an executive on gardening leave for 
up to the duration of the notice period. During this time, the 
executive will be entitled to receive base salary and all contractual 
benefits (including pension). At the end of the gardening leave 
period, the Company may, at its discretion, pay the executive base 
salary alone, in lieu of the balance of any period of notice given by 
the Company or the executive. 
When considering payments in the event of termination, 
the Remuneration Committee takes into account individual 
circumstances. Relevant factors include the reasons for 
termination, contractual obligations and the relevant incentive 
plan rules. When determining any loss of office payment for a 
departing director the Committee will always seek to minimise the 
cost to the Company while complying with the contractual terms 
and seeking to reflect the circumstances in place at the time. 
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments 
where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an 
existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such 
an obligation); or by way of settlement or compromise of any 
claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive 
Director’s office or employment. 
For new executive appointments, the Committee has discretion 
to offer a longer notice period of up to 12 months to secure 
an appointment. Any payments in lieu of notice will be at the 
Committee’s discretion, and will be limited to base salary and the 
value of benefits (including pension) as set out above.
Sustained performance plan (SPP) awards
As a general rule, if a participant ceases to hold employment or be 
a Director within the Group, or gives notice of leaving, they forfeit 
any entitlement to receive further plan contributions. All awards 
subsisting in their plan account at such time are forfeited in full. 
However, the situation may be different if the participant ceases 
to be an employee or a Director within the Group under certain 
circumstances. These include injury, disability, retirement, 
redundancy, the disposal of the participant’s employing company 
or the business for which they work by the Group, or other 
circumstances at the discretion of the Committee. In this case, 
participation in the plan will cease once the plan contributions 
in respect of the plan year in which the cessation arises are 
determined. This will take into account the proportion of the 
full plan year worked. Ordinarily, the participant’s plan account 
will then vest, yielding one third immediately and thereafter 
the remaining balance in equal parts on the first and second 
anniversary of such determinations. 
For the purposes of any awards permitted to vest to leavers as 
described above, the Committee retains discretion to reduce the 
level of vesting that would otherwise result. It may refer to such 
time-based adjustments as it considers appropriate. 
Where awards are granted in the form of options, any vested 
awards already held at the time of cessation (i.e. vested awards 
held outside the plan account but unexercised) will remain 
exercisable for a limited period. The exception is when dismissal 
has been for misconduct, in which case such awards lapse in full.
Value-sharing plan (VSP) awards – legacy plan
As a general rule, awards which have not vested will lapse when 
employment ceases. This may differ in certain circumstances 
when there is a good reason for leaving. Examples include injury, 
disability, retirement, redundancy, the disposal of the participant’s 
employing company or the business for which they work by the 
Group, or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee. 
The Committee has the discretion to determine that an Executive 
Director is a good leaver. In this case, the award will not lapse but 
will continue or, if the Committee decides, will vest on cessation 
to the extent the performance condition is satisfied. A time 
pro-rated reduction will apply unless the Committee determines 
otherwise. In the event of death, awards will vest at that time to 
the extent that performance, in the opinion of the Committee, has 
been satisfied.
Change of control 
The Executive Directors’ contracts do not provide for any 
enhanced payments in the event of a change of control of the 
Company nor for liquidated damages. Copies of the Executive 
Directors’ service contract are available for inspection at the 
Company’s registered office.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
78
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY ACROSS THE COMPANY
We have designed the remuneration policy for the Executive 
Directors and senior management with regard to the policy for 
employees across the Company as a whole. The Committee 
is kept updated through the year on general employment 
conditions, basic salary-increase budgets, the level of bonus pools 
and pay-outs and participation in share plans. 
The Committee is therefore aware of how total remuneration at 
the Executive Director level compares to the total remuneration 
of the general population of employees. Common approaches to 
remuneration policy which apply across the Company include:
 ❚ Consistency in ‘pay for performance’, with annual bonus 
schemes being offered to the vast majority of employees
 ❚ Offering pension, medical, life assurance and other 
flexible benefits for all employees, where practical given 
geographical location
 ❚ Ensuring that salary increases for each category of employee 
are considered, taking into account the overall rate of increase 
across the Company, benchmarking, and both, Company and 
individual performance
 ❚ Encouraging broad-based share ownership through the use of 
all-employee share plans, where practical
RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION POLICY
The Committee’s overriding objective is to appoint Executive 
Directors with the necessary background, skills and experience to 
ensure the continuing success of the Company. We recognise that 
the pace of change and technology development in our industry, 
as well as the global nature of IG Group, mean that the right 
individuals may often be highly sought-after.
We set the remuneration package for a new Executive Director 
in accordance with the Company’s approved remuneration 
policy, as detailed on page 72 of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report, subject to the additional provisions described below. The 
maximum level of variable remuneration (excluding any buyout 
arrangements) that we can offer to a new executive on an annual 
basis will be in accordance with the sustained performance plan 
limit, being 500% of salary.
In many cases, where we make an external appointment, the 
individual will forfeit incentive awards connected with their 
previous employment on resignation.
The Committee may therefore decide to offer further cash or 
share-based payments to ‘buy-out’ these existing entitlements by 
making awards of a broadly equivalent value, in the Committee’s 
view. These awards can be made either under the Company’s 
existing incentive plans or via other arrangements. In determining 
the appropriate form and amount of any such award, the 
Committee will consider various factors. These include the type 
and quantum of award, the length of the performance period and 
the performance and vesting conditions attached to each forfeited 
incentive award.
Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different 
performance measures may be set for the SPP for the year of 
joining the Board, taking into account the individual’s role and 
responsibilities and the point in the year when they joined.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element granted 
in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according 
to its terms, adjusted as appropriate to take into account the 
terms of the Executive Director appointment. The Committee 
will carefully determine the base salary level for a new Executive 
Director, taking into account the individual’s background, skills 
and experience, and the business criticality and nature of the role 
being offered. It will also consider the Company’s circumstances 
and relevant external and internal benchmarks. Above all, the 
Committee must exercise its own judgement in determining the 
most appropriate salary for the new appointment.
In certain circumstances, the Committee will have set a starting 
base salary which is positioned below the relevant market rate. It 
may then wish to adjust the Executive Director’s base salary, at a 
level above the average increase in the Company, as the individual 
gains experience and establishes a strong performance track 
record in the role. Conversely, the base salary may need to be 
positioned above the relevant market rate in order to attract the 
most appropriate candidate for the role.
We will provide benefits in accordance with the approved policy. 
We may pay relocation expenses or allowances, legal fees and 
other costs relating to the recruitment as appropriate.
We will set fees for a new Non-Executive Director or Chairman in 
accordance with the approved policy.
79
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy applicable to the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors.
PURPOSE 
AND LINK TO 
STRATEGY
OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE 
METRICS
RECOVERY OR 
WITHHOLDING
To attract and retain 
Non-Executive 
Directors of 
appropriate calibre 
and experience.
The Remuneration Committee 
determines the fee for 
the Chairman (without the 
Chairman present).
The Board is responsible 
for setting Non-Executive 
Directors’ fees. The 
Non-Executive Directors are 
not involved in any discussions 
or decisions by the Board 
about their own remuneration.
Fees are within the limits 
set by the Articles of 
Association and take 
account of the commitment 
and responsibilities of the 
relevant role.
The Chairman receives a 
single fee to cover all their 
Board duties.
Non-Executive Directors 
receive a fee for carrying out 
their duties. They may receive 
additional fees if they chair the 
primary Board Committees, 
and for holding the post of 
Senior Independent Director.
Committee membership fees 
may be paid.
Details of current fee levels are 
set out in the Annual Report 
on Remuneration.
No performance 
metrics apply.
No recovery or 
withholding applies.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts; they are engaged by letters of appointment. Each Non-Executive Director is 
appointed for an initial term of three years subject to re-election, but the appointment can be terminated on three months’ notice. 
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS
The Committee engages proactively with the Company’s major 
shareholders. For example, when making any material changes to 
the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee Chair will 
inform major shareholders of these in advance, and will offer a 
meeting to discuss details as required. 
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS 
ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY
In setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the 
Committee takes into account the overall approach to reward 
for employees in the Company. The Group operates in a number 
of different environments, and has many employees who carry 
out diverse roles across a number of countries. All employees, 
including Directors, are paid by reference to the market rate, and 
base salary levels are reviewed regularly. When considering salary 
increases for Directors, the Company will be sensitive to pay and 
employment conditions across the wider workforce. However, no 
remuneration comparison measurements have been utilised to 
date. The Committee does not formally consult with employees on 
the executive remuneration policy. The Committee is periodically 
updated on pay and conditions applying to employees across 
the Company.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
80
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION (AUDITED)
This part of the report includes a summary of how we implemented the policy in the financial year ended 31 May 2016 (including 
payment and awards in respect of incentive arrangements), and how we will apply the remuneration policy for the financial year ending 
31 May 2017. We also give details of the Remuneration Committee’s operation, the Directors’ share interests and how shareholders 
voted at the 2015 AGM.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2016
Total Single Figure of Remuneration – Executive Directors
Contribution to SPP plan account
(4)
Name of Director Year
Fees/basic 
salary
Benefits in 
kind
(2)
Pension
(3)
Vested 
element
Deferred 
element Total Total
    £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
P G Hetherington
(1)
2016 498 1 75 689 1,378 2,067 2,641
2015 283 1 43 292 439 731 1,058
C F Hill 2016 249 1 34 – – – 284
2015 331 1 50 273 409 682 1,064
T A Howkins 2016 183 – 27 – – – 210
2015 472 1 71 390 585 975 1,519
(1) In 2015, P G Hetherington was paid a reduced pro-rata salary of £283,400, based upon a £354,300 full-time equivalent salary, to reflect his flexible working arrangements.
(2) Benefits can include private medical cover, discounted gym membership and life assurance cover. 
(3) The Group contributes 15% of basic salary to personal pensions for each of the Executive Directors, who also have the option to receive part, or all, of their pension entitlement in 
cash. The additional cash payment is counted in lieu of pension, and is not treated as base salary for the purposes of calculating other benefits. In 2015, both T A Howkins and C 
F Hill elected to restrict pension contributions to £40,000 and receive the balance of the pension contribution as an additional cash payment. P G Hetherington elected to receive 
the full pension contribution as an additional cash payment.
(4) Figures provided are the values of the SPP contributions in respect of performance for the periods ending 31 May 2016 and 31 May 2015 (ie plan years 3 and 2). The vested 
element is the proportion of the plan year contribution for the relevant period that vests shortly following the end of the financial year. The deferred element is the proportion that 
remains deferred in the plan account. Details of SPP awards held in the plan account, both vested and unvested, are provided in the Outstanding Share Awards table on page 85.
TIM HOWKINS
On 21 July 2015, after 16 successful years at IG and almost 9 as 
Chief Executive, Tim announced his intention to retire at the AGM 
on 15 October 2015. Over his career at IG, Tim had been part of 
and led extremely dedicated teams which have built IG from a 
single office in London to a global leader in the industry.
Tim received his base salary, fringe benefits, and pension for 
his employment with the Company up to the date of the AGM 
and received no payment in lieu of notice for the unexpired part 
of his six-month notice period beyond the AGM date. Tim did 
not receive an incentive award in respect of the 2015/16 year, 
although he served four and a half months in that year. 
Tim held deferred awards earned for prior years’ performance 
under the sustained performance plan (SPP). In accordance 
with the rules governing the plan and the Company’s approved 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy, as a retiree, he was treated 
as a good leaver. Accordingly, the 77,039 and 78,742 shares 
under award (155,781 in aggregate) held in the plan account in 
respect of performance periods ending 31 May 2014 and 2015 
respectively will vest over the next three years. These awards 
(together with any dividend shares accruing on these awards up to 
the point of vesting) will vest in three equal tranches on an annual 
basis over the period 2016-2018 commencing with August 2016, 
following the results for the 2015/16 financial year.
The normal treatment under the SPP is not to apply a pro-rata 
reduction as awards granted under the plan are based on 
performance that has already been achieved. 
The Remuneration Committee determined that this normal good 
leaver treatment should apply in Tim’s case, taking account of the 
following points:
 ❚ Tim is retiring after a long and distinguished career with the 
Company, including the last 9 years as CEO
 ❚ The strong performance of the Company (financial, share price 
and internationalisation)
 ❚ No incentive award will be provided in respect of Tim’s service 
in 2015/16
 ❚ The three-year phased vesting of outstanding awards (up 
to 2018) will provide post-cessation continued alignment 
with shareholders
 ❚ Clawback and malus provisions will remain in place on the 
deferred amount
 ❚ Tim is retiring; the Committee retains the discretion to 
reconsider the above release of deferred awards if Tim takes 
up a new appointment without the prior approval of 
the Committee
81
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT PETER HETHERINGTON
Following Tim’s retirement at the 2015 AGM, Peter was appointed 
interim CEO and his salary was increased to £486,400. Following 
a thorough search process, the Board was pleased to appoint 
Peter as CEO on 4 December 2015. To reflect his appointment, 
Peter’s salary was increased to £575,000. The Committee was 
satisfied that the salary reflects Peter’s significant experience, 
having held the position of Chief Operating Officer and been a 
member of the Board since 2002. Furthermore, having undertaken 
a significant search process and extensive external benchmarking, 
the Committee is satisfied that his salary is in line with market rates 
for similar positions in the broader industry. 
Peter’s other remuneration arrangements will continue to be in line 
with our policy and to reflect his new executive appointment, his 
notice period is 12 months.
 
CHRISTOPHER HILL
On 10 August 2015, the Company announced Chris Hill’s intention 
to leave his post as Chief Financial Officer at IG Group to join 
another company.
Chris served notice of his departure on 10 August 2015 and 
as required under his contract gave 6 months’ notice to the 
Company. During the period from 10 August to 30 October 
2015 he continued in his role. Chris ceased to be a Director on 
30 October 2015 and was placed on gardening leave for the 
remainder of his notice period. For the period to February 2016, 
when his notice period ended, he received his base salary, pension 
and fringe benefits, consistent with the terms of his contract. 
Chris was not eligible for any incentive award in respect of the 
2015/16 year under the SPP . All unvested SPP awards that he 
held lapsed on cessation.
Total Single Figure of Remuneration – Non-Executive Directors
Name of Director Year Base salary Benefits
(1)
Total
    £000 £000 £000
A Green
(2)
2016 247 – 247
2015 235 – 235
S G Hill 2016 70 13 83
2015 70 9 79
J Newman 2016 70 – 70
2015 65 – 65
S J Tymms 2016 55 4 59
2015 55 3 58
M Le May
(3)
2016 39 – 39
2015 –  –  – 
J Felix
(3)
2016 32 –  32
2015 – – –
R P Yates
(4)
2016 38  – 38
2015 70 – 70
J R Davie
(4)
2016 –  –  – 
2015 73 1 74
D M Jackson
(4)
2016 –  –  – 
2015 29 1 30
(1) Certain Non-Executive Directors’ expenses relating to the performance of a Director’s duties such as travel to and from company meetings and related accommodation have been 
classified as taxable benefits. In such cases, the Company will ensure that the Director is kept whole by settling the expense and any related tax. The figures shown include the 
cost of the taxable benefit plus the related personal tax charge.
(2) A Green joined the Group as Deputy Chairman on 9 June 2014 and succeeded J R Davie as Chairman at the 2014 AGM. Following a review of Chairman’s fees against market 
rates in companies of a similar size and to reflect Mr Green’s time commitment, his annual fee was increased to £255,000 from £235,000 on 1 November 2015.
(3) M Le May joined the Board on 10 September 2015. J Felix joined the Board on 4 September 2015.
(4) J R Davie ceased to be Chairman at the 2014 AGM held on 16 October 2014 and D M Jackson ceased to be a Director on 16 October 2014. R P Yates ceased to be a Director on 
15 October 2015.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
82
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SUSTAINED PERFORMANCE PLAN (SPP)
DETERMINATION OF SPP PLAN CONTRIBUTION FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2016
Performance targets for plan year 3 (financial year ending 31 May 2016) comprised Diluted Earnings per Share (DEPS) targets, Total 
Shareholder Return (TSR) and non-financial measures. TSR performance was measured over the three-year period from 1 June 2013 to 
31 May 2016 and DEPS and non-financial measures over the financial year ending 31 May 2016.
Performance 
measure Weighting
Potential as a 
percentage of 
base salary
Threshold (25% 
payout for TSR 
and 0% for DEPS)
Maximum
(100% payout)
Actual 
performance
Plan contribution 
as percentage of 
base salary
DEPS 45% 225% 41.00 pence 45.10 pence 44.58 pence 196%
TSR 35% 175% Median ranking Upper-quartile 
ranking
71 of 276 
companies  
(98.37% vesting)
172%
Non-financial 20% 100% 0% 100% 83.5%  83%
Total 100% 500%       451%
PERFORMANCE MEASURES – HOW THESE ARE SET AND REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE FOR THE YEAR 
ENDED 31 MAY 2016
Diluted earnings per share (45% weighting)
At the start of the financial year, the Committee established a DEPS range in order to measure the performance and determine the 
pay-outs under the SPP . In doing this, the Committee took into account a number of relevant factors, including internal and external 
considerations and an appropriate degree of challenge on the prior year’s performance, excluding the impact of the Swiss franc event.
In setting the DEPS range for the year ending 31 May 2017, the Committee has considered the annual Board approved budget, market 
consensus expectations and historical targets and stretched the full pay-out level to reflect significant outperformance. 
Total Shareholder Return (35% weighting)
Under the TSR measure, a median ranking against the FTSE 350 (excluding Investment Trusts) would result in 25% of this element being 
granted with the full award being granted for upper quartile ranking or better. The award to be granted for performance between 
median and upper quartile would be determined on a straight-line basis between these points.
For the award to be granted in respect of plan year 3, TSR was measured over the three-year period from 1 June 2013 to 31 May 2016. 
Actual TSR performance for the Group, as measured by New Bridge Street, for the three-year period was 61.00% (2015: 48.20%). 
Against the peer group this performance ranked IG at 71 out of 276 companies and resulted in 98.37% (2015: 74.50%) of the potential 
pay-out under this measure being awarded.
Non-financial measures (20% weighting)
The Committee approved a series of non-financial measures comprising strategic goals as well as operational and client satisfaction 
measures, indicative of the performance during the year ended 31 May 2016. These measures are also used for a portion of the staff 
general bonus pool. 
An average of the performance under the specific non-financial measures combined with performance under the execution and delivery 
measures resulted in an overall assessment of 83.5% (2015: 76%) of the potential pay-out under this element. The below table details 
the individual measures considered and their performance assessment for the year ended 31 May 2016.
METRIC PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
SPECIFIC NON-FINANCIAL MEASURES
System 
reliability/uptime
The primary measures used to assess the performance against this metric and the parameters IG strives to 
achieve are:
 ❚ Core dealing availability per month – minimum 99.8%
 ❚ Maximum percentage downtime in any one day – maximum 4.0%
The largest single day outage during the year was in June 2015. This was caused by a network issue and despite 
this, clients already online were able to continue to trade throughout and all clients could deal through the 
mobile apps. This period is the lowest maximum single day outage IG has ever achieved. For the remainder of 
the year, core uptime was 100%.
The Group achieved an overall yearly uptime percentage of 99.99%, ahead of 99.95% achieved during the 
year ending 31 May 2015. This is IG’s best annual performance to date and the Group will continue to target 
a consistently high level of platform uptime.
95% 
(2015: 65%)
83
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT METRIC PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
Maintaining 
good standing 
relationships with 
regulators
IG is licensed by ten regulators, as well as being subject to regulatory oversight in all countries where it has a 
physical presence. This year, the Group continued to maintain strong relationships with its largest regulators, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC). In addition 
to this, the Group continued to build successful, open relationships with its newest regulators in Switzerland and 
Dubai and has also maintained good relationships with the majority of its other regulators.
However, in certain European jurisdictions there is negative sentiment towards leveraged products as seen with the 
French marketing and Belgian marketing and product restrictions which has put a strain on these relationships. In 
light of these challenges, a 60% outcome was determined for this measure.
60% 
(2015: 92.5%)
Customer 
satisfaction
The Remuneration Committee uses a number of indicators to measure performance against this metric including:
 ❚ Net Promoter Score (NPS) data is tracked by the Investment Trends studies and is a measure of how likely 
clients are to recommend IG to others. IG has improved its NPS scores in five out of six markets that Investment 
Trends measures. Further details are given in the KPIs section on page 29 of this Annual Report.
 ❚ During the year, the Group once again commissioned an independent study to conduct a ‘mystery shopping’ 
programme of IG and a number of competitors in the UK. The study consisted of ten cases being raised with 
each provider where they were challenged with the same questions or scenarios. Each case was scored against 
desired behaviours expected from the case handler. The result of the study shows that the Group performed 
consistently well in most categories and ranked once again first in the overall scoring.
 ❚ The Group continues to engage directly with its clients through focus groups, as well as performing in-depth 
research to assist in prioritising their needs. IG has taken significant steps to implement solutions to issues 
raised, including the improvements made with regards to the client onboarding process and the introduction of 
a new customer communication system.
 ❚ During the year, IG has also joined the Institute of Customer Services.
90% 
(2015: 85%)
Reputation 
and PR
The Remuneration Committee assessed whether there have been any events resulting in negative media coverage 
or reputational damage during the year.
The PR surrounding the Swiss franc event in 2015 continued in to this year, with the publication of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service outcome, however this was well managed and the negative PR minimised.
In addition, the internal PR team and IG’s advisors have done well to minimise the impact of other reputational 
threats arising from the management changes in the year. The departure of the CEO, Tim Howkins and the CFO, 
Christopher Hill, in the early part of the year for entirely understandable reasons, were considered to be very well 
handled.
While there was less negative PR and risk to IG’s reputation to manage this year, the internal PR team and external 
advisors have worked well, and in collaboration with a number of other teams across the business, to minimise any 
impact to the IG brand.
95% 
(2015: 65%)
Risk 
management
During the year, the volatility arising from a number of polictical events and the risks associated with it was well 
managed by all teams.
IG’s culture of risk management has delivered robust results throughout the year, despite management changes in 
some of the departments. A key focus is now to ensure adequate succession planning.
90% 
(2015: 0%)
EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF KEY STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
Execution and 
delivery of 
key strategic 
initiatives
As part of the Board’s strategy planning, there is a clear plan relating to strategic projects provided to the 
Remuneration Committee at the start of the year. This details the underlying projects set for delivery in the 
short-to-medium term. The Remuneration Committee uses this plan to judge performance and management’s 
execution and delivery of the key strategic initiatives.
There were a number of key strategic projects delivered during the year. Examples of the projects include:
 ❚ Share dealing roll-out: full re-launch plan (including pricing, marketing and product suite) developed for the UK 
offering and implemented successfully. This is discussed in further details in ‘Our Operational Strategy in Action’ 
section on page 22.
 ❚ Client on-boarding process: implemented a number of improvements to IG’s conversion funnels. This is discussed in 
further details in ‘Our Operational Strategy in Action’ section on page 26.
 ❚ Switzerland, Dubai and Nadex: each of these offices has performed ahead of the year’s budgeted performance.
However, whilst we have launched and continue to run a number of non-IG generic top-level domain sites 
(including news.markets and reviews.spreadbetting), the expected benefits and marketing efficiencies have not 
yet materialised and this investment has been written off.
Accordingly, an outcome of 81.2% was determined for the execution and delivery of key strategic initiatives.
81.2% 
(2015: 90%)
OVERALL SUMMARY
Based on the performance for the financial year ending 31 May 2016, we will grant awards under the SPP to the value of 451% of base 
salary (90% of the maximum potential pay-out) as plan contributions to the Executive Director after the announcement of the results. 
The actual number of shares that will be deposited within the Director’s plan account will be based on the ten-day average share price 
immediately prior to grant.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
84
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED AWARDS GRANTED DURING THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2016
The SPP awards granted during the financial year ended 31 May 2016 in respect of performance to 31 May 2015 (plan year 2) are 
as follows:
  Contribution      
  % of salary
Value of 
options 
awarded
Number 
of options 
awarded
(1)
Number of 
options in the 
plan account 
after plan year 2 
contribution
(2)
Number of 
options vested 
and exercised 
during the year
Number of 
options lapsed
Number of 
options in the 
plan account at 
the end of the 
year
T A Howkins 206%  974,493  131,236  259,635  (103,854) – 155,782 
C F Hill 206%  682,062  91,854  181,719   (72,688) (109,031) – 
P G Hetherington 206%  731,182  98,469  194,804  (77,922) – 116,882 
(1) The number of options contributed to the plan account was based on the 10-day average share price immediately post the announcement date of the Group’s results for the year 
ended 31 May 2015 of 742.55 pence per share. Awards were granted in the form of nil cost options and are subject to continued employment and subject to the satisfaction of 
the underlying financial performance underpin to be tested at the end of plan year 5 as set out in the remuneration policy. In the case of T A Howkins, his outstanding awards 
together with any dividends shares accruing on these awards up to the point of vesting) vest in three equal tranches on an annual basis over the period 2016-2018 which began in 
August 2016.
(2) In addition to the awards made in respect of plan year 2, this also includes the brought forward number of options in the plan account from plan year 1 with its respective 
accrued dividend shares.
Details of the outstanding SPP share awards, using an estimate of the options to be granted in respect of plan year 3 (ie performance to 
31 May 2016) are set out below:
OUTSTANDING SPP SHARE AWARDS AS AT THE END OF PLAN YEAR 3
Event
Plan account 
brought 
forward
(number of 
shares)
(1)
Options 
awarded 
as dividend 
equivalents 
accruing on 
unvested 
options during 
the year
Plan 
Contribution 
in respect 
of period 
ended 31 May 
2016 (estimated 
number of 
options)
(2)
Plan account 
following 
contribution for 
the year
Estimated 
number of 
options vesting
Estimated 
cumulative 
number of 
unvested 
options 
remaining in 
plan account at 
the end of the 
year
T A Howkins
(3)
plan year 3 155,782 5,772 – 161,554 53,797 107,756
P G Hetherington plan year 3 116,882 4,331 265,186  386,399 128,671 257,727
(1) P G Hetherington will be granted awards in respect of plan year 3 following the announcement of results for the year ended 31 May 2016 on 19 July 2016. The share price used 
to calculate the number of awards to be granted will be the ten-day average share price immediately following the announcement of results for the year ended 31 May 2016 on 
19 July 2016. As the actual average share price is not known at the time of signing of the Annual Report, the above number of awards has been estimated using a share price of 
799.50 pence, being the share price on 31 May 2016. Share awards have an exercise price of 0.005 pence and are exercisable until August 2024. 
(2) In accordance with the scheme rules 33.3% of the cumulative awards in the plan account (after the contributions in respect of plan year 3) will vest in August 2016 with the vesting 
of the remaining options deferred. The August 2016 vesting will include additional dividend shares accrued as follows in respect of plan year 1 and plan year 2 awards held in the 
plan account – T A Howkins (5,772) and P G Hetherington (4,331) based on reinvestment at the dividend payment date.
(3) T A Howkins did not receive any awards in respect of plan year 3.
85
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OTHER SHARE AWARDS OUTSTANDING
Award date
Share price at 
award date
Number as at 
31 May 2015
Number 
awarded 
during the 
year
Number lapsed 
during the year
Number 
exercised 
during the 
year
Number 
outstanding at 
31 May 2016
P G Hetherington
VSP: Profit award – four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 2,589 – – (2,589) –
VSP: Total shareholder return 
award – four year
20 Jul 11 450.00p 5,990 – – (5,990) –
SIP: matching shares 26 Jul 13 580.00p 258 – – – 258
SIP: matching shares 25 Jul 14 605.80p 594 – – – 594
Total 9,431 – – (8,579) 852
C Hill
VSP: Profit award – four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 2,589 – – (2,589) –
VSP: Total shareholder return 
award – four year
20 Jul 11 450.00p 5,990 – – (5,990)
SIP: matching shares 27 Jul 12 419.18p 328 – (328) –
SIP: matching shares 26 Jul 13 580.00p 259 – (259) – –
SIP: matching shares 25 Jul 14 605.80p 594 – (594) – –
SIP: matching shares 06 Aug 15 739.50p – 486 (486) – –
Total 9,760 486 (1,339) (8,907) –
T Howkins
VSP: Profit award – four year 29 Oct 10 528.50p 17,057 – – (17,057) –
VSP: Profit award – four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 4,314 – – (4,314) –
VSP: Total shareholder return 
award – four year
20 Jul 11 450.00p 9,985 – – (9,985) –
Total 31,356 – – (31,356) –
TABLE OF DIRECTORS’ SHARE INTERESTS 
  Legally owned
(4)
SIP
(5)
SPP awards
(2)
  Total 
% of salary
held under 
shareholding 
Policy
(1)
  31 May 2015 31 May 2016   Awards held
in plan account
Vested but 
unexercised
31 May 2016 % salary
Executive Directors
T Howkins 1,621,183 –  – 161,556 – 161,556 0%
C Hill 43,928 – – – – – 0%
P Hetherington
(3)
129,899 175,094 852 121,214 – 297,160 282%
Non-Executive Directors
J Felix – – – – – – 0%
A Green – 6,881 – – – 6,881 22%
S G Hill 80,707 83,665 – – – 83,665 956%
M Le May – – – – – – 0%
J A Newman – – – – – – 0%
S J Tymms – – – – – – 0%
R P Yates 25,000 – – – – – 0%
(1) Calculated as shares owned on 31 May 2016 at the closing mid-market share price of 799.5p.
(2) This figure excludes awards under the SPP scheme for performance year ending 31 May 2016 which will be granted following the announcement of the Group’s results on 19 July 
2016. The awards held in the plan account include those in respect of plan year 1 and 2 as at 31 May 2016. 
(3) P Hetherington also held 10,000 preference shares at 31 May 2016 and 31 May 2015.
(4) This figure includes partnership shares that are purchased as part of the Group’s share incentive plan (SIP) which are not subject to vesting conditions.
(5) This figure shows the number of matching shares held at 31 May 2016 as part of the Group’s SIP which will vests after three years from the respective award date, as long as 
employees remained employed by the Group.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
86
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED A share ownership policy was introduced from the financial year ending 31 May 2014. Under this policy, the CEO is required to hold 
shares to the value of a minimum of 200% of base salary, and for other Executive Directors a requirement of 100% of base salary applies. 
Only shares owned outright by the Executive Director are included in the guideline, which must be achieved within five years of the 
introduction of the policy or, if later, from the date of appointment to the Board.
There have been no changes to any of the Directors’ share interests in the period since 31 May 2016. The awards to be made under the 
Company’s SPP in respect of the performance period ending on 31 May 2016 are set out earlier in this report and are not included in 
this table.
CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Base salary
(1)
Taxable benefits Performance based remuneration
(2)
  % change 
(2016/2015)
% change 
(2015/2014)
% change 
(2014/2013)
% change 
(2016/2015)
% change 
(2015/2014)
% change 
(2014/2013)
% change 
(2016/2015)
% change 
(2015/2014)
% change 
(2014/2013)
Chief Executive
25.8%  2.8%  7.5%  (25.0%)  0.0%  0.0%  112.0%  (32.3%)  136.2% 
Group employees
7.0%  6.8%  5.9%  19.4%  6.4%  2.8%  60.0%  (22.9%)  13.1% 
(1) For the Chief Executive, the 2016/2015 Base salary change reflects the change in CEO during 2015/16. Remuneration is included in the financial year in which performance is 
measured against.
(2) Given the move away from separate annual and long-term plans to a single variable pay plan in the 2014 financial year, the performance based remuneration consists of the SPP 
award and legacy VSP plans only. The change is calculated based on the change in the total of the SPP contribution for the plan year and the VSP vesting in that year.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR’S OUTSIDE APPOINTMENTS 
Peter has no other external appointments.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY
The following table sets out the profit, dividends and overall spend on pay over the past five financial years:
 
2016
£m
2015
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit after tax 164.3 131.9 147.2 141.7 136.8
Dividends 114.9 102.7 102.8 84.6 81.6
Employee remuneration 
costs
113.5 94.3 89.3 86.3 92.7
Average number of 
employees
1,412 1,287 1,070 1,005 960
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS
During the year, the Committee undertook a questionnaire based 
review of its own effectiveness. The evaluation process was 
externally facilitated by Lintstock as part of the overall annual 
Board effectiveness review. Overall, the review concluded that the 
Committee is effective and its performance was rated highly. The 
Committee however could further enhance its effectiveness with 
more training and support on regulatory changes in the area of 
remuneration and the implications for remuneration policy.
ADVICE TO THE COMMITTEE
During the financial year ended 31 May 2016 the Committee 
consulted the Chief Executive about remuneration matters relating 
to individuals other than himself. The Company Secretary also 
provided advice and support to the Committee. 
Appropriate Company employees and external advisers may 
attend Committee meetings at the invitation of the Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee was advised during the year 
by New Bridge Street (NBS), which was appointed following 
a competitive tender process in early 2013. The Committee 
considers the advice obtained from NBS to be objective and 
independent. NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group and is a signatory to its Code of Conduct, which requires its 
advice to be objective and impartial.
NBS provided advice in respect of a wide range of issues, 
including advice on the operation of the sustained performance 
plan, TSR performance monitoring, drafting the Remuneration 
Report, remuneration benchmarking and share plan 
implementation services. NBS’s fee for advice provided to the 
Remuneration Committee during the financial year ending 31 May 
2016 was £79,839 (excluding VAT).
87
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING AT 2015 AGM
At the October 2015 AGM, a resolution was proposed for shareholders to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the financial 
year ended 31 May 2015. The following votes were received:
  2015 Remuneration Report
  Total number of votes % of votes cast
For
(1)
291,724,694 99.01%
Against 2,921,312 0.99%
Total 294,646,006 100%
Withheld 12,832,545 –
(1) For includes votes at the Chairman’s discretion.
A majority (over 50%) of the votes cast was required for the resolutions to be passed, and all were duly approved by shareholders.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN CHART
The chart below shows the Company’s TSR performance compared with that of the FTSE 350 index. As IG Group is a member of this 
index, the Committee believes it is appropriate to compare the Group’s performance against it. 
This graph shows the value, by 31 May 2016, of £100 invested in IG Group on 31 May 2009 compared with the value of £100 invested in 
the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE EARNINGS HISTORY
The earnings history of the Chief Executive is shown in the table below:
Financial Year 2010  2011 2012 2013 2014
(2)
2015 2016
(3)
Single figure remuneration (£’000) 1,628  1,141  2,201 1,103 1,970 1,519 2,745 
Annual bonus outcome (% maximum) 100%  7%  99% 47% – – –
LTIP vesting outcome (% maximum) 48%  40%  61% – – – –
VSP vesting outcome (% maximum)
(1)
–  –  – 6% 3% 0% –
SPP plan contribution (% maximum)
(1)
–  –  – – 54% 41% 90% 
(1) The SPP replaced the annual bonus and VSP schemes from the financial year ending 31 May 2014. 
(2) The 2011 VSP awards had a performance period ending 31 May 2014. Half the awards vested on 22 July 2014 with the remaining vesting on 21 July 2015. The value of these 
awards provided in last year’s remuneration report was based on an estimated share price. We have restated the amounts (now as 2014 prior year comparatives) using the actual 
share price on 22 July 2014 (619.5 pence, for half the awards) and the average three-month share price for period ending 31 May 2015 (740.9 pence) for the remaining awards.
(3) Includes the base salaries paid to both T A Howkins and P G Hetherington for their tenure of the CEO position during the year.
300
350
400
450
500
250
200
150
100
50
0
May 09 May 10 May 11 May 12 May 13 May 14 May 15
Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters)
IG Group FTSE 250 FTSE 350 Financial Services
May 16
Total Shareholder Return (Rebased)
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
88
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED MEASURE FURTHER DETAIL MEASUREMENT 
PERIOD (PLAN YEARS)
WEIGHTING
Diluted earnings 
per share
The Committee has determined a sliding scale 
of targets that will apply for the financial year 
ending 31 May 2017.
Financial year ending 
31 May 2017
45%
Relative Total 
Shareholder Return
Performance is measured against constituents 
of the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts. 
No part of this element will be awarded if 
performance is below median. 25% will be 
awarded for median, increasing on a straight-line 
basis, with full vesting for upper-quartile 
performance or better. The Committee’s 
discretion to scale back vesting will apply as set 
out in the Policy Report.
The three financial years 
ending 31 May 2017
35%
Non-financial measures The measures will include:
 ❚ System reliability
 ❚ Maintaining good standing with regulators
 ❚ Customer satisfaction
 ❚ Reputation and PR
 ❚ Risk management
 ❚ Execution and delivery of key 
strategic initiatives
Financial year ending 
31 May 2017
20%
The Committee will ensure the DEPS and non-financial targets are suitably stretching. We deem the DEPS and non-financial measures 
themselves to be commercially sensitive, and will not disclose these prospectively. However, we will provide retrospective disclosure of 
the targets and performance against them in next year’s remuneration report.
APPROVAL
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 19 July 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 
THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2017
The Committee decided not to apply an increase to Peter’s salary 
in the financial year 2017.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Each year, the Board reviews the Non-Executive Director fees 
(the Remuneration Committee reviews the Chairman’s fees). This 
year, as part of the review, the Board instructed NBS to carry out 
an external benchmarking exercise to assist the Board with the 
fee-review process. Following the review, a decision was made to 
set the Non-Executive Directors’ fees as follows:
 ❚ Chairman: £255,000. The fee was increased from £235,000 by 
the Committee in November 2015 after taking into account the 
Chairman fee levels in the market and time commitment
 ❚ Non-Executive Director base fee: £65,000 (increased from 
£55,000 during the financial year ending 31 May 2016)
 ❚ Chairman of the Audit Committee additional fee: £15,000
 ❚ Chairman of Board Risk Committee additional fee: £15,000
 ❚ Chairman of the Remuneration Committee additional 
fee: £15,000
 ❚ Senior Independent Director fee: £10,000 (new fee introduced 
from 1 June 2016)
 ❚ The Chairman of the Nomination Committee will not receive an 
additional fee
Benefits and pension
A flexible benefits programme will apply, which includes a 
company pension to a maximum of 15% of base salary, cash of 
equivalent value or a mixture of both.
Sustained performance plan
For the awards to be granted in respect of plan year 4, which will 
end on 31 May 2017, maximum opportunity of 500% of annual 
rate of base salary will apply for Executive Directors. 
The performance targets for these awards are shown below.
Malcolm Le May
Chair, Remuneration Committee
89
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
The Audit Committee’s principal role and responsibility is to 
ensure the Group operates in a strong control environment and 
to build a greater sense of personal accountability throughout 
the organisation.
During the year, the Committee has continued to focus on the 
monitoring of the integrity of financial reporting, primarily focused 
on the review and challenge of the key accounting judgements 
underpinning the Group’s financial statements. Refer to the ‘Main 
activities during the financial year’ section on page 91 for details. 
The Committee has supported the Board in carrying out its 
responsibilities in relation to the Group’s financial reporting 
requirements. The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and 
approving the Annual Report and other externally reported 
financial information remains with the Board.
The Committee considered the appropriateness of the design 
and effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls, 
in conjunction with reviewing Internal Audit’s work, providing 
assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
controls and risk management systems. 
The Committee also reviewed the quality of the external audit 
process, including the identified audit risks, the audit plan 
and reports from the Company’s auditor (refer to the ‘External 
audit’ section on page 93). To ensure independence and 
objectivity of the external auditor, as required by the Code, 
mandatory rotation of the Group’s audit partner is required every 
five years. Accordingly, a new audit partner was appointed during 
the year following an effective transition from the previous audit 
partner who stepped down at the end of the financial year ended 
31 May 2015.
ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The principal roles and responsibilities of the Committee include: 
 ❚ Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s 
internal audit function in the overall context of the Group’s 
internal controls and risk management
 ❚ Reviewing the financial statements and announcements relating 
to the financial performance and governance of the Group
 ❚ Reviewing an assessment of the control environment including 
via internal audit reports and the progress on implementation 
of audit recommendations
 ❚ Recommending the appointment of external auditors and 
reviewing their effectiveness, fees, terms of reference and 
auditor independence and objectivity
The Audit Committee’s full terms of reference and responsibilities, 
are revised on an annual basis and can be found on the corporate 
website iggroup.com. 
Jim Newman, Chairman of the Audit Committee, gives his review of the Committee’s 
activities during the financial year.
Jim Newman
Chairman of the Audit Committee
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
90 MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE
All Audit Committee members are independent Non-Executive 
Directors who can draw on considerable and broad business 
and financial services experience. During the year, Roger Yates 
stepped down from the Committee following his retirement as a 
Non-Executive Director of the Company. Malcolm Le May became 
a member of the Committee following his appointment as a 
Director of the Company. The Code requires the inclusion in the 
Committee of at least one member determined by the Board as 
having recent and relevant financial experience. The Committee 
Chairman, Jim Newman, fulfils this requirement.
The Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Head of Finance, 
Head of Internal Audit, Company Secretary and the external 
auditors normally attend the Committee meetings. Other directors 
and representatives from the finance function and other areas 
of the business attend the Committee meetings by invitation 
as necessary.
The Committee has four scheduled meetings a year and will 
also meet if and when required. The below details the meetings 
scheduled and attended during the year. The Chairman, Andy 
Green, was invited to, and attended, all meetings.
  SCHEDULED 
MEETINGS ELIGIBLE 
TO ATTEND
SCHEDULED 
MEETINGS 
ATTENDED
Roger Yates
(1)
2 0
Sam Tymms
(2)
4 3
Jim Newman 4 4
Malcolm Le May
(3)
3 2
(1) Roger Yates stepped down from the Committee on 15 October 2015.
(2) Sam Tymms did not attend one meeting due to illness.
(3) Malcolm Le May joined the Committee on 25 September 2015. He was unable 
to attend one meeting due to prior commitments.
For each of the meetings that were not attended by a Committee 
member, that person received copies of presentations in advance 
and provided input directly to the Audit Committee Chairman.
The agenda is drafted to ensure that each of the items under the 
committee’s terms of reference and responsibilities is covered at 
least once in the financial year, and more frequently if required. 
After each Committee meeting, a formal report is made to 
the Board in which the Chairman of the Audit Committee 
describes the proceedings of the Committee meeting and makes 
recommendations to the Board as appropriate. 
Members of the Committee also meet separately with the Head 
of Internal Audit and the external auditors to focus on respective 
areas of responsibility and to discuss any potential requirements 
for support from the Committee to address any issues arising.
MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE 
FINANCIAL YEAR
The Committee focused on a number of key areas during the year 
as set out below:
FINANCIAL REPORTING
In relation to financial reporting, the primary role of the 
Committee is to work with management and the external auditors 
in reviewing the appropriateness of the half-year and annual 
financial statements. The Committee discharged its responsibilities 
in this area through focusing on, among other matters:
 ❚ Assessing the quality and acceptability of accounting policies 
and practices
 ❚ Ensuring disclosures are clear and compliant with financial 
reporting standards and relevant financial and governance 
reporting requirements
 ❚ Considering material areas in which significant judgements 
have been applied or there has been discussion with the 
external auditors
 ❚ Reviewing all formal financial announcements and financial 
statements prior to issuance, including preliminary and 
half-year announcements and recommending these to the 
Board for approval
 ❚ Before recommending and approving the viability statement to 
the Board, reviewing the processes to support the assessment 
and determination of the Group’s principal risks that may have 
an impact on the Group’s longer-term solvency and liquidity
 ❚ Evaluating on behalf of the Board whether the Annual Report 
and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and 
understandable and provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy
 ❚ Reviewing the inherent risks in the financial reporting process 
and systems
 ❚ Reviewing and agreeing the Group’s whistleblowing policy
To aid this review process, the Committee has considered reports 
from the Chief Financial Officer and his team, and both internal 
and external auditors. 
The Committee considered and discussed with management and 
the external auditors the following primary areas of judgement 
and disclosure in relation to the Financial Statements for the year 
ended 31 May 2016:
91
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED
REPORTING ISSUE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE CONCLUSION/
ACTION TAKEN
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY
For the 2016 financial reporting year onwards, the 
Directors are required to make a statement in the Annual 
Report as to the longer-term viability of the Group.
At the request of the Board, the Committee evaluated 
various reports from management that set out the view of 
the Group’s principal risks and longer-term viability. These 
reports detailed the impact of outcomes of stress tests after 
applying principal and business model risk scenarios to the 
Group’s financial forecasts based on a three-year strategic 
plan.
The Committee also received presentations from the 
external auditors on best practice reporting in this area.
Taking into account the 
assessment by the Board 
Risk Committee of stress 
testing results and risk 
appetite, the Committee 
agreed to recommend the 
viability statement to the 
Board for approval.
GOODWILL
In accordance with accounting standards the Group is 
required to review any goodwill balances for impairment 
and consider the underlying assumptions involved in 
calculating the value-in-use of separate parts of the 
business known as cash-generating units (CGUs). The 
Committee observed that the significant proportion 
of the Group’s goodwill relates to the UK CGU. The 
goodwill related to this CGU was considered not 
impaired as it is highly profitable and its recoverable 
amount exceeds its carrying value.
The Committee reviewed a paper from management setting 
out the key assumptions used in the impairment review and 
an associated sensitivity analysis.
It noted the continued improved performance of the US 
business, which has reduced the impairment risk.
In addition, the Group’s auditor provided commentary on 
the matter to the Committee.
Based on the assessment 
performed, the Committee 
concluded that there 
should be no change to the 
recorded goodwill value.
OTHER INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS
The Group is required to make judgements regarding 
the useful economic life and carrying value of all its 
acquired and internally developed software and licences 
and domain names.
During the year, the Group continued to invest in the 
technology platform and to consolidate the online 
presence around the IG.com website. It has also 
assessed the generic top-level domains acquired in 
2014. While management considers there to be a 
long-term economic opportunity, it has impaired the 
asset by £2.7m to reduce the carrying values which are 
currently unsupportable.
As there is a risk of obsolescence for such assets, the 
Committee reviewed a report from management detailing 
the financially significant intangible assets, the rationale for 
their useful economic life, their continued use within the 
business and their remaining carrying value.
Based on the assessment 
performed, the Committee 
concluded that an 
impairment charge of £2.7 
million recorded during the 
year was reasonable.
CORPORATION TAX
Calculating the Group’s current corporation tax charge 
involves a degree of estimation and judgement, as 
the tax treatment of certain items cannot be finally 
determined until resolution has been reached with 
the relevant tax authority. The Group has paid tax in 
respect of the potential tax liability that may arise on 
these unresolved items. However, the amount ultimately 
payable may be materially lower than the amount 
already paid, and could therefore improve the Group’s 
overall profitability and cash flows in future periods.
The Committee reviewed a report from management that 
detailed the assumptions made in calculating the Group’s 
current corporation tax charge and provisions. The Group’s 
auditor also provided commentary on this matter to 
the Committee.
The Committee concluded 
that the corporation tax 
charge and provisions 
recorded by the Group were 
appropriate and complete.
INFORMATION SYSTEMS
The Committee has considered the risk associated with 
information technology relating to super-user access 
to certain legacy areas of the Group’s trading system 
including the risk of fraud.
The Committee reviewed reports from management and 
internal audit on the design, operation and on-going 
monitoring of a number of key controls designed to mitigate 
the risks associated with the super-user access.
The Committee assessed whether the external audit process 
addressed these matters effectively through the reporting 
received from the auditor during the audit cycle.
Additionally, the Committee received confirmation from 
management, the internal auditors and external auditors 
that they were not aware of any instances of fraud.
The Committee 
considered the risk in 
this area to have been 
appropriately managed. 
The Committee’s focus 
is to ensure that the 
Group continues to move 
away from these legacy 
systems, including the 
delivery of a finance 
transformation programme.
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE REPORTING
The Group is required to ensure that its external 
reporting is fair, balanced and understandable.
At the request of the Board, the Committee assessed, via 
discussion with and challenge of management, whether 
disclosures in the Group’s published financial statements 
were fair, balanced and understandable, taking into account 
comments received from investors and others.
The Committee reviewed papers from management and the 
external auditors on legislative changes in financial reporting 
to ensure compliance with requirements.
It sought and obtained confirmation from the Chief Financial 
Officer and his team that they considered the disclosures to 
be fair, balanced and understandable.
It established via reports from management that there were 
no indications of fraud relating to financial reporting matters.
Assessed disclosure controls and procedures.
Having assessed all of the 
available information and 
the assurances provided 
by management, the 
Committee concluded 
that the processes 
underlying the preparation 
of the Group’s published 
financial statements were 
appropriate in ensuring 
that those statements 
were fair, balanced 
and understandable.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
92 EXTERNAL AUDIT
As noted above under the ‘Role of the Audit Committee’ section on page 90, the Committee is responsible for making 
recommendations on the appointment, reappointment and removal of external auditors, and for assessing and agreeing the fees 
payable to the Group’s auditor (both audit and non-audit fees). The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the audit plans and 
reports from the external auditors. The main activities undertaken in relation to the external audit are summarised below:
REPORTING ISSUE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE CONCLUSION/ 
ACTION TAKENEN
OVERSIGHT OF EXTERNAL AUDIT
The Committee is required to oversee the work and 
performance of PwC, including the maintenance of audit 
quality during the period.
The Committee met with the key members of the PwC audit 
team to discuss the 2016 audit plan and agree areas of 
focus.
It assessed regular reports from PwC on the progress of the 
2016 audit and any material issues identified.
It debated the draft audit opinion ahead of 2016 year-end.
The Committee was also briefed by PwC on critical 
accounting estimates, where significant judgement 
is needed.
The Committee approved 
the audit plan and the main 
areas of focus, including 
goodwill impairment, 
valuation of intangible assets 
and IT systems and controls.
Read more about the 
Committee’s role in 
assessing the performance, 
effectiveness and 
independence of the 
external auditor and the 
quality of the external audit 
on page 94.
AUDIT AND AUDIT-RELATED FEES
Audit-related fees include the statutory audit of the 
Group and its subsidiaries, as well as audits required due 
to the regulated nature of our business. Also included 
therein are fees associated with the ISAE 3000 controls 
opinion relating to the Group’s processes and controls 
over client money segregation.
During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved a 
recommendation from management on the Company’s audit 
and audit-related fees.
While there has been an 
increase in the audit fees, 
this is driven by change in 
scope with new offices such 
as Dubai and the Committee 
considers the 2016 audit 
fees to be competitive.
NON-AUDIT SERVICES AND FEES
To safeguard the objectivity and independence of 
the external auditors from becoming compromised, 
the Committee has a formal policy governing the 
engagement of the external auditors to provide non-
audit services. The policy is reviewed on an annual basis 
and this year the Committee reviewed the Group’s policy 
governing non-audit work against, among other things, 
new regulations on the statutory audit of public interest 
entities effective from June 2016.
The policy also sets out considerations and safeguards 
that are required in relation to non-audit services 
provided by the auditors, and the specific services the 
auditors are precluded from providing. Additionally, the 
policy sets out certain permitted services for which the 
Committee has pre-approved management to engage 
the auditors. Details of the policy are provided on the 
corporate website.
The Group is currently updating its internal process 
on engagement of auditors and review of non-audit 
services to ensure that its policy will be in line with 
the new regulation which will impact the Group. Since 
appointing PwC as auditors, the Group has established 
and developed relationships with a number of 
independent advisory and assurance firms which provide 
alternatives to engaging PwC. During the year, PwC has 
performed non-audit services in accordance with the 
non-audit policy.
The Committee reviewed and approved all contracts for 
non-audit fees that were above £0.1 million. Below this level, 
the Chairman of the Audit Committee was notified of new 
instructions for the delivery of non-audit services.
The Committee ensured that firms other than the auditors 
have been considered, following a competitive tender 
process for the provision of a wide range of services, 
including tax advisory services, changes to regulation, tax 
compliance services, risk and regulatory advice.
The Committee also requested and received an explanation 
from PwC of its own in-house independence process.
The Committee ensured there were no exceptions to fee 
limits and approval process per the policy during the year.
During the year, non-audit 
fees of £0.6 million were 
paid to PwC as discussed 
in note 6 to the Financial 
Statements. These 
principally related to tax 
compliance, tax advice, 
and regulatory work.
The Committee continues 
to follow the statutory 
guidance to seek to reduce 
the reliance on the auditors 
for non-audit work.
The Committee has 
proposed and implemented 
a process to ensure, going 
forward, the non-audit 
services and fees are 
reviewed and policies 
are updated in line with 
the expected changes 
in regulation.
93
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED
Effectiveness of the external auditors 
In assessing the effectiveness and independence of the external 
auditors, the Committee considered relevant professional and 
regulatory requirements and the relationship with the auditors 
as a whole. The Committee monitored the auditors’ compliance 
with relevant regulatory, ethical and professional guidance on the 
rotation of partners, and assessed their qualifications, expertise, 
resources as well as the effectiveness of the audit process, 
including a report from the external auditor on its own internal 
quality procedures.
As part of the assessment, a questionnaire, based on criteria 
recommended by professional and governance bodies, 
was completed by the key stakeholders in the Group. The 
questionnaire addressed matters including the auditors’ integrity, 
objectivity, skills and technical knowledge, the quality of planning 
and execution of the audit, the level of challenge applied and the 
auditors’ understanding of the Group’s business. The results were 
analysed and a report was presented to the Committee.
Having reviewed PwC’s performance during 2016, the Committee 
concluded that PwC were independent and that it was in the 
Group’s and shareholders’ interests not to tender the audit in 2016 
and recommends their re-appointment.
Audit tendering and rotation
The Committee remains satisfied with the external audit 
process and is currently not planning to undertake a formal 
retender process until it is required to under legislation for the 
year ending 31 May 2021. The Group is required to change audit 
partner every five years, with this year being the first year for the 
current partner.
COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS 
During the year, the Committee undertook a questionnaire-based 
review of its own effectiveness. The evaluation process was 
externally facilitated by Lintstock Limited as part of the overall 
annual Board effectiveness review. The review concluded that the 
Committee was effective and its performance was highly rated. No 
areas with significant improvement needed were identified.
COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME
The following chart highlights how the Committee spent its time 
during the year ended 31 May 2016.
STATUTORY REPORTING
INTERNAL AUDIT 
MATTERS
RISKS AND CONTROLS
EXTERNAL AUDIT 
MATTERS
OTHER
Jim Newman
Chairman, Audit Committee
19 July 2016
CONTROL ENVIRONMENT
Other matters addressed by the Committee focused on the effectiveness of the Group’s control environment and performance of the 
Group’s IT systems, and the internal audit function, including the objectivity and independence of internal audit personnel.
REPORTING ISSUE ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE CONCLUSION/ACTION 
TAKEN
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Committee is required to oversee 
the performance, resourcing and 
effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
The Committee monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the 
Group’s Internal Audit function in the overall context of the Group’s 
internal controls and risk management systems.
It considered and approved the remit of the Internal Audit function 
and ensure it has adequate resources to perform its function 
effectively.
It reviewed and assessed the risk-based Internal Audit plan.
It reviewed and monitored management’s responsiveness to the 
findings and recommendations of the Internal Audit function.
The Committee received a summary report on the results of the 
work of the Internal Audit function on a periodic basis.
The Committee reviewed the 
resourcing and effectiveness of 
the Internal Audit function and 
approved the risk-based audit 
plan.
The Internal Audit function 
remains effective and has the 
sufficient resources to deliver the 
proposed plan.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CONTROLS
The Group’s operations are heavily 
dependent on information technology (IT). 
There is a risk of loss of financial information 
if finance and other IT systems fail.
The Committee reviewed Internal Audit reports on IT controls and 
assessments of external penetration tests and cyber risk.
From review of the Internal 
Audit assessment reports, the 
Committee concluded that this risk 
is appropriately managed.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
94 BOARD RISK COMMITTEE
 ❚ Considering and recommending for approval by the Board, the 
Risk Appetite Statement (RAS) and Key Risk Indicators (KRIs)
 ❚ Monitoring, reviewing and challenging the Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and Internal Liquidity 
Adequacy Assessment (ILAA) and the Recovery Plan
 ❚ Reviewing and approving the statements to be included in the 
Annual Report concerning controls and risk management
 ❚ Continuing to work closely with other Board Committees where 
risk related input is required
The full Terms of Reference for the Committee can be found on 
the Company’s website, iggroup.com 
MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE
The Board Risk Committee is composed of independent 
Non-Executive Directors and the table below shows the 
Committee members during the year and their attendance 
at Committee meetings. Roger Yates stepped down from the 
Committee following his retirement as a Non-Executive Director 
of the Company. June Felix became a member of the Committee 
following her appointment as a Non-Executive Director of 
the Company.
The Committee is scheduled to meet four times a year 
and additionally as and when required. The Committee’s 
recommendations are referred to the Board and, where 
relevant, other Board Committees (for example, a report to 
the Remuneration Committee on remuneration related risks) 
and the business of the Committee is reported to the following 
Board meeting.
Other than the Company Secretary, who attends all Committee 
meetings, Executive Directors, the Chief Risk Officer and the Head 
of Internal Audit all attend the Committee meetings by invitation. 
Representatives from the finance function and other areas of 
the business attend the Committee meetings by invitation as 
appropriate to the matter under consideration.
The Chairman, Andy Green, was invited to, and attended, 
all meetings.
  SCHEDULED 
MEETINGS ELIGIBLE 
TO ATTEND
SCHEDULED 
MEETINGS 
ATTENDED
Stephen Hill
(1)
4 3
Roger Yates
(2)
1 0
Sam Tymms 4 4
Jim Newman 4 4
June Felix
(3)
4 4
(1) Stephen Hill did not attend one meeting due to illness.
(2) Roger Yates stepped down from the Committee on 15 October 2015.
(3) June Felix joined the Committee on 25 September 2015.
To ensure the Committee discharges its responsibilities 
appropriately, an annual timetable is set around the Committee’s 
Terms of Reference and is approved by the Committee. The 
Company Secretary assists the Chairman of the Committee in 
drafting the agenda for each Committee meeting.
Stephen Hill, Chairman of the Board Risk Committee, gives his review of the Committee’s 
activities during the financial year.
Stephen Hill
Chairman of the Board Risk Committee
CHAIRMAN’S OVERVIEW
During the year, the Board Risk Committee has continued its 
focus on providing oversight and advice to the Board in relation 
to current and potential future risk exposures of the Group and 
future risk strategy. The Committee held two risk review deep-dive 
sessions. The first session was dedicated to an in-depth review 
and challenge of the key components of the Pillar 2 stress-testing 
process, including the methodology employed and the other 
session was dedicated to a review of the Group’s recovery 
planning process and the contents of the Group’s Recovery Plan. 
The Committee conducted an externally facilitated assessment 
of its own effectiveness. Its performance was positively rated and 
its composition was highlighted as a particular strength. Areas 
for further development included the continued development of 
the Committees training programme and further improvements 
to materials provided. We will focus on these areas in the 
coming months.
ROLE OF THE BOARD RISK COMMITTEE
The Committee’s key responsibilities are to help manage current 
and future risk exposures and future risk strategy through:
 ❚ Ensuring risk mitigation consistent with our risk appetite is 
in place and reviewing the Group’s major risk exposures, 
identifying risk trends, material regulatory changes 
concentrations and exposures
 ❚ Reviewing the scope and nature of the work undertaken by 
the control functions specifically in relation to regulatory, 
compliance, client money, anti-money-laundering, conduct and 
culture risks
 ❚ Considering the adequacy and effectiveness of the technology 
infrastructure and supporting documentation in the Risk 
Management Framework
 ❚ Ensuring rigorous stress-testing and scenario-testing of 
the Group’s business and receiving reports that explain the 
impact of identified risks and threats
95
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT KEY AREAS MATTERS CONSIDERED
REPORTING RISKS AND CONTROLS
Regulatory Risk
Operational 
Risk Framework
 ❚ Reviewed the current and expect future regulatory environment and potential impact on IG’s business 
activities
 ❚ Reviewed the current status of the Group’s operational risk framework and recommended areas 
for development
 ❚ Continued focus on improving the operational risk framework and provided input to the Remuneration 
Committee on the risks associated with the Group’s remuneration policy, paying particular attention to 
the design and monitoring of sales-incentive schemes
 ❚ Discussed the operational review of the severe market volatility experienced due to the Swiss 
franc event
Conduct Risk ❚ Discussed the Company’s client onboarding process to assess the possible impact of the processes 
involved in support of promoting fair outcomes for clients under specific circumstances
Culture Risk ❚ Reviewed reports on culture risks to ensure the Group’s continued focus on positive client outcomes
Money Laundering 
Officers’ Report
 ❚ Reviewed the Money Laundering Officers’ Report and made recommendations to the Board on the 
adequacy of the Group’s anti-money-laundering and combating terrorist financing systems and control 
in the management of risks relating to money laundering and terrorist financing
Annual Fraud Report ❚ Received an annual fraud report to review the assessment of the levels of fraud experienced over the 
past financial year.
Market Risk ❚ Reviewed the contingency plans being established to mitigate the EU referendum event risk
IT and Cyber Security ❚ Received a report on cyber security emphasizing the current and emerging cyber landscape and the 
Group’s information strategy for addressing cyber risk
Compliance Reports and 
Internal Audit Reports
 ❚ Reviewed compliance matters relating to the Company’s global operations and summary level 
information on the activity of the Internal Audit department including progress against the Internal 
Audit Plan
CAPITAL AND LIQUIDITY
ICAAP and ILAA ❚ Regularly reviewed the capital and liquidity position of the Company through the ICAAP and ILAA 
documents
 ❚ Approved the scenarios and assumptions for internal stress testing and recommended the documents 
to the Board for approval
Contingency Plan ❚ Considered the Company’s contingency plan and cost mitigation plan
Recovery Plan ❚ Reviewed and recommended to the Board the Group’s first Recovery Plan for approval following 
detailed review of the Group’s risk appetite statement
RISK APPETITE
Risk Appetite and 
KRI development
 ❚ Regularly reviewed the Company’s Risk Appetite Statement to consider how the risk appetite could 
be clearly articulated and what actions should be taken in the event of Key Risk Indicators breaching 
specified thresholds
ACCOUNTABILITY
Remuneration ❚ Considered the key components of the Company’s remuneration framework and the alignment of the 
remuneration policy to risk performance and risk appetite
OTHERS
Client Money Report ❚ Reviewed the Client Money Report and made recommendations to the Board on the adequacy of the 
Group’s processes, systems and controls in the management of risks relating to client money
Quality Assurance Review ❚ Reviewed the Quality Assurance functions and processes together with an overview of performance and 
new initiatives
Review of the Committee 
Terms of Reference
 ❚ Reviewed the Terms of Reference of the Committee to ensure they remain fit for purpose and 
recommended them to the Board for approval
Risk Committee Evaluation ❚ Reviewed its own performance and considered steps that may be required to enhance Committee 
effectiveness. Appropriate recommendations were made to the Board
MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
BOARD RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
96 COMMITTEE ALLOCATION OF TIME
The following chart highlights how the Committee spent its time 
during the year ended 31 May 2016.
REPORTING RISKS AND 
CONTROLS
CAPITAL AND LIQUIDITY
RISK APPETITE
ACCOUNTABILITY
OTHERS
Stephen Hill
Chairman, Risk Committee
19 July 2016
97
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Directors present their report, together with the Group 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 May 2016. The 
Directors’ Report comprises pages 98 to 100 of this report, 
together with the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by 
reference as set out below:
CONTENTS PAGE
Corporate Governance Report 56 to 105
Directors’ Responsibility Statement 101
Financial Instruments 142 to 155
Greenhouse gas emissions 33
Employee involvement  18
Policy concerning the employment of 
disabled persons
18
Viability Statement 54
Directors’ interest in shares 86
Likely future developments 
Risk management and internal control
6 to 54
66
DISCLOSURES REQUIRED PURSUANT TO LISTING 
RULE 9.8.4R
In compliance with the UK Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing 
Rules, the information in Listing Rule 9.8.4R to be included in the 
Annual Report and Accounts where applicable can be found on 
the following pages:
DETAIL PAGE
Waiver of dividends 98
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
In compliance with the UK Financial Conduct Authority’s Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules (DTR) 7.2.1, the disclosures required by 
DTR 7.2.2 to 7.2.7 are set out in this Directors’ Report and in the 
Corporate Governance Report.
PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS
The Group’s statutory profit for the year after taxation amounted 
to £164.3 million (2015: £131.9 million), all of which is attributable 
to the equity members of the Company (2015: £131.9 million).
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 22.95 pence 
per share, amounting to £84.0 million, making a total of 
31.40 pence per share and £114.9 million for the year. Dividends 
are recognised in the Financial Statements for the year in which 
they are paid or, in the case of a final dividend, when approved 
by the shareholders. The amount recognised in the Financial 
Statements, as described in note 12, includes this financial year’s 
interim dividend and the final dividend from the previous year, 
both of which were paid.
The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 
28 October 2016 to those shareholders on the register at 
30 September 2016.
Certain nominee companies representing our employee benefit 
trusts hold shares in the Company in connection with the 
operation of the Company’s share plans and evergreen dividend 
waivers remain in place on shares held by them that have not been 
allocated to employees.
OPERATIONS OUTSIDE THE UNITED KINGDOM
The Group operates in the following locations through a 
branch structure: Australia, South Africa, France, Germany, Italy, 
Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Ireland, Spain, Sweden 
and Poland. It has operating subsidiaries in the US, Singapore, 
Japan, Australia, India, Switzerland and Dubai.
In line with the requirements under the Capital Requirements 
Directive IV, requiring credit institutions and investment firms to 
publish annually certain tax and financial data for each country 
where they operate, the Group’s UK regulated subsidiaries will 
make available their Country by Country Reporting on the Group’s 
website, iggroup.com.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
The Company’s articles of association (‘the Articles’) are 
available from the Group’s website, iggroup.com, or by writing 
to the Company Secretary at the Group’s registered office. 
The Articles can also be obtained from the UK Registrar of 
Companies. Amendments to the Articles can only be made 
by means of a special resolution at a general meeting of the 
Company’s shareholders.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
98 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS
Details of the Directors who held office at the end of the year are set out on pages 58 to 59 and are incorporated into this report by 
reference. Changes to Directors during the year are set out below:
NAME ROLE EFFECTIVE DATE 
OF APPOINTMENT/RESIGNATION
June Felix Non-Executive Director Appointed 4 September 2015
Malcolm Le May Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed 10 September 2015
Roger Yates Non-Executive Director Retired on 15 October 2015
Tim Howkins Executive Director Retired on 15 October 2015
Chris Hill Executive Director Resigned on 30 October 2015
Peter Hetherington succeeded Tim Howkins as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company with effect from 4 December 2015.
APPOINTMENT AND RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS
The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by 
the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code (‘the Code’), 
the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation. The Board has 
the power to appoint any person as a Director to fill a casual 
vacancy or as an additional Director, provided the total number of 
Directors does not exceed the maximum prescribed in the Articles. 
Any such Director holds office only until the next AGM, and is then 
eligible to offer himself or herself for election.
The Articles also require that all those Directors who have been 
in office at the time of the two previous AGMs, and who did not 
retire at either of them, must retire as Directors by rotation. Such 
Directors are eligible to stand for re-election. However, in line 
with the Code’s recommendation that all directors of FTSE 350 
companies should be subject to annual election, all Directors will 
stand for election or re-election at the 2016 AGM.
DIRECTORS’ CONFLICT OF INTERESTS
In accordance with the Act, all Directors must disclose both the 
nature and extent of any potential or actual conflicts with the 
interests of the Company. We explain the procedure for this on 
page 63.
INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES
The Group has Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance in place, 
providing appropriate cover for any legal action brought against 
its Directors. Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions (as 
defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006) were in force 
during the year ended 31 May 2016. These provisions remain in 
force for the benefit of the Directors, in relation to certain losses 
and liabilities which they may incur (or have incurred) to third 
parties in the course of acting as Directors of the Company.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
In the ordinary course of business, the Company regularly 
develops new products and services.
POLITICAL DONATIONS
The Company made no political donations to political 
organisations or independent election candidates and incurred no 
political expenditure in the year (2015: £nil).
SHARE CAPITAL
The Company has three classes of shares: ordinary shares, B 
shares and preference shares. As at 31 May 2016, the Company’s 
issued shares comprised 366,649,075 ordinary shares of 0.005p 
each (representing 99.97% of the total issued share capital), 
65,000 B shares of 0.001p each (representing 0.02% of the total 
issued share capital) and 40,000 preference shares of £1.00 
each (representing 0.01% of the total issued share capital). 
Details of movement in the Company’s share capital and rights 
attached to the issued shares are given in notes 26 and 27 to the 
Financial Statements. Information about the rights attached to the 
Company’s shares can also be found in the Articles. Details of the 
Group’s required regulatory capital are disclosed in note 37 to the 
Financial Statements.
VARIATION OF RIGHTS
Subject to the provisions of applicable statutes, the rights attached 
to any class of shares may be varied either with the consent in 
writing of the holders of at least three-quarters in nominal value 
of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a Special 
Resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the 
shares of that class.
RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SECURITIES
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities in 
the Company, other than as contained in the Articles and certain 
laws or regulations, such as those related to insider trading, 
which may be imposed from time to time. The Directors and 
certain employees of the Company are required to obtain the 
Company’s approval prior to dealing in the Company’s securities. 
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of 
securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities 
or on voting rights.
EXERCISE OF RIGHTS OF SHARES IN EMPLOYEE 
SHARE SCHEMES
The trustees of the IG Group Employee Benefit Trust do not seek 
to exercise voting rights on shares held in the employee trusts, 
other than on the direction of the underlying beneficiaries. No 
voting rights are exercised in relation to shares unallocated to 
individual beneficiaries. The trustees have a dividend waiver in 
place in respect of unallocated shares held in the trust.
99
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS TO ISSUE OR 
PURCHASE THE COMPANY’S SHARES
The Articles permit the Directors to issue or repurchase the 
Company’s own shares, subject to obtaining shareholders’ prior 
approval. The shareholders gave this approval at the 2015 AGM. 
The authority to issue or buy back shares will expire at the 2016 
AGM, and it will be proposed at the meeting that the Directors 
be granted new authorities to issue or buy back shares. The 
Directors currently have authority to purchase up to 36,664,776 
of the Company’s ordinary shares. However, the Company did not 
repurchase any of its ordinary shares during the year. 
During the year, the Company instructed the trustee of the 
Employee Benefit Trust to purchase shares in order to satisfy 
awards under the Group’s share incentive plan schemes. 
The Company also issued shares in respect of the sustained 
performance plan and value-sharing plan schemes. Details of 
the shares held by the Group’s Employee Benefit Trusts and the 
amounts paid during the year are disclosed in note 28 to the 
Financial Statements.
MAJOR INTEREST IN SHARES
Information provided to the Company by major shareholders 
pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)’s Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules (DTRs) is published via a Regulatory 
Information Service and is available on the Company’s website. 
The following information has been received, in accordance with 
DTR5, from holders of notifiable interests in the Company’s issued 
share capital. It should be noted that some of these holdings 
may have changed since the Company received the notification. 
Holders are not required to notify the Company of any change 
until the next applicable threshold is reached or crossed.
  31 MAY 2016
NO. OF SHARES PERCENTAGE
Massachusetts 
Financial 
Services Company
36,584,986 10.00%
Artemis Investment 
Management LLP
18,806,983 5.15%
BlackRock, Inc. 18,313,343 5.01%
Cantillon Capital 
Management LLC
18,309,407 4.99%
Allianz Global 
Investors GmbH
18,303,673 4.99%
Prudential PLC 
Group of Companies
11,066,471 3.00%
As at 19 July 2016, there were no changes to the shareholdings 
shown in the table above.
CHANGE OF CONTROL
Following any future change of control of the Company, the 
Group’s banking facilities, which are currently undrawn (refer to 
note 19 of the Financial Statements), will be cancelled, and any 
obligations will become immediately due and payable.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors 
or employees providing for compensation on any loss of office 
or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid. However, 
options and awards granted to employees under the Company’s 
share schemes and plans may vest on a takeover, under the 
schemes’ provisions.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Company’s AGM will be held on 21 September 2016. Details 
of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM will be sent to all 
shareholders in a separate circular.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
Resolutions to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the 
Company’s auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine 
their remuneration will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 21 
September 2016.
GOING CONCERN
The Directors have prepared the Financial Statements on a 
going-concern basis, which requires them to have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the 
foreseeable future.
The Directors have reviewed the Company and the Group’s 
processes for managing the financial risks to which they 
are exposed, their available liquidity, their regulatory capital 
position and their annual budget. As a result of this review, 
the Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group 
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the 
going-concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF 
INFORMATION TO AUDITORS
So far as each person who was a Director at the date of approving 
this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being 
information needed by the auditors in connection with preparing 
their report, of which the auditors are unaware. Each Director has 
taken all the steps that he or she is obliged to take as a Director 
in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit 
information, and to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information. This confirmation is given pursuant to 
section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted 
in accordance with and subject to these provisions.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
Please refer to note 38 of the Financial Statements.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
100 The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to prepare 
Financial Statements for each financial year. Under this law, the 
Directors have prepared the Group and parent Company Financial 
Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the Financial 
Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company, and of 
the Group’s profit or loss for that financial year. In preparing these 
Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: 
 ❚ Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently
 ❚ Make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent
 ❚ State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and IFRSs issued by the IASB have been followed, 
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in 
the Financial Statements
 ❚ Prepare the Financial Statements on a going-concern basis, 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
Company will continue in business
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions. 
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Group 
and the Company keeps adequate accounting records. These 
records must be sufficient to show and explain the Group and 
the Company’s transactions and disclose the financial position 
of the Group and the Company with reasonable accuracy at any 
time. They must also enable the Directors to ensure that the 
Financial Statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
The Directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Group and the Company, and for taking reasonable steps to 
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
The maintenance and integrity of the Group’s website is also the 
Directors’ responsibility. 
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT 
It is the Directors’ opinion that the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and 
provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the Group and the Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in 
the Corporate Governance Report, confirms that, to the best of 
their knowledge: 
 ❚ The Financial Statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Group and the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole
 ❚ The Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report included within 
this Annual Report provide a fair review of the business’s 
development and performance, the Group and the Company’s 
position and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that the Group and the company face
On behalf of the Board:
Peter Hetherington
Chief Executive Officer
19 July 2016
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
101
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
OUR OPINION
In our opinion:
 ❚ IG Group Holdings plc’s Group financial statements and 
Company financial statements (the “financial statements”) 
give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the 
Company’s affairs as at 31 May 2016 and of the Group’s profit 
and the Group’s and the Company’s cash flows for the year 
then ended
 ❚ the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”) as adopted by the European Union
 ❚ the Company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006
 ❚ the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED
IG Group Holdings plc’s financial statements comprise:
 ❚ the Group and Company Statements of Financial Position as at 
31 May 2016
 ❚ the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of 
Comprehensive Income for the year then ended
 ❚ the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements for the year 
then ended
 ❚ the Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for 
the year then ended
 ❚ the notes to the financial statements, which include a 
summary of significant accounting policies and other 
explanatory information
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the 
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. 
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and 
identified as audited. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the 
preparation of the financial statements is IFRS as adopted by the 
European Union, and applicable law and, as regards the Company 
financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH
Overview
We present below an overview of our audit approach, the details of which are considered within our audit report:
  ❚ Overall Group materiality: £10 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
  ❚ The Group consists of a UK holding company with a number of subsidiary entities and 
branches containing the operating businesses of both the UK and overseas territories. The 
accounting records for both the UK and overseas businesses are primarily maintained and 
controlled by the Group finance team in London.
 ❚ We have determined the appropriate work to perform based on the consolidated balances 
of the Group. As a result, the audit work was primarily performed by the Group audit team 
in London, reflecting the centralised nature of the business.
  ❚ Revenue recognition.
 ❚ Risk of management override of internal controls, incorporating super-user access to IT 
systems relevant to the financial reporting process.
Materiality
Audit scope
Areas of
focus
THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT AND OUR AREAS OF FOCUS
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”).
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In 
particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates 
that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits we also addressed 
the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that 
represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are 
identified as “areas of focus” in the table below. We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order 
to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be 
read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. 
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
102 AREA OF FOCUS HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE AREA OF FOCUS
REVENUE RECOGNITION
The Group provides its clients access to a broad range of 
financial markets, predominantly through spreadbetting and 
contract-for-difference (“CFD”) activities.
The Group’s trading revenue predominantly comprises net 
revenues from these spreadbetting and CFD transactions placed 
by clients, and the net gains or losses from the hedging trades 
that the Group places with external counterparties to manage 
its risk.
All of the client trading transactions and the Group’s related 
hedging transactions are recorded in the Universe system, and 
the net position at each month end is recorded in the Oracle 
general ledger.
We focused firstly on testing the control environment in which 
revenue is recorded. In particular we tested controls directly 
associated with revenue transaction reporting, and the valuation 
of year-end positions held by clients with the Group. We 
also tested controls associated with cash reconciliations and 
reconciliations with external counterparties through the year.
We agreed all cash accounts to external third party evidence at 
year-end through a combination of independent confirmations 
and examination of bank statements, and amounts and positions 
held with hedging counterparties to external third party evidence.
Finally, to address the risk that improper adjustments or 
transactions had been entered into the trading systems, we 
reviewed client activity reports and read a sample of customer 
complaints, as well as testing a sample of accounts for 
authenticity to identify any instances where revenue might have 
been improperly recognised.
We identified a number of exceptions in our testing of the control 
environment, but have performed sufficient additional procedures 
to conclude that they do not have a material impact on revenue.
RISK OF MANAGEMENT OVERRIDE OF INTERNAL 
CONTROLS INCORPORATING SUPER-USER 
ACCESS TO UNIVERSE
International Standards on Auditing (UK & Ireland) (ISAs (UK & 
Ireland)) require that we consider this to be a significant risk as 
management is in a unique position to perpetrate fraud, because 
of their ability to manipulate accounting records and prepare 
fraudulent financial statements by overriding controls that 
otherwise appear to be operating effectively.
Although management is responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the business, we planned our audit so that we had a 
reasonable expectation of detecting material misstatements in 
the financial statements and accounting records.
Specifically in relation to information technology, the risk relates 
to super-user access to Universe, the main client ledger system, 
by certain individuals in order to perform their role. Those 
individuals have an opportunity to commit and conceal fraud.
We understood and tested key controls in place over the 
financial reporting process. Specifically, in relation to information 
technology, we performed testing of the IT general controls 
related to Universe, including access rights. Additionally we 
tested the controls mitigating the risks relating to Universe 
super-user access including controls that would identify 
unexpected changes to data which could impact the financial 
statements, and reconciliations of Universe reports to external 
third party sources including broker and bank reconciliations. We 
did not identify any material exceptions.
We tested the fraud risk assessment performed by management 
and the preventative and detective controls in place in the Group 
with no material exceptions noted from our testing. We tested 
the appropriateness and authorisation of journal entries that we 
identified as unusual and no issues arose from this work.
We examined significant one-off transactions and considered 
their accounting treatment with no exceptions arising. We 
also incorporated an element of unpredictability into our 
testing approach.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall Group materiality £10 million (2015: £8.5 million).
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with last year, we applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, as 
it is the most relevant metric against which the performance of the Group is measured.
HOW WE TAILORED THE AUDIT SCOPE
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed 
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 
statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic 
structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, 
and the industry in which the Group operates. 
The Group consists of a UK holding company with a number of 
subsidiary entities and branches containing the UK and overseas 
operating businesses. The accounting records for the UK and 
overseas businesses are primarily maintained by the Group 
finance team in London. As a result, the audit work was primarily 
performed by the Group audit team in London.
MATERIALITY
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of 
materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. 
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us 
to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing 
and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial 
statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect 
of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements 
as a whole. 
103
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT CONTINUED
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING
CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
ISAs (UK & IRELAND) REPORTING
UNDER ISAS (UK & IRELAND) WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT TO YOU IF, IN OUR OPINION:
 ❚ Information in the Annual Report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the 
Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions 
to report arising from 
this responsibility.
 ❚ the statement given by the directors on page 101, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole 
to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members 
to assess the Group’s and Company’s performance, business model and strategy is materially 
inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing 
our audit.
We have no exceptions 
to report arising from 
this responsibility.
 ❚ the section of the Annual Report on pages 92 to 93, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, 
describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated 
by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions 
to report arising from 
this responsibility.
THE DIRECTORS’ ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD 
THREATEN THE VIABILITY OF THE GROUP
UNDER ISAS (UK & IRELAND) WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT TO YOU IF WE HAVE ANYTHING MATERIAL TO ADD OR TO 
DRAW ATTENTION TO IN RELATION TO:
 ❚ the directors’ confirmation on page 54 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of 
the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, 
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
 ❚ the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being 
managed or mitigated.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
 ❚ the directors’ explanation on page 54 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of 
the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have 
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether 
they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet 
its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures 
drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing material to 
add or to draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal 
risks facing the Group and the directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group. Our review was substantially 
less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting their statements; 
checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code; and considering whether the statements are 
consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to report having performed 
our review.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to 
them misstatements identified during our audit above £508,000 
(2015: £420,000) as well as misstatements below that amount that, 
in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
GOING CONCERN 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors’ 
Statement, set out on page 100, in relation to going concern. We 
have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we 
have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation 
to the directors’ statement about whether they considered it 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. We have nothing material to add or to draw 
attention to. 
As noted in the Directors’ Statement, the directors have 
concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements. The going concern basis 
presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources 
to remain in operation, and that the directors intend them to do 
so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements 
were signed. As part of our audit we have concluded that the 
directors’ use of the going concern basis is appropriate. However, 
because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these 
statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
104 ADEQUACY OF ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND 
INFORMATION AND EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
 ❚ we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
 ❚ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 ❚ the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with 
the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Directors’ remuneration report –  
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report 
arising from this responsibility. 
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions 
of the Code. We have nothing to report having performed 
our review.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT
OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE 
DIRECTORS
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 101, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the 
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs 
(UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to 
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
INVOLVES
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: 
 ❚ whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; 
 ❚ the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and
 ❚ the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the 
directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming 
our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the 
financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other 
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to 
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain 
audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, 
substantive procedures or a combination of both. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for 
our report.
Darren Meek (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
19 July 2016
105
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ’Our information 
technology audits 
provide assurance 
on the Group’s IT 
control environment, 
further ensuring 
data integrity and 
reducing financial 
reporting risks.’
Amjad Ghalib
IT Internal Audit Manager
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
106 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
1. Presentation, critical accounting estimates 
and judgements
2. Underlying results for the year ended 31 May 2015
3(a). Net trading revenue
3(b). Other operating income
4. Segment information
5. Operating expenses
6. Auditors’ remuneration
7. Staff costs
8. Finance income
9. Finance costs
10. Taxation
11. Earnings per ordinary share
12. Dividends
13. Property, plant and equipment
14. Intangible assets
15. Investment in subsidiaries
16. Goodwill
17. Trade receivables
18(a). Cash and cash equivalents
18(b). Client funds and assets
19. Liquidity analysis and risk management
20. Cash generated from operations
21. Financial investments
22. Trade payables
23. Other payables
24. Provisions
25. Contingent liabilities
26. Redeemable preference shares
27. Share capital 
28. Own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts
29. Other reserves
30. Employee share plans
31. Capital commitments
32. Obligations under leases
33. Transactions with Directors
34. Related party transactions
35. Financial instruments
36. Financial risk management
37. Capital management and resources
38. Subsequent events
39. Authorisation of financial statements and statement 
of compliance with IFRS
40. Accounting policies
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS
PRIMARY STATEMENTS
GROUP INCOME STATEMENT 108
GROUP STATEMENT OF 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 108
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION 109
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 110
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS 112
107
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GROUP INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2016
   
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
  Note £m £m
Trading revenue   487.9 422.1
Interest income on segregated client funds 3(a) 3.8 4.9
    491.7 427.0
Interest expense on segregated client funds   (0.4) (0.4)
Introducing partner commissions   (31.6) (33.7)
Betting duty and financial transaction taxes   (11.2) (6.3)
Other operating income 3(b) 0.6 0.6
Net operating income 4 449.1 387.2
Analysed as:      
Net trading revenue 3(a) 456.3 388.4
Other net operating loss   (7.2) (1.2)
Operating expenses 5 (241.5) (217.6)
Operating profit   207.6 169.6
Finance income 8 2.0 1.8
Finance costs 9 (1.7) (1.9)
Profit before taxation   207.9 169.5
Taxation 10 (43.6) (37.6)
Profit for the year   164.3 131.9
       
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent   164.3 131.9
Earnings per ordinary share Note 2016 2015
Basic 11 44.94p 36.13p
Diluted 11 44.58p 35.99p
GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2016
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015
  £m £m £m £m
Profit for the year   164.3   131.9
Other comprehensive (expense)/income:
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss:
Change in value of available-for-sale financial assets (0.1)   0.3  
Foreign currency translation income on overseas subsidiaries 4.5   0.6  
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 4.4 0.9
Total comprehensive income for the year 168.7 132.8
Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent  168.7 132.8
All items of other comprehensive income or expense may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss.
The items of comprehensive income noted above are stated net of related tax effects.
The notes on pages 113 to 165 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
108 STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
AT 31 MAY 2016
    Group Company
    31 May 2016 31 May 2015 31 May 2016 31 May 2015
  Note £m £m £m £m
Assets
Non–current assets
Property, plant and equipment 13 13.0 13.3 – –
Intangible assets 14 125.1 124.0 – –
Investment in subsidiaries 15 – – 486.8 479.8
Financial investments 21 25.0 75.5 – –
Deferred tax assets 10 7.2 7.1 – –
170.3 219.9 486.8 479.8
Current assets
Trade receivables 17 278.5 269.6 – –
Prepayments and other receivables 12.4 12.2 131.9 202.8
Cash and cash equivalents 18 218.8 148.8 – –
Financial investments 21 111.0 32.9 – –
620.7 463.5 131.9 202.8
TOTAL ASSETS 791.0 683.4 618.7 682.6
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade payables 22 43.4 17.7 – –
Other payables 23 70.8 61.2 35.7 126.5
Income tax payable 13.8 13.1 – –
128.0 92.0 35.7 126.5
Non–current liabilities
Redeemable preference shares 26 – – – –
Total liabilities 128.0 92.0 35.7 126.5
Equity
Share capital 27 – – – –
Share premium 27 206.8 206.8 206.8 206.8
Other reserves 29 102.2 91.8 45.3 39.3
Retained earnings 354.0 292.8 330.9 310.0
Total equity 663.0 591.4 583.0 556.1
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 791.0 683.4 618.7 682.6
The Financial Statements on pages 108 to 112 were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 July 2016 and signed on its behalf by:
Peter Hetherington 
Chief Executive Officer
Registered Company number: 04677092
109
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2016
 
Share 
capital
(note 27)
Share 
premium
(note 27)
Other 
reserves 
(note 29)
Retained 
earnings
 
Total 
 
Non-
controlling 
interests
 
Total 
equity 
 
Group £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 June 2014 – 206.8 85.4 273.7 565.9 – 565.9
Profit for the year – – – 131.9 131.9 – 131.9
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 0.9 – 0.9 – 0.9
Profit for the year and total comprehensive income – – 0.9 131.9 132.8 – 132.8
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 
(note 30)
– – 5.3 – 5.3 – 5.3
Excess of tax deduction benefit on share-based 
payments recognised directly in equity (note 10)
– – 0.5 – 0.5 – 0.5
Purchase of own shares – – (0.3) – (0.3) – (0.3)
Equity dividends paid (note 12) – – – (112.8) (112.8) – (112.8)
Movement in equity – – 6.4 19.1 25.5 – 25.5
At 31 May 2015 – 206.8 91.8 292.8 591.4 – 591.4
Profit for the year – – – 164.3 164.3 – 164.3
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 4.4 – 4.4 – 4.4
Profit for the year and total comprehensive income – – 4.4 164.3 168.7 – 168.7
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 
(note 30)
– – 7.0 – 7.0 – 7.0
Excess of tax deduction benefit on share-based 
payments recognised directly in equity (note 10)
– – – – – – –
Purchase of own shares – – (1.0) – (1.0) – (1.0)
Equity dividends paid (note 12) – – – (103.1) (103.1) – (103.1)
Movement in equity – – 10.4 61.2 71.6 – 71.6
At 31 May 2016 – 206.8 102.2 354.0 663.0 – 663.0
The notes on pages 113 to 165 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
110 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2016
 
Share capital 
(note 27)
Share 
premium
(note 27)
Other 
reserves
(note 29)
Retained 
earnings
 
Total 
equity 
 
Company £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 June 2014 – 206.8 34.3 360.1 601.2
Profit for the year and total comprehensive income – – – 62.7 62.7
Equity-settled employee share-based payments (note 30) – – 5.3 – 5.3
Purchase of own shares – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Equity dividends paid (note 12) – – – (112.8) (112.8)
Movement in equity – – 5.0 (50.1) (45.1)
At 31 May 2015 – 206.8 39.3 310.0 556.1
Profit for the year and total comprehensive income – – – 124.0 124.0
Equity-settled employee share-based payments (note 30) – – 7.0 – 7.0
Purchase of own shares – – (1.0) – (1.0)
Equity dividends paid (note 12) – – – (103.1) (103.1)
Movement in equity – – 6.0 20.9 26.9
At 31 May 2016 – 206.8 45.3 330.9 583.0
The notes on pages 113 to 165 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
111
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2016
    Group Company
   
Year ended  
31 May 2016
Year ended  
31 May 2015 
Year ended  
31 May 2016
Year ended  
31 May 2015 
  Note £m £m £m £m
Cash generated from operations 20 223.7 210.4 104.8 112.8
Income taxes paid (42.5) (42.9) – –
Interest received on segregated client funds 3.8 4.9 –  –
Interest paid on segregated client funds (0.4) (0.4) – –
Net cash flow from operating activities 184.6 172.0 104.8 112.8
Investing activities
Interest received 1.1 0.8 – –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (5.1) (6.0) – –
Payments to acquire intangible assets (8.6) (6.4) – –
Proceeds from maturity of financial investments and 
coupon receipts
34.5 51.3 – –
Purchase of financial investments (32.4) (51.1) – –
Net cash flow used in investing activities (10.5) (11.4) – –
Financing activities
Interest paid (1.3) (1.9) (0.7) –
Equity dividends paid to owners of the parent 12 (103.1) (112.8) (103.1) (112.8)
Purchase of own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts (1.0) – (1.0) –
Proceeds from draw down of committed banking facility 19(c) 200.0 100.0 – –
Repayment of committed banking facility 19(c) (200.0) (100.0) – –
Net cash flow used in financing activities (105.4) (114.7) (104.8) (112.8)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 68.7 45.9 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 148.8 101.5 – –
Exchange profit on cash and cash equivalents 1.3 1.4 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 18 218.8 148.8 – –
The notes on pages 113 to 165 are an integral part of these Financial Statements.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
112 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. PRESENTATION, CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported for assets 
and liabilities, as at the year-end, and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year. The nature of estimates means 
that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
In the Directors’ opinion, the accounting estimates or judgments that have the most significant impact, on the measurement of items 
recorded in the financial statements, the useful economic life applied to the intangible assets and the calculation of the Group’s current 
corporation tax charge (refer to note 10(b), 10(d) and 10(e)).
The assessment of the useful economic life of the Group’s internally developed and acquired software, licenses, domain name and 
generic top-level domain based intangible assets is judgmental and can change due to obsolescence as a result of unforeseen  
technological developments. The useful life for licenses represents management’s view of the expected term over which the Group will 
receive benefits from the software, and does not exceed the licence term. For internally developed and acquired software and domain 
assets the life is based on historical experience with similar products as well as anticipation of future events which may impact their 
useful economic life (refer to note 14, note 16, note 40.5 and note 40.6).
The calculation of the Group’s current corporation tax charge involves a degree of estimation and judgment with respect of certain items 
whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority. The Group has made 
tax payments in respect of the potential tax liability that may arise on these unresolved items, however, the amount ultimately payable 
may be materially lower than the amount already paid and could therefore improve the overall profitability and cash flows of the Group 
in future periods.
The measurement of the Group’s net trading revenue is predominately based on quoted market prices (refer to note 35 for the 
financial instrument valuation hierarchy disclosures) and accordingly involves little judgment. However, the calculation of the segmental 
net trading revenue, as the Group manages risk and hedges on a group-wide portfolio basis, involves the use of an allocation 
methodology. This allocation methodology does not impact on the overall Group net trading revenue disclosed.
113
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. UNDERLYING RESULTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2015
The Directors regard the adjustment of exceptional items in the Financial Statements, as detailed below, necessary to provide greater 
comparability of the results of the Group for the year. 
Exceptional items – Swiss franc event impact
In the prior year, the Swiss National Bank announced that it had ceased intervention in the exchange rate between the Swiss franc 
and Euro. This caused a sudden extreme appreciation in the value of the franc, accompanied by a lack of market liquidity which lasted 
several minutes and resulted in a negative financial impact to the Group of £18.8 million. This impact on profit before tax and diluted 
earnings per share for the prior year is shown below. There are no exceptional items to report for the year ended 31 May 2016.
     
Underlying 
Year ended 
31 May 2015
Swiss franc 
event impact 
 
Statutory 
Year ended 
31 May 2015
  Note   £m £m £m
Net operating income   399.4 12.2 387.2
Analysed as:          
Net trading revenue   400.2 11.8 388.4
Other net operating (loss)/income
(1)
  (0.8) 0.4 (1.2)
Operating expenses
(2)
  (206.1) 11.5 (217.6)
Operating profit   193.3 23.7 169.6
Finance income 8 1.8 – 1.8
Finance costs 9 (1.9) – (1.9)
Profit before taxation   193.2 23.7 169.5
Taxation 10 (42.5) (4.9) (37.6)
Profit for the year   150.7 18.8 131.9
Earnings per ordinary share          
– basic   41.27p 5.14p 36.13p
– diluted   41.07p 5.08p 35.99p
(1)  £0.4 million Swiss franc event impact relates to betting duty. 
(2) Included in operating expenses was £11.5 million, made up of £15.1 million of Swiss franc related bad debts charge, a decrease in employee bonuses of £3.1 million and £0.5 
million related to sustained performance plan (SPP) share schemes. 
Segment net trading revenue 
  UK Europe Australia Rest of World Central Total
Year ended 31 May 2015 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net trading revenue 206.0 76.9 58.1 47.4 – 388.4
Underlying net trading revenue 211.9 80.9 59.2 48.2 – 400.2
Own funds generated from operations 
  Statutory
Swiss franc 
event impact  Underlying 
Year ended 31 May 2015 £m £m £m
Own funds generated from operations 136.8 22.4 159.2
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
114 3. TURNOVER
3(a) NET TRADING REVENUE
Net trading revenue represents trading revenue from financial instruments carried at fair value through profit or loss after introducing 
partner commission, and commission earned from providing the execution only share dealing service. This is consistent with the 
management information received by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (refer to note 4). Net trading revenue is analysed as follows:
 
Year ended  
31 May 2016
Year ended  
31 May 2015 
  £m £m
Net trading revenue
Contracts for difference
240.9 205.8
Spread betting
166.6 146.2
Binaries
48.0 36.2
Share dealing commission
0.8 0.2
Total net trading revenue
456.3 388.4
Interest income on segregated client funds
3.8 4.9
In addition to the above, finance income is disclosed in note 8. The Group does not derive more than ten percent of external revenue 
from any one single client. 
3(b) OTHER OPERATING INCOME
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
  £m £m
Administrative charges to clients 0.6 0.6
The Group charges inactivity fees for those accounts on which clients have not traded for two years.
4. SEGMENT INFORMATION
The segment information is presented as follows:
 ❚ Segment net trading revenue has been disclosed after taking into account introducing partner commissions, as this is consistent with 
the management information received by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), being the Executive Directors
 ❚ Net trading revenue is reported by the location of the office that manages the underlying client relationship and aggregated into the 
disclosable segments of UK, Australia, Europe and Rest of World. The Rest of World segment comprises the Group’s operations in 
Japan, South Africa, Singapore, the USA and Dubai
 ❚ The UK segment comprises the Group’s operations in the UK and Ireland
 ❚ The Europe segment comprises the Group’s operations in France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, 
Sweden and Switzerland
 ❚ Segment contribution, being segment trading revenue less directly incurred costs, as the measure of segment profit and loss 
reported to the CODM
The UK segment derives its revenue from financial spread bets, contracts for difference (CFDs), binary options and execution only 
stockbroking. The Australian segment derives its revenue from CFDs and binary options. The European segment derives its revenue 
from CFDs, binary options and execution only stockbroking. The businesses reported within Rest of World derive revenue from the 
operation of a regulated futures and options exchange as well as CFDs and binary options.
115
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4. SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED
The Group employs a centralised operating model whereby market risk is managed principally in the UK, switching to Australia outside 
of UK hours. The costs associated with these operations are included in the Central segment, together with central costs of senior 
management, IT development, marketing and other support functions. As the Group manages risk and hedges on a group-wide 
portfolio basis, the following segmental revenue analysis involves the use of an allocation methodology. Interest income and expense 
on segregated client funds is managed and reported to the CODM centrally and thus has been reported in the Central segment. In the 
following analysis, the Central segment costs have been further allocated to the other reportable segments based on a number of cost 
allocation assumptions and segment net trading revenue.
  UK  Europe  Australia Rest of World Central  Total 
Year ended 31 May 2016 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment net trading revenue 231.1 98.6 64.0 62.6 – 456.3
Interest income on segregated client funds – – – – 3.8 3.8
  231.1 98.6 64.0 62.6 3.8 460.1
Interest expense on segregated client funds – – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Other operating income – – – – 0.6 0.6
Betting duty and financial transaction taxes (10.8) (0.4) – – – (11.2)
Net operating income 220.3 98.2 64.0 62.6 4.0 449.1
Segment contribution 174.1 59.8 54.5 36.1 (104.2) 220.3
Allocation of central income and costs (52.6) (23.5) (15.3) (12.8) 104.2 –
Depreciation and amortisation (7.6) (2.2) (1.2) (1.7) – (12.7)
Operating profit 113.9 34.1 38.0 21.6 – 207.6
Net finance income 0.3
Profit before taxation 207.9
  UK  Europe  Australia Rest of World  Central  Total 
Year ended 31 May 2015 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment net trading revenue 206.0 76.9 58.1 47.4 – 388.4
Interest income on segregated client funds – – – – 4.9 4.9
  206.0 76.9 58.1 47.4 4.9 393.3
Interest expense on segregated client funds – – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Other operating income – – – – 0.6 0.6
Betting duty and financial transaction taxes (5.8) (0.4) (0.1) – – (6.3)
Net operating income 200.2 76.5 58.0 47.4 5.1 387.2
Segment contribution 154.5 35.1 48.3 25.6 (83.2) 180.3
Allocation of central income and costs (41.6) (19.0) (12.5) (10.1) 83.2 –
Depreciation and amortisation (5.6) (2.2) (1.4) (1.5) – (10.7)
Operating profit 107.3 13.9 34.4 14.0 – 169.6
Net finance costs (0.1)
Profit before taxation 169.5
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
116 5. OPERATING EXPENSES 
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
Group £m £m
This is stated after charging/(crediting):
   
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5.2  5.7
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 7.5  5.0
Advertising and marketing 49.7  37.8
Net charge for impaired trade receivables
(1)
1.6  16.1
Operating lease rentals for buildings 6.1  5.3
Foreign exchange gains
(2)
(0.2)  (0.6)
(1) Net charge for impaired trade receivables in 2015 includes £15.1 million in relation to the Swiss franc event (refer to note 36).
(2) All of the above, except foreign exchange differences are included in operating expenses within the Income Statement. Foreign exchange gains and losses are included 
in revenue.
6. AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION 
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
Group £m £m
Audit fees    
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the parent Company and consolidated financial 
statements
0.4 0.4
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for the statutory and non-statutory audits of the 
accounts of subsidiaries and branches of the Company
0.3 0.3
Total audit fees 0.7 0.7
Audit-related fees
(1)
   
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for audit-related assurance services:
• Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.1
• Other audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1
Total audit-related fees 0.3 0.2
Non-audit services and fees    
Other services relating to taxation    
• Tax compliance services
(2)
0.1 0.2
• Tax advisory services
(3)
0.5 0.3
Services relating to regulatory advice
(4)
– 0.1
Services relating to strategic advice
(5)
– 0.3
Total non-audit services and fees 0.6 0.9
(1) Includes the Group’s audit fee as well as services that are specifically required of the Group’s auditors through legislative or contractual requirements, controls assurance 
engagements required of the auditors by the regulatory authorities in whose jurisdiction the Group operates and other audit related assurance services.
(2) Includes corporate and other tax compliance and filing services which are closely related to the audit process.
(3) Includes advice relating to the Group’s transfer pricing policies, sales taxes, tax structures and other general tax advice.
(4) Includes services provided in relation to regulatory requirements and other regulatory advice.
(5) Includes strategic advice to the Board.
An overview of the Audit Committee’s review of Auditors’ remuneration, non-audit services and fee policy can be found in the Corporate 
Governance Statement.
117
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7. STAFF COSTS 
The staff costs for the year, including Directors, were as follows:
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
Group £m £m
Wages and salaries 97.5 79.4
Social security costs 11.2 9.2
Other pension costs (in relation to defined contribution schemes)
(1)
4.8 5.7
113.5 94.3
(1)  The Group does not operate any defined benefit pension schemes.
Staff costs, including Directors, include the following amounts in respect of performance-related bonuses, and share-based payments 
(inclusive of national insurance) charged to the Income Statement: 
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
Group £m £m
Performance-related bonuses 21.9 14.0
Equity-settled share-based payment schemes 8.3 6.3
  30.2 20.3
The Directors’ remuneration for the years ended 31 May 2016 and 31 May 2015, can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 81 and 82. 
The average monthly number of employees, including Directors, was made up as follows: 
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
Group Number Number
IT development 507 479
IT support 94 81
Sales, marketing and client support 555 488
Dealing 45 38
Management and administrative 211 201
  1,412 1,287
8. FINANCE INCOME
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
Group £m £m
Bank interest receivable 0.8 0.7
Interest receivable from brokers 0.3 0.4
Interest accretion on financial investments 0.9 0.7
  2.0 1.8
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
118 9. FINANCE COSTS
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
Group £m £m
Liquidity facility arrangement and non-utilisation fees 1.1 1.2
Interest payable to clients 0.1 0.1
Interest payable to brokers 0.4 0.1
Bank interest payable 0.1 0.1
Other charges – 0.4
  1.7 1.9
Interest payable to clients relates to interest paid or accrued to clients in relation to title transfer funds (refer to note 18). 
10. TAXATION
10(a) TAX ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES
Tax charged in the Income Statement:
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
Group £m £m
Current income tax:    
UK Corporation Tax  41.0 34.3
Foreign tax  3.5 3.8
Adjustment in respect of prior years  (0.9) (1.0)
Total current income tax  43.6 37.1
Deferred income tax:    
Origination and reversal of temporary differences  (0.2) (0.4)
Adjustment in respect of prior years  0.3 0.9
Impact of change in tax rates on deferred tax  (0.1) –
Total deferred income tax (note 10(d))  – 0.5
Tax expense in the Income Statement (note 10(b))  43.6 37.6
10(b) RECONCILIATION OF THE TOTAL TAX CHARGE 
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 21% to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015. Accordingly, the effective 
corporation tax for the year ended 31 May 2016 is 20%, and that for the year ended 31 May 2015 is calculated at 20.83% of the 
estimated assessable profit in the UK. Taxation outside the UK is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. The tax 
expense in the Income Statement for the year can be reconciled as set out below:
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
Group £m £m
Profit before taxation  207.9 169.5
Profit multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 20.00% (2015: 20.83%)  41.6 35.3
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes  0.3 0.5
Impact of timing differences not recognised  0.8 1.2
Higher taxes on overseas earnings  1.4 0.7
Adjustment in respect of prior years  (0.6) (0.1)
Impact of change in tax rates on deferred tax  0.1 –
Total tax expense reported in the Income Statement  43.6 37.6
The effective tax rate is 21.00% (2015: 22.18%). 
119
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
10. TAXATION CONTINUED
10(c) DEFERRED INCOME TAX ASSETS
The deferred income tax assets included in the Statement of Financial Position are as follows: 
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
Group £m £m
Tax losses available for offset against future tax 1.9 1.8
Share-based payments 1.7 1.5
Other timing differences 3.6 3.8
7.2 7.1
The tax losses available for offset against future tax relate to operating losses arising in the US consolidated tax group, the recoverability 
of which is dependent on sufficient future operating profits in those entities. A deferred income tax asset is recognised where it is 
considered probable that the US consolidated tax group will generate future operating profits which can be offset against the tax losses 
carried forward. Where it is not anticipated that future operating profits will be generated against which the losses can be offset, a 
deferred income tax asset is not recognised. 
Share-based payment awards have been charged to the Income Statement but are not allowable as a tax deduction until the awards 
vest. The excess of tax relief in future years over the amount charged to the Income Statement is recognised as a credit directly to 
equity. The movement in the deferred income tax assets included in the Statement of Financial Position is as follows:
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
Group £m £m
At the beginning of the year 7.1 7.1
Income Statement charge (note 10 (d)) – (0.5)
Tax credited directly to equity – 0.5
Foreign currency adjustment 0.1 –
At the end of the year 7.2 7.1
10(d) DEFERRED INCOME TAX – INCOME STATEMENT CREDIT
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
Group £m £m
The deferred income tax charge included in the Income Statement is made up as follows:
Decelerated capital allowances (0.2) (0.4)
Share-based payments – 0.1
Other timing differences 0.2 (0.2)
Income Statement charge – (0.5)
The deferred tax credited to equity during the year is as follows:
Share-based payments – (0.5)
The Finance Act 2015 passed into legislation in July 2015 and changed the main rate of UK corporation tax for future periods. The rate 
will reduce from 20% to 19% effective from 1 April 2017 and will further reduce to 18% with effect from 1 April 2020. The impact of 
these changes on deferred tax have been assessed and deferred tax assets and liabilities have been assessed at the tax rates that are 
expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability settled. The deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended 31 May 
2015 were calculated at the then substantively enacted rate for all future periods which was 20%.
10(e) FACTORS AFFECTING THE TAX CHARGE IN FUTURE YEARS
Factors that may affect the Group’s future tax charge include the geographic location of the Group’s earnings, the tax rates in those 
locations, changes in tax legislation, future planning opportunities, the use of brought-forward tax losses and the resolution of open tax 
issues. The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge involves a degree of estimation and judgment with respect to the recognition of 
deferred tax assets (refer to note 10(d)) and of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been 
reached with the relevant tax authority. The Group has made tax payments in respect of the potential tax liability that may arise on these 
unresolved items, however, the amount ultimately payable may be materially lower than the amount already paid and could therefore 
improve the overall profitability and cash flows of the Group in future periods.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
120 11. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Company and held as own shares in 
Employee Benefit Trusts. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using the same profit figure as that used in basic earnings per share 
and by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive ordinary shares 
arising from share schemes. The following reflects the income and share data used in the earnings per share computation:
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
Group £m £m
Profit for the year 164.3 131.9
Earnings attributable to non-controlling interests – –
Earnings attributable to owners of the parent 164.3 131.9
Weighted average number of shares
Basic 365,620,585 365,199,825
Dilutive effect of share-based payments 2,910,404 1,383,806
Diluted 368,530,989 366,583,631
Group
Year ended 
31 May 2016
pence
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
pence
Basic earnings per share 44.94 36.13
Diluted earnings per share 44.58 35.99
12. DIVIDENDS
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
Company and Group £m £m
Declared and paid during the year:
Final dividend for 2015 at 19.70p per share (2014: 22.40p) 72.2 81.9
Interim dividend for 2016 at 8.45p per share (2015: 8.45p) 30.9 30.9
103.1 112.8
Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM:
Final dividend for 2016 at 22.95p per share (2015: 19.70p) 84.0 71.8
The final dividend for 2016 of 22.95p per share amounting to £84.0 million was proposed by the Board on 14 July 2016 and has not 
been included as a liability at 31 May 2016. This dividend will be paid on 28 October 2016, following approval at the Company’s AGM, 
to those members on the register at the close of business on 30 September 2016.
Whilst the Company has the obligation to pay the dividends, the physical payment is made by a subsidiary company.
The dividend paid or declared in relation to the financial year are set out below:
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015 
  pence pence
Dividend declared per share:
Interim dividend 8.45 8.45
Final dividend 22.95 19.70
31.40 28.15
121
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
Leasehold 
improvements
Office 
equipment, 
fixtures and 
fittings
Computer 
and other 
equipment  Total
Group £m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 June 2014 17.9 2.4 15.2 35.5
Foreign currency adjustment (0.1) – – (0.1)
Additions 1.0 0.3 4.6 5.9
Written off – – (1.0) (1.0)
At 31 May 2015 18.8 2.7 18.8 40.3
Foreign currency adjustment 0.1  –  0.1  0.2 
Additions 1.0  0.5  3.2  4.7 
Written off (0.3)  (0.1)  (0.4)  (0.8) 
At 31 May 2016 19.6  3.1  21.7  44.4 
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 June 2014 8.8 1.7 12.0 22.5
Foreign currency adjustment (0.1) – (0.1) (0.2)
Provided during the year 2.0 0.5 3.2 5.7
Written off – – (1.0) (1.0)
At 31 May 2015 10.7 2.2 14.1 27.0
Provided during the year 1.9  0.3  3.0  5.2 
Written off (0.3)  (0.1)  (0.4)  (0.8) 
At 31 May 2016 12.3  2.4  16.7  31.4 
Net book value – 31 May 2016 7.3  0.7  5.0  13.0 
Net book value – 31 May 2015 8.1 0.5 4.7 13.3
Net book value – 1 June 2014 9.1 0.7 3.2 13.0
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
122 14. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
  Goodwill 
Client lists 
and customer 
relationships
Domain 
names
Development 
costs 
Software  
and 
 licences  Total 
Group £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost:
At 1 June 2014 106.7 1.7 5.8 12.0 16.7 142.9
Foreign currency adjustment 0.4 (0.1) – – 0.1 0.4
Additions – – 1.5 3.1 1.3 5.9
Written off – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 May 2015 107.1 1.6 7.3 15.1 17.8 148.9
Foreign currency adjustment – (0.3) 0.2 – 0.1 –
Additions – – 0.6 4.8 3.1 8.5
At 31 May 2016 107.1 1.3 8.1 19.9 21.0 157.4
Accumulated amortisation:
At 1 June 2014 – 1.7 0.5 3.6 14.4 20.2
Foreign currency adjustment – (0.1) – – 0.1 –
Provided during the year – – 0.7 2.4 1.9 5.0
Written off – – – – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 May 2015 – 1.6 1.2 6.0 16.1 24.9
Foreign currency adjustment – (0.3) – – 0.2 (0.1)
Provided during the year – – 3.4 2.5 1.6 7.5
At 31 May 2016 – 1.3 4.6 8.5 17.9 32.3
Net book value – 31 May 2016 107.1 – 3.5 11.4 3.1 125.1
Net book value – 31 May 2015 107.1 – 6.1 9.1 1.7 124.0
Net book value – 1 June 2014 106.7 – 5.3 8.4 2.3 122.7
Goodwill primarily relates to the purchase of IG Group plc by IG Group Holdings plc – detail is provided in note 16.
Domain names include the cost of acquiring ig.com and a suite of complementary domains to support the Group’s global brand. This 
also includes industry specific generic top-level domains (gTLDs). Included with the amount provided during the year is £2.7 million 
relating to the impairment of the gTLDs.
Development costs relate to both internally generated intangible assets and third party software acquired to further enhance the Group’s 
own proprietary software. 
Software and licenses relate entirely to external purchases of off-the-shelf, commercially available software for internal consumption 
within the Group. 
The expected useful lives of each class of intangible assets are set out in note 40, Accounting Policies.
123
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
PARENT COMPANY – INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
Company £m £m
At cost:
At the beginning of the year 479.8 471.6
Additions
(1)
7.0 8.2
At the end of the year 486.8 479.8
(1) Additions in the year ended 31 May 2016 comprise the investment relating to equity-settled share-based payments for subsidiary employees of £7.0 million (2015: £5.3 million) 
and the purchase of shares in the Company’s immediate subsidiary, IG Group Limited, of £nil (2015: £2.9 million).
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
124 The following companies are all owned directly or indirectly by IG Group Holdings plc:
Name of Company
Country of 
Incorporation Holding
Voting 
Rights Nature of Business
Subsidiary undertakings held directly:
IG Group Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Holding company
Subsidiary undertakings held indirectly:
IG Index Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Spread betting
IG Markets Limited UK Ordinary shares 100%
CFD trading, foreign exchange and 
market risk management
IG Markets South Africa Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading
IG Australia Pty Limited Australia Ordinary shares 100% Sales and marketing office
IG Share Trading Australia Pty Limited Australia Ordinary shares 100% Share dealing
IG Asia Pte Limited Singapore Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading and foreign exchange
North American Derivatives Exchange Inc. USA Ordinary shares 100% Exchange
IG Securities Limited
(1)
Japan Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading and foreign exchange
IG Bank S.A. Switzerland Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading and foreign exchange
Market Data Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Data distribution
Market Risk Management Inc. USA Ordinary shares 100% Market maker
IG Infotech (India) Private Limited India Ordinary shares 100% Software development
IG Nominees Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Nominee company
IG Knowhow Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Software development
Extrabet Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading
Broker Connect Inc. USA Ordinary shares 100% Software development
IG Finance UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance Two UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance Three UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance Four UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance 5 Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Forex Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Spread Betting Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance 8 Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
IG Finance 9 Limited UK Ordinary shares 100% Financing
Fox Sub Limited Gibraltar Ordinary shares 100% Financing
Fox Sub Two Limited Gibraltar Ordinary shares 100% Financing
Fox Japan Holdings Gibraltar Ordinary shares 100% Holding company
IG US Holdings Inc. USA Ordinary shares 100% Holding company
Market Data Japan Limited
(1)
Japan Ordinary shares 100% Holding company
FXOnline Japan Co., Limited
(1)
Japan Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading
IG Limited Dubai Ordinary Shares 100% CFD trading and foreign exchange
IG Services Limited Dubai Ordinary Shares 100% Intra-Group Corporate Services
Financial Domaigns Limited UK Ordinary Shares 100% Holding Company
Financial Domaigns Registry Holdings Limited UK Ordinary Shares 100% Holding Company
Financial Domaigns Registrar Limited UK Ordinary Shares 100% Domains registrar
Financial Domaigns (Services) Limited UK Ordinary Shares 100% Domains registry
DotSpreadbetting Registry Limited UK Ordinary Shares 100% Domains registry
DotMarkets Registry Limited UK Ordinary Shares 100% Domains registry
DotTrading Registry Limited UK Ordinary Shares 100% Domains registry
DotCFD Registry Limited UK Ordinary Shares 100% Domains registry
DotBroker Registry Limited UK Ordinary Shares 100% Domains registry
DotForex Registry Limited UK Ordinary Shares 100% Domains registry
Nadex Domains Inc. USA Ordinary Shares 100% Domains registry
Tower Three Capital Inc. USA Ordinary Shares 100% Non-trading
Hedgestreet Securities Inc. USA Ordinary Shares 100% Non-trading
Nadex Clearing LLC USA Ordinary Shares 100% Non-trading
Deal City Limited UK Ordinary Shares 100% Software development
InvestYourWay Ltd. UK Ordinary Shares 100% Non-trading
(1) The Company has a 31 March year-end due to local Japanese law.
125
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES CONTINUED
Employee Benefit Trusts:
IG Group Holdings plc Inland Revenue Approved Share Incentive Plan (UK Trust)
IG Group Limited Employee Benefit Trust (Jersey Trust)
IG Group Employee Equity Plan Trust (Australian Trust)
The following UK entities, all of which are 100% owned by the Group, are not subject to an audit by virtue of s479A of the Companies 
Act 2006 relating to subsidiary companies: IG Finance Three (05297886), IG Finance 5 Limited (06752558), IG Finance 9 Limited 
(07306407), IG Forex Limited (06808361), Financial Domaigns Limited (09233880), Financial Domaigns Registry  Holdings Limited 
(09235699),  Financial Domaigns Registrar Limited (09235694),  Financial Domaigns (Services) Limited (09235591), DotMarkets Registry 
Limited (09237699), DotTrading Registry Limited (09237708), DotCFD Registry Limited (09237733), DotBroker Registry Limited 
(09237714), DotForex Registry Limited (09237740), DotSpreadbetting Registry Limited (09237702) and InvestYourWay Ltd. (07081901).
The following UK entities, all of which are 100% owned by the Group, are exempt from the requirement to  prepare individual accounts 
by virtue of s394A of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the individual accounts of dormant subsidiaries: IG Nominees Limited 
(04371444), IG Finance (05024562), IG Finance Two (05137194), IG Finance Four (05312015), IG Spread Betting Limited (06806588), IG 
Finance 8 Limited (06807656), Extrabet Limited (04560348), and Deal City Limited (09635230).
16. GOODWILL
Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to the cash-generating units (CGUs), as follows:
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
Group £m £m
UK 100.0 100.0
US 5.3 5.0
Australia 0.9 0.9
South Africa 0.9 1.2
  107.1 107.1
UK goodwill arose on the purchase of IG Group plc by IG Group Holdings Limited on 5 September 2003. Goodwill disclosed for 
Australia arose on the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in IG Australia Pty Limited in the year ended 31 May 2006. Goodwill 
arising on the acquisitions of Nadex (formerly HedgeStreet) and the associated exchange technology and licence, and Ideal CFD’s has 
been allocated to the separate US and South African CGUs respectively. 
Impairment testing
There was no indication of an ‘impairment trigger’ existing on any of the CGUs (2015: £nil), nor any impairment recognised during the 
year ended 31 May 2016. The goodwill associated with each CGU has been subject to an impairment test at 31 May 2016. For the 
purposes of impairment testing of goodwill, the carrying amount of each CGU is compared to the recoverable amount of each CGU 
and any deficits are provided. The carrying amount of a CGU includes only those assets that can be attributed directly, or allocated on a 
reasonable and consistent basis.
The estimated recoverable amount for the UK CGU of £1.5 billion (2015: £1.7 billion) is based upon fair value less costs of disposal. This 
is £1.4 billion (2015: £1.6 billion) in excess of the carrying amount of the CGU.
Key assumptions used in fair value less costs of disposal calculations
The fair value less costs of disposal of the UK CGU has been calculated using earnings multiple determined by reference to the 
Company’s quoted market capitalisation and the Group’s segmental operating profit. As the business model of this CGU is largely 
synonymous with that of the Group this methodology is deemed to be appropriate.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
The UK reported a segment operating profit, after the allocation of central costs, of £113.9 million, for the year ended 31 May 2016 
(refer to note 4, segment information). Furthermore the UK CGU represents 51% of the Group’s net trading revenue for the year ended 
31 May 2016. The Board approved budget for the financial year ending 31 May 2017 and longer term strategic plans for the group 
forecast at least a similar level of performance for this CGU to continue. As a result both the single year operating profit and thus the 
recoverable amount of the UK CGU is in excess of the carrying value. Accordingly the outcome of the impairment review for the CGU is 
not considered to be sensitive to the assumptions used.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
126 17. TRADE RECEIVABLES
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
Group £m £m
Amounts due from brokers
(1)
245.5 239.2
Other amounts due to the Group
(2)
30.8 28.4
Amounts due from clients
(3)
2.2 2.0
278.5 269.6
(1) Amounts due from brokers represent balances with brokers where the combination of cash held on account and the valuation of financial derivative open positions results in 
an amount due to the Group. At 31 May 2016 the actual broker margin requirement was £227.6 million (2015: £204.8 million ) with the balance being excess cash margin held 
at brokers.
(2) Other amounts due to the Group include balances that will be transferred to the Group’s own cash from segregated client funds on the following working day in accordance with 
the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) ‘CASS’ rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates as well as excess funds held in segregation 
in certain jurisdictions. This also includes amounts due from banking counterparties or held within segregated client funds in relation to monies transferred by clients to the Group 
that remain unsettled at the year-end. The Group is required to segregate these client funds at the point of client funding and not at cash settlement. 
(3) Amounts due from clients arise when a client’s total funds deposited with the Group are insufficient to cover any trading losses incurred and are stated net of an allowance for 
impairment (refer note 36).
18. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
18(a) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
Group  £m £m
Gross cash and cash equivalents
(1)
1,136.1 1,062.4
Less: Segregated client funds
(2)
(917.3) (913.6)
Cash and cash equivalents
(3)
218.8 148.8
(1) Gross cash and cash equivalents includes each of the Group’s own cash, proceeds from the drawdown of the committed banking facility, as well as all client monies held. 
(2) Segregated client funds comprise individual client funds held in segregated client money accounts or money market facilities established under the UK’s Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) ‘CASS’ rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. Such monies are not included in the Group’s Statement of 
Financial Position.
(3) Cash and cash equivalents includes both title transfer funds held by the Group under a Title Transfer Collateral Arrangement (TTCA) by which a client agrees that full ownership of 
such monies is unconditionally transferred to the Group, and client monies deposited with the Group’s Swiss banking subsidiary, IG Bank SA. 
 The Group’s Swiss banking subsidiary, IG Bank SA, is also required to protect customer deposits under the FINMA Privileged Deposit Scheme. At 31 May 2016 IG Bank SA was 
required to hold £7.0 million (31 May 2015: £2.8 million) in satisfaction of this requirement. 
18(b) CLIENT FUNDS AND ASSETS
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
Group  £m £m
Segregated client funds
(1)
917.3 913.6
Segregated client assets
(2)
177.8 77.4
Total segregated client funds and assets 1,095.1 991.0
(1) Segregated client funds comprise individual client funds held in segregated client money accounts or money market facilities established under the UK’s Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) ‘CASS’ rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. Such monies are not included in the Group’s Statement of 
Financial Position.
(2) Segregated client assets comprise individual clients’ equity positions held in segregated client assets accounts under the Financial Conduct Authority’s ’CASS’ rules. Such assets 
are not included in the Group’s Statement of Financial Position.
127
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19. LIQUIDITY ANALYSIS AND RISK MANAGEMENT
The following section provides an analysis of the Group’s available liquidity, the liquidity requirements that result from the Group’s 
business model, and sets out the key measures used to monitor and manage the level of liquidity available.
The key measures used by the Group are explained below:
Liquid assets: These are the total liquid assets that the Group can access. These include cash held at bank (both own cash and title 
transfer funds) as well as at brokers, the liquid assets buffer held by the Group and other cash amounts due to the Group. 
Own funds: These are liquid assets less title transfer funds. Title transfer funds are client monies held by the Group under a Title Transfer 
Collateral Arrangement (TTCA). 
Available liquid assets: Certain of the Group’s funds are not immediately available for the purposes of central market risk management 
as they are required to provide regulatory capital balances in regulated subsidiaries. Additionally the Group’s overseas businesses 
also require working capital balances to both fund daily operations and to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to fund the local client 
segregation requirements. Available liquid assets are therefore liquid assets less all amounts held in overseas subsidiaries and amounts 
due from segregation – each of which are not considered immediately available to for market risk management. 
Net available liquidity: This is the remaining liquidity available to the Group after the funding of the broker margin requirement 
associated with market risk management. 
Total available liquidity: This measure is the total of the Group’s liquid assets and the Group’s undrawn committed banking facilities.
In order to mitigate liquidity risks, the Group regularly stress tests its liquidity forecast including the appropriate level of committed 
unsecured bank facilities held. On 17 July 2015, the Group reduced its liquidity facility from £200.0 million with a syndicate of 
three banks to £160.0 million with a syndicate of four banks. The inclusion of a fourth bank in the syndicate offers the Group further 
diversification. This facility has £100.0 million available for up to a one year term (with an option to extend for a further year) and £60.0 
million for up to three years. 
The drawings made under the Group’s facility in the year ended 31 May 2016 are disclosed in note 19(c). 
Additionally the Group’s Japanese business, IG Securities Limited has a Yen 300.0 million liquidity facility as at 31 May 2016 (2015: 
Yen 300.0 million).
The following notes have been provided to further explain the derivation of liquid assets, own funds, available liquid assets, net available 
liquidity and total available liquidity. The generation of own funds is disclosed in note 19(d).
19(a) LIQUID ASSETS AND OWN FUNDS
‘Liquid assets’, stated net of borrowings, and ‘own funds’ are the key measures the Group uses to monitor the overall level of liquidity 
available to the Group. The derivation of both liquid assets and own funds are shown in the following table:
      31 May 2016 31 May 2015
  Note   £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents
(1)
18   218.8 148.8
Amounts due from brokers
(2)
17   245.5 239.2
Financial investments – held at brokers
(3.1)
21   53.4 25.3
Financial investments – liquid asset buffer
(3.2)
21   82.6 83.1
Other amounts due to the Group
(4)
17, 22   26.4 27.6
Liquid assets     626.7 524.0
Less:        
Drawdown of committed banking facility     – –
Client funds held on balance sheet
(5)
22   (39.0) (16.9)
Own funds     587.7 507.1
(1) Cash and cash equivalents represent cash held on demand with financial institutions (please refer to note 18). 
(2) Amounts due from brokers represent balances with brokers where the combination of cash held on account and the valuation of financial derivative open positions results in an 
amount due to the Group. These positions are held to hedge client market exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk management policy.
(3.1) During the year ended 31 May 2016 the Group purchased an additional UK Government Gilt which is held at brokers as collateral to support the hedging of client market 
exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk management policy (refer to note 21). 
(3.2) The UK Government securities held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset buffer’ against potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12. 
(4) Other amounts due to the Group include balances that will be transferred to the Group’s own cash from segregated client funds on the following working day in accordance with 
the FCA ‘CASS’ rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. This also includes amounts due from banking counterparties or held within 
segregated client funds in relation to monies transferred by clients to the Group that remain unsettled at the year-end. The Group is required to segregate these client funds at 
the point of client funding and not at cash settlement.
(5) Client funds held on balance sheet include both Title Transfer funds and client monies deposited with the Group’s Swiss banking subsidiary. These are recognised on the Group’s 
Statement of Financial Position with an associated payable to clients. 
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
128 19(b) THE GROUP’S LIQUIDITY REQUIREMENTS
The Group requires day-to-day liquidity for each of: the full segregation of client monies; the funding of regulatory and working capital 
in overseas businesses; the funding of margin requirements at brokers to hedge the underlying client positions under both normal and 
stressed conditions; the funding of a liquid asset buffer; and amounts associated with general working capital.
The available liquid assets measure excludes cash amounts tied up in both the requirement to segregate client funds and in the 
regulatory and working capital of overseas businesses, as they are not considered to be available for the purposes of central market and 
liquidity risk management. 
These requirements are analysed in the following table:
    31 May 2016 31 May 2015
  Note £m £m
Liquid assets 19(a) 626.7 524.0
Less: amounts required to ensure appropriate client money segregation 17, 22 (26.4) (27.6)
Less: amounts required for regulatory and working capital of overseas businesses
(1)
  (64.3) (58.8)
Available liquid assets   536.0 437.6
Less broker margin requirement
(2)
17 (227.6) (204.8)
Net available liquidity   308.4 232.8
Of which is:      
Held as a liquid assets buffer
(3)
21 82.6 83.1
Drawdown of committed banking facility   – –
(1) The Group’s regulated subsidiaries in Australia, Japan, Singapore, South Africa, Switzerland, Dubai and the USA all have minimum cash holding requirements associated with 
their respective regulatory capital requirements. Additionally, the Group’s regulated business or subsidiaries in Australia, Singapore, Japan, South Africa, Dubai and the USA are 
required to segregate individual client funds in segregated client money bank accounts. This daily segregation requirement occurs prior to the release of funds from the UK (note: 
market risk management is performed centrally for the Group in the UK) in relation to the associated hedging positions held at external brokers. Accordingly cash balances are 
held in each of the overseas businesses in order to ensure client money segregation obligations are met. Both the regulatory working capital amounts and customer deposits are 
not available to the Group for the purposes of central market risk management. 
(2) Positions are held with external brokers in order to hedge client market risk exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk management policies. 
(3) The liquid assets buffer is not available to the Group in the ordinary course of business, however utilisation is allowed in times of liquidity stress and therefore it is considered as 
available for the purposes of overall liquidity planning. 
19(c) LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT AND LIQUIDITY RISK
Liquidity risk is managed centrally and on a group-wide basis. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure it will have 
sufficient liquidity to meet its broker margin requirements and other financial liabilities when due, under both normal circumstances and 
stressed conditions. The Group has carried out an Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment (“ILAA”) during the year, and whilst this 
applies specifically to the Group’s FCA regulated entities, it provides the context in which liquidity is managed on a continuous basis for 
the whole Group.
The Group does not have any material liquidity mismatches with regard to liquidity maturity profiles due to the very short-term nature 
of its financial assets and liabilities. Liquidity risk can, however, arise as individual client funds are required to be placed in segregated 
client money accounts in all jurisdictions with the exception of Switzerland where the entity has a banking licence. A result of this is that 
short-term (less than one week) liquidity ‘gaps’ can potentially arise in periods of very high client activity or significant increases or falls in 
global financial market levels. 
During periods of significant market movements the Group may be required to fund margin payments to brokers prior to the release 
of funds from segregation, and in periods of significant market increases or increased client activity, the Group may be required to fund 
higher margin requirements at brokers to hedge increased underlying client positions. These additional requirements are funded from 
the Group’s available liquid assets while these individual client positions are open, as individual client funds remain in segregated client 
money bank accounts.
In order to mitigate this and other liquidity risks, the Group regularly stress tests its three-year liquidity forecast to validate the 
appropriate level of committed unsecured bank facilities held.
129
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19. LIQUIDITY ANALYSIS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
19(c) LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT AND LIQUIDITY RISK CONTINUED
During the year ended 31 May 2016, the Group withdrew £50.0 million on four occasions in anticipation of extreme market volatility. 
For the year ended 31 May 2015 these facilities were drawn to a maximum of £25.0 million on two occasions and £50.0 million on 
one occasion. On all three occasions, the drawdown was in anticipation of extreme market volatility and all amounts were repaid post 
the event.
As well as the three-year liquidity forecast, the Group also produces more detailed short-term liquidity forecasts and detailed stress tests 
such that appropriate management actions or liquidity facility draw down can occur prior to a period of expected liquidity requirements. 
A number of measures are used by the Group for managing liquidity risk, one of which is the level of total available liquidity. For this 
purpose total liquidity is calculated as set out in the following table inclusive of the undrawn committed facility.
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
  £m £m
Liquid assets 626.7 524.0
Undrawn committed banking facility
(1)
160.0 200.0
Total available liquidity (including facilities)
(2)
786.7 724.0
(1) Draw down of the committed banking facility is capped at 80% of the actual broker margin requirement on the draw down date. The maximum available draw down was £160.0 
million at 31 May 2016 (2015: £163.8 million) based on the broker margin requirements on those dates, of which £nil was drawn down as at 31 May 2016 (31 May 2015: £nil).
(2) Stated inclusive of the liquid assets buffer of £82.6 million (2015: £83.1 million) that is held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a “liquid asset buffer” 
against potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12. Utilisation of the liquid assets buffer is allowed in times of liquidity stress and therefore it is considered as available for the 
purposes of overall liquidity planning.
The Group’s total available liquidity enables the funding of large broker margin requirements when required – the total available liquidity 
that can be utilised for market risk management at 31 May 2016 should be considered in light of the intra-period high broker margin 
requirement of £258.5 million (2015: £293.7 million), the requirement to hold a liquid assets buffer, the continued growth of the business 
(both for client trading and geographic expansion), the Group’s commitment to segregation of individual clients money as well as the 
declared final dividend for the year ending 31 May 2016 all of which draw upon the Group’s liquidity.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
130 19(d) OWN FUNDS GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
The following cash flow statement summarises the Group’s generation of own funds during the year and excludes all cash flows in 
relation to monies held on behalf of clients. Additionally, both amounts due from brokers and financial investments have been included 
within ‘own funds’ in order to provide a clear presentation of the Group’s cash resources. The derivation of own funds is explained in 
note 19(a), and is stated net of amounts drawn on the Group’s committed banking facility. A narrative explanation of the key cash flows 
disclosed in the following cash flow statement is provided within the Operating and Financial Review.
 
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended  
31 May 2015
  £m £m
Operating activities
Profit before tax 207.9 169.5
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment (note 5) 12.7 10.7
Other non-cash adjustments 19.8 (0.5)
Income taxes paid (42.5) (42.9)
Own funds generated from operations 197.9 136.8
Movement in working capital (0.6) 7.9
Inflow/(outflow) from investing activities
Interest received 1.1 0.8
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (13.7) (12.4)
Outflow from financing activities
Interest paid (1.3) (1.9)
Equity dividends paid to owners of the parent (103.1) (112.8)
Other outflow from financing activities (1.0) –
Total outflow from investing and financing activities (118.0) (126.3)
Increase in own funds 79.3 18.4
Own funds at 1 June 507.1 487.3
Exchange gains on own funds 1.3 1.4
Own funds at 31 May 587.7 507.1
131
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
20. CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS
    Group Company
   
Year ended  
31 May 2016
Year ended  
31 May 2015
Year ended 
31 May 2016
Year ended 
31 May 2015
  Note £m £m £m £m
Operating activities          
Profit before tax   207.9 169.5 124.0 62.7
Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flow from 
operating activities:
         
Net interest income on segregated client funds   (3.4) (4.5) – –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 5.2 5.7 – –
Net finance (income)/cost (0.3) 0.1 1.1 1.0
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 14 7.5 5.0 – 0.2
Dividends received   – – (130.0) (70.0)
Non-cash foreign exchange losses/(gains) in operating profit 3.0 (6.2) – –
Share-based payments   7.0 5.3 – 5.3
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables   (29.5) 32.8 200.6 2.9
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables   26.3 2.7 (90.9) 110.7
Cash generated from operations   223.7 210.4 104.8 112.8
21. FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS 
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
Group £m £m
UK Government securities:    
At 1 June 108.4 82.5
Purchase of securities 61.3 76.4
Maturity of securities and coupon receipts (34.5) (51.3)
Accrued interest 0.9 0.5
Net (losses)/gains transferred to equity (0.1) 0.3
At 31 May
(1)
136.0 108.4
Less non-current portion (25.0) (75.5)
Current portion 111.0 32.9
(1) The balance is made up as follows:
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
£m £m
Liquid asset buffer
(1.1)
82.6 83.1
Collateral at broker
(1.2)
53.4 25.3
(1.1) The UK Government securities are held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset buffer’ against potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12. 
(1.2) During the year ended 31 May 2016 the Group purchased UK Government Gilts for £61.3m (carrying value of £60.9 million at 31 May 2016), of which £29.1 million is held at 
brokers as collateral to support the hedging of client market exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk management policy. At 31 May 2016 total UK Government 
Gilts held at brokers had a carrying value of £53.4 million. 
The effective interest rates of securities held at the year-end range from 0.33% to 1.01% (2015: 0.41% to 1.01%).
Financial investments are shown as current assets when they have a maturity less than one year and are held as ‘available-for-sale’. 
The fair value of securities held is based on closing market prices at the year-end as published by the UK Debt Management Office. 
Please refer to note 36(a)(iii) for a maturity profile.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
132 22. TRADE PAYABLES 
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
Group £m £m
Client funds held on balance sheet
(1)
39.0 16.9
Amounts due to clients
(2)
4.4 0.8
  43.4 17.7
(1) Client funds held on balance sheet include both Title Transfer funds and client monies deposited with the Group’s Swiss banking subsidiary. These are recognised on the Group’s 
Statement of Financial Position with an associated payable to clients. 
(2) Amounts due to clients represent a combination of balances that will be transferred from the Group’s own cash into segregated client funds on the following working day in 
accordance with the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) ‘CASS’ rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. 
23. OTHER PAYABLES
  Group Company
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015 31 May 2016 31 May 2015
  £m £m £m £m
Accruals 64.0 55.3 7.1 6.9
Other taxes and social security 6.8 5.9 – –
Amounts due to Group companies (note 34(b)) – – 28.6 119.6
  70.8 61.2 35.7 126.5
Included within accruals are amounts in relation to employee bonuses.
24. PROVISIONS 
The Group and Company had no material provisions at 31 May 2016. (31 May 2015: £nil).
25. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
From time to time the Group may be involved in disputes in the ordinary course of business. Provision is made for all claims where costs 
are likely to be incurred and there are currently no contingent liabilities expected to have a material adverse financial impact on the 
Group’s consolidated results or net assets.
26. REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES 
  Company and Group
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
  £m £m
Allotted, called up and fully paid:    
40,000 preference shares of £1 each – –
The preference shares are entitled to a fixed non-cumulative dividend of 8% paid in preference to any other dividend. Redemption is 
only permissible in accordance with capital distribution rules or on the winding up of the Company where the holders are entitled to £1 
per share plus, if the Company has sufficient distributable reserves, any accrued or unpaid dividends. The preference shares have no 
voting rights, except that they are entitled to vote should the Company fail to pay any amount due on redemption of the shares. The 
effective interest rate on these shares is 8% (2015: 8%).
133
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
27. SHARE CAPITAL 
  Company and Group
  Number of shares Share capital Share premium
    £m £m
Allotted and fully paid:      
(i) Ordinary shares (0.005p)      
At 1 June 2014 365,754,631 – 206.8
Issued during the year 403,145 – –
At 31 May 2015 366,157,776 – 206.8
Issued during the year 491,299 – –
At 31 May 2016 366,649,075 – 206.8
(ii) B shares (0.001p)      
At 31 May 2016 65,000 – –
At 31 May 2015 65,000 – –
During the year to 31 May 2016 there were 491,299 (2015: 403,145) ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of £24.56 
(2015: £20.16) issued following the exercise of sustained performance plan and Value Share Plan awards for a consideration of 
£24.56 (2015: £20.16).
Except as the ordinary shareholders have agreed or may otherwise agree, on a winding up of the Company, the balance of assets 
available for distribution after the payment of all of the Company’s creditors and subject to any special rights attaching to other classes 
of shares are distributed among the shareholders according to the amounts paid up on shares by them.
B shares
The B shares carry no entitlement to dividends and no voting rights. To the extent not already received by them the B shareholders shall, 
on a winding up of the Company be entitled to receive, from the trustee, a consideration equal to the amount realised by the sale by the 
trustee of approximately 122 ordinary shares for every B share held. 
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
134 28. OWN SHARES HELD IN EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUSTS 
The movements in own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts in respect of employee share plans during the year were as follows:
  Company and Group
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
  £m £m
At the beginning of the year:
970,335 (2015: 1,046,727) ordinary shares of 0.005p each 1.2 1.1
Purchased during the year:
137,166 (2015: 48,169) ordinary shares of 0.005p each 1.0 0.3
Exercised/re-allocated during the year:
78,918 (2015: 124,561) ordinary shares of 0.005p each (0.4) (0.2)
At the end of the year:
1,028,583 (2015: 970,335) ordinary shares of 0.005p each 1.8 1.2
The Group has a UK-resident Employee Benefit Trust in order to hold shares in the Company in respect of awards under the Group’s HM 
Revenue and Customs approved Share Incentive Plan (SIP). At 31 May 2016, 378,028 ordinary shares (2015: 320,192) were held in the 
trust and have reduced shareholders’ equity by £1.7 million (2015: £1.0 million). These include 37,720 ordinary shares (2015: 35,956) 
which were not allocated to employees and are available for future SIP awards. The market value of the shares held conditionally at the 
year-end was £3.0 million (2015: £2.5 million).
The Group has a Jersey resident Employee Benefit Trust which holds shares in the Company. At the 31 May 2016, the trust held 512,075 
(2015: 512,075) ordinary shares which are available to satisfy awards under the long-term share plans and Directors’ deferred bonus 
award. The shares held at the year-end have reduced shareholders’ equity by £26 (2015: £26). The market value of the shares held 
conditionally at the year-end was £4.1 million (2015: £4.0 million).
The Group has an Australian resident Employee Equity Plan Trust in order to hold shares in the Company in respect of awards under a 
SIP . At 31 May 2016, 15,538 ordinary shares (2015: 15,126) were held in the trust and at the year-end have reduced shareholders’ equity 
by £0.1 million (2015: £0.1 million). These include 1,299 ordinary shares (2015: nil) which were not allocated to employees and are 
available for future SIP awards
Upon flotation of the Company on 4 May 2005, 5,861,497 ordinary shares and cash of £2.4 million were transferred to the Jersey 
Employee Benefit Trust by institutional shareholders in order to satisfy their obligations to holders of 48,059 B shares and 16,941 B 
shares respectively. During the year ended 31 May 2016, 504 (2015: 100) B shares were sold by B shareholders to the Trust. The Trust 
sold 61,470 (2015: 12,195) ordinary shares in order to realise the funds necessary to purchase these B shares. The Trust unconditionally 
held 64,496 (2015: 63,992) B shares at the year-end. The Trust also held 504 (2015: 1,008) B shares and 61,470 (2015: 122,940) ordinary 
shares which it may sell in order to satisfy its obligations to B shareholders, all of whom are current or former employees.
135
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
29. OTHER RESERVES
The share-based payment reserve relates to the estimated cost of equity-settled employee share plans based on a straight-line basis 
over the vesting period and the associated taxation. The foreign currency translation reserve includes amounts in relation to the 
translation of overseas subsidiaries. The available-for-sale reserve includes unrealised gains or losses in respect of financial investments.
 
Share-based 
payments 
(note 30)
Foreign 
currency 
translation 
 
Own shares 
held in 
Employee 
Benefit Trusts
(note 28)
Transactions 
with non-
controlling 
interests 
 
Available-for-
sale reserve 
 
Total 
other 
reserves 
 
Group £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 June 2014 39.8 48.7 (1.1) (2.1) 0.1 85.4
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 5.3 – – – – 5.3
Excess of tax deduction benefit on share-based 
payments recognised directly in equity (note 10)
0.5 – – – – 0.5
Foreign currency translation on overseas 
subsidiaries
– 0.6 – – – 0.6
Exercise of US share incentive plans – – – – – –
Exercise of UK share incentive plans (0.2) – 0.2 – – –
Utilisation of own shares – – – – – –
Purchase of own shares – – (0.3) – – (0.3)
Gain on financial investments – – – – 0.3 0.3
At 31 May 2015 45.4 49.3 (1.2) (2.1) 0.4 91.8
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 7.0 – – – – 7.0
Foreign currency translation on overseas 
subsidiaries
– 4.5 – – – 4.5
Exercise of US share incentive plans – – – – – –
Exercise of UK share incentive plans (0.4) – 0.4 – – –
Utilisation of own shares – – – – – –
Purchase of own shares – – (1.0) – – (1.0)
Gain on financial investments – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 May 2016 52.0 53.8 (1.8) (2.1) 0.3 102.2
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
136  
Share-based payments
(note 30)
Own shares held 
in Employee 
Benefits Trusts
(note 28)
Total other reserves 
 
Company £m £m £m
At 1 June 2014 35.4 (1.1) 34.3
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 5.3 – 5.3
Exercise of UK share incentive plans (0.2) 0.2 –
Purchase of own shares – (0.3) (0.3)
At 31 May 2015 40.5 (1.2) 39.3
Equity-settled employee share-based payments 7.0 – 7.0
Exercise of UK share incentive plans (0.4) 0.4 –
Purchase of own shares – (1.0) (1.0)
At 31 May 2016 47.1 (1.8) 45.3
30. EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS 
The Company operates four employee share plans; a sustained performance plan (SPP), a long-term incentive plan (LTIP), a value-sharing 
plan (VSP) and a share incentive plan (SIP), all of which are equity-settled. The expense recognised in the Income Statement in respect of 
share-based payments (including associated social security costs) was £8.3 million (2015: £6.3 million).
30(a) CURRENT SCHEMES
Sustained performance plan (SPP) 
The SPP award was introduced in the year ended 31 May 2014 to replace the VSP award for the Group’s Executive Directors and other 
selected senior employees. The Remuneration Committee approves any awards made under the plan and is responsible for setting the 
policy for the operation of the plan, agreeing performance targets and participation.
The legal grant of awards under the SPP occurs post the relevant performance period. At the outset of the financial year the 
Remuneration Committee approves, and communicates to the participants, performance conditions and a pre-defined maximum 
monetary award in terms of multiple of salary. The grant of awards, in the form of equity settled par value options, is based upon three 
performance conditions: Total Shareholder Return (TSR), diluted earnings per share and operational non-financial performance. Awards 
subsequently vest in tranches over the long-term (up to seven years), so the participant retains an ongoing substantial stake in the share 
price performance of the Company.
The following table shows the number of options awarded in relation to performance for the year ended 31 May 2016: 
Award date
Share price at 
award
Expected full 
vesting date
At the  
start of  
the year
Awarded 
during the 
year
Lapsed  
during the 
year
Exercised 
during the 
year
Dividend 
equivalent 
awarded 
during the 
year
At the  
end of  
the year
Number Number Number Number Number Number
4 Aug 2014 609.90p 4 Aug 2020 644,049 – (53,919) (257,620) 12,320 344,830
6 Aug 2015 742.55p 4 Aug 2020 – 531,316 (55,112) (128,624) 12,878 360,458
Total 644,049 531,316 (109,031) (386,244) 25,198 705,288
Of the above SPP exercised during the year ending 31 May 2016, the average share price at exercise was:
Award date Average share price at exercise
4 Aug 2014 734.5p
6 Aug 2015 734.5p
The weighted average exercise price of all SPP awards is 0.005p.
137
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30. EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS CONTINUED
30(a) CURRENT SCHEMES CONTINUED
Sustained performance plan (SPP) continued
As a ‘shared understanding’ under IFRS2 is established between the Company and participants at the scheme outset the costs 
associated with the SPP are accounted for as share based payments from this time.
Further information on the Company’s SPP awards is given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The awards for the current year SPP will be granted post year-end following the approval of actual performance against targets set by 
the Remuneration Committee. A ten-day share price averaging period that will commence after the Company’s closed period is utilised 
to convert notional salary awarded into a number of options (refer to the Directors’ Remuneration Report for performance conditions).
The table below details the number of option awards expected to be awarded for the year ended 31 May 2016:
Expected award date
Share price at 
31 May 2016
(1)
Expected full vesting date
Awards expected 
during the year ending 
31 May 2017
Number
6 Aug 2016 799.5p 6 Aug 2020 854,353
Total 854,353
(1) Closing share price on 31 May 2016.
Long-term incentive plan (LTIP) 
The LTIP award has been made available to senior management who are not invited to participate in the SPP . 
LTIP awards allow the award of nominal cost options, which vest when specific performance targets are achieved, conditional upon 
continued employment at the vesting date. For each award a minimum performance target has to be achieved before any shares vest 
and the awards vest fully once the maximum performance target is achieved. 
The awarded LTIP vests after three years with a predefined number of shares allocated pro-rata based on achieving diluted earnings per 
share growth of between pre-defined thresholds.
The maximum number of LTIP awards that can vest under the awards made are:
Award date
Share price at 
award
Expected 
vesting date
At the start of 
the year
Awarded during 
the year
Lapsed during 
the year
Exercised 
during the year
At the end of 
the year
      Number Number Number Number Number
28 Nov 2013 584.0p 28 Nov 2016 406,412 – – – 406,412
5 Aug 2014 618.5p 5 Aug 2017 446,262 – (15,658) – 430,604
6 Aug 2015 734.5p 6 Aug 2018 – 469,111 (3,288) – 465,823
Total 852,674 469,111 (18,946) – 1,302,839
The weighted average exercise price of all LTIP awards is 0.005p.
Share incentive plan (SIP) 
SIP awards are made available to all UK, Australian and USA employees. The Executive Directors have responsibility for setting the terms 
of the award which are then approved by the Remuneration Committee.
The UK and Australian awards invite all employees to subscribe for up to £1,800/A$3,000 (2015: £1,800/A$3,000) of partnership shares, 
with the Company typically matching on a two-for-one (2015: two-for-one) basis. All matching shares vest after three years as long 
as the employee remains employed with the Group for the term of the award. Shares awarded under the scheme are held in trust in 
accordance with local tax authority rules. Employees are entitled to receive dividends on the shares held in trust for as long as they 
remain employees. 
The USA award invites employees to invest a maximum of 5% of their salary bi-annually to the award. The award runs for a six month 
period and at the end of this period, the employees are invited to purchase shares in IG Group Holdings plc at a discount of 15% to the 
scheme price, being the lower of the opening share price and the closing share price for the period.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
138 The maximum number of SIP shares that can vest based on the awards made are:
Country of 
award Award date
Share price at 
award
Expected 
vesting date
At the start of 
the year
Awarded 
during the 
year
Lapsed during 
the year
Exercised 
during the 
year
At the end of 
the year
        Number Number Number Number Number
UK 27 July 2012 456.00p 27 July 2015 61,268 – (656) (60,612) –
Australia 22 August 2012 432.00p 22 August 2015 3,304 – – (3,304) –
UK 26 July 2013 580.00p 25 July 2016 49,703 – (6,517) (2,324) 40,862
Australia 15 July 2013 572.50p 15 July 2016 3,456 – (324) (324) 2,808
UK 25 July 2014 605.80p 25 July 2017 173,266 – (18,254) (5,510) 149,502
Australia 15 July 2014 599.70p 15 July 2017 8,366 – (1,410) (564) 6,392
UK 6 Aug 2015 739.50p 6 Aug 2018 – 164,926 (12,060) (2,922) 149,944
Australia 12 Oct 2015 740.00p 12 Oct 2018 – 8,864 (129) (386) 8,349
Total       299,363 173,790 (39,350) (75,946) 357,857
Of the above SIP awards exercised during the year ended 31 May 2016, the average weighted share price at exercise was:
Country of award Award date 
Weighted average 
share price  
at exercise
UK 27 July 2012 729.25p
Australia 22 Aug 2012 678.50p
UK 26 July 2013 740.68p
Australia 15 July 2013 764.50p
UK 25 July 2014 756.43p
Australia 15 July 2014 764.50p
UK 6 Aug 2015 767.09p
Australia 12 Oct 2015 764.50p
The weighted average exercise price of all SIP awards during the year ended 31 May 2016 is 731.41p.
30(b) FAIR VALUE OF EQUITY-SETTLED AWARDS
The fair value of the equity-settled share-based payments to employees is determined at the date at which a shared understanding of 
the terms and conditions of the arrangement is reached between the Company and the participants. The weighted average fair value of 
the equity-settled awards granted or deemed as such under IFRS2 during the year was £6.7 million (2015: £8.9 million). 
For SIP awards, the fair value is determined to be the share price at the grant date, without making an adjustment for expected 
dividends, as awardees are entitled to dividends over the vesting period. 
For LTIP awards the fair value at grant date is determined by taking the share price at grant date. An adjustment for the present value of 
future dividends is not required as dividend equivalents are awarded on options granted under the LTIP .
For potential SPP awards made under the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) criteria, fair value is calculated using an option pricing 
model prepared by advisers. For the SPP awards made under the earnings per share and non-financial operational measures the fair 
value is determined by taking the share price at deemed grant date less the present value of future dividends for the duration of the 
performance period. Dividend equivalents accrue under the SPP on awarded but unvested options post the performance period. Post 
vesting (minimum holding period) dividend equivalents cease to accrue on unexercised options. 
139
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30. EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS CONTINUED
30(b) FAIR VALUE OF EQUITY-SETTLED AWARDS CONTINUED
The inputs below were used to determine the fair value of the TSR element of the SPP awards granted on 6 August 2015:
Date of grant 6 August 2015
Share price at grant date (pence) 734.50p
Expected life of awards (years) 3
Risk-free sterling interest rate (%)
(1)
–
IG expected volatility (%)
(2)
20.13%
Interim dividend estimate
(3)
8.45p
(1) Due to minimal exercise price the risk-free rate has no impact on the fair value calculation.
(2) Based on historical TSR volatility of IG Group Holdings plc measured daily over a period prior to the date of grant and commensurate with the remaining performance period.
(3) The dividend paid in the period from the deemed grant date to the end of the performance period, from which date dividend equivalents accrue on awarded but 
unvested options.
The weighted average fair values per award granted are as follows:
 
At the 
beginning of 
the year
Awarded 
during the 
year
Lapsed during 
the year
Exercised 
during the 
year
At the end of 
the year
Year ended 31 May 2016 534.09p 570.77p 497.83p 416.60p 583.37p
Year ended 31 May 2015 262.45p 526.33p 242.96p 419.82p 534.09p
30(c) LEGACY SCHEMES
Value-sharing plan (VSP) 
The VSP award was an annual award introduced during the year ended 31 May 2011. In the year ended 31 May 2014, however, the VSP 
awards were replaced by the SPP for Executives and selected senior management and LTIP awards for other senior management. VSP 
awards were conditional awards made available to Executive Directors and other senior staff. Participants do not pay to receive awards 
or to exercise options. The VSP performance period is over three years with a pre-defined number of shares allocated, for each £10m 
of surplus shareholder value created over the three year period above a hurdle. Half of the shares vest after three years and can be 
exercised at that date, with the remaining half being deferred for a further year, conditional upon continued employment at the vesting 
date. The VSP is based upon two performance conditions, Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and profit before taxation.
The maximum number of VSP shares that can vest based on the awards made are:
Award date
Share price at 
award
Expected 
vesting date
At the start of 
the year
Awarded during 
the year 
Lapsed during 
the year 
Exercised 
during the year
At the end of 
the year 
      Number Number Number Number Number
29 Oct 2010 528.50p 29 Oct 2014 24,975 – – (24,975) –
20 Jul 2011 450.00p 31 Jul 2014 1,313 – (163) (1,150) –
20 Jul 2011 450.00p 31 Jul 2015 81,637 – (525) (78,768) 2,344
Total     107,925 – (688) (104,893) 2,344
Of the above VSP exercised during the year ended 31 May 2016, the average share price at exercise was: 
Award date Average share price at exercise
29 Oct 2010 734.50p
20 Jul 2011 734.50p
The weighted average exercise price of all VSP awards is 0.005p.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
140 Legacy long-term incentive plan (LTIP) 
The historic LTIP awards were made available to Executive Directors and other senior staff in the years ended 31 May 2005 to 31 May 
2010 which were then replaced by the VSP award. 
These historic LTIP awards allowed the award of nil cost or nominal cost shares which were legally classified as options and vested when 
specific performance targets were achieved, conditional upon continued employment at the vesting date. For each award a minimum 
performance target had to be achieved before any options vested and the awards vested fully once the maximum performance target 
was achieved. 
The remaining number of LTIP awards that can be exercised is:
Award date
Share price at 
award
Expected 
vesting date
At the start of 
the year
Awarded during 
the year
Lapsed during 
the year
Exercised 
during the year
At the end of 
the year
      Number Number Number Number Number
23 Jul 2007 312.25p 23 Jul 2010 15,952 – – – 15,952
Total     15,952 – – – 15,952
The weighted average exercise price of all LTIP awards is 0.005p.
31. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
The Group and Company had £0.7 million capital expenditure contracted for at year-end but not yet incurred (2015: £0.4 million). 
32. OBLIGATIONS UNDER LEASES 
Operating lease agreements 
The Group and Company have entered into commercial leases on certain properties. Future minimum rentals payable under 
non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
Group £m £m
Future minimum payments due:    
Not later than one year 6.6 5.3
After one year but not more than five years 20.6 15.9
After more than five years 9.1 12.1
  36.3 33.3
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
Company £m £m
Future minimum payments due:    
Not later than one year 2.3 2.3
After one year but not more than five years 9.8 9.5
After more than five years 8.0 10.5
  20.1 22.3
The Group’s main lease on its UK headquarters and several of its smaller offices include annual inflationary rent increase clauses.
141
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
33. TRANSACTIONS WITH DIRECTORS
During the year ended 31 May 2016 the Group paid £nil (inclusive of VAT) (2015: £13,200) to Promontory Financial Group (UK) Limited 
(Promontory) for financial advisory services. The services provided were made in the ordinary course of business on similar terms as those 
prevailing for transactions with other persons unconnected with the Group. S Tymms is a Non-Executive Director for the Group and a 
managing director for Promontory. The Group had no other transactions with its Directors other than those disclosed in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
34. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
34(a) GROUP
The Directors and other members of management classified as ‘persons discharging management responsibility’ in accordance with the 
Financial Services and Markets Act are considered to be the key management personnel of the Group in accordance with IAS 24. The 
Directors’ Remuneration Report discloses all benefits and share-based payments made during the year and the preceding year to the 
Directors. The total compensation for key management personnel together with their connected parties was as follows:
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
Company £m £m
Short-term employee benefits 3.2  2.8
Post-employment benefits 0.4  0.3
Share-based payments 2.9  3.2
6.5  6.3
34(b) COMPANY
The Company had the following amounts outstanding with subsidiaries at the year-end:
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
  £m £m
Loans to related parties 131.5 201.8
Loans from related parties 28.6 119.6
All amounts remain outstanding at the year-end and are repayable on demand. A number of intercompany amounts were subject to 
offset arrangements during the year. 
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
Accounting classifications and fair values – Group
The table below sets out the classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values (excluding accrued interest). 
The Group considers the carrying value of all financial assets and liabilities to be a reasonable approximation of fair value and represents 
the Group’s maximum credit exposure without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements.
‘Trade receivables – due from brokers’ represent balances with brokers where the combination of cash held on account (disclosed as 
loans and receivables) and the valuation of financial derivative open positions (disclosed as held for trading) results in an amount due 
to the Group. These positions are held to hedge client market exposures and hence are considered to be held for trading and are 
accordingly accounted for at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL). These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and 
customary to standard margin trading activities and are reported net in the Group Statement of Financial Position as the Group has both 
the legal right and intention to settle on a net basis. 
‘Trade payables – due to clients’ represent balances where the combination of client cash held on account and the valuation of financial 
derivative open positions results in an amount payable by the Group. Trade payables – due to clients are reported net in the Group 
Statement of Financial Position as the Group adjusts the gross amount payable to clients (i.e. monies held on behalf of clients) for profits 
or losses incurred on a daily basis consistent with the legal right and intention to settle on a net basis.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
142 The Group’s financial instruments are classified as follows:
   
FVTPL-
Held for 
trading
Loans and 
receivables
Other 
amortised 
cost
Available- 
for-sale 
Total  
carrying 
amount Fair value 
Group Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2016              
Financial assets              
Cash and cash equivalents 18 – 218.8 – – 218.8 218.8
Financial investments
(1)
21 – – – 136.0 136.0 136.0
Trade receivables – due (to)/from brokers:              
     Non-exchange traded instruments   (1.0) 226.4 – – 225.4 225.4
     Exchange-traded instruments   (13.5) 33.6 – – 20.1 20.1
Total trade receivables – due (to)/from brokers   (14.5) 260.0 – – 245.5 245.5
Trade receivables – due from clients 17 – 2.2 – – 2.2 2.2
Trade receivables – other amounts due from clients 17 – 30.8 – – 30.8 30.8
    (14.5) 511.8 – 136.0 633.3 633.3
Financial liabilities              
Trade payables – Client funds held on balance sheet 22 – – 39.0 – 39.0 39.0
Trade payables – Amounts due to clients 22 – 4.4 – – 4.4 4.4
Redeemable preference shares 26 – – – – – –
    – 4.4 39.0 – 43.4 43.4
(1) The balance is made up of £82.6 million of UK Government securities held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a “liquid asset buffer” against potential 
liquidity stress under BIPRU 12, and a £53.4 million UK Government Gilt which is held at brokers as collateral to support the hedging of client market exposures in accordance 
with the Group’s market risk management policy (refer to note 21).
   
FVTPL-Held 
for trading
Loans and 
receivables
Other 
amortised 
cost
Available- 
for-sale 
Total  
carrying 
amount Fair value 
Group Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2015              
Financial assets              
Cash and cash equivalents 18 – 148.8 – – 148.8 148.8
Financial investments
(1)
21 – – – 108.4 108.4 108.4
Trade receivables – due (to)/from brokers:              
     Non-exchange traded instruments   (9.7) 176.2 – – 166.5 166.5
     Exchange-traded instruments   0.8 71.9 – – 72.7 72.7
Total trade receivables – due (to)/from brokers   (8.9) 248.1 – – 239.2 239.2
Trade receivables – due from clients 17 – 2.0 – – 2.0 2.0
Trade receivables – other amounts due from clients 17 – 28.4 – – 28.4 28.4
    (8.9) 427.3 – 108.4 526.8 526.8
Financial liabilities              
Trade payables – Client funds held on balance sheet 22 – – 16.9 – 16.9 16.9
Trade payables – Amounts due to clients 22 – 0.8 – – 0.8 0.8
Redeemable preference shares 26 – – – – – –
    – 0.8 16.9 – 17.7 17.7
(1) £83.1 million of UK Government securities held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a “liquid asset buffer” against potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 
12 and a £25.3 million UK Government Gilt which is held at brokers as collateral to support the hedging of client market exposures in accordance with the Group’s market risk 
management policy (refer to note 21).
143
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Financial instrument valuation hierarchy  
The hierarchy of the Group’s financial instruments carried at fair value is as follows:
  Level 1
(1)
Level 2
(2)
Level 3
(3)
Total fair value
Group £m £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2016        
Financial assets:        
Trade receivables – due from/(to) brokers (13.5) (1.0) – (14.5)
Financial investments 136.0 – – 136.0
(1) Valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments. This category includes the Group’s exchange-traded open hedging positions. 
(2) Valued using techniques where a price is derived based significantly on observable market data. For example, where an active market for an identical financial instrument to the 
product offered by the Group to its clients or used by the Group to hedge its market risk does not exist. 
(3) Valued using techniques that incorporate information other than observable market data that is significant to the overall valuation. 
There have been no changes in the valuation techniques for any of the Group’s financial instruments held at fair value in the year (2015: 
none). During the year ended 31 May 2016, there were no transfers (2015: none) between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, 
and no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair value measurements (2015: none).
  Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total fair value
Group £m £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2015        
Financial assets:        
Trade receivables – due (to)/from brokers 0.8 (9.7) – (8.9)
Financial investments 108.4 – – 108.4
Group’s valuation processes
The Group’s finance department includes a team that performs the valuations of financial assets required for financial reporting 
purposes, including Level 3 fair values (where applicable). This team reports to the chief financial officer (CFO), and material 
judgemental valuations are escalated to the Audit Committee (AC). If there is any material valuations, discussions of the valuation 
processes and results are held between the CFO, AC and the finance team, in line with the Group’s reporting dates. There were no 
material judgemental valuations in the year.
Reconciliation of the movement in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy
  At1 June 2015
Gains or losses 
in revenue
(1)
Cash settled 
positions
(2)
Transfers
At 31 May 
2016
(3)
Group £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets:          
Trade receivables – due from clients (note 3(a)) – 48.0 (48.0) – –
(1) Disclosed in trading revenue in the Income Statement. This represents client positions that have closed in the year as well those open at the year-end.
(2) Value of client positions that have cash settled in the year. 
(3) Value of open, unsettled client positions at the year-end disclosed in trading revenue in the Income Statement. 
 
At 1 June 
2014
Gains or losses 
in revenue
Cash settled 
positions Transfers
At 31 May 
2015
Group £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets:          
Trade receivables – due from clients (note 3(a)) – 36.2 (36.2) – –
The impact of a reasonably possible alternative valuation assumption on the valuation of trade receivables – due from clients reported within Level 
3 of the valuation hierarchy is not significant. 
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
144 ACCOUNTING CLASSIFICATIONS AND FAIR VALUES – COMPANY
 
FVTPL – 
Held for 
trading
Loans and 
receivables
Other 
amortised 
cost
Available- 
for-sale
Total  
carrying 
amount Fair value
Company £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2016
Financial assets:
Amounts due from Group companies (note 34(b)) – 131.5 – – 131.5 131.5
– 131.5 – – 131.5 131.5
Financial liabilities:
Amounts due to Group companies (note 34(b)) – – 28.6 – 28.6 28.6
Redeemable preference shares – – – – – –
– – 28.6 – 28.6 28.6
 
FVTPL – 
Held for 
trading
Loans and 
receivables
Other 
amortised 
cost
Available- 
for-sale
Total  
carrying 
amount Fair value
Company £m £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2015
Financial assets:
Amounts due from Group companies (note 34(b)) – 201.8 – – 201.8 201.8
– 201.8 – – 201.8 201.8
Financial liabilities:
Amounts due to Group companies (note 34(b)) – – 119.6 – 119.6 119.6
Redeemable preference shares – – – – – –
– – 119.6 – 119.6 119.6
Items of income, expense, gains or losses – Group
Gains and losses arising from financial assets and liabilities classified as fair value through the profit and loss, held for trading amounted 
to net gains of £456.3 million (2015: £388.4 million).
Finance income (refer to note 8) totalled £2.0 million (2015: £1.8 million). An amount of £2.0 million (2015: £1.8 million) represents 
interest income on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss and includes interest receivable in respect of non-segregated 
client balances, part of which is held with broker and interest receivable calculated using the Effective Interest Rate methodology for 
financial investments. 
Finance costs (refer to note 9) totalled £1.7 million (2015: £1.9 million). An amount of £0.6 million represents interest expense on 
financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss (2015: £0.7 million). The remainder £1.1 million (2015: £1.2 million) represents 
fee expense arising from maintaining the Group’s committed bank facilities.
145
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
Financial instruments subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements and similar arrangements
Within the Group’s terms and conditions with individual clients and brokers are netting agreement clauses. The effect of these netting 
arrangements, including rights of set-off associated within the Group’s recognised financial assets and financial liabilities is as follows: 
   
Gross amounts  
before offsetting
Amounts set off in  
the balance sheet
Net amounts  
presented in the 
balance sheet
Group Note £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2016
Financial assets
Financial investments 21 136.0 – 136.0
Trade receivables – due from brokers
(1)
17 306.8 (61.3) 245.5
Trade receivables – due from clients
(2)
17 274.9 (272.7) 2.2
Trade receivables – other amounts due to the Group 17 30.8 – 30.8
748.5 (334.0) 414.5
Financial liabilities
Trade payables – due to brokers
(1)
61.3 (61.3) –
Trade payables - due to clients
(3)
22 316.1 (272.7) 43.4
377.4 (334.0) 43.4
(1) ‘Trade receivables - due from brokers’ and ‘Trade payables – due to brokers’ represent balances with brokers where the combination of cash held on account (disclosed as loans 
and receivables) and the net valuation of financial derivative open positions (disclosed as held for trading) results in an amount due to/from the Group. The net financial derivative 
open positions have been presented gross according to whether individual positions held at brokers are in a profit or loss position.
(2) ‘Trade receivables - due from clients’ represent balances with clients where the combination of cash held on account (disclosed as loans and receivables) and the net valuation of 
financial derivative open positions (disclosed as held for trading) results in an amount due to the Group. The net financial derivative open positions have been presented gross 
according to whether individual positions held with clients are in a profit or loss position.
(3) ‘Trade payables - due to clients’ represent balances where the combination of client cash held on account and the valuation of financial derivative open positions results in an 
amount payable by the Group. Trade payables – due to clients are reported net in the Group Statement of Financial Position as the Group adjusts the gross amount payable to 
clients (i.e. monies held on behalf of clients) for profits or losses incurred on a daily basis consistent with the legal right and intention to settle on a net basis. Therefore, as well 
as being presented gross of segregated client money discussed above, client open positions have been presented gross according to whether individual client positions are in a 
profit or loss position.
   
Gross amounts  
before offsetting
Amounts set off in  
the balance sheet
Net amounts  
presented in the 
balance sheet
Group Note £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2015
Financial assets
Financial investments 21 108.4 – 108.4
Trade receivables – due from brokers 17 320.9 (81.7) 239.2
Trade receivables – due from clients 17 238.1 (236.1) 2.0
Trade receivables – other amounts due to the Group 17 28.4 – 28.4
695.8 (317.8) 378.0
Financial liabilities
Trade payables – due to brokers 81.7 (81.7) –
Trade payables – due to clients 22 253.8 (236.1) 17.7
335.5 (317.8) 17.7
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
146 36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Responsibility for risk management, including financial risks, resides at all levels within the Group, starting with the Board of Directors. 
Our Corporate Governance structure, including details of how the Board delegates responsibility for internal control and risk 
management to our Audit and Risk committees, is described in detail in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report. 
The Group’s Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment (ILAA), while 
applying specifically to the Group’s FCA entities, provide an on-going assessment of the risks the Group considers to have the potential 
to have a significant detrimental impact on its financial performance and future prospects and describes how the Group mitigates these 
risks subject to the Group’s risk appetite.
Financial risks arising from financial instruments are analysed into market, credit, concentration and liquidity risks, and these are 
discussed below. 
36(a) MARKET RISK
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices will affect the Group’s income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. 
This is analysed into market price, currency and interest rate risk components.
The Group’s market risk is managed under the ‘Market Risk Policy’ on a group-wide basis and exposure to market risk at any point in 
time depends primarily on short-term market conditions and the levels of client activity. The Group utilises market position limits for 
“operational efficiency” and does not take proprietary positions based on an expectation of market movements. As a result not all net 
client exposures are hedged and the Group may have a residual net position in any of the financial markets in which it offers products up 
to the market risk limit. 
The Group’s Market Risk Policy incorporates a methodology for setting market position limits, consistent with the Group’s risk appetite, 
for each financial market in which the Group’s clients can trade, as well as certain markets which the Board considers to be correlated. 
These limits are determined with reference to the expected liquidity and volatility of the underlying financial product or asset class and 
represent the maximum long and short client exposure that the Group will hold without hedging the net client exposure.
The Group’s real-time market position monitoring system allows it to monitor its market exposure against these limits continuously. If 
exposures exceed these limits, the policy requires that hedging is undertaken to bring the exposure back within the defined limit. 
There is a significant level of ‘natural’ hedging arising from the Group’s global client base pursuing varying trading strategies which 
results in a significant portfolio hedging effect. This reduces the Group’s net market exposure prior to the Group hedging any residual 
net client exposures. 
Where the Group has residual positions in markets for which it has not been possible or cost-effective to hedge, the Executive Risk 
Committee determines the appropriate action and reviews these exposures regularly, subject to the risk management framework 
approved by the Board.
Binary bets and options are typically difficult or not cost-effective to hedge and there is often no direct underlying market which can 
be utilised in setting the price which the Group quotes. The Group normally undertakes no hedging for these markets, but can hedge 
specific positions if considered necessary. The Group aims to reduce the volatility of revenue from these markets by offering a large 
number of different betting opportunities, the results of which should, to some extent, offset each other irrespective of the underlying 
market outcome. The overwhelmingly short-term nature of these contracts means that risk on these markets at any point in time is not 
considered to be significant.
36(a)(i) Market price risk
This is the risk that the fair value of a financial instrument fluctuates as a result of changes in market prices other than due to the effect of 
currency or interest rate risks.
Equity market price risk:
The most significant market risk faced by the Group is on equity positions including shares and indices which are highly correlated and 
managed on a portfolio basis. 
During the year, following further development of the back-end risk management systems, a detailed analysis of the risk limits 
market-by-market was undertaken. This resulted in increasing certain risk limits, as well as making the main regional and global equity 
limits dynamic by responding intraday when the market is open and most liquid, when client activity increases or decreases and reducing 
the limit approaching market closing. Accordingly the intraday limit will fluctuate but with a maximum limit set at £100.0 million. 
At 31 May 2016 the exposure limit was £30 million (2015: £30.0 million) and the Group’s equity exposure was £4.8 million (2015: £2.8 
million). The average equity exposure limit during the year was £30.0 million (2015: £26.4 million). As noted earlier in this section the 
Group’s market risk policy requires that when the exposure exceeds the exposure limit, hedging is undertaken to bring the exposure 
back within that limit as soon as practical. 
The Group has no significant concentration of market risk. 
No sensitivity analysis is presented for equity market price risk as the impact of reasonably possible market movements on the Group’s 
net trading revenue and equity are not significant, being less than the Group’s average daily net trading revenue from financial 
instruments. Changes in market risk variables have no direct impact on the Group’s equity as the Group has no financial instruments 
designated in hedging relationships.
147
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
36(a) MARKET RISK CONTINUED
36(a)(i) Market price risk continued
Other market price risk:
The Group also has market price risk as a result of its trading activities (offering bets and Contracts for Difference (CFDs) on interest 
rate derivatives and commodities) which is hedged as part of the overall market risk management. The exposure is monitored on a 
Group-wide basis and is hedged using exchange-traded futures and options. Exposure limits are set by the Executive Risk Committee 
for each product, and also for groups of products where it is considered that their price movements are likely to be positively correlated. 
The fair value of interest rate derivatives and commodities at the year-end are as follows:
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
  £m £m
Interest rate derivatives 1.1 11.0
Commodities (5.3) 7.4
No sensitivity analysis is presented for other market price risk as the impact of reasonably possible market movements on the Group’s 
net trading revenue are not significant. Changes in risk variables have no direct impact on the Group’s equity as the Group has no 
financial instruments designated in hedging relationships.
36(a)(ii) Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to two sources of foreign currency risk.
Translational foreign currency risk
Translation exposures arise from financial and non-financial items held by an entity with a functional currency different from the Group’s 
presentation currency. The functional currency of each company in the Group is that denominated by the country of incorporation as 
disclosed in note 15. The Group does not hedge translational exposures as they do not have a significant impact on the Group’s capital 
resources. 
Transactional foreign currency risk
Transactional foreign currency exposures represent financial assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional 
currency of the transacting entity. Transaction exposures arise in the normal course of business and the management of this risk forms 
part of the risk policies outlined above. Limits on the exposures which the Group will accept in each currency are set by the Executive 
Risk Committee and the Group hedges its exposures as necessary with market counterparties. Foreign currency risk is managed on a 
group-wide basis, while the Company’s exposure to foreign currency risk is not considered by the Directors to be significant.
The Group monitors transactional foreign currency risks including currency Statement of Financial Position exposures, equity, commodity, 
interest and other positions denominated in foreign currencies and bets and trades on foreign currencies. The Group’s net exposure to 
foreign exchange risk based on notional amounts at each year-end was as follows:
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
  £m £m
US dollar (2.3) (4.9)
Euro (5.7) (9.1)
Australian dollar (10.2) (2.3)
Yen 9.5 (2.7)
Other (0.9) (3.9)
No sensitivity analysis is presented for foreign exchange risk as the impact of reasonably possible market movements on the Group’s net 
trading revenue are not significant. Changes in risk variables have no direct impact on the Group’s equity as the Group has no financial 
instruments designated in hedging relationships.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
148 36(a)(iii) Non-trading interest rate risk
The Group also has interest rate risk relating to financial instruments not held at fair value through profit or loss. These exposures are 
not hedged.
The interest rate risk profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities as at each year-end was as follows:
  Within 1 year Between 2 and 5 years More than 5 years Total
 
31 May 
2016
31 May 
2015
31 May 
2016
31 May 
2015
31 May 
2016
31 May 
2015
31 May 
2016
31 May 
2015
Group £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate                
Redeemable preference shares – – – – – – – –
Financial investments 111.0 32.9 25.0 75.5 – – 136.0 108.4
Floating rate                
Cash and cash equivalents 218.8 148.8 – – – – 218.8 148.8
Trade receivables – due from brokers 245.5 239.2 – – – – 245.5 239.2
Trade payables – client funds held on 
balance sheet
(39.0) (16.9) – – – – (39.0) (16.9)
  536.3 404.0 25.0 75.5 – – 561.3 479.5
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument. Please refer to note 21 for effective 
interest rates received.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year. Trade receivables and payables 
include client and broker balances upon which interest is paid or received based upon market rates. 
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
A non-traded interest rate risk sensitivity analysis has been performed on net interest income on segregated client funds, based on the 
value of client funds held at the year-end, on the basis of a 0.25% (2015: 0.25%) per annum fall and a 0.5% (2015: 0.5%) rise in interest 
rates, at the beginning of the year, as these are considered ‘reasonably possible’. The impact of such a fall in interest rates would reduce 
net interest income on segregated client funds by approximately £2.3 million (2015: £2.2 million) per annum. The impact of such a rise 
in interest rates would increase net interest income on segregated client funds by approximately £4.6 million (2015: £4.5 million) per 
annum. Changes in risk variables have no material impact on the Group’s equity as the Group has no financial instruments designated in 
hedging relationships.
36(b) CREDIT RISK
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty fails to perform its obligations, resulting in financial loss. The principal sources of credit risk to 
our business are from financial institutions and individual clients.
The Group’s credit risk is managed on a group-wide basis.
36(b)(i) Financial institution credit risk
Financial institution credit risk is managed in accordance with the Group’s ‘Counterparty Credit Management Policy’. 
Financial institutional counterparties are subject to a credit review when a new relationship is entered into and this is updated 
semi-annually (or more frequently as required e.g. on a change in the financial institution’s corporate structure). Proposed maximum 
exposure limits for these financial institutions are then reviewed and approved by the Executive Risk Committee.
As part of its management of concentration risk, the Group is also committed to maintaining multiple brokers for each asset class. Where 
possible, the Group negotiates for its funds to receive client money protection which can reduce direct credit exposure. 
In respect of financial institution credit risk, the following key metrics are monitored on a daily basis:
 ❚ Balances held with each counterparty group, against limits approved by the Executive Risk Committee; and
 ❚ Any change in short- and long-term credit rating.
149
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
36(b) CREDIT RISK CONTINUED
36(b)(i) Financial institution credit risk continued
The Group is responsible under various regulatory regimes for the stewardship of client monies. These responsibilities are defined in 
the Group’s Counterparty Credit Management Policy and include the appointment of and periodic review of institutions with which 
client money is deposited. The Group’s general policy is that all financial institutional counterparties holding client money accounts 
must have minimum short and long-term ratings of A-2 and A- respectively, although in some operating jurisdictions where accounts are 
maintained to provide local banking facilities for clients it can be problematic to find a banking counterparty satisfying these minimum 
ratings requirements. In such cases the Group will seek to use a locally systemically important institution. These criteria also apply for the 
Group’s own bank accounts held with financial institutions. The Group also actively manages the credit exposure to each of its broking 
counterparties settling or recalling balances at each broker on a daily basis in line with the collateral requirements. 
In addition, the majority of deposits are made on an overnight or breakable term basis which enables the Group to react immediately to 
any deterioration in credit quality, and deposits of an unbreakable nature or requiring notice are only held with a subset of counterparties 
which have been approved by the Executive Risk Committee. At 31 May 2016 there were no deposits held on an unbreakable basis 
(2015: £nil).
36(b)(ii) Client credit risk
The Group operates a real-time mark-to-market trading platform, with client profits and losses being constantly updated on each 
client’s account.
Client credit risk principally arises when a client’s total funds deposited with the Group are insufficient to cover any trading 
losses incurred. In addition, a small number of clients are granted credit limits to cover open losses and margin requirements as 
described below.
In particular, client credit risk can arise where there are significant, sudden movements in the market i.e. due to high general market 
volatility or specific volatility relating to an individual financial instrument in which the client has an open position.
We mitigate, but do not eliminate, client credit risk in a number of ways, including the real-time monitoring of client positions via our 
‘close-out monitor’, the ability of clients to set a level in advance at which the deal will be closed (the ‘stop’ level or ‘guaranteed stop’ 
level) and the use of tiered margining. 
Credit risk is also mitigated in part through increased margin requirements on larger positions, our client suitability criteria, and 
is supported by an extensive training program which aims to educate clients in all aspects of trading and risk management which 
encourages them to collateralise their accounts at an appropriate level in excess of the minimum requirement.
The principal types of client credit risk exposure are managed under the Group’s ‘Client Credit Management Policy’ and depend on the 
type of account and any credit offered to clients as follows: 
Clients subject to the Group’s ‘close-out monitor’
The ‘close out monitor’ (COM) is an automated liquidation process whereby accounts which have broken the liquidation threshold are 
automatically identified. Where client losses are such that their total equity falls below the specified liquidation level positions will be 
liquidated, resulting in reduced credit risk exposure for the Group. 
Both the ‘close out monitor’ and client initiated ‘stops’ result in the transfer of market risk to the Group. Market risk arises following the 
closure of the underlying client position as the Group (subject to the market risk limits, discussed in the ‘Market risk’ section), may hold a 
corresponding hedging position that will, assuming sufficient market liquidity, be unwound. 
In addition a subset of clients have what are known as “Limited Risk” accounts. For such accounts a level is set in advance (the 
“guaranteed stop” level) at which the deal will be closed, meaning a maximum client loss can be calculated at the opening of the trade. 
Clients placing trades with guaranteed stop levels pay a small premium on each transaction. The maximum loss is then the amount 
the client is required to deposit to open the trade, meaning that in most circumstances the client can never lose more than their initial 
margin deposit. Although no longer offered to new clients, the Group still has a significant number of clients with this type of account. 
This type of account results in the transfer of an element of market risk to the Group, which is managed under the Group’s Market 
Risk Policy, and only a subset of more liquid products are available to trade. Clients with any type of account may still choose to use 
guaranteed stops (where available and on payment of the premium).
The majority of client positions are monitored on the Group’s real-time COM system or are limited risk accounts with guaranteed 
‘stop-losses’. As at 31 May 2016, 99.91% (2015: 99.85%) of client accounts were subject to the automatic COM procedure or are 
‘limited risk’ accounts.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
150 Credit accounts
Clients holding other types of accounts are permitted to deal in circumstances where they may be capable of suffering losses greater 
than the funds they have deposited on their account, or in limited circumstances are allowed credit. The Group has a formal credit policy 
which determines the financial and experience criteria which a client must satisfy before being given an account which exposes the 
Group to credit risk, including trading limits for each client and strict margining rules. 
The Group may offer credit limits with the result any ‘open loss’ can be paid subject to agreed credit terms. These accounts typically only 
create a credit exposure when the client’s loss exceeds their initial margin deposit. 
In addition to the waiver of payment of open losses on a trade, the Group may also offer clients credit in respect of their initial margin. 
This is a permanent waiving of initial margin requirements while the limit is active on the account subject to the credit limit.
Credit limits are only granted following provision by the client of evidence of their available financial resources and credit accounts limits 
are continuously reviewed by the Group’s Credit Department. Each client with a credit limit is also assigned a liquidation level, breach of 
which will result in closure of positions. Credit accounts are small in number, are not actively promoted and in general they are not made 
available to new clients.
Risk-based tiered margins
The Group applies a tiered-margin requirement for equities and other instruments with risk-adjusted margin requirements dependent on 
several factors including the volatility and liquidity of the underlying instrument. 
This has resulted in potential margin requirement of up to 75% of the value of the notional client position for large client positions but a 
reduced margin requirement for smaller client positions.
These tiered margins, in addition to the COM discussed earlier, contribute to the further mitigation of the Group’s client counterparty 
credit risk exposure.
Management of client collateral 
The Group also accepts collateral from a small number of its stockbroking clients in the form of shares or other securities which mitigate 
the Group’s credit risk. Clients retain title to the securities lodged whilst their trading account is operating normally, but are required 
to sign a collateral agreement which will allow the Group to take title and sell the securities in the event of the client defaulting on any 
margin obligations.
The collateral value assigned to the client account is updated in real-time, and each security is assigned a ‘haircut’ value e.g. a client is 
typically allowed to use 95% of a major FTSE 100 current market value.
The analysis of neither past due nor impaired credit exposures in the following table excludes individual client funds held in segregated 
client money accounts or money market facilities established under the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) ‘CASS’ rules and similar 
rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. Under these rules, client money funds held with trust status are 
protected in the event of the insolvency of the Group.
151
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
36(b) CREDIT RISK CONTINUED
36(b)(ii) Client credit risk continued
  Cash and cash equivalents
Trade receivables –  
due from brokers
Trade receivables –  
due from clients
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015 31 May 2016 31 May 2015 31 May 2016 31 May 2015
  £m £m £m £m £m £m
Group (note 18) (note 17) (note 17)
Individually impaired
           
Gross exposure – – – – 18.8 22.7
Allowance for impairment – – – – (17.6) (21.7)
  – – – – 1.2 1.0
Past due but not impaired
           
Ageing profile:            
0-3 months – – – – 0.4 0.1
> 6 months – – – – – 0.2
  – – – – 0.4 0.3
Neither past due nor impaired            
Credit rating:            
AA+ & above 12.9 7.0 – – – –
AA to AA- 6.1 6.5 16.9 16.9 – –
A+ to A- 147.0 125.7 149.5 219.2 – –
BBB+ to BBB- 52.4 8.7 73.9 0.2 – –
BB+ to B – 0.2 – – – –
CCC – – – – – –
Unrated
(1)
0.4 0.7 5.2 2.9 0.6 0.7
  218.8 148.8 245.5 239.2 0.6 0.7
Total carrying amount 218.8 148.8 245.5 239.2 2.2 2.0
(1) Amounts due from brokers are primarily related to the Group’s operations in South Africa. Unrated amounts due from clients relate to open positions. Prepayments and other 
receivables are all unrated (2015: all unrated). 
The Financial investments are UK Government securities held by the Group in satisfaction of the FCA requirements to hold a ‘liquid asset 
buffer’ against potential liquidity stress under BIPRU 12 and as such they are rated as AA+.
Impairment of trade receivables due from clients
The Group records specific impairments of trade receivables due from clients in a separate allowance account. Impairments are recorded 
where the Group determines that it is probable that it will be unable to collect all amounts owing according to the contractual terms 
of the agreement. There are no collective impairments taken, and no other assets are considered impaired. Below is a reconciliation of 
changes in the separate allowance account during the year:
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
Group £m £m
Balance at 1 June 21.7 10.6
Impairment loss for the year    
– gross charge for the year 4.0 18.0
– recoveries (2.4) (2.8)
Write-offs (6.6) (4.1)
Foreign exchange 0.9 –
Balance at 31 May 17.6 21.7
In the table above, for 31 May 2016 ‘debts written off’ line includes £4.3 million relating to the Swiss franc event debts which were 
provided for in the year ended 31 May 2015. In the May 2015 ‘gross charge for the year’ line is £15.1 million and £2.8 million in the 
‘recoveries’ line, in relation to the Swiss franc event (see note 2 for details).
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
152 Credit risk – Company
Held within prepayments and other receivables in the Statement of Financial Position of the Company are amounts payable to the 
Company from related parties that are unrated. Refer to note 34(b). The Company is not otherwise exposed to material amounts of 
credit risk. 
36(c) CONCENTRATION RISK
Concentration risk is defined as all risk exposures with a loss potential which is large enough to threaten the solvency or the financial 
position of the Group. In respect of financial risk, such exposures may be caused by credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk or a combination 
or interaction of those risks.
The following table analyses the Group’s credit exposures, at their carrying amounts, by geographical region and excludes individual 
client funds held in segregated client money accounts established under the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) ‘CASS’ rules and 
similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates. 
Analysis of credit exposures at carrying amount by geographical segment: 
  UK Europe Australia Rest of World Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2016
Financial assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 150.9 0.5 62.1 5.3 218.8
Financial investments 136.0 – – – 136.0
Trade receivables – due from brokers 82.6 36.7 – 126.2 245.5
Trade receivables – due from clients 1.6 0.4 0.1 0.1 2.2
Other amounts due to the Group 21.9 – 1.3 7.6 30.8
Total financial assets 393.0 37.6 63.5 139.2 633.3
  UK Europe Australia Rest of World Total
Group £m £m £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2015
Financial assets:
Cash and cash equivalents 71.8 0.5 5.7 70.8 148.8
Financial investments 108.4 – – – 108.4
Trade receivables – due from brokers 62.8 44.9 29.1 102.4 239.2
Trade receivables – due from clients 1.6 0.1 0.2 0.1 2.0
Other amounts due to the Group 22.2 – – 6.2 28.4
Total financial assets 266.8 45.5 35.0 179.5 526.8
The Group’s largest credit exposure to any one individual broker at 31 May 2016 was £52.2 million (BBB+ rated) (2015: £91.2 million, A- 
rated). Included in cash and cash equivalents, the Group’s largest credit exposure to any bank at 31 May 2016 was £79.4 million (A rated) 
(2015: £54.1 million, A rated). The Group has no significant exposure to any one particular client or group of connected clients. 
All of the Company’s credit exposures arise in the UK at both 31 May 2016 and 31 May 2015. 
153
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
36. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
36(d) LIQUIDITY RISK 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations arising from its financial liabilities that are settled 
by delivering cash or other financial assets. For further details refer to note 19.
Derivative and non-derivative cash flows by remaining contractual maturity – Group
The following tables present the undiscounted cash flows receivable and payable (excluding interest payments) by the Group under 
derivative and non-derivative financial assets and liabilities allocated to the earliest period in which the Group can be required to pay 
although the remaining contractual maturities may be longer. 
Amounts payable on demand:
  Derivative Non-derivative Total
  £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2016
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents – 218.8 218.8
Financial investments – 136.0 136.0
Trade receivables – due (to)/from brokers (14.5) 260.0 245.5
Trade receivables – due from clients – 2.2 2.2
Trade receivables – other amounts due to the Group – 30.8 30.8
(14.5) 647.8 633.3
Financial liabilities
Trade payables – Client funds held on balance sheet – (39.0) (39.0)
Trade payables – Amounts due to clients – (4.4) (4.4)
– (43.4) (43.4)
Derivative trade receivables disclosed in the table above represent the Group’s open positions with brokers. Non-derivative trade 
receivables and payables disclosed in the table above represent cash margin held at brokers, UK Government securities and client 
debtors. Derivative and non-derivative cash flows are presented alongside each other in the table above as they result from the same 
underlying trading relationship and as the Group has both the legal right and intention to settle on a net basis.
Trade receivables are disclosed as repayable on demand as when client positions are closed the corresponding positions relating to 
the hedged position are closed with brokers. Accordingly the Group releases cash margin, which is repaid by brokers to the Group 
on demand.
Amounts payable on demand:
  Derivative Non-derivative Total
  £m £m £m
As at 31 May 2015
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents – 148.8 148.8
Financial investments – 108.4 108.4
Trade receivables – due (to)/from brokers (8.9) 248.1 239.2
Trade receivables – due from clients – 2.0 2.0
Trade receivables – other amounts due to the Group – 28.4 28.4
(8.9) 535.7 526.8
Financial liabilities
Trade payables – Client funds held on balance sheet – (16.9) (16.9)
Trade payables – Amounts due to clients – (0.8) (0.8)
– 17.7 17.7
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
154 Amounts payable over 5 years:
The Group has non-derivative cash flows payable over 5 years in relation to the redeemable preference shares at 31 May 2016 and 2015, 
as disclosed in note 26.
Derivative and non-derivative cash flows by remaining contractual maturity – Company
There were no Company derivative cash flows as at 31 May 2016 (2015: £nil).
At 31 May 2016 the Company held cash and cash equivalents of £nil (2015: £724) available on demand and redeemable preference 
shares of £40,000 (2015: £40,000) the terms of which are disclosed in note 26.
37. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND RESOURCES
Capital management
The Group is supervised on a consolidated basis by the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The Group’s operations in Australia, 
Japan, Singapore, South Africa, United States, Switzerland and Dubai are also regulated. Individual capital requirements in these 
jurisdictions are taken into account when managing the Group’s capital resources.
The Group’s regulatory capital resources management objective is to ensure that the Group complies with the regulatory capital 
resources requirement set by the FCA and other global regulators in jurisdictions in which the Group’s entities operate. 
The Group’s capital management policy aims to maximise returns on equity while maintaining a strong capital position to enable the 
Group to take advantage of growth opportunities, whether organic or by acquisition. The Group does not seek to generate higher 
returns on equity by introducing leverage through, for example, the use of long-term debt finance.
The Group’s 2015 ICAAP was approved by the Board in December 2015. There have been no capital requirement breaches during the 
financial year. The Group also regularly undertakes three-year stress and scenario testing of its main financial and operational risks to 
project its future capital and liquidity adequacy requirements. 
The disclosures required of the Group under the Capital Requirements Regulation (Pillar III) will be made on the Group’s corporate 
website iggroup.com. These will provide additional information which will allow market participants to assess key pieces of information 
on the Group’s risk exposures, risk assessment process and hence the capital adequacy of the Group. 
Return on Assets
In accordance with the Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV) and the IFPRU prudential regulations the Group is required to disclose 
a return on assets metric. This has been calculated as ‘profit for the year’ divided by ‘total equity’:
  31 May 2016 31 May 2015
Return on assets 24.8% 22.3%
Capital resources
The Group had maintained a Total Capital Ratio well in excess of the regulatory minimum of 8% throughout the year. An analysis of the 
Group’s consolidated capital resources and risk weighted exposure amounts is provided in the Operating and Financial Review.
The following table summarises the Group’s capital adequacy on a consolidated basis.
 
 
31 May 2016
£m
Restated* 
31 May 2015
£m
Total equity per audited financial statements 663.0 591.4
Less: Foreseeable dividend (84.0) (71.8)
Investment in own shares 1.8 1.2
Common Equity Tier 1 Capital 580.8 520.8
Less: Intangible assets (125.1) (124.0)
Less: Investment in own shares (1.8) (1.1)
Less: Deferred tax asset (7.2) (7.1)
Total capital resources 446.7 388.6
Total Risk Exposure Amounts – Pillar 1 (1,568.4) (1,401.3)
Total Capital Ratio 28.5% 27.7%
Capital conservation buffer (9.8) –
Countercyclical buffer – –
Total Capital Ratio including combined buffer 28.3% 27.7%
* Prior year capital ratios have been restated to reflect recognition of foreseeable dividends.
155
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
38. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
During June 2016 the Group withdrew and fully repaid £160.0 million which was drawn in different tranches in anticipation of extreme 
market volatility from the results of the United Kingdom’s European Referendum.
In June 2016, the Group renewed its £160.0 million of revolving credit facility from a syndicate of four UK banks. This facility has £100.0 
million available for up to a 1 year term (with an option to extend for a further year) and £60.0 million available for up to 3 years.
A final dividend of 22.95p per share amounting to £84.0 million was proposed by the Board on 14 July 2016. 
In the Directors’ opinion the Group has sufficient liquidity available to meet operational requirements under both normal and stressed 
conditions. Liquidity management is also dependent on credit risk management subsequently described in note 36(b).
39. AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND STATEMENT OF 
COMPLIANCE WITH IFRS
The Financial Statements of IG Group Holdings plc (the Company) and its subsidiaries (together the Group) for the year ended 31 May 
2016 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 July 2016 and the Statements of Financial Position signed on the Board’s 
behalf by Peter Hetherington. IG Group Holdings plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The 
Company’s ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange. The Company’s registered address is 25 Dowgate Hill, London, 
United Kingdom, EC4R 2YA.
The Group and Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and IFRIC interpretations as they apply to the financial statements of the Group and 
of the Company for the year ended 31 May 2016 and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The 
Group and Company financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of 
available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets and liabilities (including derivatives) at fair value through profit or loss.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and the Company are set out in note 40.
40. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
40.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION
The accounting policies which follow have been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2016.
As permitted by Section 408(1)(b), (4) of the Companies Act 2006, the individual Income Statement of IG Group Holdings plc (the 
Company) has not been presented in these financial statements. The amount of profit for the year dealt with in the Financial Statements 
of IG Group Holdings plc is £124.0 million (2015: £62.7 million). A Statement of Comprehensive Income for IG Group Holdings plc has 
also not been presented in these Financial Statements. No items of other comprehensive income arose in the year (2015: £nil).
40.1.1 Going concern
The Directors have prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis which requires the Directors to have a reasonable 
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
156 40.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION 
40.2.1 Subsidiaries
The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial Statements of IG Group Holdings plc and the entities it controls (its 
subsidiaries) made up to the reporting date as listed in note 15.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to 
be consolidated until the date that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies 
of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; currently 
exercisable or convertible potential voting rights; or by way of contractual agreement. The results, cash flows and final positions of 
the subsidiaries used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the 
parent company and are based on consistent accounting policies. All inter-company balances and transactions between Group entities, 
including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated on consolidation.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. 
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of consideration paid including an estimate of any contingent or deferred 
consideration. Contingent or deferred consideration is re-measured at each Statement of Financial Position date with periodic changes 
to the estimated liability recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement. Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred. Any 
excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of 
the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired (discount on acquisition) is credited to the Income 
Statement in the period of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective 
date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the Financial Statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with 
those used by other members of the Group. 
40.2.2 Non-controlling interests
Where the Group and a non-controlling shareholder enter into a forward contract (symmetrical put and call options) under which the 
Group is required to purchase the non-controlling interest for its fair value (formulae based valuation), at the forward date, the Group 
continues to recognise the non-controlling interest at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets, until expiry of the 
arrangement. The forward liability is also recognised for management’s best estimate of the present value of the redemption amount with 
a corresponding entry in equity. The accretion of the discount on the liability is recognised as a finance charge in the Consolidated Income 
Statement. The liability is re-measured to the final redemption amount with any periodic changes to the estimated liability recognised 
in the Consolidated Income Statement. On expiry of the forward, the liability is eliminated as paid and any difference in the value of the 
non-controlling interest to the exercise price deducted from equity. 
On an acquisition by acquisition basis non-controlling interests are measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest 
proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. 
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group. For purchases from 
non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of the 
non-controlling interest is recorded in equity. 
Losses applicable to the non-controlling shareholder in a consolidated subsidiary’s equity may exceed the non-controlling interest in the 
subsidiary’s equity. The excess and any further losses applicable to the non-controlling shareholder, are allocated against the majority 
interest, except to the extent that the non-controlling shareholder has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to 
cover the losses. If the subsidiary subsequently reports profits, such profits are allocated to the majority interests until the non-controlling 
shareholder‘s share of losses previously absorbed by the majority has been recovered.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented 
within equity in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, separately from parent shareholders’ equity.
157
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
40. ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
40.3 FOREIGN CURRENCIES
The functional currency of each company in the Group is that of the country of incorporation (as disclosed in note 15) as this is consistent 
with the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. The Group’s most significant functional currency is Sterling. 
Transactions in other currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying spot exchange rates prevailing on the dates 
of the transactions. At each Statement of Financial Position date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange prevailing on the same date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair 
value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. 
Gains and losses arising on translation are taken to the Income Statement, except for exchange differences arising on monetary assets 
and liabilities that form part of the Group’s net investment in a foreign operation. These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of 
the net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations are translated into Sterling at exchange rates prevailing 
on the Statement of Financial Position date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period. 
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and taken directly to a translation reserve. Such translation differences are 
recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on 
the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
40.4 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost comprises the 
aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to 
making the asset capable of operating as intended. 
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value 
based upon estimated useful lives. Estimated residual value and useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis and residual values are 
based on prices prevailing at the Statement of Financial Position date. Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis over the expected 
useful lives as follows:
Leasehold improvements  – over the lease term of up to 15 years
Office equipment, fixtures and fittings  – over 5 years
Computer and other equipment  – over 2, 3 or 5 years
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the 
carrying value may not be recoverable, and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount. 
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise 
from the continued use of the asset. The gain or loss arising on derecognition of an asset is determined as the difference between the 
sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is included in the Income Statement in the period of derecognition.
40.5 GOODWILL
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition (fair value of consideration paid) over the Group’s 
interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a business at the date of acquisition. Goodwill 
is recognised as an asset and is allocated to cash-generating units for purposes of impairment testing. Cash-generating units represent 
the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or 
groups of assets.
Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method. Any excess of the cost of the business combination over the 
Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the Statement of 
Financial Position as goodwill and is not amortised. To the extent that the net fair value of the acquired entity’s identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised immediately in the Income Statement. 
Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for 
impairment, at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units monitored by management. Where the 
recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in 
the Income Statement.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal 
of the unit, or of an operation within it. 
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
158 40.6 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried initially at cost. An intangible asset acquired as part of a business 
combination such as a trade name or customer relationship is recognised at fair value outside goodwill if the asset is separable or 
arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably. Expenditure on internally developed intangible 
assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the Income Statement in the year in which it is incurred. Development expenditure is 
recognised as an intangible asset only after all the following criteria are met:
 ❚ the project’s technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated;
 ❚ the availability of adequate technical and financial resources and an intention to complete the project have been confirmed; and 
 ❚ the correlation between development costs and future revenue has been established.
Following initial recognition, the historic cost model is applied, with intangible assets being carried at cost less accumulated amortisation 
and accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised over their expected useful lives, as follows:
Development costs – straight-line basis over 3 years
Software and licences – straight-line basis over the contract term of up to 5 years
Trade names – straight-line basis over 2 years
Client lists and customer relationships – straight-line basis over 3 years
Domain names and generic top-level domains – straight-line basis over 10 years
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not 
be recoverable. In addition, the carrying value of capitalised development expenditure is reviewed for impairment annually before being brought 
into use.
40.7 IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS
At least annually, or when impairment testing is required, the Directors review the carrying amounts of the Group’s property, plant and 
equipment and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If 
any such indication exists (or at least annually for goodwill), the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the 
extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group 
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling costs and value-in-use. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount rate. This rate reflects current market assessments of the time value 
of money as well as the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its 
recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised as an expense immediately. 
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses 
may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised 
impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since 
the last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That 
increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, had no impairment loss been recognised for 
the asset in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately, although impairment losses relating to 
goodwill may not be reversed.
40.8 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
159
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
40. ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
40.9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
40.9.1 Classification, Recognition and Measurement 
The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments at initial recognition in accordance with the categories outlined below 
and re-evaluates this designation at each financial year-end. When financial instruments are recognised initially, they are measured at 
fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets and financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, 
directly attributable transaction costs. Financial instruments are disclosed in note 35 to the Financial Statements. 
40.9.1(a) Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, or designated as such on inception, are included in this category 
and relate to the financial derivative open positions included in trade receivables – due from brokers and trade payables – due to clients 
as shown in the Statement of Financial Position and related notes. Financial instruments are classified as held for trading if they are 
expected to settle in the short-term. The Group uses derivative financial instruments, in order to hedge derivative exposures arising from 
open client positions, which are also classified as held for trading.
All financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the Statement of Financial Position at fair value with gains or 
losses recognised in revenue in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Determination of fair value
Financial instruments arising from open client positions and the Group’s hedging positions are stated at fair value and disclosed 
according to the valuation hierarchy required by IFRS 7. Fair values are predominantly determined by reference to third party market 
values (bid prices for long positions and offer prices for short positions) as detailed below:
Level 1: Valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments. 
Level 2: Valued using techniques where a price is derived based significantly on observable market data. For example, where an active 
market for an identical financial instrument to the product offered by the Group to its clients or used by the Group to hedge its market 
risk does not exist. 
Level 3: Valued using techniques that incorporate information other than observable market data that is significant to the 
overall valuation.
40.9.1(b) Loans and receivables
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. 
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period. These are 
classified as non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise ‘trade receivables’, ‘cash and cash equivalents’ and ‘trade 
payable - amounts due to title transfer clients’.
40.9.1(c) Available-for-sale financial assets
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any other categories. 
They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or management intend to dispose of it within 12 months of the 
end of the reporting period. The Group’s available-for-sale assets comprise of ‘financial investments’.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
160 40.9.2 Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities
A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expired. 
(a) Financial assets
A financial asset is derecognised where the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; the Group retains the right to 
receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a 
‘pass-through’ arrangement; or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset and either (a) has transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards 
of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset. Where the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset 
and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, the 
asset is recognised to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement in the asset. Continuing involvement that takes the form of a 
guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of 
consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
(b) Financial liabilities
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. Where an existing 
financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are 
substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a 
new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit 
or loss.
40.10 TRADE RECEIVABLES AND TRADE PAYABLES
Assets or liabilities resulting from profit or losses on open positions are carried at fair value. Amounts due from or to clients and brokers 
are netted against other assets and liabilities with the same counterparty where a legally enforceable netting agreement is in place and 
where it is anticipated that assets and liabilities will be netted on settlement.
Trade receivables represent balances with counterparties and clients where the combination of cash held on account and the 
valuation of financial derivative open positions result in an amount due to the Group. A provision for impairment is established 
where there is objective evidence of non-collectability. Reference is made to an aged profile of debt and the provision is subject to 
management review.
Trade payables represent balances with counterparties and clients where the combination of cash held on account and the valuation of 
financial derivative open positions results in an amount payable by the Group.
40.11 PREPAYMENTS AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Prepayments and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an 
active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as fair value through profit or loss. Such assets are carried 
at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant. Gains and losses are recognised in income 
when the receivables are derecognised or impaired, and when economic benefit is consumed. A provision for impairment is established 
where there is objective evidence of non-collectability.
40.12 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits which may be accessed without penalty. Cash equivalents comprise short-term 
highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes 
in value. For the purposes of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, net cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents 
as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
The Group holds money on behalf of clients in accordance with the client money rules of the UK Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
other regulatory bodies. Such monies are classified as either ‘cash and cash equivalents’ or ‘segregated client funds’ in accordance with 
the relevant regulatory requirements. Segregated client funds comprise individual client funds held in segregated client money accounts 
or money market facilities. Segregated client money accounts hold statutory trust status restricting the Group’s ability to control the 
monies and accordingly such amounts and are not held on the Group’s Statement of Financial Position. 
The amount of segregated client funds held at year-end is disclosed in note 18 to the Financial Statements. The return received on 
managing segregated client funds is included within net operating income.
Title transfer funds are held by the Group under a Title Transfer Collateral Arrangement (TTCA) by which a client agrees that full 
ownership of such monies is unconditionally transferred to the Group. Title transfers funds are accordingly held on the Group’s 
Statement of Financial Position with a corresponding liability to clients within trade payables.
Cash and cash equivalents also includes client monies deposited with the Group’s Swiss banking subsidiary (refer to note 18).
161
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
40. ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
40.13 FINANCIAL INVESTMENTS
Financial investments are held as available-for-sale and are non-derivative financial assets that are not classified as held for trading, 
designated at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and receivables. Financial investments are recognised on a trade date basis. They 
are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related transactions costs. They are subsequently carried at fair value. Fair value is the 
quoted market price of the specific investments held.
Financial investments available-for-sale are carried at fair value. Unrealised gains or losses are reported in equity (in the available for 
sale reserve) and in other comprehensive income, until such investments are sold, collected or otherwise disposed of, or until any such 
investment is determined to be impaired. On disposal of an investment, the accumulated unrealised gain or loss included in equity is 
recycled to the Income Statement for the period and reported in other income. Gains and losses on disposal are determined using the 
average cost method.
Interest on financial investments is included in finance income using the Effective Interest Rate (EIR) method.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the 
financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability. When 
calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates cash flows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument (for 
example, prepayment, call and similar options) but shall not consider future credit losses. The calculation includes all fees and points 
paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate (see IAS 18 Revenue), transaction 
costs, and all other premiums or discounts.
At the year-end date the Group considers whether there is objective evidence that a financial investment is impaired. In case of 
such evidence, it is considered impaired if its cost exceeds the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount for a quoted financial 
investment is determined by reference to the market price. A quoted financial investment is considered impaired if objective evidence 
indicates that the decline in market price has reached such a level that recovery of the cost value cannot be reasonably expected within 
the foreseeable future.
If a financial investment is determined to be impaired, the cumulative unrealised loss previously recognised in equity is recycled to profit 
for the period. 
40.14 OTHER PAYABLES
Non-trading financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method 
if the time value of money is significant.
40.15 PROVISIONS
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an 
outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated.
40.16 BORROWINGS
Borrowings are recognised initially at their issue proceeds less transaction costs incurred. Subsequently, taking into consideration the 
term of the borrowings, an assessment is made whether to state at amortised cost, with any difference between net proceeds and the 
redemption value being recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
All borrowing costs are expensed as they are incurred.
40.17 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
40.17.1 Pension obligations
The Group operates defined contribution schemes. Contributions are charged to the Income Statement as and when they become 
payable according to the rules of the schemes. Once the contributions have been paid the group has no legal or constructive 
obligations to pay further contributions.
40.17.2 Bonus schemes
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses based on formulae that take into consideration the revenue or earnings 
attributable to the Group’s shareholders after certain adjustments and also based on operational non-financial measures. 
40.17.3 Termination benefits
Termination benefits are payable when an employment contract is terminated by the Group. The Group recognises termination benefits 
when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
162 40.18 TAXATION
The income tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable and movements in deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income 
Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items 
that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates in the respective jurisdictions that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Statement of Financial Position date.
Deferred tax is accounted for on all temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the Financial 
Statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the computation of taxable profit. In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised 
for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available, 
against which deductible temporary differences may be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference 
arises from goodwill (or negative goodwill) or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and 
liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except 
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Statement of Financial Position date and reduced to the extent that it is 
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related 
asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Statement of Financial Position 
date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, 
in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group 
intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
40.19 SHARE CAPITAL
40.19.1 Classification of shares as debt or equity
When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial liability of the Group is presented as a liability in the statement 
of financial position; measured initially at fair value net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished on 
conversion or redemption. The corresponding dividends relating to the liability component are charged as interest expense in the 
Income Statement. 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Equity instruments are 
classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a 
residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
40.19.2 Own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts
Shares held in trust by the Company for the purposes of employee share schemes are classified as a deduction from shareholders’ equity 
and are recognised at cost. Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between 
the proceeds from the sale and the original cost being taken to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement 
on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
40.19.3 Share-based payments
The Company operates three employee share plans: a share incentive plan, a sustained performance plan and a long-term incentive 
plan. Previously the Company operated a value-sharing plan, which was equity-settled. 
For market-based vesting conditions, the cost of these awards is measured at fair value calculated using option pricing models (refer 
to the share-based payment note for additional detail of the models and assumptions used for the various award schemes) and are 
recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Company’s estimate of 
the number of shares that will eventually vest.
For non-market based vesting conditions, at each Statement of Financial Position date before vesting, the cumulative expense is 
calculated representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or 
otherwise of non-market conditions determining the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The movement in cumulative 
expense since the previous Statement of Financial Position date is recognised in the Income Statement as part of operating expenses, 
with a corresponding credit to equity.
The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to employees of the subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated 
as a capital contribution. The fair value of the employee services received is recognised over the vesting period as an increase in the 
investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity. 
163
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
40. ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
40.20 REVENUE RECOGNITION
Trading revenue represents gains and losses arising on client trading activity, primarily in financial spread betting, contracts for difference 
or binary options as well as the transactions undertaken to hedge the risk associated with client trading activity. Open client and hedging 
positions are carried at fair market value and gains and losses arising on this valuation are recognised in revenue as well as gains and 
losses realised on positions that have closed. The policies and methodologies associated with the determination of fair value have been 
discussed previously under Financial Instruments. 
Trading revenue also includes:
 ❚ Spread, commission and funding charges made to clients in respect of the opening, holding and closing of financial spread bets, 
contracts for difference or binary options
 ❚ Commission earned from the execution-only share dealing service after deducting contracting and trade settlement fees payable to 
third party brokers. Revenue is stated net of sales taxes and is recognised in full on the date of trade being placed
 ❚ Member fees charged by the Group’s regulated futures and options exchange
The Group acts in a non-advisory capacity to match buyers and sellers under the execution-only share dealing service, does not act as 
principal when providing this service and only receives and transmits orders between counterparties. 
Trading revenue is reported before Introducing partner commission, along with betting duties and financial transaction taxes paid, is 
disclosed as an expense in arriving at net operating income. 
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group and the revenue 
can be reliably measured.
Finance income or interest income on segregated client funds is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and 
at the effective interest rate applicable. The effective interest rate is the rate which exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts over 
the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount. Interest income on segregated client funds is disclosed within 
revenue and therefore operating profit, as this is consistent with the nature of the Group’s operations. 
Net trading revenue, disclosed on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement and in the Notes to the Financial Statements, 
represents trading revenue from financial instruments carried at fair value through profit or loss and has been disclosed after taking 
account of Introducing partner commission as this is consistent with the management information received by the Chief Operating 
Decision Maker. 
Dividends receivable are recognised when the shareholder’s right to receive the payment is established. 
40.21 OPERATING PROFIT
Operating profit is the sum of the results of the principal activities of the Group after charging depreciation of property, plant and 
equipment, amortisation of intangible assets, operating lease rentals on land and buildings, foreign exchange differences, profit or loss 
on sale of property, plant and equipment and other operating expenses. 
40.22 USE OF NON-GAAP MEASURES
The Group believes that the presentation of underlying results provides additional useful information to shareholders on the underlying 
trends and comparable performance of the Group over time. These terms are not defined under IFRS and may therefore not be 
comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies. They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior 
to, GAAP measures. The term ’underlying’ refers to the relevant profit, earnings or taxation being reported excluding exceptional items.
Other non-GAAP measures used in these Financial Statements are return on assets (refer to note 37), capital resources (refer to note 37) 
and own funds generated from operations (refer to note 19(d)).
40.23 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Exceptional items are those items of income and expense that the Group considers are material one-off in nature and of such 
significance that they merit separate presentation in order to aid the readers’ understanding of the Group’s financial performance. Such 
items would include profits or losses on disposal of businesses and costs associated with acquisitions and disposals; major restructuring 
programmes; significant goodwill or other asset impairments; other particularly significant or unusual items. 
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
164 40.24 FINANCE COSTS AND INTEREST EXPENSE ON SEGREGATED CLIENT FUNDS
Finance costs and interest expense on segregated client funds are accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal amount charged 
at the effective interest rate applicable. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the future expected cash flows to the 
carrying amount of the liability. Issue costs are included in the determination of the effective interest rates.
Interest expense on segregated client funds is disclosed within operating profit as this is consistent with the nature of the 
Group’s operations.
40.25 DIVIDENDS
Dividend distribution to the company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s Financial Statements in the period in which 
the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.
40.26 OPERATING LEASES
Leases are classified as operating leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset. Lease 
payments under an operating lease are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless another systematic 
basis is more representative of the time pattern of the user’s benefit.
40.27 SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Group’s segmental information is disclosed in a manner consistent with the basis of internal reports regarding components of the 
Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who for the Group are the Executive Directors (CODM) in 
order to assess the performance and to allocate resources to those ‘operating segments’. The Group has therefore determined its 
operating segments based on the management information received on a regular basis by the Executive Directors of the IG Group 
Holdings plc Board as they are considered to be the CODM. Operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds required 
by IFRS 8 are aggregated.
The Group envisages that the reportable segments may change as overseas businesses move towards operational maturity, breaking 
through the quantitative thresholds of IFRS 8. The segments are therefore subject to annual review and the comparatives restated to 
reflect any reclassifications within the segmental reporting. 
40.28 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Financial Statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the 
Group’s Annual Report for the year ended 31 May 2015.
40.28.1 New accounting standards and interpretations
(a) Standards and amendments adopted during the year
In the current year, the Group adopted the following standards, amendments and interpretations, which have not had a material impact 
on these Financial Statements:
 ❚ Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 and 2011-2013 cycles
 ❚ Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 cycle
 ❚ Disclosure initiative: Amendments to IAS 1
(b) Standards issued with effective dates, subject to EU endorsement which do not impact these financial statements:
 ❚ IFRS 9, ’Financial instruments’ - Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018
 ❚ Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations - Amendments to IFRS 11 - Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 
January 2016
 ❚ IFRS 15, ’Revenue from contracts with customers’ - Effective for annual periods begining on or after 1 January 2018
 ❚ Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation - Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 - Effective for periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2016
 ❚ Equity method in separate financial statements - Amendments to IAS 27 - Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016
 ❚ Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture - Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 - Effective 
for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016
 ❚ Investments entities: Applying the consolidation exception - Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 - Effective for periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2016
The impact of these standards on the Financial Statements is being assessed by the Group
165
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY
GROUP INCOME STATEMENT
  2016 2015 2014
(1)
2013
(2)
2012
(2)
For the year ended 31 May £m £m £m £m £m
Net trading revenue 456.3 388.4 370.4 361.9 366.8
Other net operating (loss)/income (7.2) (1.2) 3.8 6.1 2.4
Net operating income 449.1 387.2 374.2 368.0 369.2
Operating expenses (228.8) (206.9) (169.1) (163.8) (172.9)
Depreciation, amortisation and amounts written off PPE (12.7) (10.7) (9.7) (12.2) (10.8)
Operating profit 207.6 169.6 195.4 192.0 185.5
Finance income 2.0 1.8 1.5 2.0 2.5
Finance costs (1.7) (1.9) (2.0) (1.8) (2.3)
Profit before tax 207.9 169.5 194.9 192.2 185.7
Profit before taxation from continuing operations 207.9 169.5 194.9 192.2 185.7
Tax expense (43.6) (37.6) (47.7) (50.5) (48.6)
Loss from discontinued operations – – – – (0.3)
Profit/loss for the year 164.3 131.9 147.2 141.7 136.8
OTHER METRICS
  2016 2015 2014
(1)
2013
(2)
2012
(2)
Own funds generated from operations £197.9m £136.8m £160.6m £154.3m £140.7m
Earnings per share (EPS)          
Basic earnings per share 44.94p 36.13p 40.35p 39.02p 37.90p
Diluted earnings per share 44.58p 35.99p 40.22p 38.80p 37.54p
Dividend per share          
Interim dividend per share 8.45p 8.45p 5.75p 5.75p 5.75p
Final dividend per share 22.95p 19.70p 22.40p 17.50p 16.75p
Total dividend per share 31.40p 28.15p 28.15p 23.25p 22.50p
Dividend payout ratio (against diluted EPS) 70.44% 78.22% 69.99% 59.92% 59.94%
Profit margin          
Profit before taxation margin 45.56% 43.64% 52.61% 53.10% 50.60%
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
166 CLIENT METRICS 
  2016 2015 2014
(1)
2013
(2)
2012
(2)
Average revenue per client £2,990 £2,854 £2,937 £2,659 £2,560
Number of active clients 152,619 136,111 126,108 136,063 143,304
Number of clients opened 100,651 70,967 54,957 55,889 67,593
Number of clients trading for the first time 52,986 40,932 33,709 37,914 48,029
GROUP STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
  2016 2015 2014
(1)
2013
(2)
2012
(2)
As at 31 May £m £m £m £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 13.0 13.3 13.0 14.4 15.6
Intangible assets 125.1 124.0 122.7 120.5 115.4
Financial investments 25.0 75.5 32.2 – –
Deferred tax assets 7.2 7.1 7.1 9.5 11.9
170.3 219.9 175.0 144.4 142.9
Current assets
Trade receivables 278.5 269.6 327.5 300.6 222.3
Prepayment and other receivables 12.4 12.2 12.2 10.3 9.7
Cash and cash equivalents 218.8 148.8 101.5 98.3 228.2
Financial investments 111.0 32.9 50.3 50.5 –
620.7 463.5 491.5 459.7 460.2
Total assets 791.0 683.4 666.5 604.1 603.1
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade payables 43.4 17.7 21.9 19.0 61.1
Other payables 70.8 61.2 58.4 53.8 64.8
Provisions – – – – 1.4
Income tax payable 13.8 13.1 20.3 24.3 28.7
128.0 92.0 100.6 97.1 156.0
Non current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities – – – – –
Provisions – – – – –
Redeemable preference shares – – – – –
– – – – –
Total liabilities 128.0 92.0 100.6 97.2 156.0
Capital and reserves
Total shareholders’ equity 663.0 591.4 565.9 507.0 447.0
Non-controlling interest – – – – 0.1
Total equity 663.0 591.4 565.9 507.0 447.1
Total equity and liabilities 791.0 683.4 666.5 604.1 603.1
(1) FY14 has been restated following the adoption of IFRIC 21. Please refer to note 38 of the financial statements in the 2015 Annual Report.
(2) FY12 and FY13 have not been restated following the adoption of IFRIC 21 on a materiality basis.
167
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
INVESTOR RESOURCES When you open the position, you are required to have enough funds in your account to cover the initial margin plus commission on 
the trade. In this example the margin requirement is £803.00 and the commission is £16.05, so the available funds in your account will 
fall from £1,000.00 to £180.95 (ie £1,000.00-£803.00-£16.05). It is important to note that the £803.00 is held as a margin requirement 
against the risk of the open position and will be released on the closing of the position: it is still your money but is not available for 
withdrawal from the account while the position is open.
STEP 3
Traditionally, clients who held long positions overnight would need to pay a funding 
charge, while clients with short positions would receive interest if held overnight. This 
charge or interest is calculated as the one-month sterling LIBOR rate +/- a spread. 
However, with current market interest rates lower than the spread, clients with short 
positions also incur a charge. As at 31 May 2016, the current LIBOR rate was 0.49%, while 
the spread was 2.50%, resulting in a net financing charge of 2.01% for short CFD positions 
held overnight (which for UK CFDs means those open at 10pm UK time). A corresponding 
long CFD position would incur a charge of 2.99%. This is re-calculated daily.
SELLING A CFD
In this example, on day one you decide to sell a CFD for 20,000 shares in B plc (assumed to be a FTSE 100 company) as you expect 
B plc’s share price to fall. This is known as ‘going short’. On day two the share price has indeed fallen, and you decide to close 
your position.
As long as your contract is open, your account will show any ‘running’ profit or loss on your open CFD position (not illustrated below). 
You must have deposited sufficient funds to cover any running losses.
You cannot place a trade without having any money in your account. In this example, we assume you have £1,000. It is important to note 
that you can make losses in excess of your initial deposit requirement (referred to as ‘margin requirement’ in CFD trading), if the market 
moves against you.
STEP 1 – DAY ONE – OPENING THE POSITION
The quoted bid/offer price for B plc is 80.25p/80.35p.
STEP 2
(1) The margin percentage (and therefore margin requirement) depends on the size of your CFD position and other factors such as the volatility and liquidity of the underlying share. 
In this example we have used a margin requirement of 5%.
(2) Commissions are variable, but for UK FTSE 100 CFDs (as assumed for B plc), this was 0.10% on 31 May 2016.
Expecting the market will 
fall, you sell at the
BID PRICE
GOING SHORT
TRADE 
DETAILS
SIZE (SHARES) 
20,000
BID PRICE
80.25p INITIAL MARGIN REQUIREMENT
 (1) 
£803.00
20,000 (number of shares) x 80.30p (the mid-price)  
x 5% (the margin percentage)
COMMISSION
(2) 
£16.05
20,000 (number of shares) x 80.25p (the bid price)  
x 0.10% (commission)
B plc  
80.30p 80.35p 80.25p OFFER PRICE
MID
 PRICE
BID 
PRICE
80.75p END-OF-DAY 
PRICE 
(DAY ONE)
DAIL Y INTEREST CHARGED
£0.89
20,000 x 80.75p x 2.01%/365 days
EXAMPLES
In the following pages we have illustrated detailed examples for 
contracts for difference, spread betting and share dealing.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
168 STEP 4
In this example we have kept things simple and assumed no corporate actions occur. However, we will also reflect the impact of any 
corporate action on the underlying share, such as a dividend or a rights issue, on your positions. For more details, please see our 
website, IG.com.
STEP 5 – DAY TWO – CLOSING THE POSITION
On day two, the share price has fallen and you decide to close the position.
STEP 6 – CALCULATING THE PROFIT OR LOSS
ITEM CLIENT IG
(2)
Selling commission (Step 1) (£16.05) £16.05
Financing charge (Step 3) (£0.89) £0.89
Buying commission (Step 5) (£15.67) £15.67
Gross profit (Step 5) £380.00 (£380.00)
IG hedging gain
(2)
N/A £380.00
Net gain £347.39 £32.61
When you open your position you may 
choose to add a stop. If you choose 
a guaranteed stop (only available for 
certain products), we guarantee that your 
position will be closed at this level and 
your maximum loss is therefore fixed. 
There is a small charge for a guaranteed 
stop, which will be added to the margin 
requirement, but is only payable if the stop 
is triggered. You may also choose to add a 
non-guaranteed stop, which will trigger a 
closing order when this level is breached. 
Non-guaranteed stops are free, but you 
may not be closed at this level, particularly 
if the market gaps.
(1) Commissions are variable, but for UK FTSE 100 CFDs (as assumed for B plc), this was 0.10% on 31 May 2016. 
(2) This simple example assumes IG is 100% hedged on the client trade and makes an equal and opposite gain on our broker position to the amount paid to the client. The cost 
of our hedging with the broker has been ignored for simplicity. Thus our net profit is £32.61, which is recorded in trading revenue and consists of the commission and financing 
charges levied on the client.
Of course, had the market moved in the opposite direction, you would 
have made a loss of £100 for every penny the share price gained, which 
may have exceeded your initial margin outlay.
The market has fallen – you 
buy at the IG OFFER PRICE
CLOSING POSITION
TRADE 
DETAILS
SIZE (SHARES) 
20,000
OFFER PRICE
78.35p COMMISSION
(1) 
£15.67
20,000 x 78.35p x 0.10%
PROFIT PER SHARE
1.9p
Difference between opening bid and closing offer prices
(80.25p-78.35p)
GROSS PROFIT ON TRADE
£380.00
20,000 x 1.9p
B plc   
78.30p 78.35p 78.25p OFFER PRICE
MID
 PRICE
BID 
PRICE
169
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
INVESTOR RESOURCES BUYING A SPREAD BET
In this example, you decide to buy A plc (assumed to be a FTSE 100 company) at £100 per point, as you expect that A plc’s share price 
will rise. This is known as ‘going long’. Later in the day the share price has indeed risen and you decide to close your position by selling 
A plc at our then current bid price. 
Your profit is the difference between the buying and selling prices, plus or minus any funding charges or other costs (discussed in Steps 
3 and 5). 
As long as your bet is open, your account will show any ‘running’ profit or loss on your open position (not illustrated below). You must 
have deposited sufficient funds to cover any running losses. 
You cannot place a bet without having any money in your account. In this example, we assume you have £1,000. It is important to note 
that you can make losses in excess of your initial deposit, if the market moves against you.
STEP 1 – OPENING THE POSITION
A plc is trading in the market at 144.5p/144.7p and our quote for A plc on a daily funded bet is 144.3p/144.9p. You decide
to buy £100 per point at 144.9p, our offer price. In this example one point represents a 1p movement in the underlying share
price, so your £100 per point bet is equivalent to buying 10,000 shares in A plc.
STEP 2
When you open the position, you are required to have the initial £723 deposit requirement in your account. The available funds in your 
account will therefore fall from £1,000 to £277 (ie £1,000-£723). The available funds remaining in your account need to be enough to 
cover any running losses you may incur, or you run the risk of being closed out of the bet. It is important to note that the £723 is held 
as a deposit against the risk of the open position and will be released on the closing of the position: it is still your money but is not 
available for withdrawal from the account while the position is open.
At this stage you may choose to add a stop to your position. If you choose a guaranteed stop (only available for certain products), we 
guarantee that your position will be closed at this level and your maximum loss is therefore fixed. When you have a guaranteed stop 
attached to your trade position, we apply a small fee only if the stop is triggered. You may also choose to add a non-guaranteed stop, 
which will trigger a closing order when this level is breached. Non-guaranteed stops are completely free, but you may not be closed at this 
level, particularly if the market gaps.
(1) The deposit factor (and therefore deposit requirement) depends on your account type and other factors such as the volatility and liquidity of the underlying share.
(2) Our dealing spread varies depending on the market and asset class traded and can be variable, especially in volatile market conditions. For examples please see our 
website, IG.com.
Expecting the market will 
rise, you open the bet at the 
OFFER PRICE
GOING LONG
BET 
DETAILS
SIZE (£ PER POINT)
£100.00
OFFER PRICE
144.9p INITIAL DEPOSIT REQUIREMENT
 (1) 
£723.00
£100.00 (bet size) x 144.6p (the mid-price) x 5% (the deposit factor)
SPREAD
(2) 
£20.00
Difference between the market price and our quote  
(144.9p-144.7p) x £100.00 per point
A plc  
144.5p /144.7p 144.9p 144.3p IG OFFER 
PRICE
UNDERLYING 
SHARE PRICE
IG BID 
PRICE
EXAMPLES CONTINUED
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
170 STEP 3
In this example we have kept things simple and assumed no corporate actions occur. However, we will also reflect the impact of any 
corporate action on the underlying share, such as a dividend or a rights issue, on your positions. For more details, please see our 
website, IG.com.
STEP 4 – CLOSING THE POSITION
Later that day, the A plc share price has indeed risen and you decide to close the position, realising your profit on the bet. 
At this point A plc is trading in the market at 148.6p/148.8p and our daily quote is 148.4p/149.0p.
Of course, had the market moved in the opposite direction, you would have made a loss of £100 for every penny the share price fell, 
which may have exceeded your initial deposit.
STEP 5 – CALCULATING THE PROFIT OR LOSS
For many markets (eg index futures), we build funding charges into the quote price. For share daily funded bets we make funding 
adjustments each day at 10pm. We apply funding at the rate of one-month LIBOR +/- a spread (generally 2.5%). 
ITEM CLIENT IG
(1)
Buying spread (Step 1) (£20.00) £20.00
Selling spread (Step 4) (£20.00) £20.00
Gross profit (Step 4) £390.00 (£390.00)
IG hedging gain
(1)
 N/A £390.00
Net gain £350.00 £40.00
In the example above, if the bet had remained 
open at 10pm, and assuming one-month 
LIBOR of 0.49%, a funding charge of £1.23 
would have been applied against the client 
account and recorded as revenue for IG 
(calculated as (£100 x 150.0p assumed 
end-of-day price x 2.99%) / 365 = £1.23).
The market has risen –  
you sell at the IG BID PRICE
CLOSING POSITION
BET 
DETAILS
SIZE (£ PER POINT) 
£100.00
BID PRICE
148.4p GROSS PROFIT
£390.00
Calculated as the market price movement of the share 
(148.6p-144.7p) x £100.00 per point)
Calculated at 148.6p-148.4p x £100.00 per point
SPREAD
£20.00
A plc  
148.6p /148.8p 149.0p 148.4p IG OFFER 
PRICE
UNDERLYING 
SHARE PRICE
IG BID 
PRICE
171
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
INVESTOR RESOURCES STEP 1 - PRICE DISCOVERY
Most traditional stockbrokers only provide a ‘request for quote’ or ‘at quote’ service that delivers a fixed price, which is only valid for 
a short period of time. With us, you can trade ‘at quote’ or ‘on exchange’, allowing you to interact directly with the order book in the 
underlying market. Dealing ‘on exchange’ offers you live visibility of prices and full market depth allowing you to make an informed 
decision. Choose between ‘at quote’ or ‘on exchange’ to execute your order at the best available price.
If you place an ‘on exchange’ order we use our Smart Order Router (SOR) to seek out the best price and size available. Our SOR 
searches for liquidity across multiple venues, starting with ‘dark pools’ that offer mid-point matching – the best possible chance of 
getting price improvements. If there is no improvement available on ‘dark’ venues the SOR goes to a market maker, again looking for 
size or price improvements. Finally, if neither of the above sources provides price or size improvements, SOR sends orders to ‘lit’ venues, 
where they will be visible on an exchange.
SHARE DEALING WITH IG
In this example, you decide to buy A plc (assumed to be a FTSE 100 company) at the offer price on your share dealing account, as 
you wish to own shares in the company. You have linked your share dealing account to your CFD account so you have access to IG’s 
collateral feature. After a few months, the share price has risen and you decide to close your position by selling A plc at the current 
bid price.
Your profit is the difference between the buying and selling prices, plus any dividends and minus any commission or other costs 
(discussed in Steps 2 and 5). 
You cannot place a trade without having any money in your account. In this example, we assume you have £1,000. It is important to note 
that the value of shares, ETFs and ETCs bought through any stockbroking or stocks and shares ISA account can fall as well as rise, which 
could mean getting back less than you originally deposited. 
If you expect the market  
to rise, you ‘buy’ at the  
OFFER PRICE
GOING LONG
TRADE
DETAILS
SIZE (SHARES)
100
OFFER PRICE
775p COST
£775.00
100 (number of shares) x 775p (the IG offer price) 
COMMISSION
£5.00
777p TRADITIONAL 
STOCKBROKER
OFFER PRICE
771p IG BID PRICE
IG OFFER 
PRICE
775p 768p TRADITIONAL 
STOCKBROKER
BID PRICE
A PLC
1,000 shares
SOR looks for the best available price at execution
Potential price improvement
At quote
Interact with market makers
Get fixed price by RSP
Fixed price: 777p
On exchange
Interact directly with order book
Place order in the book
Order to buy
SOR looks for the best available 
price - venue 1
775p
SOR looks for the best available 
price - venue 2
778p
EXAMPLES CONTINUED
STEP 2 – EXECUTING YOUR TRADE
Once you have decided whether you would like to deal ‘at quote’ or ‘on exchange’, you can place your trade directly from your 
platform. Once the appropriate price has been identified, your trade is executed.
When you buy your shares you are required to have sufficient funds on your account to make the purchase and cover the cost of 
commission, as well as currency conversion fees (if the share is priced in a foreign currency). In this example, we assume you have also 
been active on your CFD account, which means you automatically qualify for our lowest commission rate
(1)
, which is £5. The available 
funds in your account will therefore fall by the value of the shares you have bought plus the commission. In this example, you purchase 
100 shares priced at 775GBp (the best available price), which will reduce your cash balance to £220 (i.e. £1000 – £775 – £5). Unlike our 
margined products, you own your shares outright, meaning that you do not need to make any additional payments to maintain your 
stockbroking position.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
172 STEP 3 – USING YOUR SHARES AS COLLATERAL
You can make the most of your shareholdings with IG using our collateral service. The collateral service allows you to use up to 95% of 
the value of your shareholdings as initial margin against your spread bets or CFD positions.
(2)
In this example, we assume that you have 
a position on your CFD account in B plc, another FTSE 100 listed company, which has a margin requirement of £300. The fact that you 
are holding the physical shares in A plc, and have linked your accounts for collateral means that you can use up to 95%
(2)
 of the value of 
this position (that is, £775 x 95% = £736) to cover your margin requirement on B plc. This will free up any additional funds on your CFD 
account, which you can then use to open further CFD positions or as a buffer against adverse market movements. 
It is important to note that the collateral value is real-time. This means the collateral value of your assets will fluctuate according to 
movements in the price of the stock(s) you hold on your stockbroking account.
Your shareholdings remain intact and retain their full value;
(3)
 you simply use a percentage of their value as collateral to fund shorter-term 
trades. Importantly, you can only use your shareholdings to cover the initial margin on your spread bets or CFDs. Any running losses will 
need to be covered by the available cash in your CFD account. For more details, please see our website, IG.com.
STEP 4 – CORPORATE ACTIONS
In this example we have kept things simple and assumed no corporate actions occur. However, as the owner of the equity we will also 
reflect the impact of any other corporate actions on your shares, such as a rights issue, on your positions. For more details, please see 
our website, IG.com.
STEP 5 – SELLING YOUR SHARES
As the objectives of your portfolio change, you can divest all or parts of your shareholding using our superior execution technology. 
Once your sale is confirmed, your account will be credited with the equivalent cash. As before, we assume that you qualify for our lowest 
commission rate as a holder of active stockbroking and margined accounts, so the commission is £6. If the price of your shares in A plc 
has risen from 775p to 846p, your account balance will rise to £1,060 (i.e. £219 + £846 - £5).
STEP 6 – TRANSPARENT TRADING
As well as buying new shares you can conveniently keep your shares portfolio in one place, by transferring in your existing shareholdings 
to us, free from IG charges. Once your shares are transferred you will have access to the full range of features on IG’s platform including 
our collateral service and our superior execution.
You will also have access to our range of over 9,000 international shares, which are offered in their local denomination, regardless of the 
currency on your account. This means you’ll know exactly what you’re paying, with our fee of just 0.3% to convert to your base currency. 
Obtaining live prices for international stocks from an exchange can incur a monthly fee, but we will refund this charge in full if you 
place a minimum number of trades in the previous month. However, unlike some other stockbrokers, this is the only other fee – besides 
commission – we will charge you, meaning you are only charged when you trade and not just for holding your portfolio.
(1) Commissions are variable, but if your share dealing account is accessible under the same login as your active spread betting or CFD account, you automatically qualify for our 
lowest commission rate by placing at least one spread bet or CFD trade in the previous calendar month. This was £5 on 31 May 2016.
(2) Generally you can use 75% - 95% of the value of your portfolio as collateral, depending on the liquidity of shareholdings. For more details, please see our website, IG.com.
(3) We do all we can to make sure you have the opportunity to cover any realised spread betting or CFD losses with cash. If you do not deposit additional funds to cover a losing 
leveraged trade, we will follow our normal process of closing the trade and informing you that your account is in debit. We will only take control of your shares if your account 
remains in debit. For more details, please see our website, IG.com.
The market has risen –  
you sell at the IG BID PRICE
CLOSING POSITION
COMMISSION
£5.00
GROSS PROFIT ON TRADE
£71.00
TRADE
DETAILS
SIZE (SHARES)
100
BID PRICE
846p PROFIT PER SHARE
71p Difference between opening offer price and closing bid price 
(846p - 775p)
852p TRADITIONAL 
STOCKBROKER
OFFER PRICE
846p IG BID PRICE
IG OFFER 
PRICE
850p 844p TRADITIONAL 
STOCKBROKER
BID PRICE
173
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
INVESTOR RESOURCES GLOSSARY
TERM NOTES
ABI Association of British Insurers
AGM Annual General Meeting 
Basel III The comprehensive set of reform measures designed to strengthen regulation, supervision and risk 
management in the banking sector
Binary bet A special form of spread bet with only two outcomes at expiry: if a specified result is achieved, the bet is 
closed at a level of 100. If the result is not achieved, the bet closes at 0
CFTC The US Commodities Futures Trading Commission
CGU Cash Generating Unit
Close-out monitor 
(COM)
The Group’s automatic real-time position-closing system (see the Managing Our Business Risk section in the 
Strategic Report and note 36 to the Financial Statements)
Contract for 
difference (CFD)
A CFD is a contract to exchange the difference in the price of an asset between the time the contract is 
opened and the time it is closed. An example is shown on page 168
COREP Capital and Liquidity Reporting
CSR Corporate social responsibility
DEPS Diluted Earnings Per Share
DFSA Dubai Financial Services Authority
Direct market access 
(DMA) 
DMA enables clients to interact directly with the market, including participating in the order book of a stock 
exchange
DTRs The FCA’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules
EBA European Banking Authority
EPS Earnings per share
EQA External Quality Assessment
ESMA European Securities and Markets Authority
ETF Exchange-traded fund
Exposure monitor Our real-time technology solution which constantly measures our financial exposure to all  
traded instruments
FCA Financial Conduct Authority (UK regulator)
FINMA The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority
FRC Financial Reporting Council
FSB Financial Services Board (South Africa) 
FSCS Financial Services Compensation Scheme
FTT Financial Transaction Tax
Fugitive emissions Greenhouse gas emissions caused by intentional or unintentional releases, eg equipment leaks or 
hydrofluorocarbon emissions from the use of refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment
GHG emissions Greenhouse gas emissions
Goodwill An intangible asset representing the additional value that arises as a result of the acquisition of the acquired 
company by another at a value greater than that of the target company’s assets
GTLDs Generic top-level domains – represented by the characters following the dot at the end of an internet 
domain name, eg .com, .net
IAS International Accounting Standard
ICAAP Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process. The ICAAP is an internal document which identifies the 
controls we use to mitigate risks to the Group’s capital and assesses and quantifies our capital requirements 
IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
IIA Institute of Internal Auditors
ILAA Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment. The ILAA is an internal document which identifies the controls 
we use to mitigate liquidity risks and assesses and quantifies our liquidity requirements
IOSCO  International Organization of Securities Commissions
ISA International Standards on Auditing
ISS Institutional Shareholder Services Inc
JFSA Japanese Financial Services Agency  
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
174 TERM NOTES
KPIs Key Performance Indicators
KRIs Key Risk Indicators
LCR Liquidity Coverage Ratio
LIBOR London inter-bank offered rate – a benchmark interest rate published by leading London banks
LTIP Long-term incentive plan
MAS The Monetary Authority of Singapore
MiFID Markets in Financial Instruments Directive – EU law covering financial regulation in all  
member states
Multilateral trading 
facility (MTF)
A non-exchange financial-trading venue providing an alternative to traditional stock exchanges
Nadex The North American Derivatives Exchange, our US-based retail derivatives exchange business
Net Promoter Score 
(NPS)
NPS is calculated by asking respondents how likely they are to recommend a company to a friend or 
colleague. Respondents reply on a 0-10 scale, with the final NPS calculated as the percentage of promoters 
(those answering 9 or 10) minus the percentage of detractors (those answering 0-6)
NSFR Net Stable Funding Ratio
OTC ‘Over the counter’ refers to non-exchange-traded financial instruments
PRIPs Packaged Retail Investment Products
Regulatory capital 
resources 
The total capital available to the Group, as calculated under the EU Capital Requirements Regulation and 
the Financial Conduct Authority’s IFPRU 3 rules
Rest of World One of our four reporting segments, consisting of our operations in Japan, Singapore,  
South Africa and the US
RREV Research Recommendations Electronic Voting
Scope 1/2/3 emissions The three classifications of emissions required to be considered under the mandatory  
GHG reporting
SIP Share incentive plan
SPP Sustained performance plan
Spread bet A bet on whether a financial market (the underlying market) will rise or fall. We offer two prices on every 
market, and the difference is known as the bid/offer spread. If you think a market is set to rise you ‘buy’ at 
the higher (offer) price, and if you think it will fall you ‘sell’ at the lower (bid) price. Your subsequent gain or 
loss on the bet will be determined by the direction and degree of any movement in the underlying market. 
An example is shown on page 170 
Tiered margins We use a system of margin tiers that reflect the degree of risk involved in client trades. Generally, the riskier 
the traded instrument or the larger the trade size, the higher the level of margin required, up to 100%
Title Transfer 
Collateral 
Arrangement (TTCA)
A financial agreement to transfer money to cover obligations, such that that money will not be regarded as 
client money, which must be segregated, although IG retains the liability to repay the client
TSR Total Shareholder Return
UK Corporate 
Governance Code 
(the Code)
The Code sets out standards of good practice in board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, 
accountability and relations with shareholders. Provision B7.1 states that all directors of FTSE 350 
companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders
Up/down binary bet A specific type of binary bet where the outcome is expressed as being above or below the current market 
value (ie the market has moved up or the market has moved down)
Volatility-based binary 
bet
A category of binary bet where the achievement of a specific outcome is directly related to the volatility of 
the underlying market
VSP Value-sharing plan
175
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
INVESTOR RESOURCES IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
176 LONDON (HEADQUARTERS)
IG (IG Index Limited and 
IG Markets Limited) 
Cannon Bridge House 
25 Dowgate Hill 
London
EC4R 2YA
UNITED KINGDOM
+44 (0)20 7896 0011
helpdesk.uk@ig.com
IG.com
EUROPE (EXCLUDING UK)
DUBLIN
IG (IG Index Limited and 
IG Markets Limited)
World Rugby House
8-10 Pembroke St Lower
Dublin 2
REPUBLIC OF IRELAND
+353 1 526 6061
dublinoffice@ig.com
IG.com/ie
DÜSSELDORF
IG Markets Limited
Berliner Allee 10 
40212 Düsseldorf
GERMANY
+49 (0)211 882 370 00
info.de@ig.com
IG.com/de
LUXEMBOURG
IG Markets Limited 
15 rue du fort Bourbon 
L1249 
LUXEMBOURG
+352 24 87 11 17
info.lu@ig.com
IG.com/lu
MADRID
IG Markets Limited 
Paseo de la Castellana 13 
Planta 1a Derecha 
28046 Madrid
SPAIN
+34 91 787 61 61
info.es@ig.com 
IG.com/es
MILAN
IG Markets Limited 
Via Paolo da Cannobio, 33 
7° Piano
20122 Milano 
ITALY
+39 02 0069 5595
italiandesk@ig.com
IG.com/it
PARIS
IG Markets Limited 
17 Avenue George V 
75008 Paris 
FRANCE
+33 (0)1 70 98 18 18
info.fr@ig.com
IG.com/fr
STOCKHOLM
IG Markets Limited 
Stureplan 2 
114 35 Stockholm 
SWEDEN
+46 (0)8 505 15 000
info.se@ig.com 
IG.com/se
SWITZERLAND
IG Bank S.A 
42 Rue du Rhone 
Geneve
1204 
SWITZERLAND
+41 22 888 10 02
support.ch@ig.com
IG.com/en-ch 
MIDDLE EAST
DUBAI
IG Limited
Office 2 &3, level 27, 
Currency House- Tower 2, 
Dubai International Financial Centre, 
P O Box – 506968
DUBAI, UAE
+971 45 59 2000
helpdesk.ae@ig.com
IG.com/ae
ASIA PACIFIC
MELBOURNE
IG Australia Pty Limited
Level 15
55 Collins Street
Melbourne VIC 3000
AUSTRALIA
+61 (0)3 9860 1799
helpdesk.au@ig.com
IG.com/au
SINGAPORE
IG Asia Pte Limited
9 Battery Road
#01-02 Straits Trading Building
SINGAPORE 049910
+(65) 6390 5133
helpdesk@ig.com.sg
IG.com.sg
TOKYO
IG Securities Limited 
Shiodome City Center 10F
1-5-2 Higashi-shinbashi
Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-7110
JAPAN
+81 (0)3 6704 8500
info.jp@ig.com
IG.com/jp
NORTH AMERICA
CHICAGO
North American 
Derivatives Exchange, Inc.
311 South Wacker Drive
Suite 2675
Chicago, IL 60606
US
+1 312 884 0100
customerservice@nadex.com
nadex.com
SOUTH AFRICA
JOHANNESBURG
IG Markets South Africa Limited
The Place
1 Sandton Drive
Sandton, Gauteng
2196 Johannesburg
SOUTH AFRICA
+27 (0)10 344 0051
helpdesk.za@ig.com
IG.com/za
GLOBAL OFFICES
177
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
INVESTOR RESOURCES SHAREHOLDER AND COMPANY INFORMATION
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
RECEIVING SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
BY EMAIL
You can opt to receive shareholder information from us by email 
rather than by post. We will then email you whenever we add 
shareholder communications to the Company website. To set this 
up, please visit www.investorcentre.co.uk/ecomms and register for 
electronic communications (e-comms).
If you subsequently wish to change this instruction or revert to 
receiving documents or information by post, you can do so by 
contacting the Company’s registrars at the address shown in 
the Company Information opposite. You can also change your 
communication method back to post by logging in to your 
Investor Centre account and go to “update my details” followed 
by “communication options”.
The Registrar can also be contacted by telephone on 0371 495 
2032. Calls to this number cost no more than a national rate from 
any type of phone or provider. These prices are for indication 
purposes only; if in doubt, please check the cost of calling this 
number with your phone line provider. Lines are open 8.30am – 
5.30pm, Mon-Fri excluding bank holidays.
SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES
If you have any queries relating to your shareholding, 
dividend payments or lost share certificates, or if any of your 
details change, please contact Computershare by visiting 
www.investorcentre.co.uk or by using the contact details above.
AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (ADRS)
The company has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary 
Receipt (ADR) programme, with Citibank N.A. acting as the 
depositary bank, which enables US investors to invest in IG shares 
though an ADR, denominated in US dollars. IG’s ADR programme 
trades in the US over-the-counter (OTC) market, under the symbol 
IGGHY. Each ADR currently represents one ordinary share.
E: citiadr@citi.com W: www.citi.com/dr
T: UK +44 (20) 7500 2030 US +1 (212) 723 5435
DIVIDEND DATES
(1) 
Ex-dividend date 29 September 2016
Record date 30 September 2016
Last day to elect for dividend reinvestment plan 7 October 2016
Annual General Meeting 21 September 2016 
Final dividend payment date 28 October 2016
2017 interim dividend February 2017
ANNUAL SHAREHOLDER CALENDAR
(1) 
Company reporting
Final results announced 19 July 2016
Annual Report published 9 August 2016
Annual General Meeting 21 September 2016
INTERIM REPORT
As part of our e-comms programme, we have decided not to 
produce a printed copy of our Interim Report. We will instead 
publish the report on our website, where it will be available around 
mid-January each year. 
COMPANY INFORMATION
DIRECTORS 
Executive Directors 
P G Hetherington (Chief Executive)
Non-Executive Directors 
A J Green (Chairman) 
S G Hill
J A Newman
S J Tymms
J Felix
M L May (Senior Independent Director) 
COMPANY SECRETARY
T Lee 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants 
and Statutory Auditors
7 More London Riverside
London
SE1 2RT
BANKERS 
Lloyds Banking Group plc 
10 Gresham Street 
London 
EC2V 7AE 
Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 
280 Bishopsgate 
London 
EC2M 4RB
SOLICITORS 
Linklaters 
1 Silk Street 
London 
EC2Y 8HQ
REGISTRARS 
Computershare Investor Services plc
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol 
BS99 6ZZ
BROKERS
Barclays Bank plc
5 The North Colonnade 
Canary Wharf
London
E14 4BB
REGISTERED OFFICE 
Cannon Bridge House 
25 Dowgate Hill 
London 
EC4R 2YA 
REGISTERED NUMBER
04677092 
Numis Securities Limited 
10 Paternoster Square 
London 
EC4M 7LT
HSBC Bank plc
8 Canada Square
London 
E14 5HQ
(1) Please note that these dates are provisional and subject to change.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
178 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT 
Certain statements included in our 2016 Annual Report, or 
incorporated by reference to it, may constitute ‘forward-looking 
statements’ in respect of the Group’s operations, performance, 
prospects and/or financial condition. 
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and 
uncertainties because they are beyond the Group’s control and 
are based on current beliefs and expectations about future events 
about the Group and the industry in which the Group operates. 
No assurance can be given that such future results will be 
achieved; actual events or results may differ materially as a result 
of risks and uncertainties facing the Group. If the assumptions 
on which the Group bases its forward-looking statements 
change, actual results may differ from those expressed in such 
statements. The forward-looking statements contained herein 
reflect knowledge and information available at the date of this 
Annual Report and the Group undertakes no obligation to update 
these forward-looking statements except as required by law.
This report does not constitute or form part of any offer or 
invitation to sell, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase any 
shares or other securities in the Company and nothing in this 
report should be construed as a profit forecast. 
MARKET SHARE 
Market share data has been provided by Investment Trends Pty 
Limited (website: www.investmenttrends.co.uk). Contact: Irene 
Guiamatsia (email: Irene@investmenttrends.com.au) or Lloyd 
Kluegel (email: lloyd@investmenttrends.co.uk). Unless stated, 
market share data is sourced from the following current reports:
Investment Trends May 2016 Australia CFD Report,  
released in June 2016
Investment Trends June 2015 Australia CFD Report,  
released in September 2015
Investment Trends April 2016 France CFD/FX Report,  
released in May 2016
Investment Trends February 2016 Spain CFD/FX Report,  
released in May 2016
Investment Trends May 2016 Germany CFD/FX Report,  
released in June 2016
Investment Trends August 2015 Singapore CFD/FX Report, 
released in October 2015
Investment Trends July 2015 UK Leveraged Trading Report, 
released in November 2015
179
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
INVESTOR RESOURCES NOTES
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
180 INVESTOR RESOURCES
181
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
Accounting policies 156
Active clients 11, 14
Amortisation 123
Assets and liabilities 109
Audit Committee 90
Auditors’ remuneration 93, 117
Auditors’ report  102
Binaries 13
Board of Directors 58
Broker margin 129
Capital expenditure 122, 123
Cash flow statements 112
Charitable donations 19
Client money 32, 41, 45, 127, 128
Contracts for difference (CFDs) 12, 168
Depreciation 122
Diluted earnings per share 29, 40, 121
Dividend 5, 29, 121
Dividend – key dates 178
Employees 16
Financial calendar 178
Five-year summary 166
Generic top-level domains (gTLDs) 8, 39, 84, 92
Key Performance Indicators 28
Liquidity 128
Nadex 12, 37
Net Promoter Score (NPS) 29
Nomination Committee 68
Offices 177
Operating expenses 39
Political donations 99
Regulatory risk 46
Remuneration 70
Revenue per client 28, 36, 167
Risk 44, 147
Share dealing 13, 22, 172
Shareholder information 178
Shareholders – major interests 100
Spread betting 12, 170
Strategic objectives 20
Subsequent events 100, 156
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 83, 88
Trading revenue 15, 38, 115
Wealth Management 13, 22
Designed by  
www.ab-reporting.com
INDEX IG Group Holdings plc
Cannon Bridge House
25 Dowgate Hill
London
EC4R 2YA
T: +44 (0)20 7896 0011
F: +44 (0)20 7896 0010
W: iggroup.com
