 Report and Accounts 2007 British Polythene Industries PLC
Animal Feed Sacks
Aprons
Asbestos Sacks 
Bread Bags
Cement Sacks
Chemical Sacks
Clinical Waste Sacks
Collation Shrink Films
Compost Sacks
Courier Bags
Crop Cover
Damp Proof Course
Damp Proof Membrane
Deep Freeze Films
Fertiliser Sacks
Field Cover Films 
Food & Freezer Bags
Garden & Rubble Sacks
Gas Protection Membranes
General Purpose Building Films
Grain Bags
Hand Stretchwrap
ISO Liners
Lamination Films
Liner Films
Liquid Packaging Films
Mailing Films 
Modified Atmosphere Packaging
Packaging Stretchwrap
Plastic Cores
Plastic Decking
Plastic Furniture, Picnic Tables & Benches
Plastic Street Furniture & Bollards
Playmats
Polytunnels 
Potato Bags
Produce Bags
Produce Tray Liners 
Recycling Sacks
Refuse Sacks
Resealable Bags
Sand & Aggregate Sacks
Security Bags
Self Seal Bags 
Shrink Films & Pallethoods  
Silage Bags
Silage Sheet 
Silage Stretchwrap
Stretch Hoods
Surface Protection Films 
Swing & Pedal Bin Liners
Top Sheets
Wheelie Bin Liners 
*everyday
Agricultural Contractors
Architect
Baker
Banker
Barmaid
Builder
Cashier
Chef
Cleaner
Construction Worker
Consumer
Courier
Dentist
Dinner Lady
Doctor
Dog Walker
Domestic Worker
Engineer
Farmer
Fishmonger
Flight Attendant
Florist
Food Producer
Freight Forwarder
Gardener
Greengrocer
Grocer
Grower
Hairdresser
Handyman
Haulier
House Painter
Housewife
Janitor
Labourer
Landscaper
Manufacturer
Market Gardener
Nurse
Park Ranger
Pharmacist
Refuse Collector
Restaurateur
Retailer
Scientist
Secretary
Shopkeeper
Student
Teacher
Tradesman
Upholsterer
Waste Contractor
Warehouseman
*everyone
www.bpipoly.com
British Polythene Industries PLC
96 Port Glasgow Road Greenock PA15 2UL 
Tel: 01475 501 000 Fax: 01475 743 143
navyblue
Report and Accounts 2007
British Polythene Industries PLC
everyday , everyone*
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Cover 07 SMc  7/4/08  14:48  Page 1 2 Report by Directors & Business Review
Reduce
Our innovative Wrapsmartultra
®
is a prestretched film 
for hand wrapping pallet loads. At only 7 microns thick
Wrapsmartultra
®
can achieve the same load stability 
and product protection as a traditional 14 micron film
using 50% less film by weight. Ultimately there is less 
to dispose of, or preferably recycle, when the load 
is unpacked. As it is thinner there is twice the length 
of film on the reel meaning fewer deliveries are required
with an associated reduction in vehicle emissions.
Re-Use
Our recycling sacks are used by many local authorities 
for doorstep collection of waste paper and other items 
for recycling. Over the years we have worked closely 
with local government to develop innovative reusable
solutions which make it easier for householders to recycle
more. These sacks can be reused many times and finally, 
at the end of their life, they are also 100% recyclable.
Recycle
Our plant in Dumfries recycles a variety of post-use
agricultural films to produce its range of award winning,
sustainable, wood substitute Plaswood products. 
Plaswood is durable and maintenance free and is used 
to manufacture a variety of outdoor items including 
garden furniture, street signage, fencing and decking.
Financial Calendar
2008
8 May 2008 Annual General Meeting
9 May 2008 Payment of 2007 Final Dividend
August 2008 Announcement of 2008 Interim Results
November 2008 Payment of 2008 Interim Dividend
2009
March 2009 Announcement of 2008 Annual Results
April 2009 Issue of 2008 Annual Report and Accounts
May 2009 Annual General Meeting
Payment of 2008 Final Dividend
Registrars
Enquiries concerning the holding of ordinary shares in 
the Company should be addressed to the Registrars who
should also be notified of any changes in a holder’s address.
The Registrars are: 
Computershare Investor Services PLC, 
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ.
Telephone 0870 889 3238
Your Shareholding
You may check your shareholding at any time by visiting 
the Registrars website 
www.uk.computershare.com/investors
Website
The Company has a website www.bpipoly.com
which provides details of all major stock exchange
announcements, the current share price and information
on businesses and products.
Share Price Information
The latest information on the Company’s share price is
published in most newspapers, is available on Channel 4
Teletext, the Financial Times cityline services, telephone
number 0906 843 0000 (Code 3966) and a number of
websites including the London Stock Exchange.
www.londonstockexchange.com
FTSE4GOOD INDEX
The Company continues to be part of the Index.
The Index is designed to measure the performance 
of companies that meet globally recognised corporate
responsibility standards, and to facilitate investment 
in those companies.
Registered Office
One London Wall, London, EC2Y 5AB
Head Office
96 Port Glasgow Road, Greenock PA15 2UL
Telephone: 01475 501000
Fax: 01475 743143
Registration Number
108191
Information for Shareholders
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Cover 07 SMc  7/4/08  14:48  Page 2 Introduction 1
Contents
Report by Directors & Business Review
2 Group at a Glance
4 Chairman’s Statement
9 Risk Factors
10 Key Performance Indicators
12 Market Overview
15 Strategy
15 Chief Executive’s Statement
23 Environmental Facts
27 Corporate Social Responsibility Review
32 Financial Review
34 Board of Directors & Advisers
35 Corporate Governance Report
38 Directors’ Remuneration Report 
Financial Statements
44 Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities
45 Independent Auditors’ Report
46 Five Year Record
47 Consolidated Income Statement
47 Consolidated Statement of 
Recognised Income and Expense
48 Consolidated Balance Sheet
49 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
50 Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements
71 UK GAAP Parent Company 
Balance Sheet
72 Notes to the UK GAAP Parent 
Company Financial Statements
77 Information for Shareholders
We manufacture over 300,000 tonnes
of polythene products in a year for a wide
variety of applications, but we continue
to utilise less oil-based raw materials as
we promote the principle of Reduce,
Re-Use and Recycle.
Turnover (£m)
424
414 2006
359 2005
Profit before tax (£m)
11
.5
14.0 2006
19.7 2005
Dividend per share (pence)
22
22 2006
22 2005
Earnings per share (pence)
32
.36
38.46 2006
54.28 2005
Financial Highlights
CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS
This document is addressed to shareholders of British Polythene Industries PLC and has been prepared solely to provide information to
assist them in assessing the Company’s strategies and their potential for success, and to inform them of the Company’s performance
during the year ended 31 December 2007.
This document contains the Directors’ Report and Enhanced Business Review, Directors’ Remuneration Report, full accounts and the
Auditor’s Report on those accounts.
This document contains forward-looking statements based on knowledge and information available to the Directors at the date the
document was prepared. Although the Directors’ expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, these statements should be
treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties underlying any such forward-looking information and any statements about 
the future outlook may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 1 2 Report by Directors & Business Review
Geography
Process
Operating Profit
Capital Expenditure
Turnover
Turnover
Turnover End User Markets
The Group operates in three
geographic regions, UK & 
Ireland, Mainland Europe
and North America. 
The business has three
main processes to produce 
plain film on the reel, printed 
and converted products
and products made from
recycled material.
We sell our products to a large
number of customers in a wide
variety of market sectors. 
76% UK & Ireland
22% Mainland Europe
2% North America
50% UK & Ireland
48% Mainland Europe
2% North America
40% Converted
39% Film
21% Recycled
32% Converted
36% Film
32% Recycled
28% Retail Food Chain
26% Agriculture & Horticulture
16% Construction
13% Industrial
9% Services
8% Non-Food Retail
Report by Directors & Business Review
Group at a Glance
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 2 Report by Directors & Business Review 3
Markets
Major Products
Major Customers Net Assets
UK & Ireland
Aggregate Industries
Amcor
Biffa
Birmingham City Council
BOCM Pauls
Bord Na Mona
Britvic
Bunzl
Coca Cola
CWS
Glanbia
Grafton Group
Hanson
Knauff
UK & Ireland
Marshalls
Morrisons
National Health Service
Premier Food
Somerfield
St Gobain
Tarmac
Tesco
Travis Perkins
United Farmers
Waitrose
Warburtons
Westland Horticulture
Wolseley
Mainland Europe
Akzo Nobel
Baltensperger Farmtechnik
Clarebout
Dow Chemicals
Ineos
McCain
Naturado
Sabic
Schmidt Ulrich Farmtechnik
William Sinclair
Converted
Heavy duty sacks
Form fill & seal
Pallet covers
Liners
Produce & bread bags
Film
Silage stretchwrap
Packaging stretchwrap
Collation shrinkwrap
Speciality films
Horticultural films
Recycled
Refuse sacks
Swing & pedal bin liners
Damp proof membranes
Damp proof course
Retail Food Chain
Fresh produce
Frozen foods
Cans & bottles
Pet food
Refuse sacks
Transit packaging
Industrial
Polymer
Additives
Speciality chemicals
Salt
Container liners
Agriculture & Horticulture
Silage products
Greenhouse films
Field covers
Peat & compost 
Animal feed
Fertiliser
Services
Health authorities
Local government
Catering
Janitorial
Waste contractors
Construction
Builders merchants
Brick & block
Aggregates
Insulation
Non-Food Retail
White goods
Furniture & carpets
Hair care
Mailing film
Transit packaging
76% UK & Ireland
20% Mainland Europe
4% North America
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 3 4 Report by Directors & Business Review
Chairman’s Statement
2008 has begun with record raw material and energy prices 
and the margin compression we experienced during 2007
intensified in January and February. We are actively working to 
pass on these costs. However, for many parts of our Group,
2008 looks to be a very challenging year.
We indicated during the last year that trading
conditions would be challenging and, in our Pre-Close
Trading Statement, that pre-tax profits for 2007, before
restructuring costs, would be some 15% below that
for 2006. The final outcome has confirmed this,
reflecting conditions in certain markets and the
price of raw materials.
Results
On sales of £424 million (2006: £414 million),
our operating profit, before net restructuring costs
and non-recurring items, declined to £14.6 million
(2006: £17.1 million). Net restructuring costs and
non-recurring items of £0.7 million (2006: £nil) reflect
closure costs of £2.0 million, a gain on the sale of
a closed site of £1.2 million, and negative goodwill
of £0.1 million on the acquisition of AT Films.
After a decrease in net financing costs to
£2.4 million (2006: £3.1 million), the profit before
tax was £11.5 million (2006: £14.0 million).
Earnings per share were 32.36p (2006: 38.46p). 
This drop in profit is despite actions we had taken,
early in the year, to rationalise our cost base in the UK,
that led to cost reductions in the second half, and the
benefit of favourable weather conditions for sales of
silage stretchwrap.
Most of the downside in operating profit is related
to increases in raw material costs, and also patchy
demand from certain sectors which particularly
impacted our margins towards the end of year.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a maintained final
dividend of 15 pence per share for the year ended
31 December 2007 (2006: 15 pence), giving a total
for the year of 22 pence (2006: 22 pence). If approved
by shareholders, the recommended final dividend
is payable on 9 May 2008 to shareholders on the
register at the close of business on 14 March 2008.
The drop in profits has reduced dividend cover to just
under 1.5 times (2006: 1.75 times).
Cash Flow & Borrowings
Our net borrowings increased to £65 million
(2006: £52 million) as at 31 December 2007.
This increase included the £6.5 million we spent
purchasing AT Films in Edmonton, Canada, and the
additional pension fund contributions of £6 million.
Interest cover on bank borrowings was sound at
almost four times. As we envisaged last year, our net
annual capital expenditure rose to £13.2 million from
the slightly lower than normal spend of £11.6 million
in 2006. We currently envisage that this higher level
will continue through 2008.
Group Pension Scheme
We indicated last year that the Group had agreed to
inject an additional cash contribution of £20 million,
on a tax efficient basis, over a five year period.
Following a payment of £3.5 million in December
2006, the Group made additional contributions
of £6 million in 2007.
At the end of the year, the gross deficit in the
scheme stood at £18 million (2006: £33 million),
a very significant improvement on the £54 million
deficit at the end of 2005. This reduction has been
achieved despite an increase in the actuarial
assumptions on longevity, and is due to a number of
factors including investment performance, additional
funding by the Group, the increase in long-term bond
yields and careful management of liability growth.
Regulatory Matters
In 2006, the European Commission imposed an
anti-dumping duty of 8.4% on thin bags imported into
the EU from China. This affected a significant volume
of the product which we manufacture at our plant
in Xinhui. We applied for an individual review of our
position and in January 2008 we were informed that
the duty rate for the Group would be reduced to 4.3%.
As I have commented before, it is now clear that the
greatest risk, when investing in China, is much closer
to home than one might envisage. The decision by
the EC to impose duties on the importation of goods
by an EC manufacturer from its Chinese-based
subsidiary sends a clear message to potential
investors in China, and brings into question the issue
of globalisation of manufacture. British Polythene has
done more to modernise its manufacturing base than
most of our EC competitors, yet it is these competitors
who are now being protected by arcane regulations
implemented after considerable political pressure
from interest groups determined to maintain the
status quo of uncompetitive EC manufacture. It is
hard to see how this benefits European consumers.
In China we will continue to manufacture certain
products for the EC market, that do not attract
additional import duty, as they do not fall within the
scope of the regulations. We are also diversifying the
sales territories for those products which do attract
this duty, and have been successful in gaining new
customers in the Middle East, North America
and Australasia.
We have also been impacted by rules recently
imposed on exporting companies by the Chinese
authorities relating to recoverability of VAT on imports.
This has had an impact on our cash flow and margin
in China as we import almost all of our raw material.
It is inevitable that the EC duty and the new Chinese
VAT regulations will have a detrimental effect on the
performance of our Chinese site in the short-term as
we reposition our sales efforts.
Cameron McLatchie
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 4 Report by Directors & Business Review 5
Acquisition
On Tuesday 21 August, we announced the acquisition
of the AT Films business of AT Plastics Inc (Canada),
a subsidiary company of Celanese Corporation, for 
a cash consideration of US$12 million subject to an
adjustment to reflect the book value of working capital
at completion. The initial payment for working capital
was US$11 million, which was included in the cash
consideration of US$12 million.
AT Films manufactures polythene film products for
the horticultural and agricultural markets, mainly
in North America. The Company has facilities in
Edmonton and Westlock, Alberta, Canada and
employs 65 people. In the last financial year to
31 December 2006, AT Films sold 12,500 tonnes
of polythene film products with an annual value
of US$35 million.
This acquisition enables us to progress our strategy
of developing our international agricultural and
horticultural films business. In addition to offering new
geographic markets, AT Films brings new products to
BPI including a range of large agricultural bags which
are used to store silage and grain. The stored grain
is subsequently used as animal feed or as raw material
in the manufacture of biofuels. We believe that there
is significant opportunity to expand sales of this
product as global demand for biofuels increases.
Our experience so far confirms that this acquisition
does indeed present us with the opportunities that
we envisaged. We have already embarked on
a modest upgrading of the production facilities
in Edmonton and envisage that the sales
opportunities will be up to our expectations. 
Raw Material Prices
The price of polyethylene polymer, our major raw
material, has now reached unprecedented levels.
This price is driven by the high costs of cracker
feedstock in North West Europe where the ethylene
required to make polyethylene is mainly derived 
from naptha, a by-product of crude oil. 
The prices of these oil derived by-products seem to
have lost their relationship to the price of a barrel of oil,
as the cash margin between a tonne of oil and a tonne
of polyethylene has almost doubled in five years. When
one tonne of oil cost £150, one tonne of low density
polyethylene cost £500. Now one tonne of oil costs
£350, and low density polymer costs over £1,000. 
It is no coincidence that major oil and petrochemical
companies are reporting record profits. 
It would seem an appropriate time for the EC to
consider dropping tariffs on polymer imports into 
the EC. The consumer is being indirectly hurt by
increased packaging prices, the EC packaging
industry is fighting imports of finished product, 
and the only client group being protected are the
mainly integrated petrochemical companies who
seem perfectly able to take care of themselves. 
We envisage that these record levels are unsustainable
in the medium-term, as more competitively priced
feedstocks are available in other parts of the world. 
A 30% increase in the global manufacturing capacity 
of polyethylene is scheduled over the next three
years. This additional capacity should exert downward
pressure on current price levels.
In the meantime, we are passing on these price
increases to our customers, in as timely a manner 
as commercially feasible. Although we do succeed 
in passing on the increases in the fullness of time, 
the lag results in margin compression and poor 
short-term financial performance. We neither have
physical stocks of raw material nor any workable
hedge against these rising raw material costs.
Energy Costs
We entered 2008 with energy prices reaching record
levels. The outlook for an early reduction is not good
and we are attempting to pass on these increases to
our customers. We continue to reduce our energy
consumption and install energy efficient motors 
and lighting, however, this is of little effect against 
a background of massive increases in energy costs.
Our People
The number of people employed by the Group at the
year end fell to 2,757, down from 2,840 at the end of
2006, despite the extra numbers from the Canadian
acquisition. UK headcount fell by almost 150.
Our performance in Health & Safety was broadly 
in line with the better overall performance achieved 
in 2006 and we will try, wherever possible, to build 
on this trend which demonstrates the overall
improvements in safety culture across the Group. 
Horticultural films
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 5 6 Report by Directors & Business Review
Trading & Prospects
2008 has begun with record raw material and energy
prices and the margin compression we experienced
during 2007 intensified in January and February. 
We are actively working to pass on these costs.
Volumes have been mixed, with demand for certain
products a little slow. However, early season sales 
of silage stretchwrap have been encouraging and,
at this stage, 2008 has the signs of another good year
for this product. 
It is, of course, far too early to comment on the likely
result for the full year, but your Board is confident that
when the current raw material issues are behind us,
our businesses will generate better returns than we
have seen in the last few months. 
Any such improvement will not, however, be sufficient
to deliver the results which your Board expects from 
all of our businesses. To make these improvements,
we have to tackle some underlying issues in the UK
that will be resolved by careful restructuring of certain
parts of the business. Erosion of our traditional UK
customer base has left us with certain assets which 
do not align to current customer demands. Any such
action will be taken at a pace which preserves our 
skills and abilities to service our customer base. 
BPI has previously adapted to market changes and
opportunities and this experience will hold us in good
stead. However, for many parts of our Group, 2008
looks to be a very challenging year.
Cameron McLatchie
Chairman
3 March 2008
Chairman’s Statement
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 6 “As bale wraps go, Silotite sets impressive standards
in terms of its strength, reliability and the level of
protection it provides. Using this particular product
has enabled me to produce high quality silage
time after time – and that has to be the ultimate
measure of success. I value Bob’s visits and his
updates on the latest research and wrapping
techniques. It’s good to know that you have 
the support of a UK based market leader.”
Simon Wells Manager Director, Lower Hope Farm,
Ullingswick, Herefordshire.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 7 Bob Kingsland
Area Sales Manager, 
bpi.agri
“It’s rewarding to hear Simon’s comments. 
You see, we don’t just sell our products and
forget them. We are out in the field continually
working with farmers, advising them on best
balewrapping practice. We work closely with
institutions like IGER, funding research into
silage production. This enables us to maintain
our edge in agricultural films and also to
provide direct support to farmers helping
them to achieve higher milk yields or livestock
weight gains. At the end of the day it is results
like that which count.”
Raising the bar
Demonstrating the importance of the agricultural and
horticultural industries to us, we continue to pursue rigorous
research programmes. To support its overseas growth
strategy bpi.visqueen is sponsoring research on the use
of horticultural films in arid climates to inform product
development for these markets. Likewise bpi.agri funds
scientific research which enhances the economic value
of silage production for the farmer. Projects like these
help us to remain the market leaders and to aid further
development of these sectors.
Technical excellence
2008 will see the commissioning of two new five 
layer extrusion lines in our agricultural films division. 
This investment reflects our confidence in the sector
and the opportunities for growth through the introduction 
of innovative next generation products. This state of the
art extrusion equipment will not only enable the production 
of more technically advanced products, but will take our
operations to outstanding efficiency levels and further
enhance our excellent quality and customer service records.
Seeing the bigger picture
We believe that taking a holistic view of the industry affords 
us the opportunity to differentiate our products with levels
of customer service which set us apart. We embrace
change, we understand industry issues and we integrate
them into our service offering. Through a series of initiatives
such as balewrapping clinics, academic seminars,
roundtable discussions, published articles and press
seminars our aim is to lead through market education 
and increase the knowledge bank of agriculture.
– Silage stretchwrap
– Silage sheet
– Silage bags
– Grain bags
– Greenhouse tunnels
– Crop cover
– Mulch films
– Animal feed sacks
– Fertiliser sacks
– Compost & peat sacks
BPI Products used by Farmers and Growers
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 8 Report by Directors & Business Review 9
The Group’s main raw material, polymer, is subject to volatility on a month by
month basis due to fluctuating prices for ethylene and, to a lesser extent oil.
Prices are currently at an all time high. Supplier actions can also influence prices
due to maintenance periods and breakdowns at their production plants. 
This creates a risk of erosion in margins if price increases cannot be passed
through immediately to customers.
– Centralised Group purchasing arrangements to ensure the best purchase price
– Co-ordinated instructions to sales teams on forward pricing 
– Some linkage of customer pricing to polymer price indices
– Management of stock levels depending on anticipated price movements
– Ability to hedge using London Metal Exchange futures contracts, but currently
very limited due to lack of liquidity.
Risk Factors
BPI may be affected by a number of risks, not all of which are within
our control. Outlined below is a description of some of the factors
that may affect our business. Other factors, in addition to those
listed below, may also adversely affect the Group. The process that
BPI has in place for managing these risks is described in the
Corporate Governance Report on page 35.
Risk Description Mitigation
Raw Material Prices
As a process business and a significant user of energy, our results can be 
affected by major price movements.
– Monitor energy prices and buy forward when advantageous
– Group energy saving programme implemented on each manufacturing site. 
Energy Costs 
A number of our products are dependent on seasonal weather conditions 
and adverse weather conditions could lead to reduced volumes.
– Geographical spread of markets
– Diversification of product portfolio
– Controlled stock build for seasonal products.
Adverse Weather Conditions 
Most of the Group’s revenues are derived from the UK, Ireland, Belgium 
and Holland and are, therefore, sensitive to these economies.
– Monitor production capacities and gear up or down, where possible.
Poor Economic Conditions
As we operate in several non UK countries, have considerable exports from the UK
and our main competitors are based in Europe, we are exposed to medium-term
movements in exchange rates, particularly the Euro and the US dollar.
– Hedging of known currency exposures
– Transfer production among Group sites in UK, Europe and China, 
where possible.
Foreign Exchange Risk
While polythene film is the most lightweight durable packaging medium,
perceptions continue to exist that it is environmentally unfriendly and, 
together with adverse comments on plastic and packaging, could lead 
to changes in customer preference.
– Communication and education efforts with customers and others to dispel
some of the myths.
Perceived Environmental Issues
Our business is subject to regulation in many countries and this can impact 
on our performance as we have seen recently with the European Commission
Anti-Dumping Duties on certain products from China.
– Monitor new and existing legislation and train staff accordingly.
Regulation
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 9 10 Report by Directors & Business Review
Financial KPIs
Diluted earnings per share (pence) Operating profit per tonne (£’000/tonne)
2007
2006
2005
46
55
72
2007
2006
2005
2007 
2006 
2005
32.36 1.50
38.46 1.75
54.28 2.50
Key Performance Indicators
The Group utilises the following indicators of performance
to assess its development against its strategic, financial and
operational objectives.
Strategic rationale
Operating profit per tonne is the 
most significant measure of operating
performance for the Group. We relate
performance to the volume of sales rather
than the value of sales because the latter
can be highly volatile due to fluctuating
raw material prices.
Definition and calculation
The definition of operating profit is profit
before restructuring costs. In 2007 operating
profit is shown on the face of the income
statement at £13.9 million and is adjusted
by net restructuring costs of £0.7 million
to give £14.6 million. Sales volumes were
316 ktonnes.
Strategic rationale
Earnings per share is important to our
shareholders because it is one of the major
factors which determine shareholder value.
It is one of the measures on which senior
management is rewarded through our 
LTIP plan.
Definition and calculation
Diluted earnings per share is profit after tax
divided by the diluted average number of
ordinary shares and is calculated on the
same basis as Note 8 to the Accounts.
Strategic rationale
Dividend cover is important to many of our
shareholders because we are recognised
as a high yield stock.
Definition and calculation
Dividend cover is profit after tax divided 
by the proposed annual dividend.
Dividend cover (times)
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 10 Report by Directors & Business Review 11
1.75
2.50
1.5
Strategic rationale
We monitor electricity usage per tonne as
part of our overall environmental policy of
minimising our use of resources and also
as a means of reducing a significant input
cost for the business.
Definition and calculation
Electricity usage is consumption in
kilowatt hours per tonne of production
output.
Operational KPIs
Lost time accidents (accidents/100k hours) Electricity usage (kWh/tonne)
2007
2006
2005
675
677
682
2007
2006 
2005
2007 
2006 
2005
0.5
0.4
0.8
3.2
3.6
4.0
Strategic rationale
As a manufacturing business with a very
rigorous focus on Health & Safety issues
we measure lost time accidents for each
site and benchmark against the rest of the
Group and other manufacturing businesses.
Our LTA rate for 2007 is similar to the rate
for all plastics and rubber manufacturers
published by the Health & Safety Executive.
Our business, however, has a significant
element of recycling and our performance
compares very favourably with other
recycling businesses.
Definition and calculation
Lost time accidents are accidents that cause
employees to be unavailable for normal
duties for more than three consecutive days.
The rate is expressed as the number of
accidents per 100,000 hours worked.
Strategic rationale
As a relatively labour intensive business,
absenteeism can be a significant cost and
lost opportunity for the Group. We monitor
absenteeism by site and for the Group as 
a whole.
The Chartered Institute of Personnel 
& Development figures for 2007 show 
a rate of 3.7% for all sectors and 3.3% for
manufacturing and production employers.
Definition and calculation
Absenteeism is expressed as the number of
hours of absence as a percentage of annual
contractual hours. Absence is defined as
time off through illness or authorised at the
discretion of management along with any
unauthorised non-attendance. It does not
include any legal or contractual absence
from work.
Absenteeism (%)
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 11 12 Report by Directors & Business Review
Market Overview
Major end use applications include the protection of
goods in transit using stretchfilm, collation shrinkwrap
and pallet shrinkwrap. Stretchfilm has enjoyed good
growth rates, as in most cases, it is the most cost
effective solution. The main process is cast technology
although the blown film process has greater flexibility
to tailor films to particular needs and is mainly used 
for silage films and, increasingly, stretch hoods. 
Bags and sacks are a major sector with a wide variety
of uses from small coin bags to carrier bags, to heavy
duty sacks for chemicals and animal feed. Carrier bag
production in Europe has declined because of increasing
volumes of imported bags and environmental pressures
to reduce their usage. The heavy duty sack market 
is moving to continuous form, fill and seal processes
which are replacing individual open mouth and valve
sacks. There are still a large number of paper sacks in
use and market sectors such as animal feed, pet food
and cement are increasingly under pressure to move
to polythene sacks. The refuse sack market continues
to be resilient despite downgauging and movements 
to wheelie bins and communal containers. A high
proportion of refuse sacks are made with recycled
materials. Non packaging uses for polythene films 
are primarily in building and agricultural applications
including damp proofing and film used for silage 
and mulch wrap and greenhouse films.
The nature of the polythene film industry is such that 
a significant proportion is manufactured as film on
the reel which is then sold to converters for a wide
variety of other applications.
Polymer, the main raw material, is produced as a
downstream product from the oil industry with the
main suppliers being the large multinational oil and
petrochemical companies. Raw material prices have
always been volatile due to supply and demand and
the influence of oil and ethylene prices. Increases in
oil and ethylene prices, combined with increasing
demand from the Far East, particularly China, 
have contributed to a steadily rising polymer price 
over the last five years. The average polymer price per
annum has increased every year since 2002 reaching
an all time high in 2007. Substantial increases at the
start of 2008 have led to a new peak with Platts LD, 
the main published index, now showing £1,000 
per tonne. Substantial investment is being made 
in the Middle East, including Iran, and significant
additional capacity will come on stream from the 
end of 2008 or early 2009. A new plant in the UK 
is expected to be commissioned towards the end 
of 2008.
A recycling industry has developed with over 700,000
tonnes of process and post consumer waste recycled
for use by the film extrusion industry in a variety 
of products.
Polythene film has been highly successful in
substituting other materials within the packaging
industry such as paper and aluminium, due to its
superior characteristic of lightweight strength. 
The industry is now reaching a degree of maturity
and recent years have been challenging with growth
rates now averaging less than 2% per annum caused 
by slower underlying economic growth, continuing
downgauging of films and increased import
penetration of converted bags from Asia. Rising raw
material costs, increased imports and price pressure
from customers have all conspired to put pressure 
on margins.
The industry in Mainland Europe and the UK has over
capacity in certain product areas and would benefit
from some rationalisation and consolidation to
redress this imbalance.
The relentless climb in raw material prices since 2002
has resulted in margin pressure as customers seek to
resist or delay price increases and the industry fights
to maintain sales volumes in low growth sectors.
900
800
1,000
700
600
500
400
300
2003 2007 2006 2005 2004
Monthly Polymer Prices: 
Five year comparison (£/tonne)
900
800
700
600
500
400
300
2003 2007 2006 2005 2004
836 866 790 678 541
Average Polymer Prices: 
Five year comparison (£/tonne)
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2003 2007 2006 2005 2004
70
80
Oil Prices: 
Five year comparison ($/barrel)
The European polythene film extrusion market is estimated at over 
7 million tonnes and is highly fragmented with no individual business
having more than 5% of the market. The market is characterised by
strong regional players and a number of specialists.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 12 Introduction 13
“The exceptional performance levels of the Visqueen
Building Products range combined with their
comprehensive technical support and excellent
customer service is why we turn to them time and
time again. Assistance with specification preparation,
ease of access to detailed product information and
on time, in full deliveries are all critical to the
smooth running of major construction projects. 
In short, we use Visqueen construction films
because they are tried, tested and reliable.”
Darran Graham Site Manager, Persimmon Homes, 
Medway Gate Development, Rochester, Kent .
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 13 14 Report by Directors & Business Review
John Musty
Technical Manager, 
Visqueen Building Products
“With more than fifty years experience in the
construction industry, the Visqueen team 
can interpret a wide variety of site conditions
in order to provide the right products for the job.
During this time, we have been meeting the
challenges of preventing gas and damp ingress
in increasingly demanding conditions through
continual product innovation and education
throughout the industry.”
Raising the bar
Visqueen Building Products continues to rise to the challenge
of increasingly stringent building regulations through research
& development of high performance, high quality construction
membranes. Our development programme is geared to take
account of the needs of the construction industry to maximise
the use of brownfield opportunities, resulting in a continually
evolving product range.
Technical excellence
With the environment high on the political agenda builders
and specifiers are increasingly considering the use of recycled
products. We can help builders to play a part in keeping
re-usable materials within the economy, helping to conserve
resources and diverting waste from landfill through the
provision of a range of recycled polythene products.
Where appropriate, we specify such products to help our
customers meet their sustainability goals and assist with 
their Corporate Responsibility policies. 
Seeing the bigger picture
Visqueen recognises the importance of sharing best practice
and technical expertise with architects, specifiers and other
technical professionals. Our regular seminars update the
industry with our latest product innovations and, importantly,
their functional and economic benefits. Additionally, 
these seminars aim to assist in the evaluation of 
sustainable product choices including membranes
containing recycled material.
– Temporary protective sheeting
– Pallet covers for bricks & blocks
– Damp proof course
– Damp proof membranes
– Gas barrier films
– Aggregate sacks
– Cement sacks
– Asbestos bags
– Flame retardant films
– Protective floor coverings
BPI Products used by 
the Construction Industry
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 14 Report by Directors & Business Review 15
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our performance in 2007 was well down on 2006 as we continued
to suffer from the impact of regular small increases in our raw
material prices combined with continued competitive markets.
Business Overview
Raw Material Prices
Raw material price volatility continued through 2007
with the price rising every month until September. 
The average LD Platts reported price increased by
15% over the year to produce yet another record
average for the calendar year. While prices did not
reach the all-time record sterling high achieved in
October 2005, a significant price increase in January
2008 has taken prices to a new high of £970 per
tonne for LD polymer. Increases in February have
resulted in the LD Platts price reaching £1,000 per
tonne for the first time, a new record. Prices are
expected to remain firm for the first half of 2008
but may soften during the second half as new
capacity begins to come on stream. The new UK LD
capacity in the North East of England is now planned 
to start in the last quarter of 2008 and we are starting 
to see some product from new Middle East
production facilities.
Selling Prices and Margins
The small regular price increases in 2007 were 
very difficult to pass on to customers on a regular
basis and resulted in compression in margins. 
Silage stretchwrap margins were reduced as we 
faced higher raw material costs and increased market
capacity. Europe faced higher energy prices which, 
as with the UK in 2006, proved difficult to recover.
Sales Volumes
The total sales volumes of manufactured product
from our UK and European operations increased to
311,000 tonnes as higher sales in silage stretch and
Europe offset reducing volumes in plain films in the
UK. The high price of raw materials, combined with 
the sentiment to reduce packaging, encouraged
further downgauging as many products continued 
to become thinner. Good weather conditions
throughout Europe resulted in higher volumes
of silage stretch products. Total volume sales were
316,000 tonnes after including nearly 5,000 tonnes
from our Canadian acquisition.
Acquisition
In August we acquired from the Celanese Corporation,
for US$12 million, the AT Films business, a Canadian
manufacturer of polythene film products for the 
North American horticultural and agricultural markets. 
The business has a film manufacturing plant in
Edmonton, Alberta and a conversion facility in Westlock,
some 80 miles north of Edmonton. The business had
annual sales of US$35 million on 12,500 tonnes for
the year ended 31 December 2006. 
This acquisition enables us to progress our strategy 
of developing our international agricultural and
horticultural business. It also brings new products 
to the Group including a range of agricultural bags
which, as well as being used to store silage, are now
being used to store grain which can be subsequently
used in the manufacture of biofuels.
The business acquired formed part of a much 
larger business and has not received the appropriate
investment over the years. We will, therefore, 
require to improve and update the current plant 
and machinery and to date have authorised 
£0.4 million on capital expenditure.
Since the year end, we have acquired the trade,
brands and plant of Sacomatic in Canada for a small
cash consideration of £0.12 million. The Sacomatic
memory bale tube is used to store forage for animal
feed and the acquisition of this brand will enable 
us to expand sales in this product area. 
Restructuring
In January 2007, we announced the closure of our 
loss making site at Scunthorpe with the loss of fifty
jobs. The plant was closed by the end of May and
equipment transferred to other sites. Some marginally
profitable volume was lost as a result of the closure.
In January, we also announced the closure of refuse
sack manufacture at Stockton as we consolidated 
this activity at Heanor. 
In January, we also closed recycling at Greenock 
as we consolidated at Heanor and Dumfries. We also
ceased the manufacture of plastic pallets and
geoblock for ground stabilisation as these products 
had become uncompetitive.
Total costs of restructuring were £2.0 million and were
partially offset by a profit of £1.2 million on the sale of 
a surplus property from a site closed in 2006.
John Langlands 
Our strategy for the business remains
unchanged in that we are a focused polythene 
film and bag business. 
Our primary objective is to grow operating profits
and earnings per share. 
We aim to provide first class customer service 
by delivering high quality products at
competitive prices.
We aim to be No.1 or No.2 in the major markets
in which we operate. 
We aim to achieve organic growth in product areas
and market sectors that continue to develop.
We will invest in modern manufacturing
equipment to enable us to develop new
products and meet our customers’ ever
changing requirements.
We intend to develop our European and 
Chinese operations.
We see further growth opportunities in
agricultural markets and recycling.
Other objectives include a continual improvement
in our operational performance and a continuing
reduction in our cost base to ensure we 
remain competitive.
Acquisition opportunities will be considered 
but will only be completed at the right price.
We firmly believe that the prevention of
accidents involving personal injury is essential 
to the successful operation of our business 
and we regard the health & safety of our
employees as paramount.
As a leading manufacturer and supplier of
polythene, we recognise our responsibility to
operate with due concern for the environment 
in which we live and work and to minimise the
impact of our activities on that environment.
We recognise that our people continue to be
central to the development of the business.
Strategy
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 15 16 Report by Directors & Business Review
Chief Executive’s Statement
In January 2008, we announced some further
restructuring at our Industrial plant in Stockton which
will result, together with non replacement of leavers
and retirees, in a reduction in staff levels of around
thirty. Along with other actions on the site, this will
produce annualised savings of around £1 million.
The cost of restructuring will be around £0.15 million. 
Capital Expenditure
Total capital expenditure at £15.4 million was above
the depreciation of £12.7 million as we purchased our
remaining leased property at Stroud for £2.7 million.
The Group now owns the freehold of all our
manufacturing sites.
Other expenditure totalled nearly £13 million 
as we continued to invest for new products, 
additional capacity for growth products and
production efficiencies.
In the UK, we authorised a major investment in our
successful agricultural business at Leominster with
the installation of two new five layer stretch lines. 
This investment in new, state of the art extrusion
equipment will increase output and efficiency 
and enhance our excellent quality and customer 
service standards.
In our Industrial business at Ardeer we installed,
towards the end of the year, a backseam conversion
line with in-line printing which will enable us to supply
the cement industry which is beginning to move from
paper to polythene packaging.
At Heanor, in Recycled Products, we installed a further
conversion line to increase capacity for refuse sacks. 
In Worcester, in our Consumer business, we installed 
a laminator to extend our range of products and
eliminate subcontract costs.
In Europe at Zele, we replaced two older printing
presses with a new eight colour printing press to
increase capacity and improve efficiency.
We continue to invest to improve efficiency,
particularly to reduce energy usage.
In November 2007, we authorised expenditure 
at Zele for a further stretchline to cope with the
growth in Silotite
®
, SilotitePro
®
, Baletite
®
and Bontite
®
.
In February, we authorised the purchase of two ten
colour printing presses, for our Consumer business, 
to meet increasing demand, replace two older six
colour printing presses and our original eight colour
printing press and satisfy customer requirements for
ten colour printing.
Senior Management
Steve Moss, Managing Director of our Industrial
business left at the end of September to take up
another position in the packaging industry. He was
replaced by David Harris who was Business Director 
at our Consumer business and formerly Finance
Director in our Industrial business. David joined our
Management Board in October 2007. Andrew Green,
Managing Director of our Recycled business has
assumed responsibility for our Consumer business 
in addition to Recycled Products. Ian McDarmaid 
was appointed Group Purchasing Director and 
joined the Management Board in February 2008.
Outlook
The significant price increase in raw materials in
January followed by a further increase in February 
has set an early challenge to increase our selling
prices. These raw material increases together with 
a high level of energy costs will make our first quarter
very difficult. We have, however, taken some early
action to reduce costs and are aggressively increasing
sales prices. Early sales of silage stretch in Europe are
encouraging. The weakening in sterling against the
Euro may provide some assistance in export markets
for our UK business.
With the oil price at US$100 a barrel and LD polymer
at £1,000 per tonne, 2008 looks to be a very
challenging year.
Operating Review
Europe
Our European business comprises two manufacturing
sites in Belgium, one site in the Netherlands and a
sales operation in France. The business specialises in
the manufacture and sale of high quality printed film
for the food industry, form fill and seal films (FFS) and
heavy duty sacks, including valve bags and waviblok
for the chemical, construction, horticulture and
fertiliser industries, pallet protection films including
stretch hoods, insulation film, general industrial films
and silage and packaging stretchwrap. Main markets
are Belgium, Holland, North of France and Germany
except for silage stretch which is sold throughout
mainland Europe.
Operating profits reduced despite sales volumes
moving ahead as margins were lower due to increased
raw material costs and higher energy costs.
2007 2006 
Operating Profit £6.7m £7.4m
Tonnes Sold 64,200 59,400
Visqueen
®
– damp proof membrane
Tuklok
®
– food and freezer bags
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 16 Report by Directors & Business Review 17
Film Products
Europe produces a range of film on the reel products
which are supplied to a wide variety of markets.
Volume sales of silage stretch including our market
leading brand, Silotite
®
, increased by over 20% as
excellent weather conditions throughout the summer
kept sales going until October. New competitor
capacity, a slow start to the season and higher raw
material prices all contributed to pressure on selling
prices and resulted in lower margins. This resulted in
some loss of volume in certain markets, but was offset
by good growth in France, Germany, Poland and Russia.
New products were launched in November under 
the brand name Baletite
®
, a replacement for traditional
round bale net and Silotitepro
®
, a new generation 
of silage film with improved economical and
environmental properties. We are confident 
that these new products have a good future on 
a medium-term timescale and will reinforce our 
market leading position in the silage wrap business.
Sales of pallet protection film moved ahead due 
to increasing sales of stretch hoods following our
investment in 2006. 
Sales of general and insulation films were broadly in
line with 2006 with increased sales of our high quality
industrial stretch film Bontite
®
. 
Converted Products
Converted products include all our printed and
converted products which are supplied to a wide
range of markets.
Sales of printed film for deep frozen vegetables 
and chips were down on 2006 due to the shortage 
of supply of vegetables and potatoes in the first half 
of the year. From June onwards with the harvesting 
of the new crop volumes were back to normal levels.
Industrial sales were broadly in line with 2006 
with a reduction in all types of bags being offset 
by increases in FFS as the market continued to 
move from bags to FFS. Margins were lower due 
to the change in sales mix and the difficulty in
recovering the monthly polymer price increases.
Capital Expenditure
In Zele, we installed a new eight colour printing press 
to replace two older presses and a prestretch unit. 
In December, we authorised the purchase of an
additional stretch line to meet the growing demand 
for silage stretch and provide capacity for our new
products Baletite
®
and Silotitepro
®
and Bontite
®
, 
our industrial packaging stretch product.
UK & Ireland
Our UK & Ireland business consists of eighteen UK
manufacturing sites and five sales/service offices 
in the UK & Ireland. It also includes our plant in 
China as most of its production is sold in the UK.
Our operating profit reduced in the UK as margins were
squeezed by the regular small polymer price increases.
Volumes were down 1% to 247,300 tonnes as we 
lost some volume on the closure of our loss making
Scunthorpe business and some export volumes to
very competitive European pricing. This was partially
offset by increased volumes in silage stretch due to
good growing conditions.
Film Products
Film products include a range of film on the reel
products for a variety of different markets and 
offers products such as stretchfilm, plain shrink film,
printed shrink film, produce films, bread films,
lamination films, liquid packaging films and surface
protection films. Incorporating highly respected 
brand names such as Novetek, Brithene and 
Supreme the range of products provides secure, 
cost effective transit and primary packaging 
for the most demanding applications. 
Sales of collation shrink films, which are mainly to 
the food and drinks industries, were modestly ahead 
of 2006 despite some small downgauging. This was
despite a poor summer which prevented the normal
seasonal uplift in sales to the soft drinks industry.
Sales of printed shrink were in line with 2006 and
we see further opportunities in this growth market.
Margins saw erosion due to the upward creep of raw
material prices in what is a very competitive market.
Sales to the converter sector were down significantly
as we lost business on the closure of our Scunthorpe
operation, from closure of customer plants, competitive
pricing in Europe and transfer of production to
customer in-house facilities. Over capacity in both 
the UK and Europe kept margins under pressure. 
As we start 2008, there are some good prospects
helped by the weakness of sterling which makes 
us more competitive against mainland Europe.
Silotite
®
– silage bale wrap
Baletite
®
– silage bale wrap
2007 2006 
Operating Profit £7.0m £9.7m
Tonnes Sold 247,300 249,000
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 17 18 Report by Directors & Business Review
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our total sales volume of industrial stretchwrap was
broadly in line with 2006 as we again saw some
downgauging in both hand reels and cast film.
Competition remained intense with margins under
pressure. We have developed an improved blown
machine film which we are able to sell at better
margins. This film is in great demand from our customers
who use it as the base film to manufacture prestretched
products which enable the production of much thinner
films. We have invested in 2007 for the production of
packaging prestretch and coreless film products which
will enable us to offer higher added value products. We
are now selling our Wrapsmartultra
®
hand roll products
at 7 to 9 micron compared to traditional hand rolls in
the 12 to 17 micron range. These new hand rolls offer
the same strength and high performance levels as
standard stretchfilm products despite their ultra
lightweight and thinner gauge and enable our
customers to use less weight of materials. 
Sales of Wrapsmartultra
®
are growing rapidly
and we are now supplying two of the four large 
UK supermarkets and have just installed additional
conversion machines to increase capacity.
Volume sales of silage stretchwrap recovered the
1 0% lost in 2006 as the good weather conditions in
the UK and Ireland led to very high sales in these
markets. The season started slowly resulting in some
pressure on selling prices but finished strongly as ideal
weather conditions ensured that demand continued
well into September and October. The late start to the
season, increasing raw material prices and severe
price competition resulted in disappointing margins
particularly in Ireland. Sales to US$ markets were
adversely affected by exchange rates but we
accepted lower margins in order to maintain 
our brands’ presence in these markets.
We have authorised investment in two five layer
extrusion lines at our main facility for the manufacture 
of silage stretchwrap in Leominster as we plan to
modernise the facility and improve efficiencies.
These lines should be ready for production in quarter 
2 of 2008 and will also enable us to produce our new
products SilotitePro
®
and Baletite
®
. Raw material input
prices are much higher for production for the 2008
season which will require a significant increase in
selling prices. Volumes, as always, will be dependent 
on weather conditions during the grass growing season. 
Volumes of silage sheet were disappointing as we lost
business in Ireland due to low prices from a competitor
who had installed new capacity. This business has
been regained for 2008.
Sales of our wide horticultural films increased
significantly due to more sales of field cover film
and exports to Europe, particularly Germany where
storm damage required replacement film. We see
opportunities for further growth in export markets.
Sales of container liner films reduced as our main
customer sourced local films for their conversion
plants in India and China.
Recycled Products
We are the leading recycler of polythene films in the
UK with an annual recycling capacity of nearly 70,000
tonnes. We recycle scrap from our own operations,
used products taken back from customers and scrap
purchased in the open market. We are also able to
recycle the more heavily contaminated scrap
including agricultural films. Recycled material is used 
in the manufacture of construction films including
damp proof course, refuse sacks and rigid products.
Recycled volumes increased during the year with
higher outputs at all sites and enabled us to show 
a reduction in our bought-in pellet. This arose 
despite the closure of recycling at Greenock as we
consolidated our recycling on four sites. The market
remained very tight for scrap with continued high
levels of export to the Far East as even the more
contaminated scrap is now exported. Upward
pressure on scrap prices continued. The price of
Packaging Recovery Notes remained at a low level.
At Dumfries, recycling outputs increased following 
our major investment in 2006.
In April 2007, we purchased a small washing plant 
in the Rhymney area from the Company’s
administrators for £0.4 million. This equipment was
able to process very dirty grades of scrap which we
could not handle elsewhere. Unfortunately, the costs
of running this equipment on a third-party site were
too high and we exited that site in November. We will
reinstall the equipment at our Rhymney site in April
2008. The equipment will also provide a base for a
second washing plant for the heavily contaminated
agricultural film which will be available once the new
regulations on non packaging farm plastic waste 
are introduced.
Our construction business trades under the Visqueen
Building Products name and manufactured volumes
were well ahead of 2006, although there was evidence
during the final quarter of demand slowing. Our new
computer system was implemented at the end of 
last year and some teething problems impacted 
on customer service levels during the first quarter.
These problems were resolved and we are now
operating at our expected high levels of 
customer service.
Recycled pellet
Refuse sacks made from recycled pellet
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 18 Report by Directors & Business Review 19
We again saw a strong performance from our
Specification Products business. The growth in
products specified by architects and end users is driven
by the efforts of our dedicated sales team for this sector
and the growing demand for products required for
brownfield sites. We are constantly reviewing our
product offering in order to supplement our traditional
Visqueen products and provide a more complete
service to our major customers. Our specification sales
grew by over 35% and Visqueen Building Products 
is now recognised as the leading supplier of these
products in the UK.
Sales volumes at our Greenock operations which 
now sits within Recycled Products increased during
the year.
Total volume sales of refuse sacks fell in the year as 
we lost some business on pricing. Manufacture at
Stockton was closed and extrusion and conversion
capacity at Heanor expanded.
Total volumes at our Chinese plant increased over
2006 as we moved some refuse sack business to
China on the closure of refuse sack manufacture at
Stockton. Sales from our new investment have been
slow as we continue to run trials for customers in
Europe, North America and Australasia. We are also
in discussions with significant European and North
American customers for supply within China as the
requirements for hygienic packaging of produce
increase. The plant is now approved for the British
Retail Consortium hygiene accreditation.
Our main issues in China are regulatory with the
European Commission imposing an anti-dumping
duty of 8.4% on all bags imported into Europe from
China. We have successfully requested an individual
review and the duty will be reduced to 4.3% from 
early 2008. While this represents an improvement, 
we are extremely disappointed that the duty has not
been reduced to zero which would have been the
conclusion of any business orientated and logical
review. The Chinese authorities have also impacted 
on the business by reducing the amount of
reclaimable VAT on exports.
Converted Products
Converted Products comprise all our print and
conversion plants and serve a wide range of 
markets from Industrial to Consumer.
Overall sales volume of industrial packaging was 
in line with 2006 despite some downgauging.
Sales of aggregate sacks recovered in 2007 but other
sales to the construction sector fell below last year
due to low activity levels towards the end of the year
from many customers.
Horticulture volumes recovered in 2007 due to better
spring weather.
Sales of fertiliser products were in line with expectations
but animal feed products saw a reduction, particularly in
the final quarter, with the market remaining depressed
and extremely price sensitive.
Margins remained under pressure as raw material
prices climbed throughout the year.
Sales volumes at our small manufacturing sites were 
in line with 2006 despite very competitive market
conditions. Edinburgh saw volumes reduce as a major
customer moved to production in-house while Flint
volumes increased as an extrusion line and related
business was transferred on the closure of Scunthorpe.
Sales from our small trading operations fell against
2006 as we repatriated some business back to the
manufacturing sites. Despite the challenging
conditions, our trading business improved over 
2006 as it eliminated lower margin business.
Our Consumer Products business, VMB, is involved 
in printing and converting plain film mainly from our
Films business into packaging for the fresh produce,
bread and other food markets. After some strong
initial interest in degradable, biodegradable and
compostable products, demand has been confined 
to a small number of customers. We now anticipate
that the emphasis on reducing the use of packaging
will concentrate on downgauging products to 
enable less material to be used. The plant at
Worcester comprises seven eight colour printing
presses, three six colour printing presses together
with slitting and conversion machinery. In the second
quarter of 2007, we installed a laminator that enabled
the business to provide a complete solution to
customers’ packaging requirements.
Overall sales levels were consistent with 2006 as
growth with our larger customers and more food
packaging offset the loss of a large customer at the
beginning of the year. The year posed significant
challenges due to the prolonged rise in raw material
costs, the introduction of lamination, design changes
by several major customers and a much later year 
end surge in demand. VMB won a bronze award
(environmental category) at the EFTA print awards 
for Morrison’s organic apples range.
Factory at Xinhui, China
New extrusion equipment at Xinhui
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 19 20 Report by Directors & Business Review
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our pre-press and plate making business provides
artwork, origination and plate making to both Group
businesses and external customers. Towards the end
of the year we installed the Du Pont FAST thermal
plate making equipment allowing us to eliminate
completely the use of solvent from our plate
manufacturing. Sales were down due to lower activity
levels from external customers who still account for
over 50% of total sales. 
North America
Our North American business comprises AT Films
based in Edmonton in Canada. They manufacture
polythene film for the North American horticultural
and agricultural markets and have a small conversion
facility which folds and packs bags used for the
storage of silage and grain.
The business was acquired in mid-August 2007 and
made a small operating profit based on volume sales
of 4,700 tonnes. AT Films is a seasonal business with
the main sales volumes in quarters two and three of
the calendar year.
The business acquired was run as a small part 
of the much larger AT Plastics polymer business 
and it is necessary for us to build our own business
infrastructure including IT, Finance, Logistics and
Purchasing. We have been fortunate to acquire an
experienced and committed management team led
by Calvin Mazurenko who is now Managing Director.
We seconded one of our recently retired business
Finance Directors from the UK to Canada to manage
the transition and recruited an experienced Financial
Controller. AT Films will implement our standard 
IT system in the first half of the year.
The business should deliver some volume growth in
2008 as we expect stronger demand for the supply of
bags to store grain for the biofuels industry. Polymer
prices have risen sharply in North America since we
acquired the business and the outlook for 2008 is
dependent on the success in recovering these higher
raw material costs. 
2007
Operating Profit £0.2m
Tonnes Sold 4,700
Bags for storage of silage and grain
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 20 Introduction 21 Report by Directors & Business Review 00
000
“bpi.consumer provides quality products, a 
reliable service and a superb turnaround to 
meet our demands. Such responsiveness 
is key to our operation in the fast moving 
consumer goods environment. Additionally, 
their innovation in terms of film downgauging
supports our environmental commitments
without compromising the high performance 
required to ensure extended shelf life for 
fresh produce – a critical factor for our retail
customer base.”
Chee Wai Tao Purchasing Manager,
Albert Bartlett & Sons, Vegetable Packers, Airdrie.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 21 22 Report by Directors & Business Review
Tracy Smith
Sales Executive, 
bpi.consumer VMB
“Providing this type of added value to customers
like Albert Bartlett & Sons is what we are all about.
Our extensive experience and expertise in the
production of polythene films enables us to take
film packaging performances to new levels.
Understanding the stringent quality standards
required, we offer an unparalleled choice of 
films with high levels of product protection 
and excellent retail presentation options.”
Raising the bar
BPI embraces the combined challenges of providing
film packaging which reduces food waste and satisfies
the demanding response times required in the retail supply 
chain. From direct technical liaison with the multiple retailers 
to the constant monitoring of packaging and environmental
legislation we continue to evolve our multi-functional portfolio
to ensure it truly adds value where it counts.
Technical excellence
From the development of Modified Atmosphere Packaging 
to the production of the latest biopolymer packaging
solutions, bpi.consumer offers an enviable choice to 
today’s environmentally aware retailers. Able to guide
packers through the comprehensive flexible packaging
options available, more and more Packaging Technologists
turn to us for guidance. With environmental commitments
now a key metric we can provide the advice and verification
of the best film mediums going forward.
Seeing the bigger picture
As part of the BPI Group we enjoy a breadth of vision 
from intelligent raw material purchasing through the latest
manufacturing technologies to the post use recycling
activities of our sister divisions. This unique position in the 
UK food packaging marketplace allows us to develop
products with remarkable performance characteristics that 
offer impressive economic benefits. Looking towards the
future we are confident BPI will be at the forefront of
continued innovation.
– Modified atmosphere packaging
BPI Products used by 
Food & Beverage Packers
– Fruit and vegetable bags
– Fresh produce film
– Bread bags
– Deep freeze film
– Tray liners 
– Plain shrink film
– Printed shrink film
– Lidding film
– Resealable bags
– Lamination films
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 22 Report by Directors & Business Review 23
Packaging reduction, recycling and biodegradable
plastics are of increasing interest to our customers
and the general public.
This fact sheet is designed to help guide and 
Inform that Interest. It Is underpinned by BPI’s long
record of leadership in understanding the sector’s
environmental responsibilities and ensuring 
that the industry’s products and processes deliver
environmental solutions whilst meeting the practical
needs of consumers and society.
Reduction
The most lightweight durable packaging medium 
is polythene film. This accounts for the huge growth 
in its use over the last 40 years. More importantly.
polythene film can now provide the same high 
levels of protection and packaging from significantly
less raw material.
Hence the following facts:
Plastic packaging is continually being reduced 
and minimised. Carrier bags are one third of the
thickness they were in 1990 and the average
weight of stretch film used to wrap a pallet of
goods is now 350 grammes compared with
1,400 grammes of shrink film used 10 years ago.
Ten times as much energy goes into the production
of food and goods contained by packaging than
goes into the packaging itself.
– Plastic packaging accounts on average for 1% 
of the weight of food it protects.
– In the western world, lightweight and durable
packaging makes an important contribution to
reducing spoilage rates to 2% before food reaches
the consumer compared with 45-50% in developing
countries where little packaging is used. Higher
spoilage rates are bad for the environment.
– A 2004 study in Canada showed that to replace
plastic packaging with alternative materials would
consume 582 million gigajoules more energy and
create 43 million tonnes of additional CO2 emissions.
The energy saved by using plastic was equivalent to
101.3 million barrels of oil and the amount of CO2
emissions saved was equivalent to running 12.3
million passenger cars each year.
BPI continuously works with its customers to
minimise the weight of its products and their
packaging. Today our products have reduced 
in weight by 5,000 tonnes per annum over 
like for like volumes five years ago.
Re-use
Plastic films are designed to do a specific job 
of protection and containment with the lowest
material use possible. Their very lightweight
nature generally makes them less suitable for
re-use. However the net environmental benefits
of developing minimum material/high spec
products easily exceed any constraints imposed
on their subsequent re-use.
– A notable exception to this is carrier bags. 
According to DEFRA figures at least 80% of UK
households re-use carrier bags at least once.
Recycling
Plastic films, unlike paper, can be recycled time 
and time again.
– In the UK in 2006, 455,000 tonnes of plastic
packaging (21.9%) was recycled. However 65% 
of this activity took place overseas, mainly in 
China and the Far East. DEFRA has amended the
packaging waste regulations to ensure that this
reprocessing must take place to ‘broadly equivalent’
standards to reprocessing in the UK.
BPI recycles over 70,000 tonnes of plastic waste
every year at its UK reprocessing plants including
waste from industrial, commercial, agricultural,
automotive and domestic sources along with all 
of its own process waste.
A 100% recycled bin-liner uses only one third of the
energy to produce, from cradle to grave, a bag of
equivalent properties made from virgin materials 
and has a carbon footprint which is 35% lower.
For every tonne of recycled bags produced in 
place of a tonne of bags made from virgin materials
there is a saving of 79,300 MJ LHV of energy and 
of 1.4 tonnes of C02 emissions.
Energy from waste
BPI supports the concept of incinerating waste
plastics ID produce energy from waste.
– Plastics have an extremely high calorific value and
are effectively ‘frozen fuels’ which can be released
into energy when burnt. Mixed plastics have an
energy content of 9,585 kWh/tonne which is 
four times as high as Municipal Solid Waste (MSW)
in general, twice as high as paper and newspaper, 
37% higher than coal and only 11%-18% lower 
than natural gas and oil respectively.
BPI continuously works with its customers to minimise the
weight of its products and their packaging. Today our products
have reduced in weight by 5,000 tonnes per annum over 
like for like volumes five years ago.
Environmental Facts
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 23 24 Report by Directors & Business Review
Presently the UK incinerates only 9% of its MSW
compared with 54% in Denmark and over 40% 
in France. If all MSW were incinerated in the UK 
it would provide 5% of the UK’s total demand 
for energy.
– Many food packaging plastics are either composite
structures of different plastics which cannot be
recycled together or are too highly contaminated
with food waste to be recyclable. In these
circumstances incineration in energy-from-waste
facilities is a far better environmental solution
than disposal.
Biodegradation
Plastic films are often criticised because they are 
seen as disposable products which, once disposed 
of, do not biodegrade. However, recent advances
in technology now allow the production of a range 
of plastic films which are degradable, biodegradable
or compostable.
In addition, new developments in biopolymers 
have allowed the production of plastic films from
renewable resource materials such as corn. These
materials are also biodegradable and compostable.
BPI promotes the use of biodegradable and
compostable plastic products where they result in
the diversion of waste from landfill to composting,
or where they are designed to decompose naturally
in the environment in which they have been used,
as with plastic mulch films and crop covers.
– Additives are now available to accelerate
degradation and biodegradation in ordinary plastics 
as are a range of polymers which, by virtue of 
a shortened polymeric molecular chain, are
inherently biodegradable or compostable.
Degradable plastics fragment and break down under 
the influence of light and heat biodegradable plastics,
by contrast, decompose when they come into contact with
microbial activity. Degradable plastics can eventually
biodegrade in the right circumstances – once they have
fragmented sufficiently to be capable of being acted upon
by microbial activity – but they will not do so as quickly 
as those materials termed ‘biodegradable’.
Whilst plastics can now easily be made to biodegrade,
in designing them to do so one has to consider 
a number of issues:
– The primary purpose of plastic films is to protect
and contain. They are designed to be durable
enough to do the job for which they were intended
without compromising the integrity of the product
they protect.
– Biodegradable plastics, in contrast, are primarily
designed to be controlled-life products. 
Their breakdown is subject to exposure to light, 
heat and oxygen. Their shelf-life will vary according 
to the degree to which they are exposed to 
these conditions.
Making a packaging material biodegradable might
be perceived to solve a particular waste issue at the
end of its life. If, as a result, however, the product it is
designed to protect itself becomes wasted, both the
consequences for the environment and the financial
cost arising will be very much worse than would
otherwise have been the case.
– Biodegradable plastics could limit our ability to
recycle large volumes of plastic packaging.
Biodegradable plastics are technically recyclable
but a recycler would not want to recycle
biodegradable plastics into products such as
building films or plastic wood substitutes which
were intended to last.
This does not present a substantial problem where
the biodegradable plastic is either clearly recognisable
as such or exists in only a small proportion of the
waste stream. However if biodegradable plastics were
to enter the waste stream for recycled materials in
any significant volume this could seriously compromise
our ability to recycle plastic into new products.
– Litter is often cited as a reason to make plastics
biodegradable.
Plastic bags account for only 0.06% of litter in the UK.
However it is clear that plastic bag pollution
does cause more serious problems in developing
countries and in these areas a biodegradable
alternative could provide a significant solution 
to a waste disposal problem.
– It is by no means certain that degradable or
biodegradable plastics will necessarily breakdown 
in landfill sites as these are typically starved of light,
heat and oxygen. There is plenty of evidence of
newsprint remaining legible when recovered 
from landfill sites after 40 years.
– Where recovery via composting takes place,
biodegradation can be seen as an element of
recycling within the waste hierarchy. However, 
simply because a product biodegrades should 
not lead to its ‘disposal’ being elevated to an
equivalent level to ‘recycling’. Disposal of 
newsprint, either as litter or to landfill, is clearly 
not an acceptable solution simply because 
the waste stream may eventually biodegrade.
Environmental Facts
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 24 Report by Directors & Business Review 25
Biopolymers
BPI welcomes the new generation of biopolymers
(polymerised corn, maize and potato starch) as an
environmentally-sustainable alternative to fossil
fuel-based polymers. We anticipate that fossil
fuel-based plastics will continue to play a significant 
part in packaging for many years to come. 
However we recognise that the cost of these plastics
will continue to rise and that renewable resource
materials may offer an important alternative to 
some oil-based plastics over the medium-term.
Whilst this development is certainly welcome,
it is important to keep all the relevant environmental
factors in perspective.
– A true comparative analysis of all the environmental
factors arising should also take account of the
sustainability of the production (e.g. fertilisers,
pesticides, herbicides) transport (e.g. road fuel) and
processing of raw materials (corn, maize, potatoes).
The assumption that a plant-based substitute has
a zero footprint is erroneous.
– Polyethylene is made from naphtha gas, 
one or a number of by-products produced from the
petroleum refinery process when distilling crude oil.
Only 3% of the world’s supply of oil is used to
make plastic packaging whilst 90% is used to
produce fuel and to provide power for homes
and industry. Furthermore, a large proportion of
that 3% used to make polythene, unlike that used 
to make fuel or heating, can have a second use after
fulfilling its original purpose either through being
recycled or converted to energy-from-waste.
BPl’s environmental commitment, however,
anticipates biopolymers playing an increasingly
important role alongside traditional polymers 
over the next few years for certain packaging
applications. BPI is confident that the current
limitations on their technical performance as
well as their high cost of production will certainly
become less of a constraint as greater demand
drives further development and improved
economies of scale.
Waste
Plastic films, along with all packaging materials, 
are often seen as wasteful as the perception is that
they are disposed of once they have completed their
original purpose to protect and contain. The reality 
is that many now are re-used or recycled. However
when and where they are finally disposed of should 
be put in its proper context.
The total amount of plastic packaging in the
household waste bin is around 2.6% or 40 kgs/year 
of an average household’s annual waste volume 
of 1.6 tonnes.
– If all the carrier bags used in the UK every year 
were eliminated and were not replaced by any
other bag or additional food packaging, the saving 
per household would be equivalent to two litres 
of oil per year. A similar saving could be achieved by
driving just over a mile less per month or switching 
off a100 watt light bulb for 45 minutes a day.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 25 26 Report by Directors & Business Review
Environmental Facts
So what is the answer?
Like many environmental issues, the right answers 
are often not simple whilst the simple answers often
lead to unintended consequences and greater
environmental problems.
Our products already provide significant
environmental benefits by preserving the items
that consumers need to buy through minimum
resource-maximum protection.
However, our products are not in themselves what
consumers actually want. They are protecting what
consumers want against damage and spoilage.
Once our products have done that job, the consumer
throws them away and therefore sees them as a part 
of a waste stream and therefore part of the ‘problem’.
The reality is the exact opposite. Our products have
been specifically designed to be part of the solution.
By producing products from the most lightweight and
durable material capable of property protecting the
goods that society and consumers need, we are
helping to protect the environment. Without them,
the damage to our environment from unnecessary
spoilage and wastage would be very much worse.
Furthermore, many of our products can be re-used or
recycled into new products after fulfilling their primary
purpose, bringing additional environmental benefits.
Where they cannot be recycled, most of our products
can be used to generate energy through incineration
and some of those remaining may also be suitable for
composting or biodegradation.
At the same time we recognise that as consumers
we all want to do our ‘bit’ for the environment.
BPI therefore supports any change in behaviour 
that produces net environmental benefits, 
however small. We encourage and facilitate
initiatives that reduce unnecessary packaging and
promote opportunities for re-use and recycling.
BPI is totally committed to helping the
general public and opinion-formers to understand
the issues and to retain a sense of perspective in
the face of those who see packaging as an easy
populist target. The claim that consumers don’t
really need it is dangerously misleading from 
an environmental perspective – the facts speak 
for themselves in countries where inadequate
packaging causes significant and avoidable
wastage. It also risks diverting attention from the
much greater challenges posed by our society’s
impact on our planet through consumption,
travel and energy use.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 26 Report by Directors & Business Review 27
Corporate Social Responsibility Review
BPI has a long record of leadership in understanding the sector’s
environmental responsibilities and ensuring that our industry’s
products and processes deliver environmental solutions whilst
meeting the practical needs of customers, consumers and society.
Health & Safety
Policy
The Group’s policy on Health & Safety states:
“We firmly believe that the prevention of accidents
involving personal injury or damage to property is
essential to the successful operation of our business
and we regard the health & safety of our employees 
as paramount.
We, therefore, through this statement of intent, affirm
our commitment to achieving the highest possible
standard of health & safety for all our employees and
any others whose health & safety may be affected 
by our work activities.”
The Board of Directors for BPI:
– Accept their individual and collective responsibility
in providing health & safety leadership within BPI.
– Will ensure that all business decisions reflect its health
& safety intentions as set out in this statement.
– Will provide a working environment that is both safe
and which has the lowest possible risk to health.
– Will provide sufficient information, instruction,
training and supervision to enable all employees 
to contribute to their own health & safety at work.
The Managing Director of each business through their
reporting Directors is responsible for ensuring that
suitable and sufficient organisation and arrangements
are employed for achieving the defined objectives.
Health & Safety is as important an issue as all other
commercial considerations. No task is so important
that a person’s health or safety is put at risk. The Board
of Directors will, therefore, pursue this policy with the
utmost diligence.
We do stress, however, the need for all of our
employees to co-operate in our aim to provide
a working environment that is safe and which has 
the lowest possible risk to health. This is not simply
because of our legal obligations, but because 
it is in all our interests that we should work 
together to achieve this end.
The Group Health & Safety Director and Manager 
are independent of the individual Business Directors
and report directly to the Chief Executive.
Performance
There was a slight increase in the accident rate in 2007
but still broadly in line with the significant improvement
seen in 2006. We are pleased to report this continued
improvement which demonstrates that the BP “EYES”
behavioural safety campaign, which has now been
running for 2
1
/2 years, has achieved a significant culture
change within the organisation. Lost time accidents
increased to 0.5 (2006: 0.4) accidents/100,000 hours
worked. Minor injury rates increased slightly to 
7.8 (2006: 7.6) accidents/100,000 hours.
The accident severity rate, which measures the 
days lost as a result of all accidents as a percentage 
of the total hours worked, increased due to affected
employees being absent from work for longer periods.
Despite this increase for the year as a whole, 
there was evidence in the second half of the 
year of an improving trend in this indicator.
Thorough investigations are carried out of all
accidents and near miss situations, to ensure that we
learn from these incidents and prevent recurrence.
Such information on safety matters is always shared
between the Group’s operating sites.
The Group has made significant progress in improving
its safety performance and is determined to reduce
accidents further and continually seek new ways to
achieve this. The Group places a strong emphasis
on communicating with our people about the
importance of safety at work. The range and quality 
of health & safety training provided to our employees
continually improves with focused training being
carried out at all levels and areas of the organisation.
Safety at work remains a top priority and its
importance is reflected in it being a key agenda item
at all Main Board, Management Board and Business
review meetings.
In 2007 the Group revised its Asbestos Control 
and Management Standard. This Standard provides 
a detailed framework to ensure that operating sites
comply with current asbestos legislation, codes of
practice and guidance notes. All sites have up to date
registers of asbestos containing materials and have
specified controls to ensure that such materials do 
not present harm to employees, contractors or 
visitors to sites. 
Workplace transport safety remains a target area 
for the Health & Safety Executive (HSE). In 2007
our operating sites carried out thorough reviews of
workplace transport arrangements with significant
improvements being made in a number of areas.
Improved pedestrian and vehicle separation, including 
the addition of new walkways and barriers, has created
safer work environments. 
Our site in Roeselare, Belgium was awarded the Highly
Protected Risk Award (HPR) by our property insurers,
FM Global. This award was in recognition of the site’s
ongoing commitment to Property Loss Prevention. 
A Highly Protected Risk is a facility at which there is a
very low exposure to loss. To achieve HPR, the site has
successfully removed all of the large exposures on the
site, and sustains a very high standard of safety
management control.
Roeselare Management Team, From left to right: 
Ian Saiz (FM Global); Simon Robertson (BPI); Peter De Craemer
(BPI); Michael Huyghe (BPI); Filip De Cock (BPI); Maria Ameye
(BPI); Vincent Vanderheyden ( FM Global); Dirk Deweer (BPI).
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 27 Our site at Stockton on Tees received a Silver Award
from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents
for achieving a high level of performance underpinned
by good management systems.
LTA frequency rate
Accidents/100,000 hours worked
Minor accident frequency rate
Minor accidents/100,000 hours worked
Severity rate
Number of days
In calculating the CO2 output/tonne of production 
we have used national average electricity CO2
emissions for each country in which we manufacture,
as provided by the International Energy Agency.
Although our average electricity usage/tonne
has reduced, the CO2 emissions increased as 
there was higher production in our plant in China,
where electricity CO2 emissions/tonne are much
higher than Europe. 
Our UK electricity supplier for 2006 and 2007 has
confirmed that its CO2 emissions for electricity supply
are substantially below the UK national average as 
it uses a mixture of nuclear and coal generation. 
This would suggest a reduction of 77% (2006: 77%) 
in the actual CO2 emissions associated with our UK
electricity use. This is not reflected in the above table
which is based on national averages. The adjusted 
CO2 output figure for 2007 would have been 
125 kgs/tonne (2006: 125).
Electricity usage/tonne of finished goods has
continued to reduce. There is an ongoing
improvement programme in place to purchase more
efficient equipment and fit energy saving devices,
especially motors, compressors and lighting schemes.
Energy audits have been undertaken at all of 
our UK sites to ensure efficient use of energy in
manufacturing, storage and administrative areas.
The audits will be extended to our non UK sites in 2008.
Thirteen of our UK sites, representing 88% of UK
electricity usage, are in Climate Change Agreements
with the Department for Environment Food and Rural
Affairs. In order to remain in the Agreement and secure
abatement of the Climate Change Levy they are under
an obligation to achieve agreed energy reductions.
Gas usage/tonne has reduced, despite the increased
need to incinerate Volatile Organic Compounds
(VOC’s) which are used in our printing processes
where water based inks are not technically viable.
The closure of a site using oil heating and a milder
winter accounts for the reductions in oil usage. One 
of our larger continental European sites continues to
use oil and accounts for 79% of group usage in 2007.
Water re-circulating systems are used extensively to
provide cooling water and in wash recycling systems.
A significant increase in our wash recycling capabilities
during the year has not increased our usage per tonne.
28 Report by Directors & Business Review
Corporate Social Responsibility Review
Lost time accidents – Accidents that cause employees 
to be unavailable for normal duties for more than three 
consecutive days.
2007 0.5
2006 0.4 
2005 0.8
2003 0.8
2004 0.9
Minor accidents – All reported minor injuries. 
Severity rate – Number of days lost as a result of
accidents/number of hours worked.
Three stage Multi-Life bags are used to carry home fresh
produce, collect food waste and are then 100% compostable
Energy
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
CO2 output (kgs/tonne) 304 303 306 308 309
Electricity (kWh/tonne) 675 677 682 682 681
Gas (kWh/tonne) 58.2 59.5 59.3 58.2 58.1
Oil (kWh/tonne) 4.3 5.6 5.8 5.3 5.6
Water (litres/tonne) 0.31 0.33 0.32 0.37 0.41
2007 0.013
2006 0.010
2005 0.019
2004 0.013
2007 7.8
2006 7.6
2005 8.2
2004 9.2
2003 8.7
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 28 Report by Directors & Business Review 29
Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions
In 2007 our largest sites advanced towards further
compliance with IPPC (Integrated Pollution Prevention
& Control of Emissions) in the handling and use of
solvents which is a major factor in VOC emissions.
There were thirteen compliant print sites with five sites
using VOC abatement (the process of changing these
potentially environmentally unfriendly substances
before controlled emission into the atmosphere)
techniques to comply. The remainder used water
based inks to achieve compliance.
VOC solvent purchases for our print sites were:
In July 2006 a regenerative oxidising unit was installed
at our largest site which reduced VOC emissions by
114 tonnes in the second half of 2006 and by 236
tonnes in 2007.
Whilst we remain dependent on solvent based 
inks for many of our current customers’ print
requirements, we will use water based product 
where the application allows.
Promopack, our pre-press operation, produces
photopolymer printing plates for our major flexo
printing locations. During 2007 we became the first
manufacturer in Europe, supplying printing plates to
wide width flexo printers, to eliminate completely the
use of solvent from our plate manufacturing process.
With the installation of DuPont FAST thermal plate
making, we have reduced fugitive emissions to zero,
eliminated the use of landfill for hazardous waste, 
and reduced electricity consumption by 75%. 
This represents a saving of 110,000 kwh per annum.
Environmental Policy
As a leading manufacturer and supplier of 
polythene film and other products we recognise 
our responsibility to operate with due concern for 
the environment in which we live and work and 
to minimise the impact of our activities on that
environment. Through close contact with national
governments and industry regulators we are at the
forefront of legislative developments. We continue 
to develop our processes and working practices to
meet, as a minimum standard, both our legal and
social obligations. We seek continually to improve 
our environmental performance by setting objectives
and targets combined with clear management
programmes and initiatives to minimise our impact 
on the environment. 
Specifically we are committed to:
– manufacture all of our products to meet the
relevant legislative standards in all the countries
and regions in which we operate
– minimise the use of resources and to work with our
customers to minimise their use of resources through
environmentally responsible packaging systems
– promote the re-use, recycling and recovery of our
materials and to assist in this recovery wherever it 
is practical and environmentally beneficial to do so 
– improve the environmental performance of our
processes by reducing emissions and energy use,
minimising waste and controlling noise
– be a responsible employer and a good neighbour
– provide suitable and unambiguous environmental
information for our employees, customers and the
local community 
– maintain leadership in the development of new
products and processes using recycled materials and
support initiatives which benefit the environment
The Group Environmental Director, Andrew Green, 
is a member of the Group Management Board and
reports to the Chief Executive. With the increasing
focus on environmental issues, and the enhanced
interest in packaging and recycling, it is important that
the Group has an experienced representative and
spokesman on these topics. Andrew is also on the
Board of Valpak, the UK‘s largest compliance scheme
for packaging waste regulations and is a member of
the UK Government Advisory Committee on Packaging.
Packaging and the Environment
There has been considerable media focus on
packaging and the environment in 2007 but there
is a danger that, without proper balanced information,
supposedly well intentioned choices can result in
more environmentally damaging consequences.
BPI supports packaging minimisation where it does
not result in increased product damage or spoilage,
thereby creating a more significant environmental
problem. Indeed, we have reduced the weight of our
packaging products on like for like volumes by over
6,000 tonnes in the last few years.
However, consumers need to recognise that
lightweight plastic packaging is there for a very good
reason, namely to protect and preserve the goods
they buy throughout the supply chain.
– In the developing world 30-50% of food is wasted
before it reaches the consumer due to lack of
packaging compared with 2% in the developed world
– A recent study by Environment Resources
Management has shown that 27% more fruit was
wasted from orchard to home when supplied loose
compared with fruit supplied in a shrink-wrapped tray
– A study by the Cucumber Growers’ Association has
shown that a 1.5 gram shrink-wrapping extends the
life of the cucumber from 3 to 14 days, yet most
consumers would think shrink-wrapping around
cucumbers was unnecessary
– Just under 25% of all plastic packaging is currently
recycled, the remainder represents 4.1% by weight
of the UK municipal waste stream.
Biodegradeable Plastics
BPI welcomes the recent advances made in the
technical characteristics of biopolymers
manufactured from renewable resources. However,
we caution that the most important and valuable
environmental credential of plastic films is their ability
to perform a packaging, industrial or agricultural
requirement using the most lightweight materials
available for the task. The integrity and resource
efficiency of this primary purpose of protection is of
far greater environmental impact than the speed at
which the plastic will eventually biodegrade. Above all,
our overriding commitment is to offer biodegradable
products to our customers only where we can
guarantee the integrity of our product.
Recycling and Packaging Waste Legislation
We are the UK’s largest recycler of polythene films
reprocessing over 70,000 tonnes in 2007. Since the
Packaging Waste Regulations were introduced in the
UK we have invested £18m in state of the art plastic
reprocessing equipment at our Environment Agency
and Scottish Environment Protection Agency
accredited sites. During 2007 we purchased an
additional farm and plastic recycling plant from the
administrators of a company in South Wales. This
acquisition complemented our existing farm plastic
recycling activities in Dumfries by increasing both our
volume as well as the range of farm plastics we can
now recycle. This will allow us to develop a second
farm plastic recycling facility at our Rhymney plant
thereby reducing the distance much of the farm
plastic waste will have to travel before being recycled.
During 2007 we made additional investments in our
Dumfries plant to uprate further its capacity to handle
highly contaminated farm plastics. 
In 2007 we continued to work with the Department
of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs via its Advisory
Group on Farm Plastics and the Business Resource
Efficiency and Waste Project Management Board to
support the introduction of farm plastic Producer
Responsibility legislation in the near future.
2007 2006 2005 2004 
Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes
Non-abated sites 28 144 287 335
Abated sites 1,810 1,703 1,550 1,539
Total 1,838 1,847 1,837 1,874
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 29 30 Report by Directors & Business Review
The Group’s packaging waste recovery and recycling
obligation for 2007 was 12,036 tonnes, an increase
of 1,116 tonnes from the previous year, due
predominantly to the increase in EU targets. 
We continue to discharge our obligations through
membership of the national compliance scheme
Valpak and satisfied our plastic recycling obligation
through our own recycling plants. Our cost of
compliance was broadly in line with 2006.
The Group limits the amount of material which goes 
to landfill by ensuring that virtually all scrap arising
from polymer used in the manufacturing process
is reprocessed or recycled within the Group.
Employment Policies
Our people continue to be central to the development
of the business. We strive to reach the highest
standards in all aspects of employment and health 
& safety policy and practice in our UK, mainland
European, Chinese and North American operations. 
Ethics
The Group has an ethical policy which sets out 
specific provisions to ensure that employees
dealwith the Company, its customers, suppliers 
and fellow employees in a fair manner with honesty 
and integrity, observing high standards of personal
and business ethics.
Recruitment & Retention 
We operate an equal opportunities policy and recruit
people for any vacancies regardless of sex, colour,
religion, age or disability. We recruit graduates 
from universities and young workers as modern
apprentices. We employ a large number of workers
over the age of 50 and have fully complied with age
discrimination legislation. We increased our normal
retirement age from age 60 to age 65 in 2006. 
Our retention rates have improved and have now
stabilised with employee turnover at 18% (21% in
2006). Our employee turnover tends to occur with
shorter serving employees in lower skilled jobs. 
We, therefore, consistently retain longer serving,
higher skilled employees and we will continue to
endeavour to improve our performance in this area 
in 2008 and beyond. The difficulty in recruiting and
retaining UK employees for certain positions has 
led to an increase in the employment of Eastern
European labour and we currently employ over 
120 Polish workers across many of our UK sites.
Disabled Employees 
Applications for employment by disabled persons are
always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes
of the applicant concerned. In the event of members
of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to
ensure that their employment with the Group
continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
Training & Development 
Our employees are among the most skilled in
the industry. We invest in a range of development
activities including NVQ’s and MBA’s, and support
other professional and technical training. Our capital
investment programme is supported by training in
the use of new machinery. Seven sites have achieved
the Investors in People award. Training in health 
& safety (in conjunction with the trade unions) is 
a particular Group strength. We increasingly appraise
our workforce annually in order to identify their
training needs. Members of the Group Personnel
Department regularly train our managers and
supervisors in a variety of employment matters to
ensure best practice people management. The Group
Health & Safety department also actively trains our
managers, supervisors and employees to maximise
their health and well being at work.
Attendance 
Our absenteeism rate for all Group sites is currently
3.2% (3.6% in 2006). This is a significant improvement
from an already favourable comparison with other
manufacturing business in the UK and mainland
Europe. We continue to train managers in
absenteeism management techniques and operate
attendance bonus schemes across many sites.
Communications 
We recognise trade unions across eleven sites in 
the Group for separate collective bargaining purposes
including two in North America. We provide
information, consult and negotiate with the trade
unions on a range of subjects including pay, hours
and holidays. We have Works Councils in mainland
Europe and at a number of our non unionised sites 
in the UK. We have local site Communication Forums
at some sites. Our Managing Directors and senior site
Directors also deliver regular business updates
directly to the workforce.
The Group’s Employee Information & Communication
Body (EICB) was established in 2005 and meets 
twice per year. The EICB brings together employee
representatives from across our UK business to
discuss business issues with senior Directors within the
Group including main Board members. This involves the
provision of information, consultation and discussions
with a view to reaching agreement regarding decisions
that are likely to lead to substantial changes in 
work organisation or in contractual relations prior 
to any action being taken. The annual European
Communication Forum (ECF) discusses trans-national
issues that may affect our employees in the UK,
Netherlands, Belgium and Ireland. Employees
regularly receive written communications 
explaining issues discussed at these meetings.
We have a ‘Whistle Blowing Policy’ in place which 
seeks to encourage employee participation in 
the identification of any wrong doing within the
organisation. We have a ‘Grievance Policy’ which
operates at all of our sites allowing employees to
communicate any employment dissatisfaction 
which they may have.
Corporate Social Responsibility Review
Blown extrusion line
Prestretched hand roll for wrapping pallets
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 30 Report by Directors & Business Review 31
Pay and Benefits 
Terms and conditions (including pay) are set at local 
site level. We have a range of benefits including
competitive pay rates, a number of bonus schemes
for employees at all levels and final salary and other
pension schemes with employer contributions and
a range of health care benefits. Senior employees’
pay and rewards are formally benchmarked against
market data. We voluntarily operate enhanced
maternity and paternity pay schemes and regularly
consider and agree requests for flexible working. 
We have introduced a childcare voucher scheme
to support employees who are working parents. 
China 
We have a highly committed and skilled workforce
which has worked to build this business over the past
twelve years. The same standards of health & safety,
fairness, equality and merit applied in our European
businesses are replicated in China. Senior UK Directors
are responsible for this business. We do not employ
child labour. Employees are recruited from the local
area, do not live at the work premises and return
home at the end of their shift. Rates of pay are
competitive for the region and are negotiated 
by elected representatives.
Education
We are active in supporting education, working
with schools, universities and other institutions.
We operate a range of activities from providing
advice and resources for teaching as well as
sponsorship of educational projects aimed at
increasing the awareness of plastics, packaging
and the environment. We continued to support
the Schools Starpack Design Awards and, in 2007,
offered a prize to the team who designed and
produced the most environmentally friendly
“Instant Picnic Pack”. We again partnered Valpak
in their prestigious European Youth Eco-Parliament
project which selected five pupils from Walton High
School in Milton Keynes to represent Great Britain in
debating environmental issues, with a particular focus
on managing waste and resources, at the Third Youth
Eco-Parliament in Prague in 2008. We also took part in
the Children Challenging Industry annual review which
is a joint venture between the University of York and 
the Chemical Industries Association. Its aim is to
enhance effective science teaching, create enthusiasm
for science in children and improve understanding
between schools and the chemical industry.
Charitable Support and Sponsorship
Charitable donations made during the year amounted
to £54,000 (2006: £54,000). No donations were given
for political purposes.
The Group supports national and international
charities involved in relieving suffering. We also
support a number of wildlife funds, ecological 
projects and other good causes. This support is in
both products donated and financial contributions.
Most of our businesses sent out electronic Christmas
cards, rather than traditional cards, and donated the
money saved to local charities. Unclaimed dividends
after a period of twelve years are donated to charity.
The Group encourages each site to donate a
percentage of its turnover to local charities and
many of our sites are regularly involved in fund-raising
for local charities. For instance, our Stockton site has, 
over many years, contributed to an endowment fund
administered by Tees Valley Community Foundation.
The value of the fund now exceeds £50,000 and makes
annual grants to support local organisations providing
help to disadvantaged groups in the local community.
We sponsor a number of bodies relevant to our
industry and our customers’ activities. In particular, 
we are regular sponsors of the Farmers Weekly
Awards, which recognise the achievements of 
British Farmers.
Starpack Design Awards
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 31 32 Report by Directors & Business Review
Financial Review
Results
The consolidated financial statements for the Group,
which are prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU,
are included on pages 43 to 70. The individual
accounts of the holding company, British Polythene
Industries PLC, continue to be prepared under UK
GAAP and are shown separately on pages 71 to 76.
Sales
Total sales increased by 2.4% to £424 million. 
This includes £6.5 million from AT Films which was
acquired during the year, so continuing sales were up
by only 0.8%. Volumes from continuing operations
were also marginally higher than the previous year,
with the UK down 1% and Europe up 8% mainly due
to growth in silage stretchwrap.
Operating Profit
Operating profit reduced to £13.9 million from 
£17.1 million. Operating profit before restructuring 
and other non-recurring costs was £14.6 million
compared to £17.1 million in 2006. This represented 
a 16% fall in operating profit per tonne to £46/tonne
from £55/tonne. In 2007, we faced polymer price rises
in nine out of twelve months with the annual increase
totalling £115/tonne to end the year close to a record
high price. Other input costs such as packaging and
freight also increased, driven by high energy and oil
prices. In an environment of patchy demand and over
capacity in a number of sectors, these cost increases
proved difficult to pass through completely to
customers and margins were inevitably squeezed. 
In order to mitigate the margin effect, we continued 
to reduce our fixed cost base, wherever possible.
At the beginning of 2007, we announced a
restructuring programme which would cost £1.5 million
and yield £2.0 million of annual savings, not all of which
would be achieved until 2008. This involved the
closure of the site at Scunthorpe and the
consolidation of parts of the Recycling business.
Further cost saving opportunities were identified
during the year and total restructuring costs of 
£2.0 million were incurred. These costs were offset
by £1.2 million profit on the sale of the Norwich site
which was closed in 2006.
We continued to take opportunities to reduce 
costs, wherever possible, across the entire business,
including taking advantage of natural wastage to
reduce employee numbers. The average headcount
reduced by 127 to 2,761 in the year.
In total, fixed costs on continuing activities, excluding
the acquisition of AT Films in Canada, reduced by over
£4 million compared to 2006. 
In early 2008, further restructuring was announced 
at our Stockton site. The total cost is expected to be
around £0.15 million and annual benefits, which will
not be fully realised until 2009, should be £1 million.
Financial Shared Service Centre
During 2006, we set up a Financial Shared Service
Centre at Greenock to centralise transaction
processing and financial accounting for our UK
businesses. The process of migration from existing
accounting centres was completed during 2007. 
This will result in process improvements and cost
savings of around £0.5 million per annum. During
2008 we intend to integrate our Irish and Canadian
businesses into the centre.
Acquisition
On 20 August 2007 we acquired the business and
certain assets of AT Films in Canada for a consideration
of £6.5 million including expenses. The major fair
value adjustment was to assign a value of £0.6 million
to a property lease which we entered into at less than
an economic rent. The fair value exercise resulted in
negative goodwill of £0.1 million which was credited
to operating profit.
Interest
Our net borrowing costs increased from £2.8 million
to £3.6 million due to higher interest rates, particularly
on the Euro where we have the majority of our
variable rate borrowings. We also had higher average
borrowings mainly due to our commitment to
increase pension fund contributions and the
acquisition of AT Films.
Taxation
The current year rate is 29% which is mainly the result
of a 30% charge in the UK, 34% in Belgium and 25.5%
in the Netherlands. The UK and Belgian rates are the
same as last year with the Dutch rate dropping from
29.6% in 2006. The current year tax rate is adjusted 
by a number of prior year items due to the settlement
of outstanding discussions with the relevant tax
authorities and adjustments made on filing of prior
period tax returns. This gives an overall tax rate of 26%
which is 2% lower than last year. The UK corporation
tax rate will drop to 28% from April 2008 and this has
been reflected through the deferred tax provision.
Earnings Per Share
Diluted earnings per share reduced by 16% to 32.36p.
Dividend
The proposed final ordinary dividend of 15p per 
share (2006: 15p) is to be paid on 9 May 2008 to
shareholders on the register at the close of business 
on 14 March 2008 making with the interim ordinary
dividend of 7p per share (2006: 7p) paid on 
21 November 2007 a total of 22p (2006: 22p) 
per share for the year. Dividend cover is 1.5 times.
Cash Flow & Borrowings
Cash generated from operations improved by 
£2.6 million to £22.0 million. The effect of the lower
operating result and a £2.0 million increase in pension
contributions was offset by a reduction in working
capital. Despite higher polymer prices, the value of
inventories fell due to considerable efforts to
minimise stock levels, wherever possible.
Capital expenditure, including computer software,
increased by £2.9 million to £15.4 million. 
This expenditure was offset by £2.2 million of
proceeds from the sale of surplus assets, mainly 
a vacant freehold property. The cash cost of the
acquisition of AT Films was £6.5 million.
Overall, net borrowings increased by £12.8 million 
to £64.8 million due to special pension contributions 
of £6 million and the acquisition of AT Films. 
Interest cover was 3.9 times and net debt to 
EBITDA was 2.5 times.
Anne Thorburn
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 32 Report by Directors & Business Review 33
Borrowing Facilities
Our borrowing facilities include a £32.5 million
revolving credit facility repayable in June 2010. 
We also have a ten year fixed rate private placement 
of £20 million repayable in July 2009. In addition,
short-term overdraft facilities of £26.5 million are
available from our main clearing banks and a further
£10 million is available on short-term arrangements
to fund our overseas businesses. We also have a 
£1 million leasing facility, bringing the total Group 
facility to £90 million. 
Treasury Policy
The Group has taken most of its sterling debt 
on a fixed basis while maintaining its Euro debt on 
a floating basis, in order to take advantage of lower
short-term Euro interest rates. £20 million of
borrowings were maintained on a fixed basis during
the year. Borrowings are maintained in currencies
other than sterling to provide a hedge against the net
asset position in overseas subsidiaries and short-term
trading assets and liabilities in subsidiary entities.
Derivative instruments are only used to facilitate this
hedging policy or to balance interest rate exposures
and, where significant, are approved at Board level.
The advent of a futures market for linear low density
polyethylene on the London Metal Exchange may,
eventually, provide the Group and its customers with
opportunities to reduce the effect of raw material
price volatility. The market commenced trading 
in May 2005, but liquidity has been low and the
correlation with physical transaction prices has 
been poor. The decision during 2007 to introduce
spot prices and launch new regional contracts has
not yet provided a significant increase in liquidity 
to enable a more effective hedging mechanism. 
Pension Fund
During 2006, we entered consultation with active
members of the Group defined benefit pension 
fund to modify future benefits in the scheme. 
From 1 January 2007, the accrual rate reduced
from 1/60ths to 1/80ths, unless employees chose to
increase their own contributions to maintain 1/60ths.
In addition, normal retirement age moved from 60 
to 65. These changes reduced the annual current
service cost by around £1 million. During 2007 we
entered consultation with a group of 98 members
who had enhanced benefits to bring them into line
with other active members and this became effective
from 1 October 2007.
The Group has committed to increase annual
contributions by £2 million and to make a special
contribution of £10 million, which will be spread over 
24 months to maximise tax efficiency. £3.5 million 
of the special contribution was paid in December
2006 and a further £3.0 million was paid in December
2007. Along with the £1 million per annum from the
reduction in current service cost, which we continue
to contribute to the fund, this represents an additional
£25 million of deficit reduction contributions over 
five years. In 2008, we expect to pay £4.3 million 
of regular contributions, including the increase
of £2 million, plus the final £3.5 million of the special
contribution giving a total of £7.8 million.
The deficit in the fund reduced from £33 million at 
31 December 2006 to £18 million at 31 December
2007. The main reasons for the reduction were:
During 2007 the pension scheme actuaries reviewed
the mortality assumptions and recommended that
they should be reduced by an average of two years.
Financial Risk Management
Disclosures in respect of Financial Risk Management
objectives and policies relative to financial risk are
included within the notes on pages 50 to 70.
Share Capital
The Company has only one class of Ordinary 
Shares as capital. The Company’s aim is to maintain 
a balance between issued share capital and other
forms of long-term finance. Details of the shares 
in issue and share movements during the year are 
set out in note 22. The ordinary shares carry no
right to fixed income, but holders are entitled to
receive dividends as declared from time to time
and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings
of the Company. All shares rank equally with regard
to the Company’s residual assets and there are no
restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s shares
During the period the Company complied fully with
the requirements that apply to the Company’s
shares as a consequence of these shares being 
listed on The London Stock Exchange.
All UK employees are entitled to acquire shares 
in the Company through the Save As Your Earn 
savings scheme. 
Issue and Buy-Back of Shares
The Directors have broad powers to act to promote
the success of the Company for the benefit of its
shareholders, however, there are specific powers 
in relation to issue and buy back of its own shares.
1. The Directors are generally and unconditionally
authorised to exercise all the powers of the
Company to allot securities up to 30% of the 
issued ordinary share capital. 
2. The Directors can allot shares for cash provided
that this power is limited to:
– the allotment of equity securities where such
securities have been offered (whether by way 
of a rights issue or open offer or otherwise) to 
the holders of ordinary shares of 25 pence in
proportion to their respective holdings and 
– otherwise, the allotment of equity securities 
up to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital
3. The Directors can make market purchases up to
14.9% of the issued share capital of ordinary shares.
This is subject to a minimum price of 25p and a
maximum by reference to the Company’s recent
share price. A maximum of 10% of the Company’s
issued share capital can be held as treasury shares
after such a buy back.
Each of the above authorities is renewed at each
Annual General Meeting or on the last date when 
by law the AGM must be held.
Policy on Payment of Suppliers
Terms and conditions are agreed with suppliers
before business takes place and the policy is to 
pay agreed invoices in accordance with the terms 
of payment. At the year end the amount owed to
trade creditors by the Group was equivalent to 
55 days (2006: 57 days) of purchases from suppliers.
The Group does not follow any code or standard on
payment practice but it is the Group’s policy to pay all
of its suppliers within 30 days of the end of the month
in which it receives the goods or services unless other
payment terms have been agreed.
Auditors
A resolution is to be proposed at the Annual General
Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as
auditors of the Company and for their remuneration
to be agreed by the Directors.
Statement as to Disclosure of Information to Auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval
of this Directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are
each aware, there is no relevant audit information of
which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and each
Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to
have taken as a Director to make himself/herself
aware of any audit information and to establish that
the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Substantial Shareholders
The Company has been notified of the following
interests representing 3% or more of the issued share
capital of the Company as at 3 March 2008.
Going Concern
After making enquires, the Directors have a reasonable
expectation that the Group has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements. 
Deficit at 31 December 2006 33
Surplus of contributions over current (6)
service cost
Higher than expected return from investments (4)
Reductions in liabilities due to improvement (11)
real yields
Reduced mortality assumption 7
Other factors (1)
Deficit at 31 December 2007 18
£m
No. of % of ordinary 
shares shares in issue
Aberforth Partners 4,489,350 16.9
Aberdeen Asset 2,371,608 9.0
Management
Legal & General 1,426,908 5.4
Investment Management
AXA Investment 1,368,685 5.2
Managers
Substantial shareholders
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 33 34 Report by Directors & Business Review
Cameron McLatchie CBE (61)+
Chairman
Cameron joined the Board in 1983 on the 
acquisition of Anaplast where he had been 
Chairman and Managing Director since 1975,
becoming Group Chairman and Chief Executive
in 1988. He relinquished the role of Chief Executive
in May 2003.
Hamish Grossart (51)*
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman
Hamish is currently Deputy Chairman of Cairn
Energy PLC, Chairman of Indigo Vision Group plc
and a Director of Artemis Investment Management
Limited. After a career in investment banking, he has,
over the last 20 years, held a range of executive
and non-executive board positions in listed
companies covering a wide variety of industries.
Past Chairmanships include: Royal Doulton PLC,
Eclipse Blinds plc, Scottish Highland Hotels PLC,
Hicking Pentecost PLC and EFT Group plc.
John Langlands CA (55)
Chief Executive
John joined the Group in 1995 as Group Finance
Director from Eclipse Blinds plc where he was also
Finance Director. He was previously Finance Director
at Scottish Enterprise and United Wire Limited.
Appointed Chief Operating Officer in May 2002
and Chief Executive in May 2003.
Lord Jamie Lindsay (52)*
Non-Executive Director 
Lord Lindsay joined the Board in March 2006 and 
is currently Chairman of the agricultural group SAC,
a Non-Executive Director of Scottish Resources Group
Limited, Chairman of UKAS (UK Accreditation Service)
and from 1998-2005 was a Non-Executive Director 
of the property company UA Group PLC. His career
has included senior appointments in the commercial,
environmental and government sectors, and
ministerial responsibilities for agriculture, food, 
the environment and sustainable development.
Anne Thorburn CA (47)
Group Finance Director
Anne joined BPI in 1996 and has had several senior
financial roles in the Group. She was previously Group
Finance Director of Clyde Blowers PLC and a Senior
Manager in KPMG Corporate Finance. 
Eric M Hagman CA CBE (61)*
Non-Executive Director 
Eric was previously a senior partner in Andersen 
UK before joining the Board in 2002. He is on the
Boards of Glen Group plc, The Royal College of Art 
and The Scottish American Investment Company plc. 
* Member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees.
+ Member of the Remuneration Commitee.
Advisers
AUDITORS
KPMG Audit Plc
191 West George Street
Glasgow G2 2LJ
BROKERS
Investec Banking
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
SOLICITORS
Maclay Murray & Spens
151 St Vincent Street
Glasgow G2 5NJ
CLEARING BANKS
Lloyds TSB Bank PLC
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Board of Directors & Advisers 
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 34 Report by Directors & Business Review 35
Throughout the year to 31 December 2007, 
the Group complied with the provisions of the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (June
2006) issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Board remains committed to the highest
standards of corporate governance and this
statement describes how the principles of the 
Code are applied and reports on the Group’s
compliance with the code’s provisions.
The Board
The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors
which meets six times per year. The Board’s main roles
are to create shareholder value, to provide leadership
to the Group, to approve the Group’s strategic
objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial
and other resources are made available to allow the
Group to meet those objectives. The Board has
adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for
its decision such as the approval of corporate strategy
plans, annual budgets and risk management strategy.
Major acquisitions and disposals, as well as major
capital expenditure, are authorised by the Board 
and are subsequently monitored by the Board after
execution. The Board also reviews the environmental,
health & safety performance of the Group.
The Board has delegated the following 
responsibilities to the Group Management Board:
the development and recommendation of strategic
plans for consideration by the Board that reflect the
longer-term objectives and priorities established 
by the Board; implementation of the strategies and
policies as determined by the Board; monitoring
operational and financial results against budgets;
prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and
human resources; ensuring that appropriate
management development and succession plans 
are in place; and developing and implementing risk
management systems.
The Group has in place appropriate insurance cover
for the Board members, in respect of any legal action
taken against them.
Changes to Board Composition During the Year
There were no changes to the Board’s composition
during the year.
The Responsibilities of the Chairman
and Chief Executive
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman
of the Board, Cameron McLatchie, and the Chief
Executive, John Langlands, is clearly defined and 
has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman provides guidance to the Group
Management Board in matters of strategy and leads 
the Board in the determination of its strategy and in 
the achievement of its objectives. The Chairman is
responsible for organising the business of the Board,
ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda. 
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution 
of Non-Executive Directors, manages the relationship
between executive and Non-Executive Directors, 
and ensures that Directors receive accurate, 
timely and clear information and that there is effective
communication with shareholders. The Chairman
continues to have an executive role in the strategy 
for polymer purchasing and authorisation of capital
expenditure proposals. 
The Chief Executive has direct charge of the Group on
a day to day basis and is accountable to the Board for its
financial and operational performance. He chairs the
Group Management Board and is also responsible for
Environmental Matters, Health & Safety and Human
Resources. He has a senior management team that
look after the day to day activities and report
directly to him.
The role of Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 
and Senior Independent Director is carried out 
by Hamish Grossart.
Directors and Directors’ Independence
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, 
the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and three
independent Non-Executive Directors. Biographical
details of each Director are shown on page 34. All of
the Directors served throughout the entire year under
review. The independent Non-Executive Directors
constructively challenge and help develop proposals 
on strategy and bring strong, independent, judgement,
knowledge and experience to the Board’s deliberations.
The independent Directors are of sufficient calibre and
number that their views carry significant weight in 
the Board’s decision making. The Board considers all 
of its Non-Executive Directors who served during the
year to be independent in character and judgement.
Professional Development
On joining the Board, Directors are provided 
with documentation on the Group and its activities. 
An induction programme and site visits are arranged 
to major business units and to meet with members 
of the Group Management Board and other key senior
executives. Throughout their period in office the
Directors are regularly updated on the Group’s business,
the competitive and regulatory environment and the
industry it operates in. Board Meetings are regularly
held at operational sites and tours are arranged to
ensure that the Board is kept up to date with the
latest operational developments.
Directors are also advised, on appointment, of their legal
and other duties and obligations as a Director of a listed
company, both in writing and in face to face meetings
with the Company Secretary. External training courses
are provided where necessary. They are reminded 
of these duties each year and are also updated on
changes to the legal and governance requirements
of the Group and themselves as Directors.
Performance Evaluation 
The Board has established a formal review process, 
led by the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the
performance of the Board, its principal Committees
and individual Directors. The Directors are made aware
that their performance will be subject to an annual
evaluation. The process includes specific references 
to the objectives of the Board and Committees and
each Board member participates in the process. 
The Chairman consolidates the feedback of the
Directors into a performance assessment summary 
for each individual Director and the Board
performance as a whole.
The Chairman shares and discusses the individual
performance summary for each Director with that
Director only and discusses the consolidated
performance review with the Board as a whole.
The Chairman meets annually with the Non-Executive
Directors to review performance and other matters.
The Deputy Chairman, who is also the Company’s Senior
Independent Director, sought the views of the Executive
Directors and met with each of the other Non-Executive
Directors, in the absence of the Chairman, to discuss and
assess the Chairman’s performance. 
Re-election of Directors
Directors appointed by the Board other than at 
an Annual General Meeting are required to retire 
at the following Annual General Meeting when 
they may offer themselves for election. Directors 
are thereafter required to seek re-election every
three years. The Chairman, who was previously Chief
Executive, has voluntarily decided to seek re-election
each year. Non-Executive Directors, subject to
satisfactory performance evaluation, are appointed 
for an initial period of three years. Before the third 
and sixth anniversary of the Non-Executive Director’s
first appointment, the Director discusses with the
Board whether it is appropriate for a further three
year term to be served. No Non-Executive Directors
have served for more than nine years.
For any new Non-Executive Director, terms and
conditions of appointment are made available 
for inspection at the Annual General Meeting 
and the Company’s registered office. 
Corporate Governance Report
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 35 36 Report by Directors & Business Review
Corporate Governance Report
The Company Secretary
The Board has access to the advice and services of 
a full-time experienced Company Secretary who is
responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman
on all governance matters. The Company’s Articles of
Association and the schedule of matters reserved to
the Board for decision provide that the appointment
and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter 
for the full Board.
Directors are also given access to independent
professional advice, at the Group’s expense, when 
the Directors deem it necessary in order for them 
to carry out their responsibilities. No such advice 
was sought in the year.
Articles of Association
Any proposed amendment to the Articles of
Association is subject to approval by the shareholders
in General Meeting.
Availability of Information
Executive management is responsible for providing 
the Board with all the information, of which it is aware, 
that is relevant to the discharge of the Board’s
responsibilities. The Board therefore expects to 
receive timely advice on all material information 
about the Company, its operating units, its 
activities, performance and its investment projects. 
The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary,
establishes the agenda for each Board meeting and the
necessary papers are distributed to Board members 
in advance of the meeting. Presentations on specific
subjects are sent to the Board in advance, so that 
Board meeting time is used for focused discussion.
Relations with Shareholders
In fulfilment of the Chairman’s obligations under 
the Combined Code, the Chairman gives feedback 
to the Board on issues raised with him by major
shareholders. Non-Executive Directors remain
available to meet with major institutional shareholders
if required. External analysts’ and brokers’ reports are
circulated to all Board members and, where
appropriate, formally discussed at Board meetings.
The Board seeks to encourage shareholders to attend
its Annual General Meeting. The Company uses the
Annual General Meeting to communicate with private
investors and to encourage their participation. 
They have the opportunity to put questions to
members of the Board on matters relating to the
Group’s operation and performance. All Directors 
are expected to be present and those who chair
Committees of the Board will be available to answer
any relevant questions. The level of proxy votes lodged
on each Resolution is indicated at the meeting and
also shown on the Group’s website at
www.bpipoly.com
Each year a programme of meetings with major
institutional investors takes place covering the principal
issues affecting the Group, its trading and its results. 
Internal Control
In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull
Committee the Board of Directors is responsible 
for the Group’s system of internal control; sets
appropriate policies on internal control; seeks regular
assurances that enable it to satisfy itself that the
system is functioning effectively; and ensure that
the system of internal control is effective in managing
risks in the manner which it has approved. The risk
management process and systems of internal control
are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk
of the Group failing to achieve its business objectives. 
It should be recognised that such systems can only
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors have continued to review the
effectiveness of the Group’s system of financial 
and non-financial controls. These reviews include 
an assessment of internal controls by the internal
audit function, risk assessments by the business
management and reports from the external auditors
on matters identified in the course of the statutory
audit. A key part of these reviews is a bi-annual risk
assessment process where responsible managers
confirm the adequacy of their systems of internal
financial and non-financial controls, their compliance
with Group policies (including health, safety and the
environment), local laws and industry regulations. 
This formal risk assessment process also identifies,
evaluates and confirms what actions are being
taken to mitigate any identified risks. All these 
risk assessments are reviewed bi-annually by 
the Board and Audit Committee. 
Board Committees
The number of Board meetings and Committee
meetings attended by each Director during the year
was as follows:
BoardNominationRemuneration Audit
MeetingsCommittee Committee Committee 
Meetings Meetings Meetings
Number of 
Meetings in year 6 1 2 3
C McLatchie 6 – 2 –
J T Langlands 6 – – –
A Thorburn 6 – – –
H M Grossart 5 1 2 1
E M Hagman 6 1 2 3
Lord Lindsay 6 1 2 3
A copy of the full terms of reference, for the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit
Committees are available on the Group’s website at www.bpipoly.com
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 36 Report by Directors & Business Review 37
Nomination Committee
The Board as a whole is responsible for the procedure
of agreeing the appointment of its own members, 
for nominating them for election by the shareholders
on first appointment and, thereafter, at three yearly
intervals. The Nominations Committee, comprising
the Non-Executive Directors, has the responsibility 
for making recommendations for new appointments
to the Board. Hamish Grossart, Non-Executive Deputy
Chairman and Senior Independent Director, chairs the
Committee and the other members are Eric Hagman
and Lord Lindsay. 
The Nominations Committee reviews the succession
planning and composition of the Board on an annual
basis and reports its conclusions to the Board for
further action. 
Remuneration Committee 
Hamish Grossart is Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee and the other members are, Cameron
McLatchie, Lord Lindsay and Eric Hagman.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for
advising the Board on the remuneration of Executive
Directors. The Committee’s principal responsibilities are:
– Setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board
for approval the Group’s overall remuneration policy.
– Setting, reviewing and approving individual
remuneration packages for Executive Directors
and the Chairman, including terms and conditions 
of employment. The Chairman absents himself
from the meeting when his remuneration package 
is being discussed.
– Reviewing the salary structure and terms,
conditions and benefits of employment of 
other senior Group executives.
– Approving the rules, and launch, of any Group share,
share option or cash based incentive scheme and
the grant, award, allocation or issue of shares, share
options or payments under any such scheme.
In addition, the Committee regularly reviews the
Group’s remuneration policy relative to its competitors
and industry norms.
The Chairman of the Committee is available to answer
questions at the Annual General Meeting. 
The Audit Committee 
The Company has an Audit Committee comprising
the Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by 
Eric Hagman. The Committee meets three times 
a year and has written terms of reference that
outline its authority and duties.
The Committee:
– Monitors the integrity of the financial statements 
of the Group;
– Reviews the Group’s internal financial control 
and risk management systems;
– Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the
Group’s internal audit function; and
– Oversees the Group’s relationship with the 
external auditor.
Should the Committee’s monitoring and review
activities reveal any material cause for concern or
scope for improvement, it will make recommendations
to the Board on action needed to address the issue 
or make improvements.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the
Committee and the minutes of the Committee are
circulated to all Board members. The Finance Director
attends the meetings by invitation. The Chairman 
and Chief Executive also attend, if required to do so, 
by the Committee. A senior representative from 
each of the internal and external auditors also 
attends the meeting. The Committee discharges 
its responsibilities by:
– Reviewing the external and internal audit work plans.
– Receiving and reviewing half yearly risk
management reports and risk tables. Business and
Group management operate a risk management
process which identifies the key risks facing each
business and the Group and reports as to how
those risks are being managed. This is based on
business and Group risk tables identifying the key
risks, the probability of those risks occurring, the
estimated potential impact if they do occur and 
the actions being taken to manage those risks.
– Receiving and considering reports from management
and internal audit on the system of internal control
and any significant control weaknesses. The Audit
Committee also receives reports from the external
auditors who consider controls only to the extent
necessary to form an opinion as to the truth and
fairness of the financial statements.
– Discussing with management the actions taken 
on control weaknesses identified in internal and
external audit reports.
– Receiving and reviewing the annual Combined
Code internal control report prepared by internal
audit. This is based on a combination of risk
management reporting and the completion by
each business of key control questionnaires which
confirm the extent to which the business complies
with the Group control procedures. Each business
Managing Director and Finance Director is required
to sign a declaration confirming that they have
reviewed the business risk table and control
questionnaires and confirming compliance with
statutory obligations.
– Reviewing the Group’s draft interim, preliminary and
final financial statements prior to Board approval
and considering any significant financial reporting
judgements contained in the financial statements 
to ensure that the integrity of these statements 
are maintained. The Committee also reviews the
external auditor’s reports thereon. 
– Considering the appropriateness of the Group’s
accounting policies.
– Reviewing the performance of the Group’s internal
and external auditors and making appropriate
recommendations to the Board relating to their
reappointment and remuneration.
The external and internal auditors are given the
opportunity each year to speak confidentially 
to the Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee also monitors the Group’s
whistle blowing procedures, ensuring that appropriate
procedures are in place to allow employees to raise
matters of possible impropriety in confidence.
Auditors’ Independence and Objectivity
The Audit Committee monitors regularly the 
non-audit services being provided by the external
auditors to ensure their independence. There are
services which the external auditors are precluded
from undertaking, including the provision of internal
audit services, as well as services they are permitted to
provide, but which require the specific approval of the
Audit Committee. This occurs where non-audit work
per project is in excess of £50,000 or £100,000 in
aggregate in any one year and within these parameters
certain services are delegated to the executive
Directors to approve. Any activities that may be
perceived to be in conflict with the role of external
auditor must be submitted to the Committee for
approval prior to engagement.
Details of the amount paid to the external auditors
during the year for audit and other services are set out
in the notes to the financial statements on page 54.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 37 38 Report by Directors & Business Review
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Policy on Directors’ Remuneration
The remuneration policy is set by the Board and is
described below. Individual remuneration packages
for Executive Directors are determined by the
Remuneration Committee within the framework 
of this policy and approved by the Board. 
The remuneration of all Non-Executive Directors is
determined by the Executive Directors and approved
by the Board.
General Information
The names of the Directors who have served on the
Remuneration Committee during the year are as follows:
– Hamish M Grossart – Chairman
– Cameron McLatchie
– Eric M Hagman 
– Lord Lindsay 
Cameron McLatchie absents himself when his
remuneration is discussed.
The Remuneration Committee has previously taken
advice from the Monks Partnership on structuring
Directors’ remuneration packages. Monks Partnership
does not provide any other services to the Company.
General Policy
The Company’s policy on Directors’ remuneration 
is designed to attract, retain and motivate high- 
calibre individuals, to reward Directors fairly for their
contributions, whilst remaining within the range of
benefits offered by similar companies in the sector. 
The Remuneration Committee seeks to structure 
total benefit packages which align the interests of
shareholders and Senior Executives. Directors’
remuneration will be the subject of regular review, 
in accordance with this policy in the next and 
following financial years.
The Remuneration Committee has established 
a number of performance related elements of the
executive remuneration packages. These consist
of an annual Executive Bonus calculated as 
a percentage of basic salary. The Executive Bonus 
is limited to 80% of basic salary. In addition, there 
is a Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) which grants 
annual awards of shares to an upper limit of 100% 
of basic salary and is dependent upon performance
conditions measured over a three year period. 
The LTIP replaced the previous Share Option Scheme
and the Restricted Share Plan. It is considered that the
non-performance and performance elements of the
Directors’ packages are equally important.
Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”)
Participants are granted awards of shares, 
the vesting of which will be dependent upon
performance conditions measured over a period 
of three years. There is an individual upper limit 
on each award of 100% of basic salary per annum. 
The Remuneration Committee decided that one
half of each award is subject to an Earnings Per Share
(“EPS”) performance condition and the remaining half
is subject to a Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”)
performance condition comparing the Company’s
TSR with that of the companies comprising the FTSE
Support Services Sector. The Company shares are no
longer included in the FTSE Support Services Sector,
and therefore, in order to monitor the performance
conditions in connection with the 2005 awards the
performance of the companies that comprised this
index will continue to be tracked. From 2006, awards
are based on the FTSE Small Cap Industrials Index.
In respect of the proportion of any TSR linked 
award, no vesting will occur for ranking below median. 
At the median 10% of the award will vest with the full
50% vesting for a ranking at or above the upper
quartile. Vesting occurs on a sliding scale between
these two points. No awards will vest unless the
remuneration committee is satisfied that there has
been a satisfactory and sustained improvement in the
underlying financial position and performance over
the performance period.
The EPS linked proportion of any award will vest in 
full if the Company’s EPS growth is at least the Retail
Price Index (“the RPI”) plus 10% per annum over the
performance period; no shares will vest if EPS growth
is not at least RPI plus 3% per annum. For performance
between these two points, vesting will occur on 
a sliding scale. The Remuneration Committee is
satisfied that these conditions are challenging and
that the full award will only vest if exceptional
performance has been achieved.
In conjunction with the introduction of the LTIP 
the Remuneration Committee has adopted a formal
shareholding guideline, which requires Executive
Directors to acquire and retain a beneficial share
holding with a value equal to 100% of one year’s 
basic annual salary over a five year period.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 38 Report by Directors & Business Review 39
Name Date of contract Notice period Date term due to expire
C McLatchie 30 August 2007 12 months N/A
J T Langlands 17 July 1995 12 months N/A
A Thorburn 25 February 2004 12 months N/A
H Grossart 12 May 2005 N/A AGM 2008 
E M Hagman 11 May 2006 N/A AGM 2009
J Lindsay 11 May 2006 N/A AGM 2009
Directors’ Service Contracts
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
260
240
220
200
180
160
140
120
100
80
5 Year Total Shareholder Return 
Performance Graph
The graph below shows a comparison of the total shareholder return performance for the Company’s shares 
for each of the last five financial years, against the total shareholder return for the companies comprised in the
Small Cap Ex Investment Trusts Index. The index selected is considered to be the most appropriate for 
the Company’s market capitalisation and industry sector. LTIP awards are based on the performance of 
the FTSE Small Cap Industrials. This index did not start until the end of 2003 and, therefore a five year record 
is not available.
British Polythene Industries PLC – Total Return
FTSE Small Cap EX INV TRUSTS – Total Return Index
Service Contracts
The Company’s policy on the duration of Director’s contracts is that:
– Executive Directors should have rolling service contracts terminable on no more than one year’s notice
served by the Company or the Director; and
– Non-Executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms of three years, renewable on the agreement of both 
the Company and the Director.
The policy on termination payments is that the Company does not normally make payments beyond 
its contractual obligations including any payment in respect of notice to which a Director is entitled after
mitigation is considered. In exceptional circumstances an additional ex gratia payment may be considered,
based on factors including the Directors’ past contribution and the circumstances of the Director’s departure.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 39 40 Report by Directors & Business Review
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Emoluments and Compensation
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the remainder of this Directors’
Remuneration Report.
The emoluments in connection with qualifying services and compensation of each person who served 
as a Director during the year were as follows:
Salary/ Benefits Supplementary Executive Employee profit Total Total
Fees £000 allowance bonus sharing scheme 2007 2006
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executives
C McLatchie 270 2 – – 1 273 263
J T Langlands 305 14 – – 3 322 341
A Thorburn 172 10 12 – 2 196 202
Non-Executives
H Grossart 60 – – – – 60 60
E M Hagman 38 – – – – 38 35
Lord Lindsay 
(appointed 20 March 2006) 33 – – – – 33 23
Former Directors
J Houston (retired 11 May 2006) – – – – – – 11
Prof N Hood (died 2 Feb 2006) – – – – – – 3
Total 2007 878 26 12 – 6 922 –
Total 2006 787 34 47 61 9 938
Benefits receivable by Executive Directors consists of car buy out allowance and healthcare insurance.
J T Langlands left the British Polythene Pension Scheme on 31 December 2006 and his salary was increased 
by £45,000, to reflect the reduction in benefits. He is now paid a pension contribution of 20% of his salary.
The supplementary allowance payable to A Thorburn is in compensation for the restriction imposed by the
Pensions Earnings Cap on her prospective pension entitlement. The earnings cap was discontinued in April
2006, but the Remuneration Committee has decided to continue with a similar cap in order not to add to the
past service liabilities of the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme.
Directors’ Share Incentives
The following table sets out details of savings related share options held by each Director during the year:
The mid-market closing share price of the Company’s 25p Ordinary Shares ranged from 236p to 535p during
the year and on 31 December 2007 was 256p (2006: 450p).
Number of options Number of options Exercise price Date from which Expiry date
as at 1 Jan 2007 as at 31 Dec 2007 exerciseable
C McLatchie 4,432 4,432 369.45p 1 Dec 2011 31 May 2012
JT Langlands 2,557 2,557 369.45p 1 Dec 2009 31 May 2010
A Thorburn 4,432 4,432 369.45p 1 Dec 2011 31 May 2010
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 40 Restricted Share Plan
The Executive Directors participated, along with other key executives in the Group, in a Restricted Share Plan,
which was approved by shareholders at the 1996 Annual General Meeting. The amount that Executives could
invest was restricted to 30% of their base salary. If the net of tax executive bonus was invested in shares of 
the Company, and retained, the Company would match these shares on a one-for-one basis after three, five and
seven years. Following the introduction of an Executive Share Option Plan in 2003, there was only one matching 
of shares after three years from 2003 onwards. As a result of the introduction of the LTIP in 2005 no further
awards will be made under the Restricted Share Plan.
The following awards have been made under the 1996 Restricted Share Plan. 
*Date of the preliminary announcement of the full year results for year ending on the previous 31 December
The following shares were vested during the year in connection with the 1996 Restricted Share Plan.
Report by Directors & Business Review 41
C McLatchie J T Langlands A Thorburn Total
2001 Bonus
Vesting date 2009 * 4,404 2,995 – 7,399
Total 2007 4,404 2,995 – 7,399
Total 2006 14,775 20,612 8,236 43,623
Year Date Shares vested Mid-Market Value of 
share price shares vested
C McLatchie 1999 5 March 2007 5,967 489p £29,179
2001 5 March 2007 4,404 489p £21,536
J T Langlands 1999 5 March 2007 4,150 489p £20,294
2001 5 March 2007 2,995 489p £14,646
2003 5 March 2007 10,472 489p £51,208
A Thorburn 2001 5 March 2007 1,444 489p £7,061
2003 5 March 2007 6,792 489p £33,213
Awards Granted Awards Date of Market value
1 Jan 2007 in year 31 Dec 2007 vesting on date of grant
JT Langlands 50,000 – 50,000 Mar 2008* 369p
25,000 – 25,000 Mar 2009 689p
– 40,000 40,000 Mar 2010 499p
75,000 40,000 115,000
A Thorburn 30,000 – 30,000 Mar 2008* 369p
15,000 – 15,000 Mar 2009 689p
– 25,000 25,000 Mar 2010 499p
45,000 25,000 70,000
Long Term Incentive Plan
Shareholders approved a Long Term Incentive Plan at the 2005 Annual General Meeting. The following awards
were granted and remain outstanding at 31 December 2007.
* The awards granted in 2005, due to vest in 2008, will lapse in 2008 due to the performance criteria not being achieved.
The number of awards shown is subject to achieving the performance conditions referred to on page 38 under
both the earnings per share and total shareholder return awards. The figures shown are maximum entitlements
and the actual number of shares (if any) will depend on the performance conditions being achieved. 
Awards take the form of nil cost options and have no performance retesting facility. No shares have vested 
as at 31 December 2007. Subject to the performance conditions being achieved any shares will vest on the day 
of the preliminary announcement of the full year results for the year ended 31 December 2007, 31 December
2008 and 31 December 2009.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 41 42 Report by Directors & Business Review
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Pension Arrangements
A Thorburn is an active member of the British Polythene Pension Scheme and J T Langlands, who left the
Scheme on 31 December 2006, is a deferred member. Their dependants are eligible for dependants’ pensions
and the payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service. Final pensionable earnings, excluding bonuses
and Employee Profit Share Scheme payments, are used to determine the Director’s pension entitlement and 
are subject to an earnings cap. Life assurance cover is provided at four times annual salary.
The pension entitlements earned by the Directors during the year calculated in accordance with the
requirements of the UK Listing Authority listing rules and the Companies Act 1985 as provided by our
consulting actuaries and confirmed by them were as follows.
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors between 31 December 2007 and 3 March 2008.
Approval by Shareholders
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 8 May 2008, a resolution approving this report 
is to be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
This report was approved by the Board on 29 February 2008 and signed on its behalf by 
Hamish Grossart
Deputy Chairman
3 March 2008
As at 25 March 2008 the Directors’ interests where there have been changes after 3 March 2008 were:
C McLatchie Beneficial 362,285
Increase Total Transfer Transfer Transfer Net change
in accrued accrued value of value of value of in transfer
pension pension net increase accrued accrued value during
during entitlement over year pension at pension at year (net of
year net at 31 Dec (net of member 31 Dec 2006 31 Dec 2007 member
of inflation 2007 contributions) contributions)
£ p.a. £ p.a. £ £ £ £
A Thorburn 1,840 22,250 7,000 206,000 258,800 40,500
J T Langlands – 46,160 – 669,400 752,400 83,000
31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2006
Ordinary Ordinary
C McLatchie Beneficial 312,285 301,914
Non Beneficial 83,150 83,150
H Grossart – – –
E M Hagman Beneficial 10,000 13,000
Lord Lindsay Beneficial 11,500 6,500
J T Langlands Beneficial 114,001 83,241
A Thorburn Beneficial 64,645
46,409
The pension entitlements shown above are the amounts which would be paid annually from retirement age
based on service to the end of the year 2007. The increase in accrued pension during the year excludes any
increase for inflation.
Transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance
Note GN11. 
Although Mr C McLatchie has no pension entitlement remaining in the Scheme, life assurance cover is provided
for him under the Scheme at a cost of £1,600.
A Thorburn
Member contributions of 11% of pensionable salary are offset in calculating the values shown in columns headed
“Transfer value of net increase over year” and “Net change in transfer value during year”.
J T Langlands
The 2006 disclosure assumed that J T Langlands would remain an active member until age 60 and it was
anticipated that his retained benefits would have an impact on his Scheme benefits giving him a deferred pension
of £41,570 per annum. When he left the Scheme on 31 December 2006 his retained benefits no longer needed
to be taken into account which means his benefit at 31 December 2006 was restated to £44,345 per annum. 
He has had no pension accrual during the year but he was provided with life assurance cover at a cost of £12,500.
The Company contributed £61,000 (2006: £Nil) to J T Langlands’ personal pension arrangements.
Directors’ Shareholdings
The Directors who served during the year, together with details of all of their interests in the ordinary share capital 
of the Company are listed below:
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 42 Financial Statements
Financial Statements 43
Contents
44 Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities
45 Independent Auditors’ Report
46 Five Year Record
47 Consolidated Income Statement
47 Consolidated Statement of 
Recognised Income and Expense
48 Consolidated Balance Sheet
49 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
50 Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements
71 UK GAAP Parent Company 
Balance Sheet
72 Notes to the UK GAAP Parent 
Company Financial Statements
77 Information for Shareholders
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 43 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
In respect of the annual report and the financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they are required to prepare the
Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in
accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the performance of the Group; the Companies
Act 1 985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references 
to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to:
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
– make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
– for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
– for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the parent company financial statements; and
– prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company 
and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1 985. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance
Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
44 Statement of Director’s Responsibilities
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 44 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of British Polythene Industries PLC
We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements (the “financial statements”) of British Polythene Industries PLC for the year ended 31 December
2007 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated and parent company
Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes. These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set 
out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1 985. Our audit work has been undertaken so that
we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted
by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the
opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable
law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on page 44.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory
requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1 985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require
for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review
by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the board’s statements on internal control cover
all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements. We consider the implications for our
report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of Audit Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination,
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence 
to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
– the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 3 1December 2007
and of its profit for the year then ended;
– the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1 985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation;
– the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent 
Company’s affairs as at 3 1December 2007;
– the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 1 985; and
– the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants 
Registered Auditor
1 9 1West George Street
Glasgow
G2 2LJ
3 March 2008
Independent Auditor’s Report 45
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 45 Five Year Record
46 Financial Statements
IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Income Statement Extracts
Turnover 424.1 414.2 410.2 359.4 350.7 
Operating profit before all restructuring costs 14.6 17.1 23.3 13.7 17.8 
Profit before tax 11.5 14.0 19.7 11.0 11.4 
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 32.36 38.46 54.28 31.50 29.36 
Dividend per ordinary share 22.00 22.00 21.00 21.00 21.00 
Balance Sheet Extracts
Fixed assets 84.7 79.5 81.3 82.1 84.7 
Inventories 62.1 59.5 55.3 58.4 49.2 
Trade and other receivables 64.0 60.5 63.2 61.9 50.0 
Trade and other payables (62.9) (61.1) (65.6) (68.8) (60.4) 
Capital employed 147 .9 138.4 134.2 133.6 123.5 
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 62.2 54.2 37.0 36.0 62.0 
Minority interests 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 
Net debt 64.8 52.0 47.1 56.7 48.3 
Retirement and other employee benefits 19.1 34.7 56.0 44.7 – 
Dividends – – – – 3.6 
Taxation 1.6 (2.7) (6.1) (3.9) 9.5 
147 .9 138.4 134.2 133.6 123.5 
The main adjustment required to make the UK GAAP comparatives for 2003 comply with IFRS relates to the recognition of the retirement and other employee 
benefit obligations.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 46 Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Financial Statements 47
2007 2006
Notes £’m £’m
Turnover 2, 3 424.1 414.2
Profit from operations 2, 3 13.9 17.1
Borrowing costs 5 (3.6) (2.8)
Net retirement benefit income/(financing) 5 1.2 (0.3)
Net financing costs (2.4) (3.1)
Profit before tax 11.5 14.0
Tax 6 (3.0) (3.9)
Profit for the year 8.5 10.1
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 25 8.5 10.1
Earnings per share
Basic 8 32.41p 38.79p
Diluted 8 32.36p 38.46p
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
for the year ended 31 December 2007
2007 2006
£’m £’m 
Profit for the year 8.5 10.1 
Cash flow hedges: effective portion of net changes in fair value (0.3) (0.3) 
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension scheme 8.4 17.4 
Tax on items taken directly to equity (3.0) (5.2) 
Movement on translation of overseas undertakings and related borrowings 0.3 (0.2) 
Net income recognised directly in equity 5.4 11.7 
Total recognised income and expense for the year 13.9 21.8 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 13.9 21.8
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 47 Consolidated Balance Sheet
at 31 December 2007
48 Financial Statements
2007 2006
Notes £’m £’m
Non-current assets
Goodwill 9 0.3 0.3
Other intangible assets 10 1.8 1.8
Property, plant and equipment 11 82.5 77.3
Investments 12 0.1 0.1
Deferred tax assets 20 1.9 5.9
86.6 85.4
Current assets
Inventories 14 62.1 59.5
Trade and other receivables 15 64.0 60.5
Current tax assets 19 1.1 –
Cash at bank 16 0.6 0.5
127 .8 120.5
Current liabilities
Bank overdraft 16 16.8 6.4
Other loans and borrowings 16 1.1 1.0
Trade and other payables 18 62.1 60.2
Current tax liabilities 19 1.4 0.7
81.4 68.3
Net current assets 46.4 52.2
Total assets less current liabilities 133.0 137.6
Non-current liabilities
Other loans and borrowings 16 47 .5 45.1
Retirement and employee benefit obligations 31 19.1 34.7
Deferred tax liabilities 20 3.2 2.5
Deferred government grants 21 0.8 0.9
70.6 83.2
Net assets 62.4 54.4
Equity
Issued share capital 22 6.6 6.6
Share premium account 23 25.1 25.0
Other reserves 24 7.4 7.4
Retained earnings 25 23.1 15.2
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 62.2 54.2
Minority interests 27 0.2 0.2
Total equity 62.4 54.4
The Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2008 and signed on its behalf by
C. McLatchie, Chairman                                                                             A. Thorburn, Finance Director
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 48 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2007
Financial Statements 49
2007 2006
Notes £’m £’m
Profit from operations 13.9 17.1
Amortisation of intangible assets 10 0.6 0.4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11 12.1 12.3
Negative goodwill recognised in the income statement (0.1) –
IFRS 2 charge in relation to equity settled transactions 0.1 0.3
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (1.4) (0.6)
Adjustment relating to pensions (6.0) (4.0)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 19.2 25.5
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 3.3 (4.5)
Decrease in trade and other receivables 0.4 2.1
Decrease in trade and other payables (0.9) (3.7)
Movements in working capital 2.8 (6.1)
Cash generated from operations 22.0 19.4
Interest paid (3.6) (2.8)
Income taxes paid (2.2) (5.6)
Net cash from operating activities 16.2 11.0
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (15.4) (12.0)
Purchase of intangible assets – (0.5)
Purchase of business (6.5) –
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2.2 0.9
Net cash used in investing activities (19.7) (11.6)
Net cash flows before financing (3.5) (0.6)
Financing activities
Dividends paid 7 (5.8) (5.7)
Net increase in bank loans 1.3 5.4
Repayment of obligations under finance leases (1.0) (1.0)
Repurchase of ordinary shares (0.3) (0.5)
Proceeds from the issue of share capital 0.1 1.3
Net cash used in financing activities (5.7) (0.5)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (9.2) (1.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year (5.9) (4.9)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (1.1) 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (16.2) (5.9)
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 49 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007
50 Financial Statements
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
British Polythene Industries PLC (the “Company”) is a Company domiciled and incorporated in the United Kingdom. The consolidated annual financial statements 
(the “financial statements”) of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2007 incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries 
(together referred to as the “Group”).
Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (“adopted IFRSs”). 
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP. These are presented on pages 71 to 76.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Basis of preparation 
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments and the assets and liabilities of the defined benefit pension
scheme which are stated at their fair value.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies
of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the
effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries acquired to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. 
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minority’s proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised. Subsequently, any losses applicable 
to the minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
Turnover recognition
Turnover from the sale of goods and services is measured at the fair value of the consideration, net of rebates, trade discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. 
Turnover from the sale of goods and services is recognised when the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods and services 
to the buyer, the amount of turnover can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group. 
Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases when, on inception of the lease, the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group. 
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, 
each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments 
are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly through the income statement as borrowing costs. 
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date,
monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and
liabilities carried at historical cost that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the historical cost was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in income and expense for the period.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity, 
are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period. 
Exchange differences arising are recognised directly in the Group’s translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in 
the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Government grants
Government grants on capital expenditure are released through cost of sales over the expected useful lives of the relevant assets or the qualifying period if shorter. 
Grants of a revenue nature are credited to the consolidated income statement in the period in which the costs are incurred.
Retirement benefit obligations 
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit 
schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Group’s obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined
contribution retirement benefit scheme.
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits in respect of each plan is determined in an annual actuarial report using the 
Projected Unit Credit Method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. They are recognised outside the income statement 
and presented in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense in accordance with IAS 19.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents an actuarial assessment of the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. 
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 50 Financial Statements 51
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the current taxes payable and deferred tax.
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items 
of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current 
tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against 
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal 
of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits 
will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised using tax rates that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly 
to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Goodwill
Goodwill has been recognised on acquisitions of subsidiaries and represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and the Group’s interest in the fair value 
of the identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
The carrying amount is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment. Any impairment is recognised immediately in income or expense 
and is not subsequently reversed.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP. 
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 was not reconsidered in preparing the Group’s opening 
IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004. 
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill written 
off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 which has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the consolidated income statement as a credit to profit from operations.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation begins when an asset is available 
for use and is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate the cost of assets over their estimated useful lives as follows:
Computer software 4 - 5 years
Customer lists 3 - 10 years
Other intangible assets 5 years
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value at acquisition date. The cost of separately acquired intangible assets, 
including computer software, comprises the purchase cost and any directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for use. Computer software costs 
that are directly associated with the implementation of major business systems are capitalised as intangible assets. 
Other intangible assets currently comprise a property lease obtained on favourable terms on the acquisition of AT Films Inc.
Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment. 
Land is not depreciated. The estimated useful lives are as follows:
Freehold buildings 20 - 50 years
Leasehold buildings 10 - 40 years
Plant and equipment 4 - 10 years
Residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually. 
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term 
of the relevant lease.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets 
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible assets and intangible assets with definite useful lives to determine whether there is 
any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine 
the extent of the impairment loss. Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount 
of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and goodwill are tested for impairment annually and whenever there 
is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 51 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007
52 Financial Statements
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present 
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. 
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses in respect of assets other than goodwill, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its
recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been
recognised for the asset in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that 
have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs 
of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost less an allowance for irrecoverable amounts. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand 
and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are stated at amortised cost. 
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow 
of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at 
a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Interest
Interest is recognised in income or expense using the effective interest method. Financing fees are set against borrowings and are written off in future accounting periods.
Earnings per share
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) data for ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary
shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is determined by dividing the profit or loss attributable 
to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of shares outstanding adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Financial instruments
The Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital address the exposure to credit risk, 
liquidity risk and market risk from the use of financial instruments. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy 
of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Group’s treasury policy. Hedges are classified as follows:
– Fair value hedges that hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
– Cash flow hedges that hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or 
liability or a forecast transaction.
– Net investment hedges that hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Group’s interests in the net assets of foreign operations.
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the consolidated income statement. Any gain or loss on the
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the consolidated income statement.
For cash flow hedges and net investment hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge, as defined 
by IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”, is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When hedged cash flows result in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in the
initial measurement of the asset or liability. For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the consolidated income
statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the consolidated income statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When a hedging instrument is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected 
to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged
transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement. 
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 52 Financial Statements 53
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Share-based payments
The fair value of equity settled employee share options granted is calculated at grant date and the resulting cost is charged to the income statement over the vesting
period of the options with a corresponding increase in equity. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting. Failures to vest 
as a result of market conditions are not reversed.
Treasury shares
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from revenue reserves. 
Key accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies 
and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other
factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Areas requiring the Directors to make judgements, estimates 
and assumptions are highlighted in these accounting policies and throughout the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Key estimation and judgement areas
are as follows:
– Property, plant and equipment
Depreciation rates are regularly reviewed to ensure that they reflect accurately useful lives and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis in line with market conditions.
– Trade and other receivables
The recoverability of trade and other receivables are kept under constant review and provision is made where appropriate in line with disclosures in note 15.
– Trade and other payables
Where the amount payable in respect of any liability is uncertain the amount provided in the accounts is based on the best estimate available at the time.
– Defined benefit pension plans
A qualified independent actuary undertakes the estimation of the present value of the Group’s obligations under defined benefit pension schemes using 
assumptions taken from a range of possible actuarial assumptions. These assumptions may not be borne out in practice, especially due to the long timescales involved.
Details of assumptions employed to determine the liability at 31 December 2007 are set out in note 31. The valuation of scheme assets is based on the fair value 
at the balance sheet date. As these assets are not intended to be sold in the short-term, their value may change significantly prior to realisation. 
– Taxation
The Group is subject to income taxes in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant judgements are required in determining the consolidated provision for 
income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, 
the Group recognises tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. The amount of such liabilities is based on
an assessment of various factors, such as experience of previous tax audits and differing interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions
and involves a series of complex judgements about future events. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts recognised,
such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
Standards and interpretations not yet applied
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2007 and have not been applied 
in preparing these financial statements.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: A revised presentation (effective year ending 31 December 2009) will require the Group to present a statement 
of comprehensive income and may require additional disclosures around changes in equity.
IAS 23 (Revised) Borrowing Costs (effective year ending 31 December 2009) removes the previously available option to expense all borrowing costs when incurred. 
It is not expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
IAS 27 (Revised) Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (effective year ending 31 December 2010) removes the requirement to record pre-acquisition
dividends as a credit to investment rather than income in the parent company. It is not expected to have any impact on the consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 3 (Revised) Business Combinations (effective year ending 31 December 2010) requires acquisition costs incurred in a business combination to be expensed 
as incurred rather than included in the cost of acquisition and determination of goodwill.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments (effective year ending 31 December 2009) is a disclosure standard which may result in the redesignation of the Group’s reportable
segments but will have no impact on the reported results or the financial position of the Group.
IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions (effective year ending 31 December 2008) requires a share-based payment arrangement in which an entity
receives goods or services as consideration for its own equity instruments to be accounted for as an equity settled share-based payment transaction, regardless of 
how the equity instruments are obtained. It is not expected to have any impact on the consolidated financial statements.
IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction (effective year ending 31 December 2008) clarifies
when refunds or reductions in future contributions in relation to defined benefit assets should be regarded as available and provides guidance on the impact of regulatory
minimum funding levels on such assets. It also addresses when regulatory minimum funding levels might give rise to a liability. The Group has not yet determined the
potential effect of the interpretation. With the exception of IFRS 8, the above standards have not yet been endorsed.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 53 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007
54 Financial Statements
2. TURNOVER AND PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS
An analysis of the Group’s turnover and profit from operations is as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Turnover by destination – UK 273.9 272.3
– Other EC 131.9 128.4
– Non EC 18.3 13.5
424.1 414.2
Cost of sales (364.8) (352.4)
Gross profit 59.3 61.8
Distribution costs (18.1) (16.7)
Selling and administration expenses (26.5) (27.2)
Profit from operations before employee profit sharing scheme 14.7 17.9
Amount applied to employee profit sharing scheme (0.8) (0.8)
Profit from operations 13.9 17.1
2007 2006
Profit from operations is stated after charging/(crediting): £’m £’m
Cost of sales
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11.8 11.9
Operating lease charges – plant 1.2 1.1
– buildings 0.7 0.6
Restructuring costs relating to closures* 1.7 0.5
Selling and administration expenses
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.4
Amortisation of intangible assets 0.6 0.4
Operating lease charges – plant 0.8 0.8
Restructuring costs relating to closures* 0.3 –
Negative goodwill arising from business combinations* (0.1) –
Profit on disposal of closed site* (1.2) (0.5)
Profit on disposal of other fixed assets (0.2) (0.1)
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit of these financial statements 0.1 0.1
Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates in respect of:
– audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1
– other services relating to taxation 0.2 0.2
*Analysis of restructuring and other non-recurring items
Redundancy costs 1.0 0.5
Other machinery and site related costs 1.0 –
Profit on disposal of closed site (1.2) (0.5)
Negative goodwill arising from business combinations (0.1) –
0.7 –
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 54 Financial Statements 55
3. SEGMENT REPORTING
Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s geographical and business segments.
Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arms-length basis.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Primary segments – Geographical
The Group operates in three principal geographic regions – “UK & Ireland”, “Continental Europe”, and “North America”. UK & Ireland includes all of the UK manufacturing 
and merchanting activities along with the Irish sales office which distributes predominantly UK manufactured products. It also includes the manufacturing operation 
in China from which substantially all of the output is exported for sale by the Group in the UK. Continental Europe comprises the manufacturing and merchanting activities
located in Belgium, Holland and France. North America comprises the manufacturing business acquired during the year in Canada. These three regions are the basis on
which the Group reports its primary segment information.
Segment information by geographic region
UK & Ireland Continental Europe North America Eliminations Consolidated
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Turnover
External sales 324.7 328.7 92.9 85.5 6.5 – – – 424.1 414.2
Inter-segment sales 1.3 1.6 0.9 0.4 – – (2.2) (2.0) – –
Total turnover 326.0 330.3 93.8 85.9 6.5 – (2.2) (2.0) 424.1 414.2
Profit from operations 7 .0 9.7 6.7 7.4 0.2 – – – 13.9 17.1
Net financing costs (2.4) (3.1)
Profit before tax 11.5 14.0
Tax (3.0) (3.9)
Profit for the year 8.5 10.1
Segment assets 160.6 161.3 48.5 44.4 6.8 – (5.1) (6.2) 210.8 199.5
Segment liabilities (63.6) (84.4) (22.1) (17.6) (1.4) – 5.1 6.2 (82.0) (95.8)
Net segment assets 128.8 103.7
Net borrowings (64.8) (52.0)
Taxation (1.6) 2.7
Net assets per balance sheet 62.4 54.4
Capital expenditure 13.0 8.6 2.5 3.4 – –– – 15.5 12.0
Depreciation and 
amortisation 9.7 9.9 2.9 2.8 0.1 –– – 12.7 12.7
Other adjustments to 
operating cash flows (7 .2) (4.3) (0.1) – (0.1)–– – (7 .4) (4.3)
Secondary segments – Business
The Group has the following principal secondary business segments:
“Films” – Single process of extruded polythene reels
“Converted” – Predominantly two or three stage process of extrusion, print and conversion
“Recycled” – Recycles scrap from Group and external sources and converts into predominantly recycled products.
Segment information by business segment
External External Segment Segment Capital Capital
sales sales assets assets expenditure expenditure
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Films 168.9 161.4 83.5 78.7 5.5 2.3
Converted 167 .2 177.4 91.3 92.5 5.0 4.4
Recycled 88.0 75.4 41.1 34.5 5.0 5.3 
Eliminations – – (5.1) (6.2) – –
424.1 414.2 210.8 199.5 15.5 12.0
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 55 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007
56 Financial Statements
4. STAFF COSTS
2007 2006
Number Number
The average number of employees (including Executive Directors) was:
Production 2,344 2,461
Administration 188 195
Selling 229 232
2,761 2,888
2007 2006
£’m £’m 
Staff costs:
Wages and salaries 63.7 62.9
Employee profit sharing scheme 0.8 0.8
Social security costs 7.2 7.3
Defined contribution pension scheme costs 1.1 1.1
Defined benefit pension scheme – current service cost 1.5 3.0
74.3 75.1
Wages and salary costs are inclusive of redundancy costs.
Details of Directors’ remuneration and shareholdings are shown on pages 38 to 42.
5. FINANCING COSTS
2007 2006
£’m £’m 
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 2.1 1.4
Interest on other loans 1.4 1.3
Interest on obligations under finance lease 0.1 0.1
Borrowing costs 3.6 2.8
Expected return on pension scheme assets (11.3) (9.4)
Interest on pension liabilities 10.1 9.7
Net retirement benefit financing (1.2) 0.3
Net financing costs 2.4 3.1
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 56 Financial Statements 57
6. TAX ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES
Recognised in the income statement 2007 2006
Current tax expense £’m £’m 
UK current tax at 30% on the profits of the year 
Current year (0.3) 0.7
Adjustments for prior years (0.2) (0.9)
(0.5) (0.2)
Overseas current tax
Current year 2.3 2.5
Adjustments for prior years (0.2) 0.3
2.1 2.8
1.6 2.6
Deferred tax expense
Origination of temporary differences 1.3 1.2
Change in UK tax rate (0.3) –
Other adjustments for prior years 0.4 0.1
1.4 1.3
Total tax expense in income statement 3.0 3.9
Factors affecting the income tax expense for the current period
The difference between the income tax expense for the period and the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK is explained below:
2007 2007 2006 2006
% £’m % £’m 
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
Profit before tax 11.5 14.0 
Current tax at 30% 30% 3.5 30% 4.2 
Non-deductible expenses – – 1% 0.1 
Depreciation on ineligible assets 1% 0.1 1% 0.1 
Overseas tax rates 1% 0.1 1% 0.2 
Capital gains -3% (0.4) -1% (0.2) 
Adjustments for prior years -3% (0.3) -4% (0.5) 
Total tax expense in income statement 26% 3.0 28% 3.9 
Deferred tax charge recognised directly in equity
Relating to retirement and employee benefits – current 2.3 5.2 
– change in UK tax rate 0.7 – 
3.0 5.2 
7 . DIVIDENDS
2007 2006
£’m £’m 
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 15.0p per share (2005: 15.0p) 4.0 3.9 
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 7.0p per share (2006: 7.0p) 1.8 1.8 
5.8 5.7 
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 15.0p per share (2006: 15.0p) 4.0 4.0 
The proposed final dividend is to be approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2008 and has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2007.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 57 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007
58 Financial Statements
8. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
2007 2006
000s 000s
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
Issued ordinary shares at 1 January 26,462 25,894
Effect of shares issued 33 367 
Effect of own shares held (270) (221) 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 26,225 26,040 
Effect of share options and long-term incentive plan shares in issue 42 220 
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 26,267 26,260
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders £8.5m £10.1m
Basic earnings per ordinary share 32.41p 38.79p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 32.36p 38.46p
9. GOODWILL
£’m
At 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 0.3
Goodwill has been tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 “Impairment of Assets” at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 and no impairments
have been identified.
10. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Other
Customer Computer intangible Customer Computer
lists software assets Total lists software Total
2007 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Cost
Balance at 1 January 0.3 5.4 – 5.7 – 5.2 5.2
Acquisitions through business combinations – – 0.6 0.6 –––
Additions –––– 0.3 0.2 0.5
Balance at 31 December 0.3 5.4 0.6 6.3 0.3 5.4 5.7
Amortisation
Balance at 1 January – 3.9 – 3.9 – 3.5 3.5
Amortisation charge in the year – 0.5 0.1 0.6 – 0.4 0.4
Balance at 31 December – 4.4 0.1 4.5 – 3.9 3.9
Carrying amount at 31 December 0.3 1.0 0.5 1.8 0.3 1.5 1.8
Carrying amount at 1 January 0.3 1.5 – 1.8 –1.7 1.7
Other intangible assets currently comprise a property lease entered into at less than an economic rent on the acquisition of AT Films Inc during the year.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 58 Financial Statements 59
11. PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT
Land and Plant and Land and Plant and 
buildings equipment Total buildings equipment Total
2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m 
Cost
Balance at 1 January 44.4 231.9 276.3 44.5 227.3 271.8
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 1.0 5.1 6.1 (0.5) (1.8) (2.3)
Additions 4.8 10.7 15.5 0.9 10.6 11.5
Acquisitions through business combinations 0.2 0.3 0.5 –––
Disposals (0.6) (12.5) (13.1) (0.5) (4.2) (4.7)
Balance at 31 December 49.8 235.5 285.3 44.4 231.9 276.3
Depreciation 
Balance at 1 January 16.4 182.6 199.0 15.5 177.1 192.6
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 0.4 3.6 4.0 (0.1) (1.4) (1.5)
Depreciation charge for the year 1.3 10.8 12.1 1.2 11.1 12.3
Disposals (0.2) (12.1) (12.3) (0.2) (4.2) (4.4)
Balance at 31 December 17 .9 184.9 202.8 16.4 182.6 199.0
Carrying amount at 31 December 31.9 50.6 82.5 28.0 49.3 77.3
Carrying amount at 1 January 28.0 49.3 77 .3 29.0 50.2 79.2
The carrying amount of plant and equipment includes £1.9 million (2006: £2.8 million) in respect of assets held under finance leases.
Capital commitments at 31 December were as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m 
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure relating to property, plant and equipment
not provided in the financial statements 6.5 6.1
12. INVESTMENTS
At 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006, the Group held external investments totalling £0.1 million.
13. SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
Except as indicated below, the Company owns the whole issued share capital of all subsidiary undertakings. The principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
Company Country of incorporation Trade 
British Polythene Limited England Polythene Manufacturer 
AT Films Inc* Canada Polythene Manufacturer 
BPI plc England Property Company 
BPI Europe BV* Netherlands Holding Company 
Combipac BV* Netherlands Polythene Manufacturer 
Formipac France SA* France Distribution Company 
Irish Polythene Industries Limited Republic of Ireland Distribution Company 
Venture Hong Kong Limited (75% owned)* Hong Kong Holding Company 
Xinhui Alida Polythene Limited+ China Polythene Manufacturer 
* Shares held through an intermediate holding Company
+ 20% owned through a subsidiary undertaking
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 59 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007
60 Financial Statements
14. INVENTORIES
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Raw materials 17 .7 16.3
Work in progress 4.1 3.7
Finished goods 40.3 39.5
62.1 59.5
Cost of sales includes a charge reflecting the effect of movements in stock provisions totalling £0.2 million (2006: £0.8 million).
15. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Trade receivables 61.9 58.3
Prepayments and accrued income 1.4 1.5
Other receivables 0.7 0.7
64.0 60.5
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty fails to meet its contractual obligations and arises principally from amounts receivable from customers.
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer and before accepting any new customer, the Group uses 
an external credit scoring system to assess the potential customer’s credit quality and defines credit limits by customer. Limits and scoring attributed to customers 
are reviewed once a year. In addition, the Group has a policy of insuring certain debtors.
The geographical profile of credit risk over the year is broadly in line with that of turnover by destination as disclosed in note 2.
Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets, which includes trade receivables net of impairment losses as stated above and cash of £0.6 million (2006: £0.5 million), 
represents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk.
Impairment losses
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows:
2007 2007 2006 2006
£’m £’m £’m £’m 
Gross Impairment Gross Impairment
Not past due 42.7 – 39.6 –
0-30 days overdue 16.4 0.1 16.0 0.1
Over 30 days overdue 4.4 1.5 4.1 1.3
63.5 1.6 59.7 1.4
An impairment allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods. 
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted
up to the reporting date. The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers in many
different markets and sectors. Accordingly, the Directors believe that there is no further credit provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
16. BANK AND OTHER BORROWINGS
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Bank overdrafts 16.8 6.4
Bank loans 27 .5 24.1
Other loan 20.0 20.0
Finance leases 1.1 2.0
65.4 52.5
Represented by:
Amounts falling due within one year 17 .9 7.4
Amounts falling due after more than one year 47 .5 45.1
65.4 52.5
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 60 Financial Statements 61
16. BANK AND OTHER BORROWINGS (CONTINUED)
The following analysis details outstanding borrowings, the facilities available to the Group and the undrawn amounts at the balance sheet date.
Less than  Between Between Less than Between Between
1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years Total 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m 
Maturity
Cash at bank (0.6) – – (0.6) (0.5) – – (0.5)
Bank overdrafts 16.8 – – 16.8 6.4 – – 6.4
Cash and cash equivalents in the
cash flow statement 16.2 – – 16.2 5.9 – – 5.9
Bank loans – – 27 .5 27 .5 – – 24.1 24.1
Other loans – 20.0 – 20.0 – – 20.0 20.0
Finance leases 1.1 – – 1.1 1.0 1.0 – 2.0
17 .3 20.0 27 .5 64.8 6.9 1.0 44.1 52.0
Undrawn facilities
Bank overdrafts 20.0 – – 20.0 24.9 – – 24.9
Bank loans – – 5.0 5.0 – – 8.4 8.4
Total facilities 37 .9 20.0 32.5 90.4 32.3 1.0 52.5 85.8
Fixed rate Floating rate Cash at bank Total Fixed rate Floating rate Cash at bank Total
2007 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 2006
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m 
Currency and interest rate profile
Currency 
Sterling placement 1 20.0 – – 20.0 20.0 – – 20.0
Sterling 2 –2.1 –2.1 – 3.2 – 3.2
Euro 2 – 34.6 (0.1) 34.5 – 26.6 (0.1) 26.5
Other 2 – 8.7 (0.5) 8.2 – 2.7 (0.4) 2.3
20.0 45.4 (0.6) 64.8 20.0 32.5 (0.5) 52.0
1. Ten year unsecured fixed term facility with a major financial institution at a fixed interest rate of 6.73%.
2. The floating rate borrowings are all rolled over on periods of three months or less based on the appropriate LIBOR rate.
17 . OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate banking
facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. The Group has at its disposal
additional undrawn facilities which further reduces liquidity risk.
The following analysis details the contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the balance sheet date including interest and principal cash flows, using undiscounted 
cash flows.
Less than Between Between Less than Between Between
1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years Total 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years Total
2007 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 2006
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Contractual cash flows analysed
by maturity date
Trade and other payables 62.1 – – 62.1 60.2 – – 60.2
Bank overdrafts 16.8 – – 16.8 6.4 – – 6.4
Bank loans 1.4 1.4 28.2 31.0 1.1 1.1 25.7 27.9
Other loans 1.3 21.4 – 22.7 1.3 1.3 21.4 24.0
Finance leases 1.2 – – 1.2 1.1 1.1 – 2.2
82.8 22.8 28.2 133.8 70.1 3.5 47.1 120.7
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 61 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007
62 Financial Statements
17 . OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
Obligations under finance leases are as follow:
Minimum Minimum
lease Finance lease Finance
payments costs Capital payments costs Capital
2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Amounts payable under finance lease:
Less than one year 1.2 0.1 1.1 1.1 0.1 1.0 
Between one and five years ––– 1.1 0.1 1.0 
1.2 0.1 1.1 2.2 0.2 2.0 
Capital represents the carrying value of a five year finance lease, repayable by quarterly installment and excludes contingent rents for future finance costs calculated 
by reference to EURIBOR on each quarterly payment date.
All lease obligations are denominated in Euros.
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. The carrying amount of these
assets approximates to their fair value.
Investments
The fair value of investments is based on estimates of likely sales values of the investments.
Fixed rate borrowings
The fair value is based on the quoted market prices of comparable debt issued by other companies.
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
2007 2007 2006 2006
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Fair values
Fixed asset investment 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 
Fixed rate borrowings – other loans (20.0) (20.0) (20.0) (19.7) 
(19.9) (19.9) (19.9) (19.6) 
Cash at bank, borrowings due within 1 year, floating rate borrowings due after more than 1 year, trade payables, trade receivables and other current liabilities
The carrying value approximates to fair value either because of the short maturity of the instruments or because the interest rates are reset after periods of not greater 
than six months.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, will affect the Group’s income or the value of its holdings 
of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the
return. Generally the Group seeks to minimise this risk through hedge arrangements designed to manage a proportion of the Group’s overall exposure.
Hedging
Net investment in overseas operations
The Group has a policy of maintaining borrowings in the currency of most of its overseas operations to cover the net asset position in those companies. 
Cash flow hedge – foreign currency
Sales orders in currency are covered in most instances at the time of receipt by the creation of a currency overdraft. Purchases are covered with forward contracts 
or reduction in borrowings in the relevant currency where appropriate. Any significant exception to this is approved at Board level. Any cash flow and profit effect would
crystalise within six months of the year end when the forecast transactions being hedged materialise. The value of these hedges at 31 December 2007 was £0.3 million
(2006: £nil). 
Cash flow hedge – gross margin
In certain market sectors the risk of compression of gross margin caused by short-term fluctuations in raw material prices is covered on the London Metal Exchange. 
The Board have approved maximum levels of trading to be hedged in this manner on this fledgling market. Any cash flow and profit effect would crystalise within 
six months of the year end when the forecast transactions being hedged materialise. The value of these hedges at 31 December 2007 was £nil (2006: £nil). 
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 62 Financial Statements 63
17 . OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
Interest rate management
Exposure to fluctuating interest rates is managed by maintaining a proportion of the Group’s debt on a fixed basis and topping this up as appropriate with derivative 
financial instruments to maintain the desired fixed/variable mix. Due to the seasonal nature of working capital requirements funded by borrowings this is done by fixing 
a value rather than a percentage. 
Sensitivity analysis
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Group’s earnings. Over the longer-term, 
however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
At 31 December 2007, it is estimated that a change of 100 basis points in interest rates would result in a change of £0.3 million in profit before tax. This analysis 
assumes that all other variables, including foreign currency, remain constant.
It is estimated that a change of 10 Euro Cents against the value of sterling over the period would result in an increase or decrease in profit or loss by £0.5 million.
18. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Trade payables 50.2 48.3
Other taxes and social security 4.9 5.4
Accruals and deferred income 2.7 2.2
Other payables 4.3 4.3
62.1 60.2
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
19. CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Current tax receivable (1.1) –
Current tax payable 1.4 0.7
0.3 0.7
The net current tax liability represents the estimated amount of income taxes payable in respect of current and prior periods.
20. DEFERRED TAX
Accelerated Other Accelerated Other 
capital Employee timing capital Employee timing 
allowances benefitsdifferences Total allowances benefits differences Total 
2007 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 2006
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 6.7 (10.0) (0.1) (3.4) 6.7 (16.5) (0.1) (9.9)
On acquisition – (0.1) 0.2 0.1 ––––
Charge/(credit) to income – 2.1 (0.7) 1.4 – 1.3 – 1.3
Charge to equity – 3.0 – 3.0 – 5.2 – 5.2
Exchange differences 0.2 – – 0.2 ––––
At 31 December 6.9 (5.0) (0.6) 1.3 6.7 (10.0) (0.1) (3.4)
Deferred tax liabilities 2.7 (0.1) 0.6 3.2 2.2 – 0.3 2.5
Deferred tax assets 4.2 (4.9) (1.2) (1.9) 4.5 (10.0) (0.4) (5.9)
6.9 (5.0) (0.6) 1.3 6.7 (10.0) (0.1) (3.4)
Accelerated capital allowances relate to property, plant and equipment and computer software.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and where
the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdictions.
21. GOVERNMENT GRANTS
Government grants relate primarily to regional selective assistance received on the achievement of certain job creation and job protection targets as well as related capital
expenditure. The grants could be repayable in the event that numbers employed at the relevant sites drop below these target levels during a specified monitoring period.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 63 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007
64 Financial Statements
22. SHARE CAPITAL
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Authorised
Equity
80,227,336 (2006: 80,227,336) ordinary shares of 25p each 20.1 20.1
Allotted called up and fully paid
Equity
26,498,160 (2006: 26,461,762) ordinary shares of 25p each 6.6 6.6
Average 2007 Average 2006
Date of purchase Number of Date of purchase Number of
issue price shares issue price shares
Movements in equity share capital
At 1 January 26,461,762 25,894,393
Exercise of Executive Share Options – Various £2.25 435,000
Exercise of SAYE options Various £2.66 36,398 Various £2.66 132,369
At 31 December 26,498,160 26,461,762
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries no right to fixed income. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared 
from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All shares rank equally with regards to the Company’s residual assets.
The Company has granted options over its ordinary shares (see note 30).
23. SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT
2007 2006
£’m £’m 
At 1 January 25.0 23.8
On shares issued 0.1 1.2
At 31 December 25.1 25.0
24. OTHER RESERVES
Foreign
Capital currency Total
redemption Capital Hedging translation other
reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2007 7 .2 0.5 – (0.3) 7 .4
Movement during the year – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Movement on retranslation of overseas operations – – – 0.3 0.3
At 31 December 2007 7 .2 0.5 (0.3) – 7 .4
Foreign
Capital currency Total
redemption Capital Hedging translation other
reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
At 1 January 2006 7.2 0.5 0.3 (0.1) 7.9
Movement during the year – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Movement on retranslation of overseas operations – – – (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 December 2006 7.2 0.5 – (0.3) 7.4
Capital redemption reserve was created on the repurchase and cancellation of ordinary and preference shares in previous years.
Capital reserve was created on the acquisition of a subsidiary.
Hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to forecast hedging 
transactions that have not yet occurred.
Foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the retranslation of financial statements of foreign operations, 
as well as the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in foreign operations. 
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 64 Financial Statements 65
25. RETAINED EARNINGS
2007 2006
£’m £’m
At 1 January 15.2 (1.2)
Profit for the year 8.5 10.1
Dividends to shareholders (5.8) (5.7)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 8.4 17.4
Tax on items taken directly to equity (3.0) (5.2)
Decrease/(increase) in own shares held 0.1 (0.5)
Movement relative to shares vested under the restricted share plan (0.4) –
IFRS 2 charge in relation to equity settled transactions 0.1 0.3
At 31 December 23.1 15.2
26. OWN SHARES HELD
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Cost of own shares held
At 1 January 1.3 0.8
Shares purchased 0.3 0.5
Movement relative to shares vested under the restricted share plan (0.4) –
At 31 December 1.2 1.3
The cost of own shares held represents shares held by the British Polythene Industries Employee Share Ownership Trust to satisfy the Company’s liabilities under the
restricted share plan and the Long-Term Incentive Plan. The market value of the shares is £0.7 million (2006: £1.4 million)
Date of purchase/ Average Number of Date of purchase/ Average Number of
allocation purchase price shares allocation purchase price shares
2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006
Movements in the numbers of shares held
At 1 January 300,456 208,581 
No of shares allocated to employees Various (89,625) Various (8,125)
Shares purchased Various £5.00 50,000 Various £4.27 100,000
At 31 December 260,831 300,456
27 . MINORITY INTERESTS
2007 2006
£’m £’m 
At 1 January and 31 December 0.2 0.2
Minority interests comprise a 25% holding in the ordinary share capital of Venture Hong Kong Limited, along with the related share in the results of the Company 
up to 31 December 2007 as adjusted to reflect Group accounting policies. Venture Hong Kong Limited holds a 20% minority interest in Xinhui Alida Polythene Limited.
28. OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
At 31 December, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
Plant and Plant and
equipment Buildings Total equipment Buildings Total
2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Less than one year 1.9 0.8 2.7 1.9 0.9 2.8 
Between one and five years 2.4 1.7 4.1 3.1 1.7 4.8 
More than five years – 2.2 2.2 – 1.7 1.7
4.3 4.7 9.0 5.0 4.3 9.3
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 65 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007
66 Financial Statements
28. OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS (CONTINUED)
None of the operating leases include contingent rentals.
A number of the leased buildings have been sublet to external tenants. 
At 31 December, the Group expects to receive future sublease rentals which fall due as follows: Buildings Buildings
2007 2006
£’m £’m 
Less than one year 0.4 0.4 
Between one and five years 0.2 0.5
0.6 0.9
During the year ended 31 December 2007, £2.7 million (2006: £2.5 million) was recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement in respect of operating
leases, comprising £3.1 million (2006: £2.9 million) operating lease rentals less £0.4 million (2006: £0.4 million) sublease rentals.
29. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Contingent liabilities of the Group in respect of VAT indemnities amount to £0.8 million (2006: £0.8 million).
30. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
Equity-settled share option plan
The Group plan provided for a grant price equal to the quoted market price of the Group shares on the date of grant. All options under this plan were granted on 
22 March 2003 at £2.25 and there are no plans to grant further options under this plan. All options granted under this scheme were exercised during 2006 following 
the achievement of the performance targets in 2005.
Long-term incentive plan
In 2005 the Group introduced a new Long-Term Incentive Plan for senior executives. Shares are conditionally awarded under this plan and vest in employees based 
on the following performance criteria. 
The EPS part of an award will vest if the Company’s EPS growth is at least RPI plus 10% per annum over the performance period; no shares will vest if EPS growth 
is not at least RPI plus 3% per annum. For performance between these two points, vesting will occur on a sliding scale.
For the portion of the award based on Total Shareholder Return (“TSR”), no vesting will occur for ranking below median. At the median 10% of the award will vest 
with the full 50% vesting for a ranking at or above the upper quartile. Vesting occurs on a sliding scale between these two points.
Savings related share option scheme
The employee savings related share option scheme is open to almost all UK employees. Employees save over three or five years at the end of which shares can 
be purchased during the following six month period. During the period the Group issued 36,398 shares (2006: 132,369 shares) at a weighted average price of £2.66 
(2006: £2.66) under this scheme. Grants of options were made on 19 October 2006 and 9 October 2007 at a price 10% below the market price on the date of offer. 
2007 2006 2006
LTIP LTIP Options
Outstanding at beginning of year 499,500 335,000 435,000
Granted during the year 289,000 173,250 –
Exercised during the year – – (435,000)
Forfeited during the year (14,576) (8,750) –
Outstanding at the end of the year 773,924 499,500 –
Exercisable at the end of the year – ––
The awards granted in 2005, due to vest in 2008, will lapse in 2008 due to performance criteria not being achieved.
At 31 December 2007 the individual options, not yet exercised, of Directors and other employees under the savings related share option scheme are as follows:
Date from
which Other 
Date of grant exercisable Expiry date Option price Directors employees Total
Savings Related Scheme 19/10/2006 1/12/2009 31/5/2010 369.45p 2,557 130,057 132,614
Savings Related Scheme 19/10/2006 1/12/2011 31/5/2012 369.45p 8,864 196,760 205,624
Savings Related Scheme 9/10/2007 1/12/2010 31/5/2011 392.40p – 65,653 65,653
Savings Related Scheme 9/10/2007 1/12/2012 31/5/2013 392.40p – 57,705 57,705
11,421 450,175 461,596
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 66 Financial Statements 67
30. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS (CONTINUED)
A charge to the income statement for all of these schemes has been based on the Binomial model and the inputs into the model are as follows:
SAYE SAYE LTIP LTIP LTIP
Year of Grant 2007 2006 2007 2006 2005
Share price £3.76 £4.35 £4.31 £4.61 £3.59
Exercise price £3.92 £3.69 Nil Nil Nil
Expected volatility 30.75% 24.79% 26.26% 18.94% 20.23%
Expected life 3/5 years 3/5 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Risk-free rate 5.01% 4.88% 4.40% 4.15% 4.54%
Expected dividends 5.85% 4.93% 5.11% 4.55% 5.85%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the three years immediately preceding grant. The expected life 
used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
The Group recognised total expenses of £0.1 million relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in 2007 (2006: £0.3 million).
31. RETIREMENT AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
Non- Non- Non- Non-
current current 2007 current current 2006
assets liabilities Total assets liabilities Total
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Deficit in British Polythene defined benefit pension scheme – (17.6) (17.6) – (33.2) (33.2) 
Other employee benefit obligations (see below) – (1.5) (1.5) – (1.5) (1.5)
Retirement and employee benefit obligations – (19.1) (19.1) – (34.7) (34.7) 
Related deferred tax asset (note 20) 4.9 0.1 5.0 10.0 – 10.0
4.9 (19.0) (14.1) 10.0 (34.7) (24.7)
Other employee benefit obligations in 2007 include £0.2 million relating to acquisitions.
British Polythene Defined Benefit Scheme
The assets of the defined benefit section of the British Polythene Pension Scheme are invested in a self-administered trust fund and are separated from the Group’s business assets. 
The Scheme was closed to new entrants in June 2000.
A full actuarial valuation in relation to the scheme was carried out on 6 April 2005 and was updated by the actuary at 31 December 2005, 2006 and 2007. 
The present value of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and past service cost were measured using the projected unit credit method.
The major assumptions used by the actuary in the valuations were:
2007 2006
Rate of increase in pensionable earnings 3.20% 2.80%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 
– service up to 31 December 2006 3.20% 2.80%
– service from 1 January 2007 2.40% 2.20%
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 3.20% 2.80%
Discount rate applied to scheme liabilities 5.80% 5.10%
Inflation assumption 3.20% 2.80%
Life expectancy:
Male aged 60 (current life expectancy) 23.1 20.3 
Female aged 60 (current life expectancy) 26.0 23.3
Male aged 45 (life expectancy at age 60) 24.8 23.0
Female aged 45 (life expectancy at age 60) 27 .7 26.0
The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily
be borne out in practice.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 67 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007
68 Financial Statements
31. RETIREMENT AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS (CONTINUED)
Net pension liability
The amount included in the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2007 is as follows:
Long-term rate Long-term rate
of return + Value at of return + Value at
31 Dec 07 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 06
£’m £’m
Equities 8.00% 88.6 7.50% 110.5
Corporate bonds 5.60% 22.5 5.10% 30.4
Government securities 4.24% 19.8 4.10% 28.6 
LDI holdings 5.20% 35.3 ––
Other 8.00% 18.8 ––
Fair value of Scheme assets 185.0 169.5
Present value of Scheme liabilities (202.6) (202.7)
Deficit in the Scheme (17 .6) (33.2)
Related deferred tax asset 4.9 10.0
Net pension liability (12.7) (23.2)
+ The rates quoted are the expected net rate of return after allowing for investment expenses.
The fair value of the Scheme assets are not intended to be realised in the short-term and may be subject to significant change before they are realised. The present value 
of the Scheme liabilities is derived from cash flow projections over a long period and is thus inherently uncertain.
The expected rate of return on each class of Scheme assets is based on market expectations, as at 31 December 2007. For equities it has been assumed that the long-term
return will exceed that of bonds by a margin, the “equity risk premium”, of 3.6% p.a. above long-term gilt yields at the measurement date.
Movements in the present value of Scheme liabilities were as follows:
2007 2006
£’m £’m
At 1 January 202.7 208.8 
Current service cost 1.5 3.0 
Interest on pension liabilities 10.1 9.7 
Contributions from Scheme members 1.1 1.1 
Experience gains and losses arising on Scheme liabilities (0.4) (2.2) 
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of Scheme liabilities (4.5) (9.8)
Benefits paid (7 .9) (7.9)
At 31 December 202.6 202.7
Movements in the present value of fair value of Scheme assets were as follows:
£’m £’m
At 1 January 169.5 154.5
Expected return on pension Scheme assets 11.3 9.4 
Actual return less expected return on Scheme assets 3.5 5.4
Employer contributions 7.5 7.0 
Contributions from the Scheme members 1.1 1.1 
Benefits paid (7 .9) (7.9)
At 31 December 185.0 169.5
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 68 Financial Statements 69
31. RETIREMENT AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS (CONTINUED)
The movements in the Scheme deficit were as follows:
2007 2007 2006 2006
£’m £’m £’m £’m
Deficit in Scheme at 1 January (33.2) (54.3)
Current service cost (1.5) (3.0) 
Total amount charged to profit from operations (1.5) (3.0) 
Expected return on pension Scheme assets 11.3 9.4 
Interest on pension liabilities (10.1) (9.7) 
Total amount credited to net financing costs 1.2 (0.3) 
Amount charged to income statement (0.3) (3.3) 
Employer contributions 7 .5 7.0 
Actual return less expected return on Scheme assets 3.5 5.4 
Experience gains and losses arising on Scheme liabilities 0.4 2.2 
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of Scheme liabilities 4.5 9.8 
Actuarial gain 8.4 17.4
Deficit in Scheme at 31 December (17 .6) (33.2) 
Of the charge to profit from operations for the year ended 31 December 2007, £1.0 million (2006: £2.2 million) has been included in cost of sales and £0.5 million 
(2006: £0.8 million) has been included in administrative expenses.
Experience adjustments
The five year history of experience adjustments is as follows:
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Actual return on Scheme assets 14.8 14.8 24.9 11.2 18.1 
Present value of Scheme liabilities (202.6) (202.7) (208.8) (172.8) (154.1) 
Fair value of Scheme assets 185.0 169.5 154.5 129.8 118.7
Deficit in the Scheme (17 .6) (33.2) (54.3) (43.0) (35.4) 
Experience adjustments on Scheme liabilities 0.4 2.2 (3.4) 1.6 1.4 
Percentage of Scheme liabilities (%) 0.2% 1.1% 1.6% 0.9% 0.9%
Experience adjustments on Scheme assets 3.5 5.4 16.2 2.8 11.1
Percentage of Scheme assets (%) 1.9% 3.2% 10.5% 2.2% 9.4%
The Company and the Trustees have agreed on a number of proposals designed to control the cost of future benefits. These include proposals to make substantial
additional contributions (subject to the Company’s profitability) to the Scheme in order to increase the financial security of members’ benefits.
Contributions will consist of: 
(i) current service cost; (ii) a fixed annual contribution of £2.9 million payable monthly; and (iii) a further £3.5 million lump sum to be paid during 2008. 
These contributions are subject to review at formal actuarial valuations.
Other defined benefit schemes
The Company’s subsidiary in Ireland operates a defined benefit scheme. Disclosures are not provided in relation to this scheme as the amounts involved are not significant. 
At 31 December 2007, the scheme has total assets of €3.1 million (2006: €3.1 million) and total liabilities of €2.8 million (2006: €2.9 million). 
The Company’s overseas subsidiaries in Holland and Canada operate defined benefit schemes in conjunction with a number of other employers. However as it is not possible 
to identify their share of the underlying assets and liabilities on a consistent and reliable basis, the Group is accounting for these schemes as defined contribution schemes.
Defined contribution schemes
The assets of the defined contribution section of the British Polythene Pension Scheme, other defined contribution schemes and defined benefit schemes treated 
as defined contribution schemes as detailed above are held separately from those of the Group, being invested in funds under the control of a number of insurance
companies. The pension charge includes contributions payable by the Group to the various insurance companies. 
The total cost charged to income in 2007 of £1.1 million (2006: £1.1 million) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates specified in the 
rules of the plans. 
Other employee benefits
The Group has three other arrangements classified as other long-term benefits: in the UK there is a self-insured Permanent Health Scheme with recognised liabilities of 
£0.8 million (2006: £1.0 million); in the Netherlands there is a “Jubilee” provision of £0.5 million (2006: £0.5 million) which provides for additional payments to employees
with long service; and in the acquired AT Films business in Canada there is a post-employment benefit plan which provides medical and dental cover to certain employees
and has recognised liabilities of £0.2 million at 31 December 2007.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 69 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007
70 Financial Statements
32. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries (see note 13), with its Directors and executive officers including key management personnel, 
and with the British Polythene Pension Scheme. Disclosures relating to Directors are shown on pages 38 to 42.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. 
There were no trading transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group in the year ended 31 December 2007.
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 “Related Party Disclosures”.
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Short-term employee benefits 2.0 2.2 
Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 
Other long-term benefits – 0.2 
2.2 2.6 
33. ACQUISITIONS 
On 20 August 2007, the Group acquired the AT Films business and assets of AT Plastics Inc (Canada), a subsidiary Company of Celanese Corporation. AT Films manufactures
polythene film products for the horticultural and agricultural markets, mainly in North America. The business has facilities in Edmonton and Westlock, Alberta, Canada.
Analysis of assets and liabilities acquired Fair value
Fair value on
Cost adjustment acquisition
2007 2007 2007
£’m £’m £’m
Non-current assets
Other intangible assets – property lease – 0.6 0.6 
Property, plant and equipment 0.5 – 0.5
0.5 0.6 1.1
Current assets
Inventories 4.5 (0.1) 4.4 
Trade and other receivables 3.2 – 3.2
7.7 (0.1) 7.6 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables (1.8) – (1.8) 
Non-current liabilities
Retirement and employee benefit obligations (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) 
Deferred tax liabilities – (0.1) (0.1)
(0.1) (0.2) (0.3) 
Net assets acquired 6.3 0.3 6.6 
Expenses 0.2 (0.2) – 
Negative goodwill arising on acquisition – (0.1) (0.1)
Net cash outflow (including expenses) 6.5 – 6.5 
Impact of acquisition on the results of the Group
Included in the profit from operations is £0.2 million attributable to the acquisition of AT Films. Had the acquisition been effected at 1 January 2007, the turnover of the Group
from continuing operations would have been £434.1 million, and the profit from operations would have been £13.9 million.
The Directors consider these ‘pro-forma’ numbers to represent an approximate measure of the performance of the combined Group on an annualised basis and to provide 
a reference point for comparison in future periods. 
In determining the ‘pro-forma’ turnover and profit of the Group had AT Films been acquired on 1 January 2007, the Directors have calculated depreciation and amortisation 
of non-current assets acquired on the basis of the fair values acquired rather than the carrying amounts recognised in the pre-acquisition financial statements.
The other intangible asset is a property lease entered into at less than an economic rent. 
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 70 UK GAAP Parent Company Balance Sheet
at 31 December 2007
Financial Statements 71
2007 2006
Notes £’m £’m
Fixed assets
Investments 3 139.3 137.3
Current assets
Debtors 4 31.4 26.8
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
Bank and other borrowings 5 4.1 3.1
Other creditors 6 17 .7 10.3
21.8 13.4
Net current assets 9.6 13.4
Total assets less current liabilities 148.9 150.7
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year
Bank and other borrowings 7 47 .5 44.1
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 31.3 31.3
78.8 75.4
Net assets 70.1 75.3
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 8 6.6 6.6
Share premium account 9 25.1 25.0
Other reserves 10 13.8 13.8
Profit and loss account 11 24.6 29.9
Shareholders’ funds 70.1 75.3
The Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2008 and signed on its behalf by
C. McLatchie, Chairman                                                                             A. Thorburn, Finance Director
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 71 Notes to the UK GAAP Parent Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007
72 Financial Statements
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of preparation
The Company’s financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments which are stated at their fair value, 
and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards. The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which 
are considered material in relation to the Company’s financial statements.
Profit and loss account
Under Section 230 (4) of the Companies Act 1985, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Related party transactions
As the parent company of the British Polythene Industries Group (the financial statements for which can be found on pages 43 to 70), the Company has taken advantage 
of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with entities which form part of the Group.
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date,
monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and
liabilities carried at historical cost that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the historical cost was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the profit and loss account for the year.
Taxation
The Company’s tax charge is based on the result for the year and tax rates in force during the year. Estimation of the tax charge requires an assessment to be made 
of the potential tax treatment of certain items which will only be resolved once finally agreed with the relevant tax authorities.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which
have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19. A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore
recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profits from which the future
reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Investments
Investments are stated at cost less provisions for any impairment.
Derivative financial instruments
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Company’s treasury policy. Hedges are classified as follows:
– Fair value hedges that hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
– Cash flow hedges that hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the profit and loss account. Any gain or loss on the 
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the profit and loss account.
For cash flow hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge, as defined by FRS 26, is recognised in equity,
with any ineffective portion recognised in the profit and loss account. When hedged cash flows result in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated
gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are
recognised in equity are transferred to the profit and loss account in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the profit and loss account.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised in the profit and loss account.
When a hedging instrument is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected 
to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs. If the hedged 
transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company considers these 
to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time 
as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Share-based payments
The fair value of employee share options granted is calculated at grant date and the resulting cost is charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period 
of the options with a corresponding increase in equity. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting. Failures to vest as 
a result of market conditions are not reversed.
Treasury shares
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from profit and loss reserves. 
Provisions and contingent liabilities
In accordance with FRS 12 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, provisions are recognised where there is a present obligation as a result of a past
event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 
If these conditions are not met, no provision is recognised. However, contingent liabilities are disclosed in the Notes to the Financial Statements, unless the possibility 
of a transfer of economic benefits is remote. Contingent gains are not recognised unless realisation of the profit is virtually certain. 
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 72 Financial Statements 73
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Dividends payable
Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recorded as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved.
Retirement benefit obligations
The Company participates in a Group-wide scheme, the British Polythene Pension Scheme, which has a defined benefit section (providing benefits based on final
pensionable pay) and a defined contribution section. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company. The pension costs for the defined
contribution section are charged to the profit and loss account on the basis of contributions due in respect of the financial year. In relation to the defined benefit section 
of the scheme, the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities on a consistent and reliable basis and therefore, as required by FRS 17, 
the Company accounts for this scheme as a defined contribution scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of the defined 
benefit section represents the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the year. 
2. STAFF COSTS
2007 2006
Average number of employees
Administration 10 10
Employee costs £’m £’m
Wages and salaries 1.3 1.5
Social security costs 0.2 0.2
Other pension costs 0.2 0.2
1.7 1.9
Wages and salary costs are inclusive of any redundancy costs.
Disclosures regarding Directors’ remuneration, share based payments and pension entitlements are included on pages 38 to 42. 
3. FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS
Subsidiary Undertakings
Equity Non-equity Investments Total
Shares at cost less provisions £’m £’m £’m £’m
At 31 December 2006 85.1 52.1 0.1 137.3
Additions in the year – 2.0 – 2.0
At 31 December 2007 85.1 54.1 0.1 139.3
SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS
Except as indicated below, the Company owns the whole issued share capital of all subsidiary undertakings. The principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
Company Country of incorporation Trade
British Polythene Limited England Polythene Manufacturer 
AT Films Inc* Canada Polythene Manufacturer 
BPI plc England Property Company 
BPI Europe BV* Netherlands Holding Company 
Combipac BV* Netherlands Polythene Manufacturer 
Formipac France SA* France Distribution Company 
Irish Polythene Industries Limited Republic of Ireland Distribution Company 
Venture Hong Kong Limited (75% owned)* Hong Kong Holding Company 
Xinhui Alida Polythene Limited + China Polythene Manufacturer 
* Shares held through an intermediate holding Company
+ 20% owned through a subsidiary undertaking
4. DEBTORS
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Trade debtors 0.2 0.2
Amounts due by subsidiary undertakings 27 .7 22.8
Other debtors 1.7 1.8
Group relief receivable 1.8 2.0
31.4 26.8
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 73 Notes to the UK GAAP Parent Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007
74 Financial Statements
5. BANK AND OTHER BORROWINGS: amounts falling due within one year
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Bank overdrafts 4.1 3.1
6. OTHER CREDITORS: amounts falling due within one year
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Trade creditors – 0.3
Other taxes and social security 1.4 1.4
Accruals and deferred income 1.2 1.2
Other creditors 1.1 1.5
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 14.0 5.9
17 .7 10.3
7 . BANK AND OTHER BORROWINGS: amounts falling due after more than one year
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Bank loans 27 .5 24.1
Other loans 20.0 20.0
47 .5 44.1
8. CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Authorised
Equity
80,227,336 (2006: 80,227,336) ordinary shares of 25p each 20.1 20.1
Allotted called up and fully paid
Equity
26,498,160 (2006: 26,461,762) ordinary shares of 25p each 6.6 6.6
Average
Date of purchase No of
purchase price shares
Movements in equity share capital
At 31 December 2006 26,461,762
Exercise of SAYE options Various £2.66 36,398
At 31 December 2007 26,498,160
9. SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT
£’m
At 31 December 2006 25.0
On shares issued 0.1
At 31 December 2007 25.1
10. OTHER RESERVES
£’m
Merger Reserve
At 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 6.5
Capital Redemption Reserve
At 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 7.2
Capital Reserve
At 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 0.1
Total other reserves at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 13.8
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 74 Financial Statements 75
11. PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
£’m
At 31 December 2006 29.9
Profit for the financial year 0.7
Dividends paid (5.8)
Decrease in own shares held 0.1
FRS 20 charge in relation to equity settled transactions 0.1
Movement relative to shares vested under the restricted share plan (0.4)
At 31 December 2007 24.6
The profit after taxation for the year amounted to £0.7 million (2006: £2.6 million). 
12. RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT IN SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Opening shareholders’ funds 75.3 77.3
Profit for the financial year 0.7 2.6
Dividends paid (5.8) (5.7)
New shares subscribed (net of expenses) 0.1 1.3
Decrease/(increase) in own shares held 0.1 (0.5)
FRS 20 charge in relation to equity settled transactions 0.1 0.3
Movement relative to shares vested under the restricted share plan (0.4) –
Net movement in shareholders’ funds (5.2) (2.0)
Closing shareholders’ funds 70.1 75.3
13. OWN SHARES HELD
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Cost of own shares held
At 1 January 1.3 0.8
Shares purchased 0.3 0.5
Movement relative to shares vested under the restricted share plan (0.4) –
At 31 December 1.2 1.3
The cost of own shares held represents shares held by the British Polythene Industries Employee Share Ownership Trust to satisfy the Company’s liabilities under the
restricted share plan and the long-term incentive plan. The market value of the shares is £0.7 million (2006: £1.4 million).
Date of purchase/ Average Number Date of purchase/ Average Number
allocation purchase price of shares allocation purchase price of shares
2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006
Movements in the numbers of shares held
At 1 January 300,456 208,581
No of shares allocated to employees Various (89,625) Various (8,125)
Shares purchased Various £5.00 50,000 Various £4.27 100,000
At 31 December 260,831 300,456
14. DIVIDENDS
2007 2006
£’m £’m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 15.0p per share (2005: 15.0p) 4.0 3.9
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 7.0p per share (2006: 7.0p) 1.8 1.8
5.8 5.7
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 15.0p (2006: 15.0p) per share 4.0 4.0
The proposed final dividend of 15.0p (2006: 15.0p) per share will be paid on 9 May 2008 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 14 March 2008. 
The final dividend is to be approved by the shareholders on 8 May 2008 and has not been included as a liability at 31 December 2007.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 75 Notes to the UK GAAP Parent Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2007
76 Financial Statements
15. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The Company has guaranteed the bank overdrafts of certain subsidiaries amounting at 31 December 2007 to £14.1 million (2006: £5.3 million) including interest from 
time to time thereon. The Company also has an obligation under the Group VAT registration amounting at 31 December 2007 to £4.3 million (2006: £3.2 million).
16. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS
The Company considers the IFRS 2 Group disclosures found at note 30 to the consolidated financial statements to satisfy all FRS 20 disclosure requirements.
17 . PENSIONS
Defined Contribution Schemes
The assets of the defined contribution section of the British Polythene Pension Scheme and other defined contribution schemes are held separately from those of the
Group, being invested with a number of insurance companies.The pension charge includes contributions payable to the various insurance companies.
Defined Benefit Scheme
The Company is a member of a larger Group wide pension scheme providing benefits based on pensionable pay. As the Company is unable to identify its share of the scheme
assets and liabilities on a reliable and consistent basis, as permitted by FRS 17 “Retirement benefits”, the scheme is accounted for as if it were a defined contribution scheme. 
The Company made contributions of £0.2 million (2006: £0.2 million) in the year. There were no outstanding or prepaid Company contributions at either the beginning or the
end of the financial year. The assets of the defined benefit section are invested in a self-administered trust fund and hence are also separated from the Group’s business assets.
FRS 17 Disclosures
The Company considers the IAS 19 Group disclosures found at note 31 to the consolidated financial statements to satisfy all FRS 17 disclosure requirements.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt Accounts 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:49  Page 76
