 BRITISH POLYTHENE INDUSTRIES PLC   REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009
BRITISH POLYTHENE INDUSTRIES PLC
96 PORT GLASGOW ROAD, GREENOCK, PA 1 5 2UL
T: +44 (0) 1 475 50 1 000  F: +44 (0) 1 475 7 43 1 43 
WWW.BPIPOLY.COM
8
REPORT AND 
ACCOUNTS 2009 
BRITISH POLYTHENE INDUSTRIES PLC
BPI-100931 Cover.indd   1 BPI-100931 Cover.indd   1 8/4/10   21:20:36 8/4/10   21:20:36 REPORT BY DIRECTORS & BUSINESS REVIEW 
2 Group at a Glance 
4 Chairman’s Statement 
7 Risk Factors 
10 Key Performance Indicators 
14 Market Overview 
1 5 Chief Executive’s Review  
21 Strategy and Business Objectives 
24 Financial Review 
27 Corporate Social Responsibility Review
36 Board of Directors and Advisers 
37 Corporate Governance Report 
40 Directors’ Remuneration Report  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
46 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
47 Independent Auditors’ Report
48 Five-Year Record
49 Consolidated Income Statement
49  Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income
50 Consolidated Balance Sheet
51 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
52 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
53 Notes to the Consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
77 UK GAAP Parent Company Balance Sheet
78 Notes to the UK GAAP Parent Company
 ﬁ nancial statements
84 Information for Shareholders
CONTENTS
CAUTIONARY ST A TEMENTS
This document is addressed to shareholders of British Polythene 
Industries Plc and has been prepared solely to provide information to 
assist them in assessing the Company’s strategies and their potential 
for success, and to inform them of the Company’s performance during 
the year ended 31 December 2009. This document contains the Report 
by Directors and Business Review, the ﬁ nancial statements and the 
Independent Auditors’ Report. 
This document contains forward-looking statements based on 
knowledge and information available to the Directors at the date the 
document was prepared. Although the Directors’ expectations are based 
on reasonable assumptions, these statements should be treated with 
caution due to the inherent uncertainties underlying such forward-
looking information and any statements about the future outlook may 
be inﬂ uenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results 
to be materially di ﬀ erent.
COVER IMAGE
The Green Sack is 100% recycled with a high 
percentage of recycled farm ﬁ lms (such as silage 
wrap and crop cover) sourced from farms in the 
UK & Ireland. This means each Green Sack has 
far fewer ‘product miles’ than an imported refuse 
sack and this, combined with using 33% less 
material than standard refuse sacks without any 
reduction in quality, allows the Green Sack
®
 to 
claim the lowest carbon footprint of any refuse 
sack in the UK Market.
created by Navyblue
Choosing a paper that sits well with our environmental vision is
important to us. That’s why the cover and text pages are printed 
on FSC-approved paper which is 80% recycled. A paper where the
carbon impact is measured and balanced through the World Land
Trust, an ecological charity. The ﬁ nancial statements have been
printed on 100% recycled paper.
OUR CHOICE OF PAPER
100%
BPI-100931 Cover.indd   2 BPI-100931 Cover.indd   2 8/4/10   17:28:59 8/4/10   17:28:59 1
Financial Hig Hlig Hts t URn OVER  (£M)
PROFit BEFORE ta X  (£M)
before restructuring  
DiViDEn D PER s Ha RE (P)
Ea Rnings PER s Ha RE (P)
PROFit BEFORE ta X (£M)
Ea Rnings PER s Ha RE (P) 
before restructuring    
 425
 1 4.9
11 .0
 30 .36
11 .8
 38.60
 481  2008
 9.3  2008
 14.5  2008
 10.67  2008
 3.9  2008
 25.53  2008
 424  2007
 12.2  2007
 22  2007
 32.36  2007
 11 .5  2007
 34.26  2007
BPI Is the largest 
Pol ythene f Ilm 
Pro ducer I n e uro Pe – t he largest recycler of Polythene fil M in euro Pe. 
– a leading global su PPlier of agricultural fil M Products. 
–  a leading e uro Pean suPP lier of P ackaging for the P rotection  
of food and other goods. 
–  t he grou P has taken decisive action to eli Minate excess 
ca Pacity, reduce its cost base and Move the business towards 
More resilient and growing sectors. rePort by directors & business review 2
t he g rou P o Perates in three geogra Phic 
regions, uk & i reland, Mainland e uro Pe  
and n orth aM erica.
43% of the grou P’s sales are outside the uk.
gEO g Ra PHy 
UK & iRElan D
Aggregate Industries
Alcan Packaging
Associated British Foods
Birmingham City Council
Bord Na Mona
Britvic Soft Drinks
Bunzl
Camvac
Case New Holland
Coca Cola Enterprises
Glanbia
Grafton Group
Hanson
Haygrove
Knauf
Marshalls
McArthur Group
Mole Valley Farmers
National Health Service
Pregis
Premier Foods
Saint Gobain
Tarmac
Tesco
Travis Perkins
Veolia
Warburtons
Westland Horticulture
Wm Morrison
Wolseley
EUROPE
Borealis
Buma Handel BV
Coca Cola
Dow Chemicals
Ineos
Isover
Läderach Agro
McCain
Sabic
Verkoopkantoor Fybron
 
nOR tH amER ica Benco PolyFilm
BFG Supply Co
BWI Companies Inc
Donaghys Industries
Grain Bags Canada
Green-Tek
Griffin Greenhouse Supplies
La Coop Federee
United Farmers Of Alberta
Zwart Systems
tUR n OVER By ORigin OPERating P ROFit (before r estructuring c osts)
OPERating a ss Ets*
ma JOR c Ust OmERs 71% uk & ireland 
24% Mainland euroP e
5%  n orth aM erica
54% uk & ireland 
42% Mainland euroP e
4%  n orth aM erica
73% uk & ireland 
24% Mainland euroP e
3%  n orth aM erica
REPORt B y DiREct ORs & B Usin Ess R EViEW
g ROUP at a glanc E 
*  o perating assets comprise non-current assets excluding 
deferred tax, inventory, trade and other receivables. rePort by directors & business review 3
w e sell our P roducts to a large nu Mber of 
custo Mers in a wide variety of Market sectors  
in M ore than 50 countries worldwide.
nearly 70% of our sales are in the M ore resilient 
sectors of agriculture & horticulture, retail 
food chain and services.
En D Us E ma RKEts tUR n OVER By s Ect OR
tUR nOVER By DEstinatiO n ma RKEts 31% agriculture & horticulture
29% r etail f ood c hain
9% s ervices
1 4%  industrial
1 2% construction
 5%  n on-food retail
57% uk 
 7% f rance
  7%  belgiu M
 6%  s candinavia 
 5% netherlands
 4% r ePublic of ireland
 3% ger Many
 3% usa
2%  c anada
6%  o thers
REtail F OOD cH ain Fresh produce
Frozen foods
Cans & bottles
Bakery products
Refuse sacks
Transit packaging
a g Ric UltURE & 
HORtic Ult URE
Silage products
Greenhouse films
Field covers
Peat & compost 
Animal feed
Fertiliser
cO nstRUctiO n Builders merchants
Brick & block
Aggregates
Insulation
Cement
inDU stR ial
Polymer
Additives
Speciality chemicals
Minerals
Container liners
sERV ic Es Health authorities
Local government
Catering
Janitorial
Waste contractors
nO n-F OOD REtail
Mailing bags for on-line retailers
Furniture & carpets
Mailing film
Transit packaging rePort by directors & business review 4
c Hai Rman ’s stat EmEnt 
2009 Produced a good outturn for the g rouP , des Pite 
conditions re Maining as challenging as 2008, with 
volatile in Put costs and reduced de Mand fro M certain 
sectors, P articularly those de Pendent on activity  
in the construction industry.
t he P reviously re Ported decisive actions taken to  
reduce excess ca Pacity in the industrial Part of our  
uk business have resul ted in a reduction in losses fro M 
these activities. co Mbined with a continuing steady 
Perfor Mance fro M the resilient agricultural and retail 
food sectors and reduced uk energy costs, we have, as 
Previously indicated, P roduced results considerably 
ahead of 2008. 
we ex Pect a continuing good P erfor Mance in 2010,  
but econo Mic and business risks re Main, and we are 
therefore reco MMending that the re Maining dividend 
Pay Ment for the year continues at the sa Me level as  
for 2008. w e continue to believe that it is P rudent to 
Preserve cash and Maintain a strong balance sheet  
at the Present ti Me.  rePort by directors & business review 5
2009 produced a good outturn for the Group, 
despite conditions remaining as challenging  
as 2008, with volatile input costs and reduced 
demand from certain sectors, particularly  
those dependent on activity in the  
construction industry.
The previously reported decisive actions taken  
to reduce excess capacity in the industrial part  
of our UK business have resulted in a reduction  
in losses from these activities. Combined with  
a continuing steady performance from the resilient 
agricultural and retail food sectors and reduced UK 
energy costs, we have, as previously indicated, 
produced results considerably ahead of 2008. 
We expect a continuing good performance in 2010, 
but economic and business risks remain, and we 
are therefore recommending that the remaining 
dividend payment for the year continues at the 
same level as for 2008. We continue to believe that 
it is prudent to preserve cash and maintain a strong 
balance sheet at the present time. 
REs Ults Total volumes for the year were 275,000 tonnes 
(2008: 305,000) reflecting the first full year of 
volume loss from the construction sector and the 
continuing drive from the retail sector to reduce 
the volume of packaging they consume by 
specifying thinner and stronger polythene films.  
In this respect, measurement of our activity by 
volume alone can be misleading, as we continue 
to enjoy a similar, or even greater, market share; 
but of products which are thinner and lighter.
On sales of £425 million (2008: £481 million), 
operating profit, before net restructuring costs, 
increased to £1 9.0 million (2008: £1 2.6 million).
Operating profits were not impacted so greatly  
by unpredictable energy costs and, although  
raw material costs continued to be volatile,  
they remained at lower levels than during the 
summer of 2008.
A major improvement in our operating profits 
came from the reduction in costs in the industrial 
part of our UK business and, in particular, the 
decision to close our Stockton site which was 
highly dependent on the supply of packaging  
to the construction industry. 
Net restructuring costs of £3.1 million (2008:  
£5.4 million) reflect closure and redundancy costs 
in our UK and European businesses. £1 .7 million  
of the above costs were incurred in the phased 
closure of the facility at Stockton with the balance 
mainly on the closure of our Cowdenbeath plant 
and restructuring at our Hardenberg plant in  
the Netherlands. 
Net borrowing costs reduced from £4.2 million to 
£2.7 million. Average borrowings were lower due 
to a combination of lower input costs, improved 
trading and working capital control. Interest 
charges also benefitted from lower interest rates 
during the period. A change in the assumed 
impact of pension financing, from a credit of 
almost £1 million to a charge of £1 .4 million, 
resulted in the annual charge for net financing 
costs increasing from £3.3 million to £4.1 million.
The profit before tax was £1 1 .8 million (2008: £3.9 
million). Diluted earnings per share were 30.36p 
(2008: 10.67p). Diluted earnings per share, before 
restructuring costs, were 38.60p (2008: 25.53p).
DiViDEnD
The Board has decided to change the timing of the 
remaining dividend payment for 2009, in advance 
of changes in personal taxation after 5 April.
Accordingly, the Board is declaring a second 
interim dividend for the year of 7.5p per share  
for the year ended 31 December 2009 (2008: no 
second interim), and will not be recommending 
the payment of a final dividend for the year  
(2008: 7.5p), making a total for the year of 1 1 .0p 
(2008: 1 4.5p). 
This second interim dividend is payable on  
31 March 2010, to shareholders on the register  
at the close of business on 1 2 March 2010. 
The Board intends to return to last year’s  
payment schedule for any dividends which  
may be paid in respect of the trading year 2010, 
with the interim payable in November 2010 and 
the final in July 201 1 . 
c as H Fl OW an D BORROWings The Group generated pleasing levels of cash in 
2009 and we were successful in reducing debt. 
Operating cash flow from trading amounted to 
£27.6 million and improvements in working capital 
generated a further £1 5.1 million. Net capital 
expenditure absorbed £1 2.7 million and interest, 
tax, and dividends a further £8.6 million. Year-end 
foreign currency borrowings dropped by some 
£2.4 million on translation. Accordingly, we were 
able to lower borrowings by £23.8 million to £52.2 
million which is excellent progress. We expect 
borrowings to reduce further in the current year.
Capital expenditure for 2010 is currently  
envisaged to be some 20% higher than 2009, 
which was marginally behind expectations, due  
to postponement in delivery of certain large items 
of spend at Ardeer. Major items of expenditure  
for 2010 include a new line at Ardeer for the 
manufacture of wide agricultural and horticultural 
films; upgrading of the plant at Bromborough  
to increase production of thinner stronger films; 
an out-of-line tube former for industrial packaging 
at Hardenberg; and a new printing press at Zele  
to build on their success in supplying high quality 
printed film to the food packing industry. 
gROUP P Ensi On s c HEmE
The IAS 1 9 deficit in the pension scheme increased 
to £57 million (2008: £26 million). Whilst we saw a 
recovery in asset values this increased deficit was 
driven by higher assumptions on the rate of future 
inflation and a reduction in the assumed discount 
rate applied to the liabilities of the scheme.
c am EROn mc l atc HiE  
cHai Rman rePort by directors & business review 6
Following a review of investment strategy,  
a change was made to the structure of the 
investments in the Scheme. All direct equity 
investments were sold, and the Scheme now 
holds equity futures to the same value, with 
physical assets held in cash, corporate bonds  
and index-linked gilts. 
A small allocation remains in absolute return 
assets. This strategy is designed to de-risk  
the investment profile, whilst maintaining  
the potential upside of returns from the  
equity markets. 
BOaRD cH ang Es On 24 July, the Board appointed David Harris as 
Group Finance Director following the resignation 
of Anne Thorburn who left to take up an opportunity 
within the private equity sector. David joined BPI  
in 1 996 and has been employed in a number of 
financial and general management roles during  
his career with the Group. In his previous role as 
Managing Director of our UK industrial operations, 
he was involved in the significant restructuring  
of those operations. 
On 1 8 August, the Board appointed David Warnock 
as an independent Non-Executive Director of  
the Company. David has 30 years’ investment 
experience in both public and private companies, 
in both the UK and USA. He co-founded Aberforth 
Partners LLP and was a partner for 1 9 years until 
he retired from the firm at the end of 2008. Prior  
to Aberforth he was with Ivory and Sime plc and  
3i plc. David is Non-Executive Director of Phoenix 
IT Group plc, Standard Life European Private 
Equity Trust plc and City Health Clinic Group Ltd. 
gROUP D EVEl OPmEnt 2009 was dominated by the run-down of our 
Stockton facility. 
With over 30,000 tonnes of capacity to move  
to other Group sites, this closure was always 
envisaged as a major exercise with over 10,000 
different individual specifications to transfer. With 
minor differences in packaging standards at our 
various plants, this led to some issues during the 
second quarter in transferring sack production  
to Ardeer and Greenock. These issues have  
now been addressed and many customers have 
commented on the improved standard of print 
quality they are now receiving from Ardeer.
We are now in the process of transferring industrial 
film production and we anticipate completing that 
exercise by the end of March. The last machine 
running at Stockton will be the wide line that 
manufactures agricultural and horticultural films. 
Due to the potential difficulty in moving this very 
large line, and also the changes in specifications 
which have occurred since it was installed over  
20 years ago, we took the decision to install a new 
line at Ardeer, as a replacement for the Stockton 
line, at a cost of some £4.5 million.
This new five-layer co-extrusion line will be one  
of the largest film lines in the world, with capacity 
of over 1 5,000 tonnes per annum and capable of 
producing films up to 25 metres wide. It will be 
capable of covering all the specifications of the  
old Stockton line and gives us 5,000 tonnes of 
extra capacity in a market which has proved very 
resilient during the current recession. We currently 
anticipate that this line will be in production by  
the end of June, by which time we will have ceased 
all activity at Stockton.
During the year, we commenced manufacture  
of mailing bags for mail order and on-line retailers, 
a sector in which we did not have a presence. This 
followed an investment at our Swansea facility and 
has been supported by transfer of equipment 
from Stockton and new capital expenditure on 
both extrusion, print and conversion equipment.  
It is our intention to invest further in this activity 
and broaden the scope of what we can offer  
to this growing sector.
In January this year, we announced our intention 
to close our film extrusion plant at Brampton  
and transfer the work to other Group sites.  
Despite the efforts of a loyal and competent 
workforce, changes in specification to thinner 
films, combined with an out-dated factory layout 
with low roof height, made it more and more 
difficult to remain competitive. A drop in demand 
for suitable product during 2009 drove us to  
the conclusion that there was no viable future  
for that plant. The closure costs of £0.6m will  
be charged in the 2010 accounts. 
It is currently anticipated that the restructuring 
costs for 2010 will be offset by a gain on the sale  
of the Stockton site.
Ra W mat ERial cO sts A year ago we indicated that raw material prices 
had fallen dramatically and that we envisaged  
a period of relative stability at these lower levels.
Notwithstanding that worldwide demand  
had fallen, and that the polymer producers had 
brought on massive new capacity, we failed to 
allow for the fact that the supply of ethylene and 
ethane, the raw materials for polyethylene, was 
now firmly in the hands of oil companies, rather 
than the polymer producers. Despite reduced 
demand, they have managed to keep the price  
of ethylene at a fairly high level, thereby forcing 
polymer producers to pass on these costs to 
polymer users and thereafter to the consumer. 
Prices have crept back up, but thankfully not to  
the levels we experienced in the summer of 2008. 
There is currently insufficient demand to support 
further price increases, but pricing of these input 
costs does not seem to be following market forces 
and we have experienced increases in January  
and February.
En ERgy cO sts One consequence of the recession has been the 
reduction in demand for energy in the UK. This  
has resulted in more stable pricing for electricity  
in the short-term, although sadly there is not  
yet any confirmation that sufficient generating 
capacity will actually be built in the UK to cope 
with demand after this recession has ended.  
We are managing these costs as well as we can 
but further price spikes are inevitable in the UK 
market in the coming years. At the present time 
we have covered our energy costs for 2010 and 
the early part of 201 1 .
PROs PEcts an D cURRE nt tR a Ding As with last year, the defensive sectors of the 
business – agriculture, retail food and related 
transit packaging, healthcare and refuse sacks  
– currently remain resilient.
We are still experiencing reduced demand from 
the remainder of our business – construction, 
industrial and non-food retail – but it is getting  
no worse, and with our capacity more in line with 
this demand, we expect to stem the losses from 
the industrial part of our UK business by the end  
of June. After that time, we should start to see the 
full benefits of the Stockton closure. In order to 
continue supporting customers, while we relocate 
major items of plant to Ardeer, additional operating 
costs will continue during the first half of 2010  
at Stockton.
The UK and Irish markets are in the grip of a 
prolonged recession for their construction industries, 
with little sign of any light on the horizon. 
Parts of the UK public sector now face many  
years of reduced spend and this could easily result 
in reduced demand for some of our products.
We have been successful in winning new business 
in the UK bread bag market and are making inroads 
to the UK mail order and on-line shopping market.
When the new wide film line is in operation at Ardeer, 
we have opportunities in agriculture and horticulture 
that we were previously not able to service although 
this is unlikely to have an impact until 201 1 .
We are, therefore, faced with many challenges  
and some opportunities. 
It is also inevitable in the current economic situation, 
that some of our customers will have trading 
difficulties, resulting in decreased demand or worse.
It would, therefore, be imprudent not to have a 
sense of caution when looking at the potential 
outcome for 2010, but, at the same time, your 
Board is confident that the Group continues to 
take steps to produce the best results we can  
in what remains a very challenging market.
c am EROn mcl atcH iE
cHai Rman 1 March 2010
c Hai Rman ’s stat EmEnt   rePort by directors & business review 7
Ris K Fact ORs bPi May be affected by a nu Mber of risks, not all of which are 
within our control. o utlined below is a descri Ption of so Me  
of the factors that M ay affect our business. o ther factors,  
in addition to those listed below, M ay also adversely affect the 
grou P . t he Process that bPi has in Place for Managing these risks 
is described in the cor Porate g overnance r ePort on P age 37.
Ris K DEsc RiPtiO n mitigatiO n POOR Ec On Omic cO n DitiO ns The Group is exposed to a variety of market sectors which may be affected,  
to a greater or lesser extent, by the continuing adverse economic conditions. 
Around two thirds of the business is in the retail food chain, agriculture and 
horticulture, healthcare and waste services sectors which, so far, have remained 
more resilient to the economic downturn. The remainder of the business is in 
construction, industrial and non-food retail. These sectors suffered a significant 
downturn during 2008 and the first half of 2009. The major geographical 
markets are UK, France, Belgium, Scandinavia, Netherlands, Ireland and North 
America. Reduced demand leads to lost contribution, but can also put pressure 
on margins as competitors fight for remaining volumes. For analysis of sales  
by market and geographical sector, see page 3.
–  Reduce production capacity to align with demand. The closure of the 
Stockton facility, which was heavily dependent on the construction sector 
was announced in 2008 and is ongoing. During 2009 we took action to 
close a small site in order to make best use of the capacity in our smaller 
manufacturing operations. In January 2010 we have announced the 
closure of our Brampton facility in response to poor volumes which will 
ensure greater capacity utilisation. We have also taken actions to reduce 
the cost base of our remaining operations.
 c Ust OmER Fail UREs 
In the poor economic climate, the risk of customer insolvency is increased. –  Increased focus on credit assessment and prompt action  
on overdue accounts.
–  Some accounts are credit insured, particularly in Europe and in the 
agricultural sector.
 Ra W mat ERial PR ic Es The Group’s main raw material, polymer, is subject to volatility on a month  
by month basis due to fluctuating prices for ethylene and, to a lesser extent 
oil. Supplier actions can also influence prices due to maintenance periods  
and breakdowns at their production plants. This creates a risk of erosion  
in margins if price increases cannot be passed through immediately  
to customers. Whilst they did not recover to the unprecedented levels 
experienced in 2008, during 2009 polymer prices remained at high levels. 
–  Centralised Group purchasing arrangements to ensure the best  
purchase price.
– Co-ordinated instructions to sales teams on forward pricing.
– Some linkage of customer pricing to polymer price indices.
–  Management of stock levels depending on anticipated price movements.
– Ability to hedge using London Metal Exchange futures contracts, but  
 currently very limited due to lack of liquidity.
 En ERgy c Osts As a process business and a significant user of energy, our results can  
be affected by major price movements.
– Monitor energy prices and buy forward when advantageous.
– Group energy saving programme implemented on each  
 manufacturing site.
 WEat HER cO n Diti Ons 
A number of our products are dependent on seasonal weather conditions 
and certain weather conditions could lead to reduced volumes.
– Geographical spread of markets.
– Diversification of product portfolio.
– Controlled stock build for seasonal products.
 FOREign E Xc Hang E Ris K 
As we operate in several non UK countries, have considerable exports from the 
UK and our main competitors are based in Europe, we are exposed to medium 
term movements in exchange rates, particularly the euro and the US dollar.
– Hedging of known currency exposures.
–  Transfer production among Group sites in UK, Europe, North America  
and China, where possible.
 PERc EiVED En ViROnm Ental iss UEs 
While polythene film is the most lightweight durable packaging medium, 
perceptions continue to exist that it is environmentally unfriendly which, 
together with adverse comments on plastic and packaging, could lead  
to changes in customer preference.
–  Communication and education efforts with customers and others  
to dispel some of the myths.
 REg UlatiO n 
Our business is subject to regulation in many countries and this can impact 
on our performance. The most recent example of this was with the European 
Commission Anti-Dumping Duties on certain products from China.
–  Monitor new and existing legislation and train staff accordingly. Engin EERED t O  
g O t HE Distanc E
WRaPsmaR t lOUis E aP lin maRKE ting manag ER, 
BPi Unit ED King DOm an D iRElan D
 “bPi is committed to being a market orientated 
business. it’s this approach that allowed us to develop 
products like wrapsmartultra
®
, a pallet stretchwrap 
which offers operational efficiencies and reduced 
environmental impact. it’s also something that’s 
recently been recognised with a nomination for  
a c hartered institute of Marketing a ward.”
In today’s environmentally aware times, retailers and 
manufacturers are under increasing pressure to adopt 
greener products and working practices. In response 
to this, the Wrapsmart
®
 pallet stretchfilm range 
was developed to help organisations minimise their 
environmental impact. These cutting-edge products 
draw on advanced polymer science and extrusion 
technology to offer all the performance of a 1 4 micron 
film from films just half that thickness. What makes this 
significant is that half the film by volume is required 
to wrap a given load and in turn, less packaging waste 
(which is 1 00% recyclable) is created.
www.wrapsmart.co.uk  rePort by directors & business review 10
after r estructuring before r estructuring
30.36
KEy PERFORmanc E in Dicat ORs t he g rou P utilises the following indicators of P erfor Mance to assess its 
develo PMent against its strategic, financial and o Perational objectives.
it should be noted that we have added an additional M easure of return  
on ca Pital e MPloyed. t his is an i MPortant financial bench Mark for both 
decision M aking and P erfor Mance evaluation.
Financial KE y PERFORmanc E in Dicat ORs s tR atE gic RatiO nalE
 Operating profit per tonne is the most significant measure of operating 
performance for the Group. We relate performance to the volume  
of sales rather than the value of sales because the latter can be highly 
volatile due to fluctuating raw material prices.
DEFiniti On an D calc Ulati On The definition of operating profit is profit before restructuring costs as 
shown on the face of the income statement. Sales volumes were 275 
ktonnes in 2009 (2008: 305 ktonnes).
s tR atE gic RatiO nalE
 Earnings per share is important to our shareholders because it is one 
of the major factors which determine shareholder value. It is one of 
the measures on which senior management is rewarded through our 
LTIP plan.
DEFiniti On an D calc Ulati On Diluted earnings per share is profit either before or after restructuring 
costs and after tax divided by the diluted average number of  
ordinary shares and is calculated on the same basis as Note 8  
to the financial statements.
OPERating PROF it PER t Onn E (£000/tonne) Dil Ut ED Ea Rnings PER s Ha RE (Pence)
2009
2008 
2007
2009
2008 
2007
2009
2008 
2007
2009
2008 
2007
69
46
41
after r estructuring before r estructuring
after r estructuring before r estructuring
38.60
10.67
25.53
32.36
34.26
s tR atE gic RatiO nalE
 Dividend cover is important to many of our shareholders as a measure 
of our ability to maintain the payment of a dividend.
DEFiniti On an D calc Ulati On Dividend cover is diluted earnings per share after restructuring costs 
divided by the proposed annual dividend per share.
s tR atE gic RatiO nalE
 Return on capital employed is one of our key financial benchmarks 
used when evaluating capital investments. It is the primary measure 
for executive bonus targets.
DEFiniti On an D calc Ulati On Return on capital employed is operating profit expressed as a 
percentage of average monthly capital employed. 
 
Capital employed is property, plant and equipment plus other 
intangible assets, investments, inventories, trade and other receivables, 
less trade and other payables and deferred government grants.
DiViDEn D c OVER (tiMes) REt URn O n ca Pital E mPl OyED (%) 
2.76
1 .76
1 .56
3.51
0.74
1 .47
10.9
13.0
9.6
10. 1
4.7
8.1 rePort by directors & business review 11
2009
2008 
2007
2009
2008 
2007
2009
2008 
2007
OPERati Onal KE y PERFORmanc E in Dicat ORs s tR atE gic RatiO nalE
 We monitor electricity usage per tonne as part of our overall 
environmental policy of minimising our use of resources and also  
as a means of controlling a significant input cost for the business.
 
 There was an increase in usage per tonne in 2009, mainly due  
to inefficiencies caused by reduced volumes. This is explained  
further on page 30.
DEFiniti On an D calc Ulati On Electricity usage is consumption in kilowatt hours per tonne  
of production output.
s tR atE gic RatiO nalE
 As a relatively labour intensive business, absenteeism can be a 
significant cost and lost opportunity for the Group. We monitor 
absenteeism by site and for the Group as a whole.
This is the third consecutive year that we have recorded the lowest  
rate of absenteeism in the business and compares favourably with  
other manufacturing businesses in the UK and Mainland Europe.
DEFiniti On an D calc Ulati On Absenteeism is expressed as the number of hours of absence as a 
percentage of annual contractual hours. Absence is defined as time off 
through illness or authorised at the discretion of management along 
with any unauthorised non-attendance. It does not include any legal  
or contractual absence from work.
 s tR atE gic RatiO nalE
 As a manufacturing business with a very rigorous focus on Health and 
Safety issues we measure lost time accidents for each site and benchmark 
against the rest of the Group and other manufacturing businesses. 
 Our LTA rate for 2009 is similar to the rate for all plastics and rubber 
manufacturers published by the Health and Safety Executive. Our 
business, however, has a significant element of recycling and our 
performance compares very favourably with other recycling businesses.
DEFiniti On an D calc Ulati On Lost time accidents are accidents that cause employees to be unavailable  
for normal duties for more than three consecutive days. The rate is 
expressed as the number of accidents per 1 00,000 hours worked.
ElE ctR icity Usag E (k wh/tonne) 
aB s Ent EEism (%) 
lO st tim E acci DEnts (accidents/ 1 00k hours)
697
3.1
0.5
679
3.2
0.5
675
3.2
0.5 DEVEl OPED t O  
ma KE an im Pact nOV 8
®
 s HRinK Film
www.nov8shrinkfilms.com
8
Nov8
®
 is a recyclable, downgauged shrink film which 
offers all the performance of conventional shrinkwrap – 
but from a thinner film thickness. This thinner profile not 
only provides more film per reel – and the ability to wrap 
more items – but also means fewer stoppages for reel 
changes which increases machine and operator efficiency. 
Greater reel lengths also cut down on the number of film 
deliveries required and the associated vehicle emissions. 
In addition to all of these functional benefits, Nov8
®
 
delivers a high impact finish which makes a distinct 
impression on the retail shelf.
JUliE mcKay
sE niOR salE s cORRE s POnDE nt,  
BROmBOROUg H, BPi Unit ED King DOm an D iRElan D
 “at bPi we apply our long experience to create packaging 
solutions which have a real impact both in terms of 
protecting goods and differentiating them in the retail 
environment. Developing films like Nov8
®
, a recyclable 
shrink film which reduces waste and can be photo 
quality printed, carries a satisfaction all of its own. 
Products like this are made possible by our ongoing 
investment in technology like the two ten colour 
Comexi flexigraphic printing presses recently installed 
at our site in worcester. it’s good to know that we are 
helping to enhance our customers’ businesses.”  rePort by directors & business review 14
t he e uro Pean P olythene fil M extrusion M arket is esti Mated at over 7 
Million tonnes and is highly frag Mented with no individual business 
having M ore than 5% of the M arket. t he M arket is characterised by strong 
regional Players and a nu Mber of Product s Pecialists. t otal volu Mes fell 
in 2008 due to the i MPact of the global recession and a further reduction 
is ex Pected in 2009. t he reduction was M ore M arked in w estern e uro Pean 
econo Mies with the uk and sP ain seeing the shar Pest declines due to the 
colla Pse of the housing and Pro Perty Markets. 
Major end use applications include the protection 
of goods in transit using stretchfilm, collation 
shrinkwrap and pallet shrinkwrap. Stretchfilm  
has enjoyed good growth rates, as in most cases,  
it is the most cost-effective solution. The main 
process is cast technology although the blown 
film process has greater flexibility to tailor films  
to particular needs and is mainly used for silage 
films and, increasingly, stretch hoods. 
Bags and sacks are a major sector with a wide 
variety of uses from small coin bags to carrier bags, 
to heavy duty sacks for chemicals and animal feed. 
Carrier bag production in Europe has declined 
because of increasing volumes of imported bags 
and environmental pressures to reduce their 
usage. The heavy duty sack market is moving to 
continuous form, fill and seal processes which are 
replacing individual open mouth and valve sacks. 
There are still a large number of paper sacks in use 
and market sectors such as animal feed, pet food 
and cement are increasingly under pressure to 
move to polythene sacks. The refuse sack market 
continues to be resilient despite downgauging  
and movements to wheelie bins and communal 
containers. A high proportion of refuse sacks  
are made with recycled materials. 
The growth in flexible films for food packaging has 
been driven by changing consumer demands with 
the requirement for extended shelf life for fresh 
food and less spoilage leading to the development 
of more sophisticated products.
Non-packaging uses for polythene films are 
primarily in building, agricultural and horticultural 
applications, including damp proofing and film 
used for silage, mulch wrap and greenhouse 
covers. Greenhouse film has been growing due  
to increasing demand to extend the growing 
season of many varieties of fruit and vegetables. 
Construction film volumes have declined due  
to the collapse of construction related markets. 
The nature of the polythene film industry is such 
that a significant proportion is manufactured as 
film on the reel which is then sold to converters  
for a wide variety of other applications.
The implementation of the EU Packaging  
Directive has also influenced the development of 
the industry with companies required to recover 
packaging waste and, therefore, encourage the 
demand for reduced weight of packaging.
  
 
 
 
Polymer, the main raw material, is produced as  
a downstream product from the oil industry with 
the main suppliers being the large multinational  
oil and petrochemical companies. There are only 
1 4 producers of LDPE/LLDPE remaining in Europe 
and the top 7 account for over 85% of European 
capacity. Raw material prices have always been 
volatile due to supply and demand and the 
influence of oil and ethylene prices. Increases in  
oil and ethylene prices, combined with increasing 
demand from the Far East, particularly China, have 
contributed to a steadily rising polymer price over 
the last five years. The average polymer price per 
annum has increased every year since 2002 
reaching an all time high in 2008. Substantial 
increases during 2008 led to a new peak in August 
2008 with Platts, the main published index, LDPE 
reaching £1,255 per tonne. 
A combination of the fall in oil prices, economic 
downturn and new capacity from the Middle East 
led to a collapse in polymer prices in the final 
quarter of 2008. However, LDPE prices climbed 
throughout 2009 to reach over £1,000 per tonne. 
The closure of a number of smaller LDPE plants in 
Europe, including one in the UK, was announced 
during 2009. Substantial investment has been 
made in the Middle East, including Iran, and 
significant additional capacity has come on 
stream from the end of 2009 with more expected 
during 2010 and 201 1 . A new LD plant in the UK 
has commenced operation at the start of 2010. 
The recycling industry has developed with over 
700,000 tonnes of process and post consumer 
waste recycled for use by the film extrusion 
industry in a variety of products.
Polythene film has been highly successful in 
substituting other materials within the packaging 
industry such as paper and aluminium, due to its 
superior characteristic of lightweight strength. 
The industry is now reaching a degree of maturity 
and recent years have been challenging with 
growth rates now averaging less than 2% per 
annum, caused by slower underlying economic 
growth, continuing downgauging of films and 
increased import penetration of converted bags 
from Asia. Rising raw material and other input 
costs, increased imports and price pressure from 
customers have all combined to put pressure  
on margins. 
aVER ag E POlym ER PRic Es:
FIVE YEAR COMPARISON (£/TONNE)
Oil P Ric Es:
FIVE YEAR COMPARISON ($/BARREL)
maRKE t OVERViEW
mOnt Hly P Olym ER PRic Es:
FIVE YEAR COMPARISON (£/TONNE)
 cH iEF EXEc Uti VE’s REV iEW
 
grouP o Perating P rofit, before restructuring costs, 
recovered fro M £1 2.6 Million to £1 9.0 M illion due to 
reduced in Put costs including uk energy costs. overall 
volu Mes fell below 2008 as we felt the full i MPact of  
the econo Mic downturn including the reduction in  
uk construction related activity. t he decisive actions 
taken during 2008 reduced our o Perating costs and  
this, co Mbined with exchange rate benefits, contributed 
to the i MProve Ment in o Perating P rofits.
we have taken decisive action to eli Minate excess 
ca Pacity, reduce our cost base and Move our business 
towards More resilient and growing sectors. rePort by directors & business review 16
BUsinE ss OVERViEW
Group operating profit, before restructuring costs, 
recovered from £1 2.6 million to £1 9.0 million due 
to reduced input costs including UK energy costs. 
Overall volumes fell below 2008 as we felt the full 
impact of the economic downturn including the 
reduction in UK construction related activity.  
The decisive actions taken during 2008 reduced 
our operating costs and this, combined with  
exchange rate benefits, contributed to the 
improvement in operating profits.
Ra W mat ERial PR ic Es 2009 proved to be another year of raw material 
price volatility with the LD Platts price index 
showing price increases in 9 out of 1 2 months. 
Prices did not, however, reach the heights of 
August 2008 and were on average below 2008.
The expected volume from the Middle East did  
not arise as continued technical and installation 
problems delayed the start up of new plants.  
This capacity is now beginning to start up and, 
while deliveries remain unreliable, we should see  
a greater impact in 2010. A number of European 
suppliers took decisions in 2009 to close smaller 
uneconomic LDPE plants and supply will remain 
tight until the Middle East can deliver reliable 
regular supplies.
Pricing for many specialist polymers used to 
produce thinner products to enable downgauging 
no longer follows the commodity LDPE prices  
and it has become necessary to de-link sales 
pricing from the traditional published LDPE  
price references. The main UK price referencing 
organisation no longer seems to follow contract 
prices but is increasingly using traded prices for 
imports and has latterly been appearing to assess 
prices. This index is no longer considered reliable 
by many larger producers and converters. 
The outlook for prices in 2010 remains uncertain 
due to lack of demand as a result of the economic 
downturn and the new capacity from the Middle 
East. Polymer prices have, however, increased  
in January and February. 
The new UK LD plant in the North East of England 
was delayed again and is only now expected to 
start delivering commercial quantities in quarter  
1 of 2010 but not at the expected levels.
sal Es an D ma Rgins Total sales fell by 1 2% to £425 million reflecting  
the reduction in volumes and lower raw material 
prices. Sales to destinations outside the UK  
now amount to 43%. Sales to the more resilient 
sectors of the retail food chain, agriculture and 
horticulture, healthcare and waste services moved 
up to nearly 70% of total sales.
Reduced input costs and lower operating  
costs led to a recovery in margins. The sales mix 
improved as we exited poorer margin business.  
We also benefitted from exchange rates as the 
weakness of sterling helped UK export volumes 
and margins and made imports of product  
to the UK more expensive.
En ERgy c Osts During 2009, UK electricity costs returned to 
much more sensible levels including the normal 
seasonal pattern of lower prices in summer. Our 
UK energy bill reduced as we saw lower volumes 
and did not incur the unprecedented costs  
of Q4 2008. UK electricity costs are now more  
in line with our European competitors although 
wholesale prices are still above those available  
in Scandinavia and Spain. 
The consolidation of ownership for the supply  
of electricity is leading to a less competitive 
market for UK industry. This, combined with the 
lack of investment in new capacity and concerns 
of security of supply, will lead to higher prices  
in the longer term.
UK energy prices for 2010 have now been fixed.
scR a P
Scrap prices remained more stable although 
availability remained difficult with over 70%  
of plastic packaging waste being exported for 
reprocessing overseas. Due to the lack of available 
good clean waste we continue to concentrate  
our recycling activities on the more difficult and 
heavily contaminated waste, including agricultural 
film waste.
salE s VOl UmEs Our total sales volumes of manufactured product 
fell from 305,000 tonnes to 275,000 tonnes as  
we experienced a significant reduction in demand. 
Volumes, as calculated by manufactured tonnage, 
fell by nearly 10% with the UK down by 1 1% due  
to the greater proportion of construction related 
activity and Europe down by only 5%. North 
America, despite its sales being mainly agricultural 
and horticultural, fell by 10%.
Sales volumes in the first quarter were poor as  
we continued to see low demand and evidence of 
continued destocking. The reduction in volumes 
against the previous year lessened in each quarter 
with the final quarter showing a small improvement 
over 2008.
We continued to see high levels of downgauging 
as the combination of environmental pressures 
and high polymer prices made customers demand 
thinner films.
REstRUct URing Our major focus of restructuring in 2009 was  
the gradual run down of operations at our 
Stockton plant whose closure was announced  
in November 2008.
Around 60 employees left in January as we 
commenced the run down of our heavy duty sack 
operations. The business was transferred to Ardeer 
and Greenock with the sack lines closing during 
quarter 2 and another 30 employees left during 
the summer. This transfer was not without difficulty 
and we suffered some quality issues during 
quarters 2 and 3 but Ardeer and Greenock are now 
processing the transferred production efficiently.
c HiEF EXEc UtiVE’ s REViEW
JOHn l anglan Ds  
cH iEF EXEc Uti VE rePort by directors & business review 17
The transfer of the Industrial film lines could not start 
until the extrusion hall was completed at Ardeer in 
November 2009. This transfer is now progressing 
and should be completed during quarter 2 of 2010.
We decided it was too difficult and costly to transfer 
our wide agricultural line and have commissioned 
a new line which should be installed during 
quarter 2 of 2010.
At the end of the year, some 44 production staff 
remained on the Stockton site.
Our data centre for our UK and North American 
operations was based at Stockton and we 
successfully moved this in November to a site  
at Tanfield Lea outside Durham.
We currently estimate that we should be able to  
exit Stockton at the end of the first half of 2010  
and avoid the continuance of duplicated costs.
In April, we closed our small loss making plant at 
Cowdenbeath in Scotland with the loss of 35 jobs.
In the UK, the Recycled Products part of our  
UK business successfully consolidated its sales 
operations into one office at Heanor and closed 
the sales offices at Rhymney and Rochdale.
In Europe, we closed our French sales office and 
reduced employee numbers at our industrial  
bag plant in Hardenberg in the Netherlands  
as it suffered from lower volumes and pressure  
on margins.
Elsewhere, we continued to take all necessary 
steps to reduce our cost base.
In January 2010, we announced the closure  
of our Brampton facility in Cumbria with the 
transfer of production elsewhere within the  
Group. The site had been marginal for several  
years with a significant deterioration in 2009  
due to lower volumes.
We cannot understate the amount of disruption  
all of these changes have made to the business 
and our employees continue to perform well 
under these very difficult circumstances.
ca Pital EXPEnDit URE
Total capital expenditure at £1 3 million was  
just below our depreciation charge and lower  
than planned. We completed the building of a 
warehouse at Ardeer and spent nearly £4 million  
in respect of building and machinery associated 
with the closure of Stockton. A second ten colour 
press was installed at Worcester and conversion 
equipment for mail order bags installed at Swansea. 
Expenditure in 2010 will include the completion  
of building work at Ardeer to house the new wide 
line for agricultural and horticultural film as well  
as the cost of the line.
stR atE gy
Our strategy is set out on page 21 and was 
progressed during 2009.
In the agricultural markets we:
–  Completed the installation of a new five layer  
line at Zele to provide additional capacity  
for silage stretchwrap and our new products 
Baletite
®
 and SilotitePro
®
. 
–  Approved the purchase of a five layer wide 
agricultural line at Ardeer to replace the old  
line at Stockton.
–  Researched the North American silage stretch 
market to provide the justification for installing  
a stretch line for silage in Canada. 
In the printed consumer markets we:
–  Installed a second ten colour printing press  
at Worcester.
–  Authorised a further printing press at Zele  
for installation in 2010.
–  Installed machinery at Swansea to service  
the market for bags for mail order and  
on-line retailers.
 
In Recycling we:
– Consolidated our sales offices at Heanor.
–  Developed our Green Sack™ brand  
of refuse sack.
–  Installed more conversion capacity  
for refuse sacks.
On the rationalisation of UK films and UK industrial 
sectors we:
–  Continued the phased run down at Stockton  
to focus production at Ardeer and Greenock.
–  Closed our loss making plant at Cowdenbeath  
in Scotland.
–  Announced the closure of our small plant  
at Brampton in Cumbria. 
KEy RElatiO ns HiPs The Group does not have any customers that 
amount to more than 3% of the Group turnover.
The Group purchases its main raw materials  
from a number of key suppliers including  
Dow, ExxonMobil and Sabic and has supply 
arrangements in place. All these suppliers  
have a number of plants both in Europe and the 
Middle East and alternative sources are available, 
except for some very specialised grades.  rePort by directors & business review 18
OUtl OOK
The current outlook remains uncertain but nearly 
70% of our sales are in the more resilient sectors  
of the retail food chain, agriculture and horticulture, 
healthcare and waste collection. 
UK energy prices have returned to more 
acceptable levels but we have experienced raw 
material price increases in January and February.
Exchange rate movements in the euro and US 
dollar remain in our favour in that they make  
our exports more competitive and make imports 
from these areas more expensive. 
We have taken decisive action to eliminate  
excess capacity, reduce our cost base and 
move our business towards more resilient 
and growing sectors.
There is no doubt that 2010 will be challenging, 
but we have taken positive action to prepare  
our business for these challenging times. 
OPERating REViEW 
EUROPE 
2009
 
£M
2008
 
£M
Operating Profit
before r estructuring c osts 8.0
 
7.3
r estructuring c osts (0.7) –
Profit from Operations 7.3 7.3
t onnes s old 59,200 62,300
Our European business comprises two 
manufacturing sites in Belgium, one manufacturing 
site in the Netherlands and a sales operation in 
France. The business specialises in the manufacture 
and sale of high quality printed film for the food 
industry, form fill and seal films (FFS) and heavy duty 
sacks, including valve bags and Waviblok for the 
chemical, construction, horticulture and fertiliser 
industries, pallet protection films including stretch 
hoods, insulation film, general industrial films and 
silage and packaging stretchwrap. Main markets  
are Belgium, the Netherlands, the North of France 
and Germany, except for silage stretch which  
is sold throughout Mainland Europe.
The reported sterling profit at £8.0 million was 
above 2008 due to the currency movement of  
the euro against sterling. The 2008 operating 
profit of €9.2 million was translated at an average 
rate of 1 .26 while the 2009 profit of €9.0 million 
was translated at an average rate of 1 .1 2. Lower 
profits arose due to reduced volumes.
This result was achieved against a very difficult 
economic background with poor demand from 
many sectors including agricultural. Overall volumes 
fell by 5% due to the reduction in industrial products 
but even agricultural products were down 4%. 
Total volume sales of silage wrap were below  
2008 due to unfavourable weather conditions  
in some markets and difficult exchange rate  
and credit concerns in others. Sales of our new 
products SilotitePro
®
 and Baletite
®
 commenced 
and, with an increased number of new balers in 
2010, we should start to see improved volumes. 
Baletite
®
 is a replacement for traditional round 
bale netting and SilotitePro
®
 is a new generation 
of silage film with improved economical and 
environmental properties and both will reinforce 
our market leading position in the silage wrap 
business. The continental silage market underwent 
change in 2009 as we saw consolidation among  
our customer base. Eastern European markets were 
difficult due to exchange rate and credit concerns. 
Elsewhere, we saw aggressive price competition  
as competitors tried to fill new capacity.
Sales of pallet protection film, insulation film 
and general purpose film were all down reflecting 
the poor economic background with this lack of 
volume putting pressure on margins. In particular, 
sales to the construction and insulation sectors 
were well down. 
Volume sales of printed film for the food industry 
including film for deep frozen vegetables and 
frozen chips were in line with 2008 despite a 
significant level of downgauging. Prospects have 
now been identified which should enable further 
growth in 2010. A replacement press has been 
authorised for installation in the summer of 2010  
to replace two older presses, improve efficiency 
and increase capacity. 
Industrial volumes were down on 2008 due to  
the slow down in the economy with customers  
in the building, fertilizer, salt and peat markets  
all suffering. Sales to the petrochemical sector 
were surprisingly close to 2008 as a number of 
customers exported to the Far East. All types of 
bags reduced in 2008 as the market continued to 
move to FFS. Margins were significantly reduced 
due to raw material price increases which were not 
reflected in the normal industry price references. 
Normal price references for the industry are to 
LDPE but the resins which enable the production 
of thinner films have become more expensive  
and the industry needs to respond by changing  
its pricing mechanism.
 
Total capital expenditure at £1 .7 million was  
down from £3.7 million but we completed the 
installation of our third five layer line at Zele in 
Belgium in quarter 1 of 2009. This will provide 
additional capacity to cope with growth and 
our new products. 
At Hardenberg, we installed emissions control 
equipment in our FFS factory and started the 
automation of packaging in our heavy duty 
factory. Work continued on developing a new 
computer platform to consolidate all our European 
operations onto one system. At Roeselare, we 
authorised a further investment in prestretch 
equipment which will enable us to produce  
a range of thinner products. 
Our UK and Ireland business consists of 1 6 UK 
manufacturing sites and 4 sales/service offices  
in the UK and Ireland. It also includes our plant in 
China as most of its production is currently sold  
in the UK.
Operating profits recovered due a combination  
of reduced input costs including energy, lower 
operating costs and benefits from exchange rates. 
The elimination of lower margin business also 
contributed to an improvement in margins.
Volumes fell 1 1% to 205,000 tonnes reflecting  
the economic downturn including the reduced 
activity in the construction sector. Total sales to 
the more resilient sectors accounted for nearly 
70% of sales with sales to the construction sector 
still amounting to 1 4%.
Our UK film products include a range of film on  
the reel for a variety of different markets and 
includes products such as stretchfilm, plain shrink 
film, printed shrink film, produce films, bread films, 
lamination films, liquid packaging films and surface 
protection films. Incorporating highly respected 
brand names such as Novatek
®
, Brithene
®
 and 
Surpreme
®
, the range of products provides secure 
cost-effective transit and primary packaging for 
the most demanding applications.
Sales of collation shrink wrap, which are mainly to 
the food and drink industries, fell by nearly 9% as 
we continued to develop a range of down gauged 
shrink films. We launched Nov8
®
 shrink film which 
offers the performance of a conventional shrink 
wrap but at a much thinner gauge and can be 
printed in up to eight colours.
 
Sales to the converter sector held up well as we 
experienced growth in volumes to the lamination 
and mailing/security sectors. 
Total volume sales of industrial stretch wrap  
were 5% down on 2008, mainly due to reduced 
volumes in blown hand rolls as we exited some  
low margin business and converted customers  
to our prestretch WrapsmartUltra
®
 product.  
The new WrapsmartUltra
®
 hand roll product is  
7 micron compared to our traditional hand roll  
at 1 2 to 1 7 micron and, therefore, uses nearly half 
the material. The new hand rolls offer the same 
strength and high performance levels as standard 
stretchfilm products, despite their ultra light 
weight and thinner gauge. We have successfully 
exported these products and have installed two 
c HiEF EXEc UtiVE’ s REViEW
UK & iRElan D 
2009
 
£M
2008
 
£M
Operating Profit
before r estructuring c osts 10.2
 
4.5
r estructuring c osts (2.4) (5.4)
Profit/(loss) from Operations 7.8 (0.9)
t onnes s old 205,000 230,000 rePort by directors & business review 19
machines in our Chinese factory to service the 
Australasian market. Sales of low margin blown 
machine film reduced as we concentrated on 
more speciality film products. Our cast lines 
continued to operate at close to capacity as 
exchange rate movements have made us more 
competitive against the European producers.  
The Bridgwater site is now fully focused on  
cast stretchwrap and operates as a low cost,  
high volume, high performance manufacturer  
of cast industrial stretchwrap. 
Sales of silage stretch were down on 2008 due  
to unfavourable weather conditions. In the UK,  
we have positioned ourselves as suppliers to the 
leading co-operatives and agricultural merchants 
who wish to sell our well marketed, branded,  
high quality silage film. We commenced sales  
of our next generation silage film, SilotitePro
®
, 
which offers farmers significant cost savings  
when making baled silage. The harsh winter of 
2009/2010 has resulted in farmers feeding large 
volumes of baled forage rapidly depleting their 
stocks which bodes well for our silage film sales  
in the summer of 2010. 
At Leominster, we completed the installation  
of the two new five layer blown lines and the  
two blown lines transferred from Bridgwater.
Volumes of silage sheet were down on 2008 as  
we lost export business at very competitive prices.
Sales of horticultural films were close to 2008  
with some re-cladding of tunnels in the UK due to  
a better year for growers. Export sales to Europe 
were down as we benefitted in 2008 from storms 
in Germany but this was offset by growing 
volumes to non European markets. The purchase 
of a new wide line will provide opportunities for 
the development of our more specialised films. 
We are the leading recycler of polythene films  
in the UK with an annual recycling capacity of 
nearly 70,000 tonnes. We recycle scrap from  
our own operations, used products taken back 
from customers and scrap purchased in the open 
market. We are also able to recycle the more 
heavily contaminated scrap, including agricultural 
films. Recycled material is used in the manufacture 
of construction films, including damp proof 
course, refuse sacks and rigid products.
Our construction business trades under the 
Visqueen Building Products brand and supplies 
construction films including temporary protective 
sheeting, damp proof membrane, damp proof 
course and a number of specialist products to  
the major builders merchants in the UK. Following 
the slow down in construction activity in the UK 
and Ireland, sales volumes fell by nearly 20% over 
the previous year with the reduction stabilising  
in quarter 3. While volumes for the construction 
industry remain uncertain, demand would now 
appear to have bottomed. Given weak demand 
and excess capacity, selling prices have remained 
highly competitive. Total export sales fell more 
significantly with sales to Ireland down over 50%. 
Our specification products business which had 
seen strong growth until 2008 reported sales 
down by 1 2% against 2008. Our specification 
products have been used on a number of high 
profile Olympic projects including the Olympic 
village and main stadium. 
Sales volumes of refuse sacks fell by over  
7% on 2008 reflecting down gauging as we 
continued to work with our customers to achieve 
environmental benefits and the continuing erosion 
of sack sales in the local authority market for 
domestic refuse collection. 
Sales of the Green Sack™, a 1 00% recycled product 
including UK farm waste, have continued to  
grow and are now stocked by a major UK retailer. 
Opportunities exist to target other retailers in both 
the UK and Europe.
At Heanor, we installed additional conversion 
machinery to increase capacity and enable  
us to produce tie/tie sacks.
Recycling volumes fell in the year reflecting the 
reduction in sales activity.
In Rhymney, the washing plant increased outputs 
and operated at a reasonable level enabling  
us to reduce the purchase of pellet from the 
external market. 
During the year we closed our Rochdale  
and Rhymney sales offices consolidating all 
construction, specification and Plaswood sales 
administration at Heanor. 
At Xinhui, production was reduced as some 
volume was returned to the UK. We installed two 
conversion machines to enable the production  
of Wrapsmart
®
.
Sales of converted products comprise sales from 
our print and conversion plants and serve a wide 
range of markets from construction to industrial 
to consumer.
Total sales volume of industrial packaging to the 
construction and industrial markets fell by 20%  
as our customers were badly affected by the 
economic downturn.
A wave of plant closures and extended  
shutdowns significantly reduced demand  
from the construction sector with volume sales 
down nearly 30%. Worst affected were brick  
and block sales which were down 40% followed  
by aggregates with demand for insulation film 
proving more resilient. 
Volumes were down in chemicals, fertiliser and 
animal feed although the cold winter has resulted 
in a promising start to 2010 for animal feed.
Sales to the furniture and bedding sector were 
down and we continued to see a move from bags 
to film on the reel. rePort by directors & business review 20
Sales to the horticultural industry were reasonable 
as we finished the year strongly. 
At Ardeer, we have now commissioned a 
backseam conversion line with in-line print which 
will enable us to supply packaging to the cement 
industry as it moves certain products from paper 
to polythene packaging.
Sales volumes at our small manufacturing sites fell 
due to their exposure to the construction industry 
which amounted to 25% of sales. We closed our 
small loss making site in Cowdenbeath in April and 
manufacture is now focused at Flint in Wales. Flint 
is being focused on higher added value business 
for the pharmaceutical and food sectors. 
In 2008, Swansea entered the market for the 
manufacture and supply of mailing bags for mail 
order and on-line retailers. We supported this by 
investment in extrusion, print and conversion and 
have secured a number of promising customers. 
While volumes were small in 2008, we intend to 
have an increasing share of this growing market. 
Sales from our small trading operation were in line 
with 2008. 
The Consumer plant at Worcester is involved in 
printing and converting plain film into packaging 
for the fresh produce, bread and other food 
markets. A second ten colour printing press was 
installed during the year. The plant now has two 
ten colour printing presses, seven eight colour 
printing presses and a laminator, making it one of 
the largest and most modern facilities in Europe.
Sales volumes were slightly down on 2008 as  
we saw significant down gauging as customers 
attempted to reduce the weight of packaging 
used. Pressure from supermarkets attempting  
to reduce costs led to a very competitive 
environment with business changing hands at 
significantly lower margins. This resulted in lower 
volumes and reduced margins. During the final 
quarter, we were successful in securing a major 
contract for bread bags and deliveries started  
in October.
Our consumer sector in China became busier  
as we exported bread and produce bags to 
Australasia and the Middle East as well as the UK.
Our pre-press and plate making business provides 
artwork, origination and plate making to Group 
businesses and to external customers. Overall 
sales were down in 2009, with lower demand from 
both internal and external customers, and the 
business recorded a small loss. 
Total capital expenditure on the UK was just  
over £1 1 million with over £6 million at Ardeer  
as we built a warehouse, an extrusion hall, 
transferred plant from Stockton and paid  
a deposit on the wide agricultural line.  
Around £0.8 million was also spent on  
upgrading our data centre and installing  
new telephone systems.
nOR tH amER ica 
2009
 
£M
2008 
£M
Operating Profit 0.8 0.8
t onnes s old 11,400 12,700
Our North American business comprises AT  
Films based at Edmonton in Canada. The main 
plant manufactures polythene film for the North 
American horticultural and agricultural markets 
and we also have a small conversion facility which 
folds and packs bags used for the storage of silage 
and grain.
Difficult economic conditions resulted in sales 
volumes being 10% down on the previous year. 
Construction related sales were down nearly 25%. 
In the greenhouse market new structure sales 
were significantly down and growers deferred 
replacement coverings. In the silage market, lower 
milk prices and focus on working capital led to 
more just-in-time ordering and lower volumes  
as stocks were used up. All customers reduced 
inventory levels to all time lows. Sales of grain 
bags, while ahead of 2008, did not progress as 
expected with growth in import competition.
Despite these lower sales volumes, good control 
over costs and benefits from exchange rates 
enabled the business to report maintained  
sterling profits.
Capital expenditure was minimal but a recycling 
unit has been transferred from the UK and will  
be operational in March 2010. We are currently  
in discussions with suppliers to install a line for  
the manufacture of silage stretch. 
Low stock levels at customers and the need to 
replace coverings on greenhouses provides some 
encouragement for a recovery of volume sales  
in 2010. 
c HiEF EXEc UtiVE’ s REViEW rePort by directors & business review 21
o ur strategy re Mained broadly unchanged in that we are  
a focused P olythene fil M business and intend to develo P  
our M arket leading P ositions as:
– t he largest recycler of Polythene fil M in euro Pe. 
– a leading global su PPlier of agricultural fil M Products. 
–  a leading e uro Pean su PPlier of P ackaging for the 
Protection of food and other goods. 
st Rat Egy an D BUsin Ess OBJE cti VEs tHE KE y El EmEnts OF OUR O ng Oing 
st Rat Egy a RE:
–  Develop the growth opportunities available in agricultural markets, recycling and printed  
consumer products.
– Develop our Mainland European, Chinese and North American operations.
– Restructure our UK films and UK industrial sectors.
– Continue the development of new added value products.
– Make  selected acquisitions, but only at the right price.
OUR PRima Ry Financial  
OBJEctiVE s a RE: 
–  To grow operating profits.
– To grow earnings per share.
– Improve our return on capital.
– Maintain a strong financial position. 
OUR ma JOR BUsin Ess OBJEcti VEs a RE: – To provide first class customer service by delivering high quality products at competitive prices.
– To be number 1 or number 2 in the major markets in which we operate. 
– To achieve organic growth in product areas and market sectors that continue to develop.
–  To invest in modern manufacturing equipment to enable us to develop new products, expand 
capacity in growing markets and improve added value and production efficiencies.
–  To aim for continuing product development to ensure we remain at the leading edge of  
technical advances.
–  To seek continual improvement in our operational performance and reduction in our cost  
base to ensure we remain competitive.
OUR st Rat Egy an D BUsin Ess 
OBJEcti VEs W ill ta KE acc OUnt OF :
– That the retention and development of our people is vital to the future success of our business.
–  That as a leading manufacturer and supplier of polythene, we have a responsibility to operate  
with due concern for the environment and communities in which we live and work, to  
minimise the impact of our activities on that environment, and make a positive contribution  
to those communities.
–  Our belief that we regard the health and safety of our employees as paramount and the prevention  
of accidents involving personal injury is essential to the successful operation of our business. www.atfilmsinc.com
PiOn EERED FOR  
DEmanD ing climat Es ag RiPac
®
 g 1 silag E Bag BEn O KEil
lE a D Film O PERat OR, 
at Films, BP i nOR t H a mERica “one thing you notice at at f ilms is a real sense 
of pride. everyone is proud to be part of an 
organisation whose attention to detail and thorough 
understanding of its customers’ needs results in 
products like a gripac
®
 g1 – a silage bag that’s tough 
enough to resist some of the harshest weather 
conditions in n orth a merica.”
Agripac
®
 G1 is a next generation, high performance  
silage bag which offers significantly increased tear 
strength, puncture resistance and dimensional stability 
both during and after filling. Field-tested in the most 
adverse winter weather conditions of North America, 
Agripac
®
 G1 withstood the elements and held up to  
the most rigorous handling in the field. Designed for  
high quality feed production, Agripac
®
 G1 provides  
a cost-effective crop storage solution which is quick  
and easy to erect.  rePort by directors & business review 24
REs Ults The consolidated financial statements for the 
Group, which are prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards,  
as adopted by the EU, are included on pages 49 
to 76. The individual financial statements of the 
parent company, British Polythene Industries 
PLC, continue to be prepared under UK GAAP 
and are shown separately on pages 77 to 83.
salE s Total sales reduced by 1 1 .6% to £424.7 million.  
The reduction in underlying volumes was lower  
at 9.6%. Average input costs were lower in 2009 
which accounts for the reduction in turnover 
being greater than the decline in volumes. This 
reduction in volumes was concentrated in the first 
half of the year with volumes in the final quarter 
slightly ahead of the same period in 2008.
OPERating P ROFit
Operating profit, before restructuring costs, 
increased from £1 2.6 million to £1 9 million.  
This represented a 68% increase in operating 
profit per tonne from £41/tonne to £69/tonne. 
This increased profitability combined with a 
reduction in working capital to enable return  
on capital employed (after restructuring costs)  
to improve from 4.7% to 10.9%.
Polymer prices rose in seven of the first nine 
months of the year to peak at £1,000 per tonne in 
September before reducing slightly in November. 
Lower energy costs and actions taken to restore 
margins have contributed to the improvement  
in operating profits.
The sterling exchange rate also had a favourable 
impact on performance both in terms of the 
competitiveness of the UK business and a 
translation benefit when restating the profits of 
the Mainland European business into sterling. 
REstRUct URing Restructuring costs continued to be incurred  
in 2009, although at a lower level than in 2008. 
The closure of Stockton is a long-term project 
and will not be completed until 2010. A small 
manufacturing site in Cowdenbeath and  
a sales office in France were closed and further 
restructuring was carried out at the Hardenberg 
plant in the Netherlands. 
t otal c ost c ash c ost n on-
cash 
cost
2008 
£M
2009 
£M
2008 
£M
2009 
£M
 
£M
stockton 4.0 1.7 – 2.0 1.7
o ther c osts 1.4 1.4 1.2 1.6 –
5.4 3.1 1.2 3.6 1.7
It is anticipated that the Stockton project will  
be concluded in 2010 and that £2 million of cash 
cost will be incurred in 2010. The non-cash cost  
is mainly asset impairment charged in 2008.
intERE st Net borrowing costs reduced from £4.2 million to 
£2.7 million. Average borrowings were lower due 
to a combination of lower input costs, improved 
trading and working capital control. Interest 
charges also benefitted from lower interest rates 
during the period. Interest cover improved from 
1 .7 in 2008 to 5.9 in 2009. Before restructuring 
costs, the improvement was from 3.0 in 2008  
to 7.0 in 2009.
t a XatiO n The UK corporation tax rate is 28%, the rate in 
Belgium is 34%, Netherlands 25.5% and Canada 
28%. The overall tax rate of 31% reflects the 
proportion of profits being generated in the  
more highly taxed locations. The 2008 charge 
was 28% having benefitted from the favourable 
settlement of a number of items relating to 
earlier years.
Ea Rnings P ER sH a RE
Diluted earnings per share, after all restructuring 
costs, improved from 10.67p to 30.36p.  
If restructuring costs are excluded,  
EPS rises to 38.60p (2008: 25.53p). 
DiViDEnD
The proposed second interim dividend of  
7.5p per share (2008: nil) is to be paid on 31 March 
2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 1 2 March 2010 making, with the first 
interim dividend of 3.5p per share (2008: 7p) paid 
on 1 8 November 2009, a total of 1 1p (2008: 1 4.5p) 
per share for the year. No final dividend will be paid 
(2008: 7.5p). Dividend cover is 2.8 times.
c as H Fl OW & BORROWings Cash generated from operations improved  
by £1 4.9 million to £42.7 million, which can be 
attributed to the improved operating result 
combined with a £1 5.1 million improvement in 
working capital. The management of working 
capital including control of stock levels and 
prompt recovery of debtors remains an area of 
particular focus. The lower average raw material 
costs also contributed to the improved working 
capital position.
Capital expenditure, including computer software, 
reduced by £1 .6 million to £1 3 million. Annual 
depreciation was £1 4 million. There were proceeds 
of £0.3 million from the sale of the Cowdenbeath 
site and some equipment sales. 
Net borrowings reduced by £23.8 million. A large 
proportion of Group debt is denominated in euros 
and lesser amounts in other currencies. Exchange 
rate movements contributed £2.4 million to the 
improvement in borrowings. These borrowings  
are maintained to hedge the net investment in 
overseas subsidiaries. The net debt to EBITDA  
ratio improved from 2.9 to 1 .6.
A £20 million private placement which was due  
for redemption in July 2009 was repaid early.
Financial REViEW
Da ViD Ha RRis  
gROUP F inanc E DiREct OR rePort by directors & business review 25
BORROWing FacilitiE s At the end of 2009 total available borrowing 
facilities were £106 million comprising a three year 
revolving credit facility of £57.5 million repayable 
in November 201 1, £40 million of short-term 
facilities and £8.5 million of HP and leasing 
facilities. These facilities provide sufficient 
headroom to finance the Group’s ongoing  
trading and restructuring plans.
liq UiDity Ris K
As highlighted in the section on Risk Factors on 
page 7, the continuing weak economic conditions 
are challenging, however the Directors believe  
that the performance of the Group in these 
circumstances is reasonable.
More than two thirds of the Group’s business  
is in sectors like retail food chain, agriculture, 
healthcare and waste services which have shown 
to be more resilient to the economic downturn. 
However, the possibility of further reductions in 
customer demand remains a risk. 
The risk of customer insolvency has also increased. 
However, customers are spread across a wide 
range of market sectors and geographical regions 
and no single customer represents more than  
3% of Group turnover. Some credit insurance is 
carried in Europe and in the agricultural sector.
Movements in exchange rates can also be a risk. 
Weakness of sterling, particularly against the  
euro, tends to be positive for Group performance. 
UK exports become more competitive and UK 
domestic sales are better protected against 
Mainland European competition. Also, profits from 
the Mainland European operations are worth more 
in sterling terms. However, euro denominated 
borrowings become higher in sterling terms albeit 
with compensating increases in related assets. 
Steps have been taken to restructure parts of the 
UK business to reduce capacity in line with current 
demand and reduce costs. Banking facilities are  
in place which provide sufficient headroom to 
support the Group’s trading and restructuring 
plans. The revolving credit elements of the facilities 
are repayable in November 201 1 and some of the 
asset finance lines extend beyond that. Short-term 
overdraft facilities are renewable on an annual 
basis. Where this renewal period falls within  
1 2 months, no matters have been drawn to the 
attention of the Directors to suggest that renewal 
will not be forthcoming on acceptable terms.
Further disclosures in respect of credit and 
liquidity risk management are included in  
Notes 1 5-1 7 to the financial statements.
 
gO ing cO nc ERn The Group’s projections, taking account of the 
risks outlined above, show that the Group should 
be able to operate within its current banking 
facilities. As a result, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason, they continue to adopt  
the going concern basis in preparing the  
financial statements.
tRE as URy POlicy
Borrowings are held in currencies other than 
sterling to provide a hedge against the net asset 
position in overseas subsidiaries and short-term 
trading assets and liabilities in subsidiary entities. 
Derivative instruments are only used to facilitate 
these hedging policies and, where significant, are 
approved at Board level. All borrowings were on 
floating rates although interest rate swaps have 
been taken to fix forward rates on €20 million  
of borrowings until 201 4. 
The futures market for linear low density 
polyethylene on the London Metal Exchange  
has been established for some time but has  
not yet provided a sufficient level of liquidity  
to enable an effective hedging mechanism. The 
directors will continue to monitor this situation.
PEnsiO n F UnD 
The deficit in the UK pension fund increased from 
£26 million at 31 December 2008 to £57 million  
at 31 December 2009. The main reasons for the 
increase were:
£m
Deficit at 3 1 December 2008 26
s urplus of contributions over current service cost (3)
better than expected return from investments (14)
increase in liabilities due to reduced corporate bond yields 21
Increase in assumed long-term inflation rates 24
o ther factors 3
Deficit at 31 December 2009 57
The increase in liabilities will have an impact  
on reported profits in 2010 with the net pension 
funding charge likely to increase from £1 .4 million 
to £1 .8 million.
During the year, following a change of investment 
advisor to the Scheme, the structure of the 
investment portfolio was changed. The direct 
equity holdings were sold and replaced with 
equity futures to the same value allowing the 
physical assets held to be invested in assets that 
more closely reflect the liability profile while still 
allowing the Scheme to benefit from the higher 
expected returns from the equity sector. This 
change was completed towards the end of 2009. 
It is believed that this is a more efficient way to 
manage the portfolio and balance the risk and 
return objectives within the Scheme. 
The triennial actuarial review of the fund was 
carried out at 30 April 2008. The actuary certified 
a deficit of £1 9 million and recommended a 
future funding rate of £2.8 million per annum 
above the current service cost. This is expected 
to result in pension contributions of £3.3 million 
during 2010. rePort by directors & business review 26
sH aRE c aP ital
The Company has only one class of Ordinary 
Shares as capital. The Company’s aim is to 
maintain a balance between issued share capital 
and other forms of long-term finance. Details of 
the shares in issue and share movements during 
the year are set out in Note 22 to the financial 
statements. The ordinary shares carry no right to 
fixed income, but holders are entitled to receive 
dividends as declared from time to time and are 
entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the 
Company. All shares rank equally with regard to 
the Company’s residual assets and there are no 
restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s 
shares. During the period the Company complied 
fully with the requirements that apply to the 
Company’s shares as a consequence of these shares 
being listed on the London Stock Exchange.
All UK employees are entitled to acquire shares  
in the Company through the Save As You Earn 
savings scheme. 
iss UE an D BUy-Bac K OF sH a REs The Directors have broad powers to act to 
promote the success of the Company for the 
benefit of its shareholders, however, there  
are specific powers in relation to issue and  
buy back of its own shares.
1 .  The Directors are generally and unconditionally 
authorised to exercise all the powers of the 
Company to allot securities up to 30% of the 
issued ordinary share capital. 
2.  The Directors can allot shares for cash provided 
that this power is limited to:
 –  the allotment of equity securities where such 
securities have been offered (whether by way 
of a rights issue or open offer or otherwise) to 
the holders of ordinary shares of 25 pence in 
proportion to their respective holdings and 
 –  otherwise, the allotment of equity securities 
up to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital.
3.  The Directors can make market purchases up 
to 10% of the issued share capital of ordinary 
shares. This is subject to a minimum price  
of 25p and a maximum by reference to the 
Company’s recent share price. A maximum  
of 10% of the Company’s issued share capital 
can be held as treasury shares after such  
a buy back.
Each of the above authorities requires to be 
renewed at each Annual General Meeting  
(AGM) or on the last date when by law the  
AGM must be held.
POlicy O n Paym Ent OF sUPP li ERs Terms and conditions are agreed with suppliers 
before business takes place and the policy is to 
pay agreed invoices in accordance with the terms 
of payment. At the year end the amount owed to 
trade creditors by the Group was equivalent to 56 
days (2008: 58 days) of purchases from suppliers.
The Group does not follow any code or standard 
on payment practice, but it is the Group’s policy 
to pay all of its suppliers within 35 days of the  
end of the month in which it receives the goods 
or services unless other payment terms have 
been agreed.
aUDit ORs A resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the
re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors  
of the Company and for their remuneration  
to be agreed by the Directors.
s tat EmEnt as t O Discl Os URE  
OF inFOR matiO n t O aUDit ORs The Directors who held office at the date of 
approval of this report confirm that, so far as  
they are each aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors  
are unaware; and each Director has taken all the 
steps that he ought to have taken as a Director  
to make himself aware of any audit information 
and to establish that the Company’s auditors  
are aware of that information.
sUB stantial sH a REHOlDER s The Company has been notified of the following 
interests representing 3% or more of the issued 
share capital of the Company as at 1 March 2010:
n o. of 
shares
% of ordinary 
shares in 
issue
a berdeen a sset Management 1,976,983 7.5%
l iberty s quare a sset 
Management
1,486, 157 5.6%
l egal & g eneral 
investment Management
1, 115,486 4.2%
d eutsche bank 1,056,685 4.0%
Financial REViEW c ORPORat E s Ocial RE s POnsi Bility REV iEW
t he g rouP has a long record of leadershi P in understanding 
the sector’s environ Mental res Ponsibilities and ensuring 
that our industry’s Products and Processes deliver 
environ Mental solutions whilst Meeting the Practical  
needs of custo Mers, consu Mers and society. 
t he grou P seeks to Maintain the highest standards of  
business conduct and has P olicies and guidelines in P lace 
which set standards concerning ethics, sound business 
Practices, co MPliance with all local and national legal 
require Ments and wider governance issues. 
we recognise that as an e MPloyer we have a res Ponsibility  
to our e MPloyees for their safety and welfare whilst at 
work. t his res Ponsibility extends to their training and 
develo PMent, as well as to setting a PPro Priate standards 
for their dealings with custo Mers and suPP liers.  rePort by directors & business review 28
The Group has a long record of leadership in 
understanding the sector’s environmental 
responsibilities and ensuring that our industry’s 
products and processes deliver environmental 
solutions whilst meeting the practical  
needs of customers, consumers and society. 
The Group seeks to maintain the highest 
standards of business conduct and has policies  
and guidelines in place which set standards 
concerning ethics, sound business practices, 
compliance with all local and national legal 
requirements and wider governance issues. 
We recognise that as an employer we have a 
responsibility to our employees for their safety and 
welfare whilst at work. This responsibility extends 
to their training and development, as well as to 
setting appropriate standards for their dealings 
with customers and suppliers. 
HEalt H an D sa FEty 
POlicy
The Group’s policy on Health and Safety states:
 “We firmly believe that the prevention of accidents 
involving personal injury or damage to property  
is essential to the successful operation of our 
business and we regard the health and safety  
of our employees as paramount.
We, therefore, through this statement of intent, 
affirm our commitment to achieving the highest 
possible standards of health and safety for all our 
employees and any others whose health and safety 
may be affected by our work activities.
The Board of Directors:
–  Accept their individual and collective 
responsibility in providing health and  
safety leadership.
–  Will ensure that all business decisions reflect  
its health and safety intentions as set out  
in this statement.
–  Will provide a working environment that is  
both safe and which has the lowest possible  
risk to health.
–  Will provide sufficient information, instruction, 
training and supervision to enable all employees  
to contribute to their own health and safety  
at work.
The Managing Director of each business through 
their reporting Directors is responsible for ensuring 
that suitable and sufficient organisation and 
arrangements are employed for achieving the 
defined objectives.
Health and Safety is as important an issue as  
all other commercial considerations. No task  
is so important that a person’s health or safety is 
put at risk. The Board of Directors will, therefore, 
pursue this policy with the utmost diligence.
We do stress, however, the need for all of our 
employees to co-operate in our aim to provide a 
working environment that is safe and which has 
the lowest possible risk to health. This is not simply 
because of our legal obligations, but because it is 
in all our interests that we should work together  
to achieve this end.”
The Group Health and Safety Manager is 
independent of the individual Business Directors 
and reports directly to the Chief Executive with 
recourse to the Group Board.
PERFORmanc E
The Group is pleased to report of further reduction 
in the total number of accidents recorded across 
its operations in 2009. Lost Time Accidents 
remained at 0.5 (2008: 0.5) accidents/100,000 
hours worked. Minor injury rates reduced during 
the year to 6.5 (2008: 6.9) accidents/100,000 
hours which is the lowest we have ever achieved. 
The accident severity rate, which measures  
the days lost as a result of all accidents as a 
percentage of the total hours worked, improved 
due to a reduction in the number of accidents 
resulting in the affected employees being absent 
from work for longer periods. 
We are pleased to report that our two operations  
in Canada made significant improvements in 
health and safety standards and this has resulted 
in a much improved accident performance in 
2009. This improvement was confirmed by a 
Group Health and Safety Audit during the year.
The Group works hard to identify the root causes 
of all accidents, dangerous incidents, and near-
miss situations, and uses a range of investigation 
procedures to help avoid repetition. Conclusions 
about underlying causes are used to improve our 
Health and Safety management systems, with 
relevant information being shared across the 
Group. Business Health and Safety Managers  
meet throughout the year to share best practice 
and ensure that there is a standardised approach 
to safety management across the Group. 
All our manufacturing sites are audited on a  
rolling programme by the Group Health and 
Safety Department and areas of improvement  
are identified. Some sites are externally audited 
and certified to OHSAS1 8001 .
The Group strives continually to improve its safety 
performance by:
–  Developing and maintaining a good safety 
culture at all locations.
–  Continually improving communications and 
sharing best practice throughout the Group.
–  Ensuring the robust auditing of safety 
management systems.
–  Ensuring active involvement of senior managers 
in auditing and promoting safety.
Safety at work remains a top priority and its 
importance is reflected in it being a key agenda 
item at all Main Board, Management Board, 
Divisional Boards and Business Review meetings.
c ORPORat E s Ocial RE s POnsi Bility REV iEW
imag Es FROm t OP  
t O BOtt Om:
 
BPI Chief Executive John 
Langlands opens the 
2009 UK Health and 
Safety Conference. 
 
Group Health and Safety 
Manager Simon 
Robertson addressing 
the 2009 UK Health and 
Safety Conference 
 
Presentation of the 
Highly Protected Risk 
Award to the Ardeer site 
management team.  rePort by directors & business review 29
PROJEcts CORPORATE HEALTH AND SAFETY INDUCTION DVD
The Group introduced a new Corporate Health  
and Safety Induction film in 2009. This sets out  
the Group’s Health and Safety policy and provides 
basic health and safety information and instruction 
to all new employees. It gives an overview of the key 
health and safety hazards and protective measures 
that are specific to the Group, which is further 
developed with ongoing comprehensive training  
in health and safety policies and procedures.
RISK ASSESSMENTS AND SAFETY TRAINING
Throughout 2009, our operating sites continued  
to review and update their workplace risk 
assessments. These risk assessments and  
safe operating procedures are the foundation  
of a good safety management system.
The Group is committed to providing its employees 
with adequate health and safety training, ensuring 
they are competent to carry out their work in  
a safe manner. In 201 0 further behavioural safety 
awareness training will be carried out.
UK HEALTH AND SAFETY CONFERENCE
The Group held a UK Health and Safety 
Conference, which brought together over sixty 
senior directors and managers from across its UK 
operations. The Conference provided an update 
on health and safety legislation and in particular 
the Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate 
Homicide Act 2007 and Health and Safety 
Offences Act 2008. One of the UK’s leading 
behavioural safety consultants, who was part  
of the original research into behavioural safety  
in the UK in the early 1 990s, spoke on the  
subject of safety culture and safety leadership.  
The Conference reinforced the Group’s ongoing 
senior level commitment to health and safety.
FIRE RISK
The Group undertook a review of fire risk exposure, 
which included reviewing its fire precautions and 
fire prevention arrangements on all its locations. 
The Group has continued to make significant 
improvements in property loss prevention and  
is pleased to report that the Ardeer site attained 
the Highly Protected Risk (HPR) Award from FM 
Global (Property Risk Insurers). The HPR Award is  
in recognition of the very high standard of fire risk 
management at the site, with there being a very 
low exposure to loss. This follows on from the HPR 
award for the Roeselare site in Belgium in 2007.
 
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
l ost t ime a ccidents 28 26 29 27 52
Minor accidents 341 381 431 454 500
lta FRE q UEncy R at E
accidents/ 100,000 hours worked
2009 0.5
2008 0.5
2007 0.5
2006 0.4
2005 0.8
l ost time accidents – a ccidents that cause employees to be 
unavailable for normal duties for more than three consecutive days.
min OR acci DEnt FRE q UEncy R at E
Minor accidents/ 100,000 hours worked
2009 6.5
2008 6.9
2007 7.8
2006 7.6
2005 8.2
Minor accidents – a ll reported minor injuries.
sEVER ity R at E
n u Mber of days
2009 0.01 2
2008 0.01 9
2007 0.01 3
2006 0.010
2005 0.01 9
s everity rate – n umber of days lost as a result of accidents/number 
of hours worked.
The numbers of accidents recorded were: rePort by directors & business review 30
The UK Government required that instead  
of using the UK long-term marginal basis for 
electricity that the UK rolling average must be 
used which increases the amount calculated  
for CO2. We have shown both sets of data above.  
On both bases there has been a marginal increase 
in CO2 output per tonne although the actual 
amount of CO2 produced in the year reduced  
by 9%.
For actual CO2 emissions, we have used our  
UK electricity suppliers declared CO2/kWh 
emission rate as it uses a mixture of nuclear  
and coal generation (which is only 28% of the  
UK rolling average for 2009) and the Non UK 
Country National Averages available as provided  
by the International Energy Agency. 
Energy usage and CO2 output per tonne has 
increased compared with 2008. This is due to 
reduced volumes but with the same base load 
of energy thus increasing the kWh/tonne figures. 
Downgauging of films, by customers’ to reduce 
packaging weight, uses more sophisticated 
polymers. It has been calculated that this raises  
the process energy costs per tonne.
The actual CO2 comparison figure increased 
mainly because of the UK electricity supplier 
running its coal fired plant for longer than the  
very low CO2 emission nuclear plants. China’s 
electricity CO2/kWh emissions dropped 10%  
but still remains high, due to its significant use  
of coal fired plants. Canada has a low CO2/kWh  
of electricity resulting from the greater use  
of hydro-electricity.
There is an ongoing improvement programme  
in place to purchase more efficient equipment  
and fit energy saving devices, especially to motors, 
compressors and lighting schemes. There is a 
project being rolled out to Group sites balancing 
the motors and drives on extruders which brings 
efficiency benefits. 
Twelve of our UK sites, representing 87% of UK 
electricity usage, are in Climate Change Agreements 
with the Department for Environment, Food and 
Rural Affairs (DEFRA) to reduce our CO2 emissions. 
Detailed investigations are on-going in the use  
of wind turbines to generate electricity at one  
of our major sites, which has been selected as  
it has the potential to be highly efficient and the 
location can meet the necessary fundamentals  
of planning criteria.
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Oil (kWh/tonne) 3.8 4.2 4.3 5.6 5.8
Only two sites now use heating oil. One of our 
larger European sites accounts for 86% of Group 
usage with the balance consumed in China.
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Gas (kWh/tonne) 58 61 58 60 59
The gas usage decreased due to a combination of 
the ongoing closure of the Stockton site coupled 
with the mild autumn weather.
At one site a project was completed to re-use
exhaust heat from the VOC emission control 
equipment to provide warehouse heating.
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Water (litres/tonne) 0.39 0.27 0.31 0.33 0.32
Water consumption increased due to an additional 
washing plant being commissioned at our Rhymney 
recycling facility.
Water re-circulating systems are used extensively 
to provide cooling water and in wash-recycling 
systems. A project is under way to harvest rainwater 
at Rhymney.
VOlatilE OR ganic c OmPOUnD  
(VOc) E missiO ns
Sites which have printing activities require to be 
compliant with Integrated Pollution Prevention 
and Control of Emissions Directive in the handling 
and use of solvents which is a major factor in VOC 
emissions. At the end of 2009 there were ten sites 
printing. Four of those sites are able to demonstrate 
the abatement of VOC emissions with the use  
of processes that change these potentially 
environmentally unfriendly substances before 
controlled emission into the atmosphere. Three 
sites use thermal oxidising units and one site uses 
bio-filters containing oyster shells. The remaining 
sites’ VOC emissions were below the level above 
which abatement is required, in some cases due  
to the use of water based inks.
c ORPORat E s Ocial RE s POnsi Bility REV iEW
VOC solvent purchases for our print sites were:
The overall solvent used reduced by 2.6%.  
With the progressive closure of the Stockton site 
some work has been transferred to non abated 
sites contributing to the increased usage on those 
sites. During the year the level of solvent usage  
at Stockton reduced to a low level enabling the 
abatement equipment to be discontinued. 
Whilst we remain dependent on solvent based  
inks for many of our customers print requirements, 
we will use water based ink where the application 
allows, and seek to further develop this technology 
where appropriate.
Promopack makes printing plates for all our print 
sites. In 2007 it became the first UK manufacturer, 
supplying printing plates to the wide width 
flexographic printing market, to eliminate solvents 
from all areas of the business. 
En ViROnmE ntal POlicy
As a leading manufacturer and supplier of 
polythene film and other products we recognise 
our responsibility to operate with due concern for 
the environment in which we live and work and  
to minimise the impact of our activities on that 
environment. Through close contact with national 
governments and industry regulators we are at the 
forefront of legislative developments. We continue 
to develop our processes and working practices  
to meet, as a minimum standard, both our legal 
and social obligations. We seek continually to 
improve our environmental performance by 
setting objectives and targets combined with  
clear management programmes and initiatives  
to minimise our impact on the environment. 
Specifically we are committed to:
–  Manufacture all of our products to meet the 
relevant legislative standards in all the countries 
and regions in which we operate.
–  Minimise the use of resources and to work  
with our customers to minimise their use of 
resources through environmentally responsible 
packaging systems.
–  Promote the reuse, recycling and recovery  
of our materials and to assist in this recovery 
wherever it is practical and environmentally 
beneficial to do so. 
–  Improve the environmental performance of our 
processes by reducing emissions and energy 
use, minimising waste and controlling noise.
–  Be a responsible employer and a good neighbour.
–  Provide suitable and unambiguous 
environmental information for our employees, 
customers and the local community. 
En ERgy
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
CO2 output 
(kg/tonne) – new 
reporting standard 
362 356 362 361 363
CO2 output 
(kg/tonne) – previous 
standard
305 299 303 306 308
CO2 output  
(kg/tonne) – Actual 
152 136 125 123 308
Electricity 
(kWh/tonne) 
697 679 675 677 682
2009
t onnes
2008
t onnes
2007
t onnes
2006
t onnes
Non Abated Sites 53 15 28 144
Abated Sites 1572 1654 181 0 1703
Total 1625 1669 1 838 1847 rePort by directors & business review 31
–  Maintain leadership in the development of  
new products and processes using recycled 
materials and support initiatives which benefit 
the environment.
The Group Environmental Director, Andrew Green,  
is a member of the Group Management Board and 
reports to the Chief Executive. With the increasing 
focus on environmental issues, and the enhanced 
interest in packaging and recycling, it is important 
that the Group has an experienced representative 
and spokesman on these topics. Andrew is also on 
the Board of Valpak, the UK’s largest compliance 
scheme for packaging waste regulations and  
was a member of the UK Government Advisory 
Committee on Packaging which after the year end 
DEFRA restructured as the Advisory Committee 
on Packaging . Andrew has been appointed  
by DEFRA to this new body which will advise 
Government on its UK Packaging Strategy 
published in June 2009. 
Pac Kaging anD tHE E n ViROnmE nt 
There was continued media focus on packaging 
and the environment in 2009, but the debate 
appears to have become more balanced to reflect 
the very necessary and important role of packaging 
in preventing waste and the spoilage of products.
The Group supports packaging minimisation 
where it does not result in increased product 
damage or spoilage, thereby creating a more 
significant environmental problem. We have 
reduced the weight of our packaging products  
on like for like volumes by over 6,000 tonnes  
in the last few years. 
BiODEg Ra DEa Bl E Plastics 
The Group welcomes the ongoing advances made 
in the technical characteristics of biopolymers 
manufactured from renewable resources. However, 
we caution that the most important and valuable 
environmental credential of plastic films is their 
ability to perform a packaging, industrial or 
agricultural requirement using the most lightweight 
materials available for the task. The integrity and 
resource efficiency of this primary purpose of 
protection is of far greater environmental impact 
than the speed at which the plastic will eventually 
biodegrade. Above all, our overriding commitment  
is to offer biodegradable products to our customers 
only where we can guarantee the integrity of our 
product and where their compostability offers  
an alternative disposal solution from landfill.
 
minist ERial Visit Dan Norris, Minister for 
the Environment and 
Rural Affairs tours BPI’s 
Heanor recycling facility 
where he undertook 
discussions on how the 
UK can recycle more 
waste plastics at home. 
 
ROyal Visit His Royal Highness,  
The Duke of York tours 
the state-of-the-art 
production facilities at 
BPI’s Sevenoaks facility. 
During his visit,  
The Duke discussed  
the Company’s export 
activities in his capacity 
as the UK’s Special 
Representative for 
International Trade  
and Investment. rePort by directors & business review 32
REcycling an D Pac Kaging  
WastE lE gislatiO n We are the UK’s largest recycler of polythene  
films, reprocessing over 64,000 tonnes in the  
year. Since the Packaging Waste Regulations were 
introduced in the UK we have invested £1 8 million 
in state-of-the-art plastic reprocessing equipment  
to our Environment Agency and Scottish 
Environment Protection Agency accredited sites. 
The Group continued to work with DEFRA on  
its Advisory Committee on Packaging and, via  
its Advisory Group on Farm Plastics, to support  
the introduction of Farm Plastic Producer 
Responsibility legislation. DEFRA issued its 
consultation document and draft regulations for 
this legislation shortly before the end of the year.
The price of plastic PRNs was reasonably stable  
for the first three quarters of the year reflecting  
the collapse in export activity at the end of 2008. 
By year end export volumes of waste plastic 
packaging had returned to previous levels  
and the plastic PRN price had reduced to below 
£10/tonne. The UK continues to rely on exporting  
over 70% of its waste plastic overseas, particularly 
to China, to achieve its EU recycling targets. We 
believe that there remains a risk in placing such 
heavy reliance on access to overseas markets  
to meet our EU obligations for reprocessing. 
 
The Group’s Packaging Waste recovery and 
recycling obligation for 2009 was 1 2,070 tonnes, 
which was a small reduction of 283 tonnes on  
the previous year. We continue to discharge our 
obligations through membership of the national 
compliance scheme, Valpak, and satisfied  
our plastic recycling obligation through our  
own recycling plants. Our cost of compliance  
was broadly in line with 2008.
Wast E t O lan DFill 
The Group limits the amount of material which goes 
to landfill by ensuring that virtually all scrap arising 
from polymer used in the manufacturing process  
is reprocessed or recycled within the Group.
2009
t onnes
2008
t onnes
2007
t onnes
2006
t onnes
Manufacturing 
waste
658 882 1, 154 1,435
non
agricultural 
recycled waste
1,229 759 1,464 1,362
1,887 1,641 2,618 2,797
a gricultural 
recycled waste
4,391 5,726 3,900 1,734
6,278 7,367 6,518 4,531
s oil included  
in the above
2,543 3,307 3,782 1,500
Soil to landfill is charged at 30% of the normal fee 
and is used as a covering for other waste. 85% of 
the waste which we sent to landfill is either from 
our own agricultural recycling operations or from 
the recycling of other post-use scrap polythene. 
The agricultural scrap is heavily contaminated with 
soil, water and other agricultural by-products and 
is extensively washed prior to recycling. Other 
bought-in scrap is less contaminated, but still 
contains an element of non-polythene which  
has to be separated out before recycling.
 
Throughout the Group there is a programme  
to progressively reduce the amount of waste 
which goes to landfill by reducing waste arising 
from operations and ensuring that as much  
as possible is separated and sent for recycling.
Our manufacturing sites in the Netherlands and 
Belgium, together with Promopack, our pre press 
operation, have adopted a “zero to landfill” policy 
for all production and office waste.
c ORPORat E s Ocial RE s POnsi Bility REV iEW
The closed loop cycle of 
agricultural film being 
returned to BPI for 
recycling into feedstock 
for The Green Sack
®
,  
see page 35. rePort by directors & business review 33
BUsinE ss acc REDitatiO ns qU ality a ss URanc E
All manufacturing sites in the Group have, achieved 
either ISO 9001, covering quality management 
systems, or ISO 9002 which is the emerging global 
standard for product and process quality.
BRitis H REtail cO ns ORti Um (BRc )
All sites (in the UK, Europe and China) which 
supply the retail food market have achieved the 
highly regarded BRC certification. BRC is the lead 
UK trade association representing the whole 
range of retailers, from the large multiples and 
department stores through the independents.
En ViROnmE nt Ten sites in the Group have achieved ISO 1 4001 
which is the International Environmental 
Management System standard. Our Recycled 
Products site at Stroud was our latest site to be 
awarded accreditation.
Occ UPati Onal H Ealt H an D s a FEty 
a ss Essm Ent sER iEs (OH sas 1 8001)
Two sites in Europe have achieved OHSAS 1 8001 
certification which requires robust management 
systems to control occupational health and safety 
risks and improve performance. The Group is 
looking to extend this to other manufacturing  
sites in the future.
EmPl OymEnt POliciE s Our people continue to be central to the 
development of the business. We strive to reach 
the highest standards in all aspects of employment 
policy and practice in our UK, European, Chinese 
and North American operations. 
REc RUitmE nt anD REtE ntiO n 
We operate an equal opportunities policy  
and recruit people for vacancies regardless of  
sex, race, religion, age or disability. We recruit 
graduates from universities and young workers  
as apprentices. We employ a large number of  
older workers and have fully complied with age 
discrimination legislation. Our retention rates  
have improved in general and have now stabilised 
at an acceptable level although employee 
turnover increased in 2009 to 1 9% (1 7% in 2008) 
as a consequence of the closure of the Stockton 
site. We consistently retain longer serving, higher 
skilled employees and employee turnover tends  
to occur with shorter serving employees in lower 
skilled jobs. 
Disa BlED EmPl OyEEs 
Applications for employment by disabled persons 
are always fully considered, bearing in mind the 
aptitudes of the applicant concerned. In the event 
of members of staff becoming disabled, every 
effort is made to ensure that their employment 
with the Group continues and that appropriate 
training is arranged.
tR aining anD DEVEl OPmEnt 
Our employees are amongst the most skilled in 
the industry. We invest in a range of development 
activities including NVQ’s and MBA’s and support 
other professional and technical training. Our 
capital investment programme is supported by 
training in the use of new machinery. Training  
in health and safety (in conjunction with the  
trade unions) is a particular Group strength.  
We increasingly appraise our workforce annually  
in order to identify their training needs. Members 
of the Group Personnel Department regularly  
train our managers and supervisors in a variety  
of employment matters to ensure best practice 
people management is carried out. The Group 
Health and Safety Department also actively  
train our managers, supervisors and employees  
to maximise their health and well being at work. 
Training grants were obtained to assist with 
training in our Shared Service Centre in Greenock 
and to develop lean management skills in Ardeer.
The ‘Operations and Production Development 
Programme’ has been implemented for our  
50 most senior production and operations 
managers and directors. The programme includes 
modules covering best practice initiatives,  
lean manufacturing, commercial contribution, 
personal development, finance and HR 
management and will continue to run in 2010.
a ttE nD anc E 
The absenteeism rate for all Group sites in 2009 
has improved at 3.1% (2008: 3.2%). This is the  
third consecutive year that we have recorded the 
lowest rate of absenteeism so far; which compares 
favourably with other manufacturing businesses  
in the UK and Mainland Europe. The risk posed by 
the H1N1 virus (‘swine flu’) did not have an impact 
on attendance levels in 2009 with only isolated 
and sporadic incidents affecting the business.
We continue to train managers in absenteeism 
management techniques and operate attendance 
bonus schemes across many sites.
cO mm Unicati Ons 
We recognise trade unions across eleven sites  
in the Group for separate collective bargaining 
purposes, including two sites in North America. 
We provide information, consult and negotiate 
with the trade unions on a range of subjects 
including pay, hours and holidays. We have Works 
Councils in Mainland Europe and at a number  
of our non unionised sites in the UK. We have  
local site Communication Forums at some sites. 
Our Managing Directors and senior site Directors 
also deliver regular business updates direct  
to the workforce. 
The Group’s Employee Information and 
Communication Body (EICB) was established in 
2005 and meets twice per year. The EICB brings 
together employee representatives from across  
our UK business to discuss business issues with 
senior Directors within the Group including Main 
Board members. This involves the provision of 
information, consultation and discussions with a 
view to reaching agreement regarding decisions 
that are likely to lead to substantial changes in  
work organisation or in contractual relations prior  
to any action being taken. The annual European 
Communication Forum (ECF) discusses trans-
national issues that may affect our employees in the 
UK, Netherlands, Belgium and Ireland. Employees 
regularly receive written communications 
explaining issues discussed at these meetings.
We have a ‘Whistle Blowing Policy’ in place which 
seeks to encourage employee participation in  
the identification of any wrong doing within the 
organisation. We have a ‘Grievance Policy’ which 
operates throughout our sites allowing employees 
to communicate any employment dissatisfaction 
which they may have.
Pay an D BEn EFits 
Terms and conditions (including pay) are set  
at local site level. We have a range of benefits 
including competitive pay rates, a number of 
bonus schemes for employees at all levels and 
final salary and other pension schemes with 
employer contributions and a range of health  
care benefits. Senior employees’ pay and rewards 
are formally benchmarked against market data. 
We voluntarily operate enhanced maternity and 
paternity pay schemes and regularly consider and 
agree requests for flexible working. In the UK we 
operate a childcare voucher scheme to support 
employees who are working parents, and have 
introduced a ‘Bike to Work’ scheme. 
OtHER EmPl OymEnt P OliciE s During 2009 we introduced changes to our 
Disciplinary Policy and Grievance Procedures in 
conjunction with employee representatives on 
the EICB and at local site level. Additionally the 
Redundancy Policy was also improved with input 
from these employee representatives and all sites 
introduced a ’Suggestion Scheme’.
cHina 
We have a highly committed and skilled workforce 
which has worked to build this business over the 
past sixteen years. The same standards of health 
and safety, fairness, equality and merit applied in 
our European businesses are replicated in China. 
Senior UK Directors are responsible for this 
business. We comply with International Labour 
Organisation standards on working hours, working 
wage, freedom of labour, child labour, freedom  
of association, discipline and discrimination. 
Employees are recruited from the local area,  
do not live at the work premises and return  
home at the end of their shift. Rates of pay are 
competitive for the region and are negotiated  
by elected representatives. rePort by directors & business review 34
EDUcatiO n We are active in supporting education, working 
with schools, universities and other institutions. 
We operate a range of activities from providing 
advice and resources for teaching as well as 
sponsorship of educational projects aimed at 
increasing the awareness of plastics, packaging 
and the environment. We continue to support the 
Schools Starpack Design Awards and extended 
this into Higher Education with sponsorship of  
the equivalent competition for Universities and 
Colleges – ‘Student Starpack 09’. We believe our 
sponsorship of the Starpack Awards, together with 
the accompanying educational support package, 
helps both students and their tutors better 
understand the key role plastic packaging plays  
in reducing product wastage for the overall benefit 
of the wider environment.  
The Group continues to sponsor two teachers at  
the Polymer Study Tours organised by The British 
Plastics Federation and the Worshipful Company  
of Horners which assists science, design and 
technology teachers to understand the applications 
of polymers in the industrial environment. 
c Ha Rita BlE s UPPORt anD s POns ORs HiP
Charitable donations made during the year 
amounted to £62,000 (2008: £50,000). No 
donations were given for political purposes.
The Group supports national and international 
charities involved in relieving suffering. We also 
support a number of wildlife funds, ecological 
projects and other good causes. This support  
is in both products donated and financial 
contributions. Most of our businesses sent out 
electronic Christmas cards, rather than traditional 
cards, and donated the money saved to local 
charities. Unclaimed dividends after a period of 
twelve years are donated to charity. In the year 
there was an additional £1 2,000 (included in the 
£62,000 above) of unclaimed dividends from the 
closed Employee Share Scheme. The EICB agreed 
which charities to support including charities for 
cancer relief, children and the elderly. The Board 
intends to allocate £10,000 each year for the EICB 
to allocate in a similar manner.
The Group encourages each site to donate a 
percentage of its turnover to local charities and 
many of our sites are regularly involved in fund 
raising for local charities.
We sponsor a number of bodies relevant to our 
industry and our customers’ activities. In particular, 
we are regular sponsors of the Farmers Weekly 
Awards, which recognise the achievements  
of British Farmers.
c ORPORat E s Ocial RE s POnsi Bility REV iEW
EFta P Rint aW a RDs Manufacturing Efficiency 
Award 2009 BPI - Ardeer.
nOR tHER n ma RKEting 
aWa RDs BPI won the Best Marketing 
Innovation Award at the 2009 
CIM Northern Marketing Awards 
for its rebrand of the Green 
Sack
®
 which led to the creation 
of a new look for the range and  
a campaign to raise awareness  
of its greener nature.
nati Onal ma RKEting 
EXc Ell Enc E a Wa RDs BPI’s work in the development, 
research and marketing of the 
Wrapsmart
®
 pallet stretchfilm 
range has been acknowledged 
by the Chartered Institute of 
Marketing when it shortlisted the 
business for the 201 0 national 
Marketing Excellence Awards.
Fa RmERs W EEKly aW a RD 
sPOns ORs HiP
BPI sponsors the ‘Livestock 
Advisor of the Year’ Award  
in support of UK Agriculture.  
This initiative recognises those 
individuals who have made 
an outstanding contribution 
to the UK’s livestock farming 
community. Every year, it 
attracts entries from some of 
the best in the business across 
professions such as veterinary 
surgery and animal nutrition.
HPR aW a RD  
The Group’s risk management 
activities were recently 
acknowledged when it attained 
the Highly Protected Risk Award 
for the Ardeer site. Awarded 
by FM Global, the property 
risk insurers, the award is in 
recognition of the very high 
standard of fire risk management 
at the site, where there is a very 
low exposure to loss.
s ta RPac K aW a RDs BPI continued its support of 
the Starpack Awards Scheme 
for schools, which recognises 
innovation in packaging design 
and technology. 2009 saw BPI 
challenge schools to create a 
Disaster Shelter Pack and the 
Gold Star went to William Collins 
of Reigate School of Art, for a 
floating shelter composed of  
two triangular compartments. 
BRitain’s mOst aD miRED 
cO mPaniE s BPI achieved 40th place 
out of 236 companies in its 
inaugural entry into the ‘Britain’s 
Most Admired Companies 
2009’ survey published by 
Management Today. 
a Wa RDs & s POns ORs HiP c l Osing t HE l OOP  
On PO lyt HEn E Wast E
Thanks to its closed loop initiatives  
and recycling expertise, BPI enables 
customers to enjoy the benefits  
of polythene products in a more 
sustainable and environmentally friendly 
way. As one of the largest reprocessors  
of waste polythene in Europe, BPI has  
an enviable reputation as the leader  
in its field. Our sites have the ability to 
reprocess in excess of 70,000 tonnes  
of material each year from commercial, 
retail, industrial and agricultural markets. 
A prime example of this can be found  
in our work in the carrot industry.  
BPI supplies carrot covers which help to 
extend the growing season and storage 
life of this popular British vegetable.  
At the end of their working life, many  
of these covers are returned to BPI  
for recycling into feedstock for a host  
of recycled products ranging from 
Plaswood
®
 street furniture and  
The Green Sack
®
 range of refuse  
sacks to Visqueen
®
 building films. rePort by directors & business review 36
BOa RD OF DiREct ORs an D a DVis ERs Cameron joined the Board in 1 983 on the 
acquisition of Anaplast where he had been 
Chairman and Managing Director since 1 975, 
becoming Group Chairman and Chief Executive  
in 1 988. He relinquished the role of Chief Executive 
in May 2003.
John joined the Board in 1 994 as Group Finance 
Director from Eclipse Blinds plc where he was  
also Finance Director. He was previously Finance 
Director at Scottish Enterprise and United Wire 
Limited. Appointed Chief Operating Officer  
in May 2002 and Chief Executive in May 2003.
David joined BPI in 1 996 and has been employed  
in a number of financial and general management 
roles during his career with the Group, including 
Business Director of bpi.consumer and Managing 
Director of bpi.industrial. David joined the Board  
as Group Finance Director in July 2009.
Hamish joined the Board in May 2005 and is 
currently Deputy Chairman of Cairn Energy PLC, 
Chairman of Indigo Vision Group plc and a Director 
of Artemis Investment Management Limited.  
After a career in investment banking, he has,  
over the last 20 years, held a range of executive  
and Non-Executive Board positions in listed 
companies covering a wide variety of industries. 
Past Chairmanships include: Royal Doulton PLC, 
Eclipse Blinds plc, Scottish Highland Hotels PLC, 
Hicking Pentecost PLC and EFT Group plc.
Lord Lindsay joined the Board in March 2006 and  
is currently Chairman of the agricultural group SAC,  
a Non-Executive Director of Scottish Resources 
Group Limited, Chairman of UKAS (UK Accreditation 
Service), Chairman of Greenfield Holdings Ltd. and 
from 1 998-2005 was a Non-Executive Director of the 
property company UA Group PLC. He is currently joint 
Chairman of the Risk & Regulation Advisory Council. 
His career has included senior appointments in the 
commercial, environmental and government sectors, 
and ministerial responsibilities for agriculture, food, 
the environment and sustainable development. 
Eric was previously a senior partner in Andersen  
UK before joining the Board in June 2002. He is 
Chairman of Matthew Algie Limited and Expresso 
Warehouse Limited, a Non-Executive Director  
of Scottish American Trust plc and is treasurer  
of the Royal College of Art in London. He is also  
on the advisory forum of Glasgow Caledonian 
University and is Non-Executive Chairman of  
Kynesis a management consultancy specialist  
in change management. 
David joined the Board as an independent Non-
Executive Director in August 2009. He has over  
30 years’ investment experience in both public  
and private companies, in both the UK and USA.  
He co-founded Aberforth Partners LLP and was a 
partner for 1 9 years until he retired from the firm in 
2008, prior to which he was with Ivory & Sime plc for 
four years and before that with 3i plc for seven years. 
David is also a Non-Executive Director of Phoenix  
IT Group plc, Standard Life European Private Equity 
Trust plc and a number of private companies.
a UDit ORs KPMG AUDIT PLC
191 WEST GEORGE STREET
GLASGOW G2 2LJ
BROKERs INVESTEC BANK PLC
2 GRESHAM STREET
LONDON EC2V 7QP
s Olicit ORs MACLAY MURRAY & SPENS
151 ST VINCENT STREET
GLASGOW G2 5NJ
main BanKER s LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC
ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC
CLYDESDALE BANK PLC
c am EROn m c l atc HiE c BE (63)
†
cHai Rman JOHn l anglan Ds ca (57)
cHiEF EXE c Uti VE
Da ViD Ha RRis F cca (3 8)
g ROUP Financ E DiREct OR
Hamis H gRO ssa Rt (53) * 
†
n On -EXEc UtiVE DEPU ty c Hai Rman lORD JamiE linD say ( 54)* 
†
nO n -EXEc Uti VE DiREct OR
ERic m Hagman ca c BE (63)* 
†
nO n -EXEc Uti VE DiREct OR
Da ViD Wa Rn Oc K (52)* 
†
nO n -EXEc Uti VE DiREct OR
* Member of the Audit and Nominations Committees
† Member of the Remuneration Committee
aDV is ERs rePort by directors & business review 37
c ORPORat E g OVERnanc E REPORt Throughout the year to 31 December 2009,  
the Group complied with the provisions of the 
Combined Code on Corporate Governance (June 
2006) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. 
The Board remains committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance and this 
statement describes how the principles of the 
Code are applied and reports on the Group’s 
compliance with the code’s provisions.
tHE B Oa RD
The Group is controlled through its Board of 
Directors which normally meets six times per year. 
The Board’s main roles are to create shareholder 
value, to provide leadership to the Group, to 
approve the Group’s strategic objectives and  
to ensure that the necessary financial and other 
resources are made available to allow the Group  
to meet those objectives. The Board has adopted a 
formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision 
such as the approval of corporate strategy plans, 
annual budgets and risk management strategy. 
Major acquisitions and disposals, as well as major 
capital expenditure, are authorised by the Board 
and are subsequently monitored by the Board  
after execution. The Board also reviews the 
environmental, health and safety performance  
of the Group.
The Board has delegated the following 
responsibilities to the Group Management Board: 
the development and recommendation of strategic 
plans for consideration by the Board that reflect the 
longer term objectives and priorities established  
by the Board; implementation of the strategies and 
policies as determined by the Board; monitoring 
operational and financial results against budgets; 
prioritising the allocation of capital, technical  
and human resources; ensuring that appropriate 
management development and succession plans 
are in place; and developing and implementing risk 
management systems.
The Group has in place appropriate insurance 
cover for the Board members, in respect of any 
legal action taken against them.
cH ang Es t O BOa RD cO mPOsiti On  
DURing t HE yE a R
Two Directors were appointed during the year, 
David Harris as Group Finance Director on 24 July 
2009 and David Warnock as Non-Executive Director 
on 1 8 August 2009. Anne Thorburn resigned  
as Group Finance Director on 24 July 2009.
tHE REs POnsiB ilitiE s OF tHE cH aiR man 
an D cH iEF EXEc Uti VE
The division of responsibilities between the 
Chairman of the Board, Cameron McLatchie,  
and the Chief Executive, John Langlands, is clearly 
defined and has been approved by the Board.
tHE cH aiR man provides guidance to the  
Group Management Board in matters of strategy 
and leads the Board in the determination of its 
strategy and in the achievement of its objectives. 
The Chairman is responsible for organising the 
business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness 
and setting its agenda. The Chairman facilitates 
the effective contribution of Non-Executive 
Directors, manages the relationship between 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors, and 
ensures that Directors receive accurate, timely 
and clear information and that there is effective 
communication with shareholders. The Chairman 
continues to have an executive role in the strategy 
for polymer purchasing and authorisation of 
capital expenditure proposals. 
tHE cHiEF EXEc Uti VE has direct charge of  
the Group on a day to day basis and is accountable 
to the Board for its financial and operational 
performance. He chairs the Group Management 
Board and is also responsible for Environmental 
Matters, Health and Safety and Human Resources. 
He has a senior management team that look after 
the day to day activities and report directly to him.
The role of Non-Executive Deputy Chairman  
and Senior Independent Director is carried out  
by Hamish Grossart.
DiREct ORs an D DiREct ORs’ 
inDEPE nDE nc E
The Board currently comprises the Chairman,  
the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and  
four independent Non-Executive Directors. 
Biographical details of each Director are shown  
on page 36. The independent Non-Executive 
Directors constructively challenge and help 
develop proposals on strategy and bring strong 
independent judgement, knowledge and 
experience to the Board’s deliberations. The 
independent Directors are of sufficient calibre  
and number that their views carry significant 
weight in the Board’s decision making. The  
Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors 
who served during the year to be independent  
in character and judgement.
PROFEssi Onal D EVEl OPmEnt On joining the Board, Directors are provided with 
documentation on the Group and its activities.  
An induction programme and site visits are 
arranged to major business units and to meet  
with members of the Group Management Board 
and other key senior executives. Throughout their 
period in office the Directors are regularly updated 
on the Group’s business, the competitive and 
regulatory environment and the industry it 
operates in. Board Meetings are regularly held  
at operational sites and tours are arranged to 
ensure that the Board is kept up to date with  
the latest operational developments. 
Directors are also advised, on appointment,  
of their legal and other duties and obligations  
as a director of a listed company, both in writing 
and in face to face meetings with the Company 
Secretary. External training courses are provided 
where necessary. They are reminded of these 
duties each year and are also updated on changes 
to the legal and governance requirements of the 
Group and themselves as Directors. 
PERFORmancE EVal Uati On 
The Board has established a formal review  
process, led by the Chairman, for the annual 
evaluation of the performance of the Board,  
its principal Committees and individual  
Directors. The Directors are made aware that  
their performance will be subject to an annual 
evaluation. The process includes specific 
references to the objectives of the Board and 
Committees and each Board member participates 
in the process. The Chairman consolidates the 
feedback of the Directors into a performance 
assessment summary for each individual Director 
and the Board performance as a whole. The 
Chairman shares and discusses the individual 
performance summary for each Director with  
that Director only and discusses the consolidated 
performance review with the Board as a whole.
The Chairman meets annually with the  
Non-Executive Directors, without the  
Executive Directors, to review performance  
and other matters.
The Deputy Chairman, who is also the Company’s 
Senior Independent Director, sought the views  
of the Executive Directors and met with each of  
the other Non-Executive Directors, in the absence 
of the Chairman, to discuss and assess the 
Chairman’s performance. 
RE-El Ecti On OF DiREct ORs Directors appointed by the Board other than at  
an Annual General Meeting are required to retire  
at the following Annual General Meeting when 
they may offer themselves for election. Directors 
are thereafter required to seek re-election every 
three years. The Chairman, who was previously 
Chief Executive, has voluntarily decided to seek 
re-election each year. Non-Executive Directors, 
subject to satisfactory performance evaluation, 
are appointed for an initial period of three years. 
Before the third and sixth anniversary of the  
Non-Executive Director’s first appointment, the 
Director discusses with the Board whether it is 
appropriate for a further three year term to be 
served. No Non-Executive Directors have served 
for more than nine years.
For any new Non-Executive Director, terms and 
conditions of appointment are made available  
for inspection at the Annual General Meeting  
and at the Company’s registered office.  rePort by directors & business review 38
c ORPORat E g OVERnanc E REPORt cO n Flicts OF i nt EREst Following implementation of the new rules on 
directors’ conflicts of interest in the Companies 
Act 2006, the Board undertook a review of  
its arrangements for dealing with conflicts  
to formalise the procedures for any actual or 
potential conflict situation under the new regime 
and for exercising the Board’s power, which was 
approved by shareholders at the last Annual 
General Meeting, to authorise such conflicts. 
The procedures that have been adopted by the 
Board require prompt notification by Directors  
of any possible conflict situation and the scrutiny 
initially of the Nominations Committee and then 
the Board before any decision to authorise or  
not is taken. The Board may approve a conflict 
situation unconditionally, give approval subject  
to conditions or decide not to approve and  
require that the Director concerned resolve  
the circumstances giving rise to the conflict.  
Any approval will be reviewed regularly and may 
be amended or withdrawn by the Board at any 
time. Only Directors who have no interest in the 
matter being considered are able to take the 
relevant decisions and at all times the Directors 
making such decisions must act in a way they 
consider, in good faith, will be most likely to 
promote the Group’s success. The Board is 
satisfied that these procedures are operating 
effectively and will keep them under review  
in light of emerging best practice in this area.
tHE cO mPany sE c REta Ry
The Board has access to the advice and services  
of a full-time experienced Company Secretary  
who is responsible for advising the Board through 
the Chairman on all governance matters.  
The Company’s Articles of Association and  
the schedule of matters reserved to the Board  
for decision provide that the appointment and 
removal of the Company Secretary is a matter  
for the full Board.
Directors are also given access to independent 
professional advice, at the Group’s expense, when 
the Directors deem it necessary in order for them 
to carry out their responsibilities. No such advice 
was sought in the year.
aR ticl Es OF a ss Ociati On Any proposed amendment to the Articles  
of Association is subject to approval by the 
shareholders in General Meeting.
aV aila Bility OF in FORmati On 
Executive management is responsible for 
providing the Board with all the information, of 
which it is aware, that is relevant to the discharge 
of the Board’s responsibilities. The Board therefore 
expects to receive timely advice on all material 
information about the Company, its operating 
units, its activities, performance and its 
investment projects. The Chairman, together with 
the Company Secretary, establishes the agenda 
for each Board meeting and the necessary papers 
are distributed to Board members in advance of 
the meeting. Presentations on specific subjects 
are sent to the Board in advance, so that Board 
meeting time is used for focused discussion.
RElatiO ns WitH sH a REHOlDER s In fulfilment of the Chairman’s obligations  
under the Combined Code, the Chairman gives 
feedback to the Board on issues raised with him  
by major shareholders. Non-Executive Directors 
remain available to meet with major institutional 
shareholders if required. External analysts’  
and brokers’ reports are circulated to all Board 
members and, where appropriate, formally 
discussed at Board meetings.
The Board seeks to encourage shareholders  
to attend its Annual General Meeting. The 
Company uses the Annual General Meeting  
to communicate with private investors and to 
encourage their participation. They have the 
opportunity to put questions to members of the 
Board on matters relating to the Group’s operation 
and performance. All Directors are expected to  
be present and those who chair Committees of 
the Board will be available to answer any relevant 
questions. The level of proxy votes lodged  
on each Resolution is indicated at the meeting 
and also shown on the Group’s website at  
www.bpipoly.com. 
Each year a programme of meetings with major 
institutional investors takes place covering the 
principal issues affecting the Group, its trading  
and its results.
intER nal cO ntRO l 
In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull 
Committee the Board of Directors is responsible 
for the Group’s system of internal control; sets 
appropriate policies on internal control; seeks 
regular assurances that enable it to satisfy itself 
that the system is functioning effectively; and 
ensures that the system of internal control is 
effective in managing risks in the manner which  
it has approved. The risk management process 
and systems of internal control are designed to 
manage rather than eliminate the risk of the Group 
failing to achieve its business objectives. It should 
be recognised that such systems can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.
 
The Directors have continued to review the 
effectiveness of the Group’s system of financial 
and non-financial controls. These reviews include 
an assessment of internal controls by the internal 
audit function, risk assessments by the business 
management and reports from the external 
auditors on matters identified in the course of 
the statutory audit. A key part of these reviews  
is a twice yearly risk assessment process where 
responsible managers confirm the adequacy  
of their systems of internal financial and non-
financial controls, their compliance with Group 
policies (including health, safety and the 
environment), local laws and industry regulations. 
This formal risk assessment process also identifies, 
evaluates and confirms what actions are being 
taken to mitigate any material identified risks.  
All these risk assessments are reviewed twice 
yearly by the Board and Audit Committee. 
BOa RD cO mmittEE s The number of Board meetings and Committee 
meetings attended by each Director during the 
year was as follows:
a copy of the full terms of reference for  
the n ominations, r emuneration and a udit 
c ommittees is available on the group’s website  
at www.bpipoly.com. 
nO minatiO ns cO mmittEE
The Board as a whole is responsible for the 
procedure of agreeing the appointment of its own 
members, for nominating them for election by the 
shareholders on first appointment and, thereafter, at 
three yearly intervals. The Nominations Committee, 
comprising the Non-Executive Directors, has the 
responsibility for making recommendations for  
new appointments to the Board. Hamish Grossart, 
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director, chairs the Committee and  
the other members are Eric Hagman, Lord Lindsay 
and David Warnock. 
The Nominations Committee reviews the 
succession planning and composition of the Board 
on an annual basis and reports its conclusions  
to the Board for further action. 
board 
Meetings
no Minations 
coMMittee 
Meetings
re Muneration 
coMMittee 
Meetings
audit 
coMMittee 
Meetings
Number of 
meetings 
in year
6 2 2 4
C McLatchie 6 – 2 –
J T Langlands 6 – – –
D Harris 3 – – –
H M Grossart 5 2 2 4
E M Hagman 6 2 2 4
Lord Lindsay 6 2 2 4
D Warnock 3 1 1 2
A Thorburn 3 – – –
D Harris was appointed to the Board on 24 July 2009.
D Warnock was appointed to the Board on 1 8 August 2009.
A Thorburn resigned from the Board on 24 July 2009. rePort by directors & business review 39
REmUn ERati On cO mmitt EE 
Hamish Grossart is Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and the other members are Cameron 
McLatchie, Lord Lindsay, Eric Hagman and David 
Warnock. The Remuneration Committee is 
responsible for advising the Board on the 
remuneration of Executive Directors. The 
Committee’s principal responsibilities are: 
–  Setting, reviewing and recommending to  
the Board for approval the Group’s overall 
remuneration policy.
–  Setting, reviewing and approving individual 
remuneration packages for Executive Directors 
and the Chairman, including terms and 
conditions of employment. 
–  Reviewing the salary structure and terms, 
conditions and benefits of employment of  
other senior Group executives.
–  Approving the rules, and launch, of any Group 
share, share option or cash based incentive 
scheme and the grant, award, allocation or issue 
of shares, share options or payments under any 
such scheme.
In addition, the Committee regularly reviews  
the Group’s remuneration policy relative to its 
competitors and industry norms.
The Chairman of the Committee is available to 
answer questions at the Annual General Meeting. 
aUDit cO mmittEE 
The Company has an Audit Committee comprising 
the Non-Executive Directors and it is chaired by 
Eric Hagman. The Committee meets four times  
a year and has written terms of reference that 
outline its authority and duties. 
The Committee:
–  Monitors the integrity of the financial 
statements of the Group.
–  Reviews the Group’s internal financial control 
and risk management systems.
–  Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the 
Group’s internal audit function.
–  Oversees the Group’s relationship with the 
external auditor.
Should the Committee’s monitoring and  
review activities reveal any material cause for 
concern or scope for improvement, it will make 
recommendations to the Board on action needed 
to address the issue or make improvements.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the 
Committee and the minutes of the Committee  
are circulated to all Board members. The Finance 
Director attends the meetings by invitation.  
The Chairman and Chief Executive also attend,  
if required to do so, by the Committee. A senior 
representative from each of the internal and 
external auditors also attends each meeting.  
The Committee discharges its responsibilities by:
–  Reviewing the external and internal audit  
work plans.
–  Receiving and reviewing twice yearly risk 
management reports and risk tables. Business 
and Group management operate a risk 
management process which identifies the  
key risks facing each business and the Group 
and reports as to how those risks are being 
managed. This is based on business and  
Group risk tables identifying the key risks,  
the probability of those risks occurring, the 
estimated potential impact if they do occur and 
the actions being taken to manage those risks.
–  Receiving and considering reports from 
management and internal audit on the system 
of internal control and any significant control 
weaknesses. The Audit Committee also receives 
reports from the external auditors who consider 
controls only to the extent necessary to form  
an opinion as to the truth and fairness of the 
financial statements.
–  Discussing with management the actions taken 
on control weaknesses identified in internal and 
external audit reports.
–  Receiving and reviewing the annual Combined 
Code internal control report. This is based on a 
combination of risk management reporting and 
the completion by each business of key control 
questionnaires which confirm the extent to 
which the business complies with the group 
control procedures. Each business Managing 
Director and Finance Director is required to  
sign a declaration confirming that they have 
reviewed the business risk table and control 
questionnaires and confirming compliance  
with statutory obligations.
–  Reviewing the Group’s draft interim, preliminary 
and final financial statements prior to Board 
approval and considering any significant 
financial reporting judgements contained in  
the financial statements to ensure that the 
integrity of these statements is maintained.  
The Committee also reviews the external 
auditor’s reports thereon. 
–  Considering the appropriateness of the Group’s 
accounting policies.
–  Reviewing the performance of the Group’s 
internal and external auditors and making 
appropriate recommendations to the 
Board relating to their reappointment 
and remuneration.
The external and internal auditors are given the 
opportunity each year to speak confidentially  
to the Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee also monitors the Group’s 
whistle blowing procedures, ensuring that 
appropriate procedures are in place to allow 
employees to raise matters of possible impropriety 
in confidence.
aUD it ORs’ in DEPEn DEnc E  
anD OBJEcti Vity
The Audit Committee monitors regularly the  
non-audit services being provided by the external 
auditors to ensure their independence. There are 
services which the external auditors are precluded 
from undertaking, including the provision of 
internal audit services, as well as services they  
are permitted to provide, but which require the 
specific approval of the Audit Committee. This 
occurs where non audit work per project is in 
excess of £50,000 or £100,000 in aggregate in  
any one year and within these parameters certain 
services are delegated to the Executive Directors 
to approve. Any activities that may be perceived 
to be in conflict with the role of external auditor 
must be submitted to the Committee for approval 
prior to engagement.
Details of the amount paid to the external auditors 
during the year for audit and other services are  
set out in the notes to the financial statements  
on page 58. rePort by directors & business review 40
POlicy On DiRE ct ORs’ R EmUnER atiO n The remuneration policy is set by the Board and is 
described below. Individual remuneration packages 
for Executive Directors are determined by the 
Remuneration Committee within the framework  
of this policy and approved by the Board. 
The remuneration of all Non-Executive Directors  
is determined by the Executive Directors and 
approved by the Board.
gE nER al inFOR matiO n The names of the Directors who have served  
on the Remuneration Committee during the  
year are as follows:
– Hamish M Grossart – Chairman
– Eric M Hagman 
– Lord Lindsay 
– Cameron McLatchie
– David Warnock (Appointed 1 8 August 2009)
During the year the Remuneration Committee 
took advice from Kepler Associates on structuring 
Directors’ remuneration packages. Kepler 
Associates does not provide any other services  
to the Company.
REmUnER atiO n P Olicy
The Company’s policy on Directors’ remuneration 
is designed to attract, retain and motivate high 
calibre individuals, to reward Directors fairly for 
their contribution, whilst remaining within the 
range of benefits offered by similar companies in 
the sector. The Remuneration Committee seeks  
to structure total benefit packages which align the 
interests of shareholders and senior executives.
Towards the end of the year, the Committee 
undertook a comprehensive review of executive 
remuneration. Following this review, the Committee 
anticipates making a number of changes to 
remuneration structure, which are summarised  
in the relevant sections below.
The Remuneration Committee has established  
a number of performance related elements  
of executive remuneration, which together are 
anticipated to represent approximately 50% of  
the package. Details of these are set out below.
a nnU al inc Enti VEs Executive Directors participate in an Annual 
Incentive Plan (AIP), with awards determined as  
a percentage of salary based on improvement  
in Pre Tax Profits before pension financing costs. 
From 2010 onwards the AIP will be based on a 
combination of improvement in Pre Tax Profits 
before pension financing costs and Return  
on Capital Employed, recognising the need  
to focus on capital management in addition  
to absolute profitability. 
For 2009, the maximum AIP award for Executive 
Directors was 80% of salary. The Committee 
proposes to increase this to 100%, but will require 
that a minimum of 25% of any AIP award be 
invested into the new Share Matching Plan.
Executive Directors also participate in the 
Employee Profit Sharing Scheme, which is available 
to most of the employees in the Group and rewards 
performance based on improvements in profits 
compared with an average of the previous three 
years results. It is calculated at individual business 
unit level, with overall UK and Group performance 
being used for employees not aligned to a 
particular business or unit.
lO ng-tER m inc Enti VEs The Company also operates a Long-Term 
Incentive Plan (LTIP) under which annual awards  
of shares are made up to an upper limit of 100%  
of basic salary, with vesting dependent upon 
performance conditions measured over a three 
year period. Awards were made under this scheme 
during the course of 2009. However, from 2010, it 
is proposed to replace the LTIP with two new plans: 
a Share Option Plan, and a Share Matching Plan.
lO ng-t ERm inc Enti VE Plan Participants are granted awards of shares, the 
vesting of which is dependent upon performance 
conditions measured over a period of three  
years. There is an individual upper limit on each 
award of 100% of basic salary per annum. The 
Remuneration Committee decided that one half 
of each award is subject to an Earnings Per Share 
(EPS) performance condition and the remaining 
half is subject to a Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 
performance condition comparing the Company’s 
TSR with that of the companies comprising the 
FTSE Small Cap Industrials Index.
In respect of the proportion of any TSR linked 
award, no vesting will occur for ranking below 
median. At the median, 10% of the award will vest 
with the full 50% vesting for a ranking at or above 
the upper quartile. Vesting occurs on a sliding 
scale between these two points. 
The EPS linked proportion of any award will vest  
in full if the Company’s EPS growth is at least the 
Retail Price Index (RPI) plus 10% per annum over 
the performance period; no shares will vest if  
EPS growth is not at least RPI plus 3% per annum.  
For performance between these two points, 
vesting will occur on a sliding scale.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that 
these conditions are challenging and that the  
full award will only vest if exceptional performance 
has been achieved.
SHARE OPTION PLAN
Proposals will be put to the 201 0 Annual General 
Meeting for the implementation of a Share Option 
Plan. The Company envisages that awards of 
options will be made to senior managers across the 
Group on an annual basis. Options, which would be 
granted at fair market value, would vest after three 
years on fulfilment of a performance condition.  
In the UK, this scheme would include the ability  
to grant under an HMRC approved structure.
SHARE MATCHING PLAN
Proposals will be put to the 2010 Annual General 
Meeting for the implementation of a new long-
term incentive plan which provides for executives 
to invest part of their annual bonus in Company 
shares and to receive a matching award of shares 
based on business performance over the following 
three years. Executives will invest a minimum of 
25% of their bonus into the Share Matching Plan 
and may increase this percentage voluntarily up  
to the lower of 50% of salary or the actual bonus 
awarded. A matching award of up to three times 
the number of shares deferred may be earned;  
in the case of Executive Directors, the measure to 
determine the level of match will be Group return 
on average capital employed over three years. 
Shares will be released at the end of the three 
year period in respect of any part of the award 
voluntarily deferred (including any matching 
award on such part), with the remainder released  
a year later.
EXECUTIVE SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES
In conjunction with the introduction of the LTIP, 
the Remuneration Committee has adopted  
formal executive shareholding guidelines, which 
require Executive Directors to acquire and retain  
a beneficial share holding with a value equal to 
100% of one year’s basic annual salary over a five 
year period. For the purposes of this calculation, 
shares held are valued at the higher of their 
acquisition price and current market price.
sERV ic E cO nt Racts The Company’s policy on the duration of Director’s 
contracts is that:
–  Executive Directors should have rolling service 
contracts terminable on no more than one year’s 
notice served by the Company or the Director.
–  Non-Executive Directors are appointed for fixed 
terms of three years, renewable on the agreement 
of both the Company and the Director.
The policy on termination payments is that the 
Company does not normally make payments 
beyond its contractual obligations including any 
payment in respect of notice to which a Director  
is entitled after mitigation is considered. In 
exceptional circumstances an additional ex-gratia 
payment may be considered, based on factors 
including the Director’s past contribution and  
the circumstances of the Director’s departure.
DiREct ORs’ RE mUn ERati On REPOR t rePort by directors & business review 41
PERFORmanc E gR aPH
The graph below shows a comparison of the total shareholder return performance for the Company’s 
shares for each of the last five financial years, against the total shareholder return for the companies 
comprising the FTSE Small Cap Industrials Index. The index selected was considered to be the most 
appropriate for the Company’s market capitalisation and industry sector. 
5 yEa R tO tal sH a REHOl DER REt URn DiREct ORs’ EmO l UmEnts anD cO mPEnsatiO n The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the remainder of this Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. 
The emoluments in connection with qualifying services and compensation of each person who served 
as a Director during the year were as follows:
The remuneration of D Harris is for the whole year. In addition relocation expenses of £35,000 were 
reimbursed to D Harris in the year.
Benefits receivable by Executive Directors comprise a car buy out allowance and healthcare insurance.
The supplementary allowance payable to A Thorburn was in compensation for the restriction  
imposed by the Pensions Earnings Cap on her prospective pension entitlement. The earnings cap  
was discontinued in April 2006, but the Remuneration Committee decided to continue with a similar  
cap in order not to add to the past service liabilities of the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme.
40
180
120
140
80
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
 BRITISH POLYTHENE INDUSTRIES PLC FTSE SMALL CAP INDUSTRIALS
NAME DATE OF CONTRACT NOTICE PERIOD DATE TERM DUE TO EXPIRE
C McLatchie 30 August 2007 1 2 months N/A
J T Langlands 1 7 July 1 995 1 2 months N/A
D Harris 9 April 2008 1 2 months N/A
H Grossart 8 May 2008 N/A AGM 201 1
E M Hagman 1 4 May 2009 N/A AGM 201 1
Lord Lindsay 1 4 May 2009 N/A AGM 201 2
D Warnock 1 8 August 2009 N/A AGM 2010
executives
SALARY/FEES 
£000
BENEFITS
£000
SUPPLEMENTARY 
ALLOWANCE
£000
EXECUTIVE
BONUS
£000
EMPLOYEE 
PROFIT
SHARING 
SCHEME
£000 
TOTAL
2009
£000
TOTAL
2008
£000
C McLatchie 275 1 – – 14 290 270
J T Langlands 340 14 – 187 17 558 339
D Harris
(appointed 24 July 2009)
132 9 – 82 6 229 –
A Thorburn  
(resigned 24 July 2009)
11 5 9 9 – – 133 218
n on- executives
H Grossart 60 – – – – 60 60
E M Hagman 45 – – – – 45 38
Lord Lindsay 50 – – – – 50 33
D Warnock  
(appointed 1 8 August 2009)
15 – – – – 15 –
t otal 2009 1,032 33 9 269 37 1,380 –
t otal 2008 916 25 15 – 10 – 966 rePort by directors & business review 42
PEnsiO n aRR ang EmEnts ( cO ntinU ing DiRE ct ORs)
JT Langlands left the British Polythene Pension Scheme on 31 December 2006 and is a deferred 
member. D Harris was appointed to the Board on 24 July 2009 and is an active member. Their dependants 
are eligible for dependants’ pensions and the payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
The pension entitlements earned during the year calculated in accordance with the requirements of the 
UK Listing Authority listing rules and the Companies Act 2006 as provided by our consulting actuaries 
and confirmed by them were as follows:
INCREASE IN 
ACCRUED 
PENSION DURING 
YEAR NET OF 
INFLATION
£ P .A. 
TOTAL ACCRUED 
PENSION 
ENTITLEMENT AT 
31 DEC 2009
£ P .A. 
TRANSFER VALUE 
OF NET INCREASE 
OVER YEAR (NET 
OF MEMBER 
CONTRIBUTIONS) 
£
TRANSFER VALUE 
OF ACCRUED 
PENSION AT 31 
DEC 2008
£
TRANSFER VALUE 
OF ACCRUED 
PENSION AT 31 
DEC 2009
£ 
NET CHANGE IN 
TRANSFER VALUE 
DURING YEAR 
(NET OF MEMBER 
CONTRIBUTIONS) 
£
J T Langlands – 47,750 – 751,100 930,400 179,300
D Harris 6 10 9,500 1,650 52,880 86,060 30,310
Transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with regulations  
for calculating transfer values for occupational pension schemes. The increase in transfer values over  
the year, identified in the column headed “Net change in transfer value during year”, reflects a decrease 
in the interest rate used to value the pension entitlements.
Although C McLatchie has no pension entitlement remaining in the Scheme, a lump sum death  
in service benefit is provided for him under the Scheme at a cost of £1,380 p.a.
jt l anglands
JT Langlands left the Scheme on 31 December 2006 and therefore has no pension accrual during  
the year but he is provided with lump sum and spouse’s pension benefits on death in service at a cost  
of £1 8,690 p.a.
The pension entitlement shown above is the amount which would be paid annually from retirement  
age based on service to the end of the year 2006, increased for inflation to 2009.
The Company contributed £68,000 (2008: £64,000) to JT Langlands’ personal pension arrangements.
d h arris
The pension entitlement shown above is the amount which would be paid annually from retirement  
age based on service to the end of the year 2009.
Member contributions are offset in calculating the values shown in columns headed “Transfer value  
of net increase over year” and “Net change in transfer value during year”.
The Company also contributed £1 2,700 (2008: £5,466) to D Harris’ personal pension arrangements  
as his pensionable earnings are capped under the British Polythene Pension Scheme.
PEnsi On aRR ang EmEnts (F ORmER DiREct OR)
a t horburn
INCREASE IN 
ACCRUED 
PENSION DURING 
YEAR NET OF 
INFLATION
£ P .A. 
TOTAL ACCRUED 
PENSION 
ENTITLEMENT AT 
31 DEC 2009
£ P .A. 
TRANSFER VALUE 
OF NET INCREASE 
OVER YEAR (NET 
OF MEMBER 
CONTRIBUTIONS) 
£
TRANSFER VALUE 
OF ACCRUED 
PENSION AT 31 
DEC 2008
£
TRANSFER VALUE 
OF ACCRUED 
PENSION AT 31 
DEC 2009
£ 
NET CHANGE IN 
TRANSFER VALUE 
DURING YEAR 
(NET OF MEMBER 
CONTRIBUTIONS) 
£
 A Thorburn 2,490 27,640 18,040 234,800 382,750 1 40,290
A Thorburn resigned from the Board on 24 July 2009 and became a deferred member having accrued 
benefits to this date.
The pension entitlement shown above is the amount which would be paid annually from retirement age 
based on service to 24 July 2009. 
The net change in transfer value during the period up to the date of her resignation amounted  
to £100, 100.
DiREct ORs’ REmUnER atiO n REPORt rePort by directors & business review 43
DiREct ORs’ sHa RE inc EntiVE s The following table sets out details of savings related share options held by each Director during the year:
NUMBER OF 
OPTIONS AS AT  
1 JAN 2009
OPTIONS 
LAPSED IN 
YEAR
NUMBER OF 
OPTIONS AS AT 
31 DEC 2009 EXERCISE PRICE
DATE FROM 
WHICH 
EXERCISABLE EXPIRY DATE
C McLatchie 7,097 – 7,097 236p 1 Dec 201 3 31 May 201 4
J T Langlands 7,097 – 7,097 236p 1 Dec 201 3 31 May 201 4
A Thorburn 4,067 -4,067 – – – –
The mid market closing share price of the Company’s 25p Ordinary Shares ranged from 1 1 5p to 31 2p 
during the year and on 31 December 2009 was 272.75p (2008: 1 87.5p).
REst Rict ED sH a RE Plan The Executive Directors participated, along with other key executives in the Group, in a Restricted  
Share Plan, which was approved by shareholders at the 1 996 Annual General Meeting. The amount that 
Executives could invest was restricted to 30% of their base salary. If the net of tax executive bonus was 
invested in shares of the Company, and retained, the Company would match these shares on a one-for-
one basis after three, five and seven years. Following the introduction of an Executive Share Option Plan 
in 2003, there was only one matching of shares after three years from 2003 onwards. As a result of the 
introduction of the LTIP in 2005 no further awards will be made under the Restricted Share Plan.
The following shares were vested during the year in connection with the 1 996 Restricted Share Plan:
YEAR DATE SHARES VESTED
MID-MARKET 
SHARE PRICE
VALUE OF
SHARES VESTED
C McLatchie 2001 3 March 2009 4,404 135,5p £5,967
J T Langlands 2001 3 March 2009 2,995 135,5p £4,058
lO ng-t ERm inc Enti VE Plan Shareholders approved a Long-Term Incentive Plan at the 2005 Annual General Meeting. The following 
awards were granted and remain outstanding at 31 December 2009:
YEAR OF 
GRANT
AWARDS 1 JAN 
2009/ DATE OF 
APPOINTMENT
LAPSED IN 
YEAR
GRANTED IN 
YEAR
AWARDS 31 
DEC 2009
DATE OF 
VESTING
MARKET 
V ALUE ON 
DATE OF 
GRANT
J T Langlands 2006 25,000 -25,000 – – – –
2007 40,000 – – 40,000 Mar 10 499p
2008 60,000 – – 60,000 Mar 11 237p
2009 – – 40,000 40,000 Mar 12 122p
125,000 -25,000 40,000 140,000
D Harris 2007 7,500 – – 7,500 Mar 10 499p
2008 20,000 – – 20,000 Mar11 237p
2009 – – 1 5,000 1 5,000 Mar 12 122p
2009 – – 27,500 27,500 Mar 12 221.25p
27,500 – 42,500 70,000
A Thorburn 2006 1 5,000 -1 5,000 – – – –
2007 25,000 -25,000 – – – –
2008 30,000 -30,000 – – – –
70,000 -70,000 – –
The 50% of awards granted in 2007 will vest in 2010 as the performance criteria based on total 
shareholder return has been achieved. The remaining 50% will lapse as the performance criteria  
for increases in earnings per share have not been achieved.  rePort by directors & business review 44
The number of awards shown is subject to achieving the performance conditions referred to on  
page 40 under both the earnings per share and total shareholder return awards. The figures shown  
are maximum entitlements and the actual number of shares (if any) will depend on the performance 
conditions being achieved. Awards take the form of nil cost options and have no performance retesting 
facility. No shares have vested as at 31 December 2009. Subject to the performance conditions being 
achieved any shares will vest on the day of the preliminary announcement of the full year results for  
the years ended 31 December 2009, 31 December 2010 and 31 December 201 1 .
DiREct ORs’ sH a REHOlDings The Directors at the year end together with details of all of their interests in the ordinary share capital  
of the Company are listed below:
31 DEC 2009 31 DEC 2008/  
DATE OF 
APPOINTMENT
C McLatchie Beneficial  
Non Beneficial
681,689  
83, 150
477,285 
83, 150
H Grossart Beneficial – –
E M Hagman Beneficial 1 5,000 1 5,000
D Harris (appointed 24 July 2009) Beneficial 2,746 2,712
J T Langlands Beneficial 148,842 11 9,737
Lord Lindsay Beneficial 11, 50 0 11, 50 0
D Warnock (appointed 1 8 August 2009) Beneficial 25,000 25,000
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors between 31 December 2009 and  
1 March 2010.
aPPROV al B y sH a REHOl DERs At the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 1 3 May 2010, a resolution approving this 
report is to be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
This report was approved by the Board on 26 February 2010 and signed on its behalf by 
Hamis H gRO ssaR t DEPUty cH ai Rman
1 March 2010
As at 23 March 2010 the Directors’ interests where there have been changes from 1 March 2010 were:
C McLatchie Beneficial 731,689
J T Langlands Beneficial 168,842
D Harris Beneficial 6,496
DiREct ORs’ REmUnER atiO n REPORt FINANCIAL 
ST A TEMENTS
CONTENTS
46 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
47 Independent Auditors’ Report
48 Five-Year Record
49 Consolidated Income Statement
49  Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income
50 Consolidated Balance Sheet
51 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
52 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
53 Notes to the Consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
77 UK GAAP Parent Company Balance Sheet
78 Notes to the UK GAAP Parent Company
 ﬁ nancial statements
84 Information for Shareholders
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   45 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   45 8/4/10   17:26:43 8/4/10   17:26:43 46 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company ﬁ nancial statements for each ﬁ nancial year. Under that law they are required to 
prepare the Group ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company 
ﬁ nancial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the ﬁ nancial statements unless they are satisﬁ ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of a ﬀ airs 
of the Group and parent company and of their proﬁ t or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company ﬁ nancial statements, the Directors are required to:
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
– make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
– state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
–  prepare the ﬁ nancial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue 
in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are su ﬃ  cient to show and explain the parent company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁ nancial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its ﬁ nancial statements comply 
with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group 
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate 
Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and ﬁ nancial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁ nancial statements may di ﬀ er from legislation in other jurisdictions.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT
On behalf of the Directors of the Company we conﬁ rm that to the best of our knowledge:
–  the ﬁ nancial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
ﬁ nancial position and proﬁ t or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole.
–  the Report by Directors and Business Review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
J.T. LANGLANDS D. HARRIS
CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   46 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   46 8/4/10   17:26:44 8/4/10   17:26:44 47 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS 
OF BRITISH POLYTHENE INDUSTRIES PLC
We have audited the ﬁ nancial statements of British Polythene Industries PLC for the year ended 31 December 2009 set out on pages 50 to 83. The ﬁ nancial 
reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group ﬁ nancial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The ﬁ nancial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company ﬁ nancial 
statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, 
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 46, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the ﬁ nancial 
statements and for being satisﬁ ed that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
A description of the scope of an audit of ﬁ nancial statements is provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In our opinion:
–  the ﬁ nancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s a ﬀ airs as at 31 December 2009 and of the Group’s 
proﬁ t for the year then ended.
– the Group ﬁ nancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
– the parent company ﬁ nancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
–  the ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the Group ﬁ nancial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006
In our opinion:
– the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
–  the information given in the Directors’ Report for the ﬁ nancial year for which the ﬁ nancial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
ﬁ nancial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
–  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not 
visited by us.
–  the parent company ﬁ nancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns.
– certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration speciﬁ ed by law are not made.
– we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
– the Directors’ statement, set out on page 25, in relation to going concern.
–  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 37 to 39 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 
Combined Code speciﬁ ed for our review.
CRAIG ANDERSON (SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR)
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF KPMG AUDIT PLC, STATUTORY AUDITOR
Chartered Accountants
1 91 West George Street
Glasgow
G2 2LJ
1 March 2010
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   47 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   47 8/4/10   17:26:45 8/4/10   17:26:45 48 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FIVE-YEAR RECORD
 
 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
 £M £M £M £M £M
INCOME STATEMENT EXTRACTS      
Turnover 424.7 480.7 424.1 414.2 410.2
Operating proﬁ t before restructuring costs 19.0 12.6 14.6 17.1 23.3
      
Proﬁ t before tax 11.8 3.9 11.5 14.0 19.7
     
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 30.36 10.67 32.36 38.46 54.28
Dividend per ordinary share 11 .00 14.50 22.00 22.00 21.00
      
BALANCE SHEET EXTRACTS      
Non-current assets 89.4 92.6 84.7 79.5 81.3
Inventories 61.4 62.5 62.1 59.5 55.3
Trade and other receivables 49.3 60.4 64.0 60.5 63.2
Trade and other payables (65.6) (62.3) (62.9) (61.1) (65.6)
      
Capital employed 134.5 153.2 147.9 138.4 134.2
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 34.1 52.7 62.2 54.2 37.0
Minority interests 0.3 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.2
Net debt 52.2 76.0 64.8 52.0 47.1
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 0.6 –  –  –  – 
Retirement and other employee beneﬁ ts 58.4 27.1 19.1 34.7 56.0
Taxation (11.1) (3.0) 1.6 (2.7) (6.1)
      
 134.5 153.2 147.9 138.4 134.2 
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   48 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   48 8/4/10   17:26:45 8/4/10   17:26:45 49 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
  2009 2008
 NOTES £M  £M 
TURNOVER  2, 3 424.7 480.7 
PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS BEFORE RESTRUCTURING COSTS  19.0 12.6 
Restructuring costs 2 (3.1) (5.4)
PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS 2, 3 15.9 7.2
Borrowing costs 5 (2.7) (4.2) 
Net retirement beneﬁ t (ﬁ nancing)/income  5 (1.4) 0.9
NET FINANCING COSTS  (4.1) (3.3)
PROFIT BEFORE TAX  11.8 3.9
Tax 6 (3.7) (1.1)
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR  8.1 2.8
ATTRIBUTABLE TO:    
Equity holders of the parent  8.1 2.8
EARNINGS PER SHARE   
Basic 8 30.86p 10.67p
Diluted 8 30.36p 10.67p
Diluted earnings per share before restructuring costs 8 38.60p 25.53p
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
  2009 2008
 NOTES £M  £M 
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR    8.1   2.8 
Cash ﬂ ow hedges: e ﬀ ective portion of net changes in fair value  0.1  (0.4) 
Actuarial loss on deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension scheme  (32.4)  (12.3) 
Movement on translation of overseas undertakings and related borrowings  (0.8)   2.3 
Movement on translation of minority interests  (0.1)   0.2 
Tax on components of other comprehensive income 6  9.0  3.5 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR  (24.2)  (6.7) 
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR  (16.1)  (3.9)
ATTRIBUTABLE TO:    
Equity holders of the parent  (16.0)  (4.1) 
Minority interests  (0.1)   0.2 
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR  (16.1)  (3.9) 
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   49 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   49 8/4/10   17:26:45 8/4/10   17:26:45 50 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AT 31 DECEMBER 2009
    
  2009 2008
 NOTES £M  £M 
NON-CURRENT ASSETS    
Goodwill 9 0.4 0.4
Other intangible assets 10 2.0 1.8
Property, plant and equipment 11 87.0 90.3
Investments 12 – 0.1
Deferred tax assets 20 16.1 7.3
  105.5 99.9
CURRENT ASSETS    
Inventories 14 61.4 62.5
Trade and other receivables 15 49.3 60.4
Current tax assets 19 0.5 0.7
Cash at bank 16 0.5 0.4
  111.7 124.0
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Bank overdraft 16 4.8 8.4
Other loans and borrowings 16 2.0 21.3
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 17 0.3 –
Trade and other payables 18 64.8 61.5
Current tax liabilities 19 1.6 1.0
  73.5 92.2
NET CURRENT ASSETS  38.2 31.8
TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES  143.7 131.7
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Other loans and borrowings 16 45.9 46.7
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 17 0.3 –
Retirement and employee beneﬁ t obligations 29 58.4 27.1
Deferred tax liabilities 20 3.9 4.0
Deferred government grants 21 0.8 0.8
  109.3 78.6
NET ASSETS  34.4 53.1
EQUITY
Issued share capital 22 6.6 6.6
Share premium account  25.1 25.1
Other reserves 23 8.6 9.3
Retained earnings  (6.2) 11.7
TOTAL EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE PARENT  34.1 52.7
MINORITY INTERESTS  25 0.3 0.4
TOTAL EQUITY  34.4 53.1
British Polythene Industries PLC, Registration Number 1081 91.
The ﬁ nancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 201 0 and signed on its behalf by
C. MCLATCHIE D. HARRIS
CHAIRMAN GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   50 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   50 8/4/10   17:26:45 8/4/10   17:26:45 51 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
  2009 2009 2008 2008
 NOTES £M  £M  £M  £M 
PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS   15.9  7.2
Amortisation of intangible assets 10  0.5  0.5
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 11  13.5  14.6
IFRS 2 charge in relation to equity-settled transactions   0.3  0.4
Impairment of investments   0.1  –
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment   (0.1)  –
Adjustment relating to pensions   (2.6)  (3.3)
OPERATING CASH FLOWS BEFORE MOVEMENTS IN WORKING CAPITAL   27.6  19.4
Decrease in inventories   0.2  4.9
Decrease in trade and other receivables   10.2  6.9
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables   4.7  (3.4)
MOVEMENTS IN WORKING CAPITAL   15.1  8.4
   
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS   42.7  27.8
Interest paid   (3.2)  (4.1)
Income taxes paid   (2.5)  (3.3)
     
NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES   37.0  20.4
   
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (12.2)  (14.2) 
Capital amount of hire purchase/ﬁ nance lease received  2.8  5.5 
Net purchase of property, plant and equipment   (9.4)  (8.7)
Purchase of intangible assets   (0.8)  (0.4)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment   0.3  –
NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES   (9.9)  (9.1)
NET CASH FLOWS BEFORE FINANCING   27.1  11.3
FINANCING ACTIVITIES      
Dividends paid 7  (2.9)  (5.8)
Net increase in bank loans   0.7  6.9
Repayment of other loans   (20.0)  –
Repayment of obligations under ﬁ nance leases/hire purchase   (1.6)  (1.5)
NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES   (23.8)  (0.4)
      
NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS   3.3  10.9
       
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year   (8.0)  (16.2)
E ﬀ ect of foreign exchange rate changes   0.4  (2.7)
     
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR   (4.3)  (8.0)
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   51 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   51 8/4/10   17:26:45 8/4/10   17:26:45 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY       
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009           
 
     ATTRIBUTABLE
     TO OWNERS   
 SHARE  SHARE  OTHER RETAINED OF THE  MINORITY  
 CAPITAL PREMIUM RESERVES¹ EARNINGS² PARENT INTERESTS TOTAL
 £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M 
      
Balance at 1 January 2009 6.6 25.1 9.3 11.7 52.7 0.4 53.1
Proﬁ t for the year – – – 8.1 8.1 – 8.1
Cash ﬂ ow hedges: e ﬀ ective portion 
of net changes in fair value – – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1
Actuarial loss on deﬁ ned 
beneﬁ t pension scheme – – – (32.4) (32.4) – (32.4)
Movement on translation of overseas 
undertakings and related borrowings – – (0.8) – (0.8) – (0.8)
Movement on translation of minority interests – – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Tax on components of other 
comprehensive income – – – 9.0 9.0 – 9.0
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR – – (0.7) (15.3) (16.0) (0.1) (16.1)
IFRS 2 charge in relation 
to equity-settled transactions – – – 0.3 0.3 – 0.3
Dividends – – – (2.9) (2.9) – (2.9)
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 6.6 25.1 8.6 (6.2) 34.1 0.3 34.4
     ATTRIBUTABLE
     TO OWNERS   
 SHARE  SHARE  OTHER RETAINED OF THE  MINORITY  
 CAPITAL PREMIUM RESERVES¹ EARNINGS² PARENT INTERESTS TOTAL
 £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M 
Balance at 1 January 2008 6.6 25.1 7.4 23.1 62.2 0.2 62.4
Proﬁ t for the year – – – 2.8 2.8 – 2.8
Cash ﬂ ow hedges: e ﬀ ective portion 
of net changes in fair value – – (0.4) – (0.4) – (0.4)
Actuarial loss on deﬁ ned 
beneﬁ t pension scheme – – – (12.3) (12.3) – (12.3)
Movement on translation of overseas
undertakings and related borrowings – – 2.3 – 2.3 – 2.3
Movement on translation of minority interests – – – – – 0.2 0.2
Tax on components of 
other comprehensive income – – – 3.5 3.5 – 3.5
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR – – 1.9 (6.0) (4.1) 0.2 (3.9)
IFRS 2 charge in relation 
to equity-settled transactions – – – 0.4 0.4 – 0.4
Dividends – – – (5.8) (5.8) – (5.8)
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2008 6.6 25.1 9.3 11.7 52.7 0.4 53.1
¹Refer to Note 23 for breakdown of other reserves.
² As at 31 December 2009 the holding company retained earnings amounted to £17.8m (2008: £21.1m) and are not a ﬀ ected by movements in retirement 
beneﬁ t obligations.      
       
 
        
      
        
      
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   52 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   52 8/4/10   17:26:45 8/4/10   17:26:45 53 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
British Polythene Industries PLC (the “Company”) is a company domiciled and incorporated in the United Kingdom. The consolidated annual ﬁ nancial 
statements (the “ﬁ nancial statements”) of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2009 incorporate the ﬁ nancial statements of the Company 
and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”).
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE
The consolidated ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (“adopted 
IFRSs”). The Company has elected to prepare its parent company ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with UK GAAP. These are presented on pages 77 to 83.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated ﬁ nancial statements.
BASIS OF PREPARATION
The ﬁ nancial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative ﬁ nancial instruments, intangible assets acquired through business 
combinations, and the assets and liabilities of the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension scheme. These are stated at their fair value.
The ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The reasons for this are outlined in the Finance Review on page 25.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the ﬁ nancial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain beneﬁ ts from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the e ﬀ ective date of acquisition 
or up to the e ﬀ ective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the ﬁ nancial statements of subsidiaries acquired to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used 
by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minority’s proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised. Subsequently, any losses 
applicable to the minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.
CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY
The Group has adopted the following new accounting standards in the period:
IAS 1 (Revised) “Presentation of Financial Statements”
The revised standard has resulted in a number of changes in presentation and disclosure, most signiﬁ cantly changing the title of the consolidated statement 
of recognised income and expense to consolidated statement of comprehensive income and the introduction of the statement of changes in equity as a 
primary statement. It has had no impact on the reported results or ﬁ nancial position of the Group.
Amendment to IFRS 2 “Share-Based Payment: Vesting Conditions & Cancellations”
The amendment clariﬁ es the deﬁ nition of vesting conditions in relation to share-based payments, amongst other matters. It has had no material impact 
on the reported results or ﬁ nancial position of the Group.
IFRS 8 “Operating Segments”
The adoption of IFRS 8 has led to a change in the method by which reportable segments are determined and segmental information is determined. 
See Note 3 for further details of the impact this has had on the Group.
Amendment to IFRS 7 “Financial Instruments: Disclosure”
The amendment requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurement and liquidity. In particular, the amendment requires disclosure of fair value 
measurements by level of a fair value measurement hierarchy. As the change in accounting policy only results in additional disclosures, there is no impact 
on earnings.
TURNOVER RECOGNITION
Turnover from the sale of goods and services is measured at the fair value of the consideration, net of rebates, trade discounts, VAT and other sales-related 
taxes. Turnover from the sale of goods and services is recognised when the Group has transferred the signiﬁ cant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods 
and services to the buyer, the amount of turnover can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic beneﬁ ts associated with the transaction will 
ﬂ ow to the Group.
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   53 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   53 8/4/10   17:26:46 8/4/10   17:26:46 54 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
1 . BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
LEASING AND HIRE PURCHASE
Leases are classiﬁ ed as ﬁ nance leases when, on inception of the lease, the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
to the Group. All other leases are classiﬁ ed as operating leases.
Assets held under ﬁ nance leases (including hire purchase contracts) are initially recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present 
value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance 
sheet as a ﬁ nance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between ﬁ nance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a 
constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly through the income statement as borrowing costs.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet 
date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary 
assets and liabilities carried at historical cost that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the historical 
cost was determined. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in income and expense for the period.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a 
foreign entity, are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates 
for the period. Exchange di ﬀ erences arising are recognised directly in the Group’s foreign currency translation reserve. Such translation di ﬀ erences are 
recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
GOVERNMENT GRANTS
Government grants on capital expenditure are released through cost of sales over the expected useful lives of the relevant assets or the qualifying period 
if shorter. Grants of a revenue nature are credited to the consolidated income statement in the period in which the related costs are incurred.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
Payments to deﬁ ned contribution retirement beneﬁ t schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-managed retirement 
beneﬁ t schemes are dealt with as payments to deﬁ ned contribution schemes where the Group’s obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those 
arising in a deﬁ ned contribution retirement beneﬁ t scheme.
For deﬁ ned beneﬁ t retirement beneﬁ t schemes, the cost of providing beneﬁ ts in respect of each plan is determined in an annual actuarial report using the 
Projected Unit Credit Method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. They are recognised outside the income 
statement and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in accordance with IAS 19.
The retirement beneﬁ t obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents an actuarial assessment of the present value of the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t obligation 
as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets before taxation which is recognised separately. The present value of the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash outﬂ ows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the beneﬁ ts 
will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
TAXATION
The tax expense represents the sum of the current taxes payable and deferred tax.
The current tax payable is based on taxable proﬁ t for the period. Taxable proﬁ t di ﬀ ers from net proﬁ t as reported in the income statement because it excludes 
items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability 
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on di ﬀ erences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the ﬁ nancial statements 
and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable proﬁ t, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax 
liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary di ﬀ erences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable 
proﬁ ts will be available against which deductible temporary di ﬀ erences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary di ﬀ erences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control 
the reversal of the temporary di ﬀ erence and it is probable that the temporary di ﬀ erence will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that su ﬃ  cient 
taxable proﬁ ts will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged 
or credited through the statement of other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with through the statement of other 
comprehensive income.
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   54 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   54 8/4/10   17:26:46 8/4/10   17:26:46 55 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 . BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
GOODWILL
Goodwill has been recognised on acquisitions of subsidiaries and represents the di ﬀ erence between the cost of acquisition and the Group’s interest 
in the fair value of the identiﬁ able assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment 
losses. The carrying amount is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment. Any impairment is recognised immediately in income 
or expense and is not subsequently reversed.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under 
UK GAAP. The classiﬁ cation and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 was not reconsidered in preparing 
the Group’s opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the proﬁ t or loss on disposal, except for goodwill written 
o ﬀ  to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 which has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent proﬁ t or loss on disposal.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement as a credit to proﬁ t from operations.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation begins when an asset 
is available for use and is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate the cost of assets over their estimated useful lives as follows:  
  
Computer software  4 - 5 years 
Customer lists 3 - 10 years 
Other intangible assets 5 years 
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value at acquisition date. The cost of separately acquired intangible assets, 
including computer software, comprises the purchase cost and any directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for use. Computer software costs 
that are directly associated with the implementation of major business systems are capitalised as intangible assets.  
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT  
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. 
 
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, 
plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated. The estimated useful lives are as follows:  
Freehold buildings 20 - 50 years 
Leasehold buildings 10 - 40 years 
Plant and equipment 4 - 10 years 
  
Residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually. 
 
Assets held under ﬁ nance leases/hire purchase are capitalised and depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, 
where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.  
IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS  
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible assets and intangible assets with ﬁ nite useful lives to determine whether 
there is any indication that those assets have su ﬀ ered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated 
in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss. Where the asset does not generate cash ﬂ ows that are independent from other assets, the Group 
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Intangible assets with indeﬁ nite useful lives and goodwill are 
tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.  
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ﬂ ows are discounted 
to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reﬂ ects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks speciﬁ c to the asset. 
 
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. 
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.  
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses in respect of assets other than goodwill, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate 
of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no 
impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.  
INVENTORIES  
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those 
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling 
price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.  
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES  
Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost less an allowance for irrecoverable amounts.  
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   55 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   55 8/4/10   17:26:46 8/4/10   17:26:46 56 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
1 . BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS  
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable 
on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the 
statement of cash ﬂ ows.  
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES  
Trade and other payables are stated at amortised cost.  
PROVISIONS  
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that 
an outﬂ ow of economic beneﬁ ts will be required to settle the obligation. If the e ﬀ ect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future 
cash ﬂ ows at a pre-tax rate that reﬂ ects current market assessments of the time value of money and, when appropriate, the risks speciﬁ c to the liability.  
INTEREST  
Interest is recognised in income or expense using the e ﬀ ective rate of interest method. Financing fees are amortised over the expected life of the related facility.  
EARNINGS PER SHARE  
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) data for ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the proﬁ t or loss attributable 
to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares held. Diluted EPS 
is determined by dividing the proﬁ t or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of shares outstanding adjusted for own 
shares held and the e ﬀ ects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.  
  
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  
The Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital address the exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk 
and market risk from the use of ﬁ nancial instruments. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these ﬁ nancial statements. 
 
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework.  
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy 
of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.  
Certain derivative ﬁ nancial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Group’s treasury policy. Hedges are classiﬁ ed as follows:  
– Fair value hedges that hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability. 
–  Cash ﬂ ow hedges that hedge exposure to variability in cash ﬂ ows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability 
or a forecast transaction.  
– Net investment hedges that hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Group’s interests in the net assets of foreign operations.  
  
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the consolidated income statement. Any gain 
or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the 
consolidated income statement. 
 
For cash ﬂ ow hedges and net investment hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an e ﬀ ective hedge, as 
deﬁ ned by IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”, is recognised in equity, with any ine ﬀ ective portion recognised in the consolidated 
income statement. When hedged cash ﬂ ows result in the recognition of a non-ﬁ nancial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised 
in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For all other cash ﬂ ow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are 
transferred to the consolidated income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash ﬂ ows a ﬀ ect the consolidated income statement. 
 
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised in the consolidated 
income statement. 
 
When a hedging instrument is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction 
is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction 
occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately 
in the consolidated income statement.  
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS  
The fair value of equity-settled employee share options granted is calculated at grant date and the resulting cost is charged to the income statement over 
the performance period of the options with a corresponding increase in equity. The value of the charge is adjusted to reﬂ ect expected and actual levels of 
options vesting. Failures to vest as a result of market and non-vesting conditions are not reversed.  
TREASURY SHARES  
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change 
in equity. Repurchased shares are classiﬁ ed as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from revenue reserves. 
   
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   56 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   56 8/4/10   17:26:46 8/4/10   17:26:46 57 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 . BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
KEY ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS  
The preparation of the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that a ﬀ ect the application 
of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience 
and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about 
carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may di ﬀ er from these estimates. Areas requiring the 
Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions are highlighted in these accounting policies and throughout the notes to the consolidated 
ﬁ nancial statements. Key estimation and judgement areas are as follows:  
–  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT  
Depreciation rates are regularly reviewed to ensure that they accurately reﬂ ect useful lives and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis in line 
with market conditions.  
–  TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES  
The recoverability of trade and other receivables are kept under constant review and provision is made where appropriate in line with the disclosures in Note 15.
–  TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Where the amount payable in respect of any liability is uncertain the amount provided in the accounts is based on the best estimate available at the time.
–  DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS
A qualiﬁ ed independent actuary undertakes the estimation of the present value of the Group’s obligations under deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension schemes using 
assumptions taken from a range of possible actuarial assumptions. These assumptions may not be borne out in practice, especially due to the long 
timescales involved. Changes in the key assumptions, which include discount rates, inﬂ ation, mortality and expected return on assets, could have a 
signiﬁ cant e ﬀ ect on the proﬁ t or loss for the period and the ﬁ nancial position of the Group. Details of assumptions employed to determine the liability 
at 31 December 2009 are set out in Note 29. The valuation of scheme assets is based on the fair value at the balance sheet date. As these assets are not 
intended to be sold in the short-term, their value may change signiﬁ cantly prior to realisation.
–  TAXATION
The Group is subject to income taxes in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Signiﬁ cant judgements are required in determining the consolidated provision 
for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. 
As a result, the Group recognises tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. The amount of 
such liabilities is based on an assessment of various factors, such as experience of previous tax audits and di ﬀ ering interpretations of tax law. This assessment 
relies on estimates and assumptions and involves a series of complex judgements about future events. To the extent that the ﬁ nal tax outcome of these 
matters is di ﬀ erent from the amounts recognised, such di ﬀ erences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such 
determination is made.
STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS NOT YET APPLIED
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet e ﬀ ective for the year ended 31 December 2009 and have not been 
applied in preparing these ﬁ nancial statements.
Amendment to IFRS 2 “Group cash-settled and share-based payment transactions” (e ﬀ ective year ending 31 December 2010) requires an entity 
which received goods or services in either an equity-settled or cash-settled share-based payment transaction to account for the transaction in its separate 
or individual ﬁ nancial statements, even if it is another Group entity or shareholder who has the obligation to settle the transaction. This is not expected 
to impact the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements.
IFRS 3 (Revised) “Business Combinations” (e ﬀ ective year ending 31 December 2010) requires acquisition costs incurred in a business combination to be 
expensed as incurred rather than included in the cost of acquisition and determination of goodwill. It also brings about changes to the current accounting in 
relation to contingent consideration and various other aspects of accounting for business combinations. This will a ﬀ ect any future acquisitions by the Group.
IAS 27 (Revised) “Consolidated and separate ﬁ nancial statements” (e ﬀ ective year ending 31 December 2010) makes a number of amendments to the 
Standard, dealing primarily with the accounting for changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries after control is obtained, the accounting for the loss of 
control of subsidiaries and the allocation of proﬁ t or loss to controlling and non-controlling interests in a subsidiary. This is not expected to impact the 
consolidated ﬁ nancial statements.
Amendment to IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items” (e ﬀ ective year ending 31 December 2010) 
clariﬁ es two hedge accounting issues: inﬂ ation in a ﬁ nancial hedged item and a one-sided risk in a hedged item. It is not expected to have 
any impact on the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements.
IFRIC 17 “Distribution of non-cash assets to owners” (e ﬀ ective year ending 31 December 2010) requires distributions within the scope of IFRIC 17 to be 
measured at the fair value of the assets to be distributed. Any gain or loss on settlement of the liability for the dividend payable is to be recognised in proﬁ t 
or loss. It is not expected to have any impact on the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements.
Improvements to IFRSs 2008 (e ﬀ ective year ending 31 December 2010) incorporates a number of non-urgent amendments to IFRSs. The Group does not 
expect the impact of the amendments to be signiﬁ cant.
The above standards and interpretations have been endorsed by the EU, with the exception of the amendment to IFRS 2, which has not yet been endorsed.
There are a number of additional standards and interpretations not yet in force which are not relevant to the Group or which have not yet been endorsed 
by the EU and are not expected to be e ﬀ ective for the year ended 31 December 2010.
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   57 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   57 8/4/10   17:26:46 8/4/10   17:26:46 58 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
2. TURNOVER AND PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS
An analysis of the Group’s turnover and proﬁ t from operations is as follows:
  BEFORE    BEFORE    
 RESTRUCTURING RESTRUCTURING  RESTRUCTURING RESTRUCTURING   
 COSTS COSTS TOTAL COSTS COSTS TOTAL  
 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008  
 £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M 
Turnover by destination  – UK  242.0 – 242.0 280.2 – 280.2  
– Other EU  142.7 – 142.7 161.4 – 161.4  
– Non EU  40.0 – 40.0 39.1 – 39.1 
 424.7 – 424.7 480.7 – 480.7
Cost of sales  (353.9) (2.5) (356.4) (417.7) (5.1) (422.8)
Gross proﬁ t  70.8 (2.5) 68.3 63.0 (5.1) 57.9  
  
Distribution costs  (16.9) – (16.9) (19.8) – (19.8)  
Selling and administration expenses  (32.1) (0.6) (32.7) (29.6) (0.3) (29.9) 
   
Proﬁ t from operations before employee proﬁ t sharing scheme  21.8 (3.1) 18.7 13.6 (5.4) 8.2  
Amount applied to employee proﬁ t sharing scheme  (2.8) – (2.8) (1.0) – (1.0) 
PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS  19.0 (3.1) 15.9 12.6 (5.4) 7.2 
Note: The comparative ﬁ gures for 2008 have been restated in order to ensure the costs are shown in the same categories as those in 2009.
 2009 2008  
 PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS IS STATED AFTER CHARGING/(CREDITING): £M  £M 
COST OF SALES
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  13.3 12.7  
Operating lease charges  – plant  1.4 1.2 
– buildings  0.8 0.7 
Restructuring costs relating to closures*  2.5 5.1 
SELLING AND ADMINISTRATION EXPENSES
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  0.2 0.2  
Amortisation of intangible assets  0.5 0.5  
Impairment of investments  0.1 –  
Operating lease charges – plant  0.8 0.7  
Restructuring costs relating to closures*  0.6 0.3  
Proﬁ t on disposal of property, plant and equipment  (0.1) –  
Auditors’ remuneration:
 Audit of these ﬁ nancial statements  0.1 0.1 
 Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates in respect of:
 – audit of ﬁ nancial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation  0.1 0.1  
 – other services relating to taxation  0.2 0.1 
 *ANALYSIS OF RESTRUCTURING COSTS
Redundancy costs  1.5 2.8  
Impairment of property, plant and equipment  – 1.7  
Other machinery and site-related costs  1.6 0.9 
 3.1 5.4 
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   58 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   58 8/4/10   17:26:46 8/4/10   17:26:46 59 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. SEGMENT REPORTING  
The Group has adopted IFRS 8 “Operating Segments” with e ﬀ ect from 1 January 2009. IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identiﬁ ed based on the 
structure of reporting which is regularly reviewed by the entity’s chief operating decision maker (CODM) in order to allocate resources and assess performance. 
This marks a shift in principle from the preceding standard, IAS 14, which required an entity to identify two sets of segments (business and geographical) 
using a risk and rewards based approach.
 
After undertaking an exercise to assess the impact of the new standard, the Group has concluded that there are three reportable segments: UK & Ireland, 
Mainland Europe and North America. The segments were established by reviewing the management information regularly presented to the CODM, which has 
been identiﬁ ed as the Board of Directors. The information presented to the Board is consistent with the three reportable segments identiﬁ ed above, with the 
UK & Ireland business further segregated by business activity. As all of the UK & Ireland segments meet the aggregation criteria set out in IFRS 8, they have 
been aggregated to form one reportable segment as permitted by the standard. 
 
UK & Ireland includes all of the UK manufacturing and merchanting activities along with the Irish sales o ﬃ  ce which distributes predominately UK manufactured 
products. It also includes the manufacturing operation in China from which most of the output is exported for sale by the Group in the UK. Mainland Europe 
comprises the manufacturing and merchanting activities located in Belgium, the Netherlands and France. North America comprises the manufacturing 
business in Canada with sales throughout North America.  
    
The accounting policies of the reporting segments are the same as those described in Note 1. Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. 
SEGMENT PROFIT/(LOSS)  
An analysis of the Group’s revenue and results by operating segment for the year is presented below. The measure of segment proﬁ t provided to the CODM 
is proﬁ t from operations.   
      
  UK & IRELAND MAINLAND EUROPE NORTH AMERICA  TOTAL
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008  
 £M £M £M £M £M £M £M £M 
TURNOVER 
Total sales 303.1 347.5 103.3 113.2 22.6 22.8 429.0 483.5  
Inter-segment sales (0.9) (1.5) (3.2) (1.2) (0.2) (0.1) (4.3) (2.8) 
External sales 302.2 346.0 100.1 112.0 22.4 22.7 424.7 480.7 
OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE 
RESTRUCTURING COSTS 10.2  4.5  8.0  7.3 0.8  0.8 19.0  12.6 
Restructuring costs (2.4) (5.4) (0.7)  –   –   –  (3.1) (5.4) 
PROFIT/(LOSS) 
FROM OPERATIONS 7.8 (0.9) 7.3 7.3 0.8 0.8 15.9 7.2 
Net ﬁ nancing costs        (4.1) (3.3) 
PROFIT BEFORE TAX        11.8 3.9  
Tax        (3.7) (1.1) 
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR        8.1 2.8
 
Depreciation, amortisation 
and impairment 9.5 11.5 4.2 3.5 0.3 0.1 14.0 15.1  
Capital expenditure 11.5 10.5 1.7 3.7 0.1 0.6 13.3 14.8 
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   59 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   59 8/4/10   17:26:47 8/4/10   17:26:47 60 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
3. SEGMENT REPORTING continued 
SEGMENT ASSETS      
The Group’s assets are analysed by operating segment as follows:  
  
  UK & IREL AND MAINL AND EUROPE NORTH AMERICA  TOTAL
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008  
 £M £M £M £M £M £M £M £M 
Non-current assets* 66.0 64.8 21.9 26.2 1.5 1.6 89.4 92.6  
Inventories and trade 
and other receivables 83.4 90.6 27.3 28.8 5.8 8.0 116.5 127.4
  149.4 155.4 49.2 55.0 7.3 9.6 205.9 220.0 
Elimination of intercompany debtors  (5.8) (4.5)  
Deferred tax assets  16.1 7.3  
Current tax assets  0.5 0.7  
Cash at bank  0.5 0.4 
TOTAL ASSETS  217.2 223.9 
* The measure of non-current assets used for segmental reporting comprises goodwill, other intangible assets, investments and property, plant and equipment. 
It excludes deferred tax assets.
     
INFORMATION ABOUT PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 
The Group’s products can be categorised as follows: 
     
Films – Plain ﬁ lm on the reel products.
Converted – Printed and/or converted products
Recycled – Products manufactured from recycled polythene scrap.
   
The revenues from external customers for each category of product are:  
 
 2009 2008  
 £M £M 
Films  195.1 215.6  
Converted  160.6 181.3  
Recycled  69.0 83.8 
 424.7 480.7 
 
INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS 
The Group is domiciled in the UK. Revenues are attributed to countries on the basis of the customer’s location. Revenues from external customers 
in the UK and from foreign countries are as follows: 
 2009 2008  
 £M £M 
UK 242.0 280.2  
France 28.5 33.4  
Belgium 28.0 30.4  
Scandinavia 23.6 23.4  
Netherlands 23.0 28.0  
Republic of Ireland 18.6 23.0  
Germany 14.7 14.8  
USA 14.6 14.0  
Canada 8.0 8.3  
All other countries 23.7 25.2 
 
 424.7 480.7 
     
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   60 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   60 8/4/10   17:26:47 8/4/10   17:26:47 61 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. SEGMENT REPORTING continued 
Non-current assets, excluding deferred tax assets, located in the UK and in foreign countries are as follows: 
 
 2009 2008  
 £M £M 
UK 60.8 58.8  
Netherlands 6.3 7.7 
Belgium 15.6 18.5 
China 5.2 6.0  
Canada 1.5 1.6 
 89.4 92.6 
4. STAFF COSTS 
   
 2009 2008  
 NUMBER NUMBER 
The average number of employees (including Executive Directors) was:    
Production  2,154 2,293  
Administration 182 187  
Selling 202 208 
 2,538 2,688 
 2009 2008  
 £M  £M 
Sta ﬀ  costs:    
Wages and salaries 67.4 67.5  
Redundancy costs 1.5 2.8  
Employee proﬁ t sharing scheme 2.8 1.0  
Social security costs 8.2 8.1  
Deﬁ ned contribution pension scheme costs 1.7 1.4  
Deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension scheme – current service cost 0.6 1.0 
 
 82.2 81.8 
 
Details of Directors’ remuneration and shareholdings are shown on pages 40 to 44.  
5. FINANCING COSTS 
 2009 2008  
 £M £M 
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 2.1 2.8  
Interest on other loans 0.4 1.3  
Interest on obligations under ﬁ nance leases/hire purchase 0.2 0.1 
BORROWING COSTS 2.7 4.2  
Expected return on pension scheme assets (9.8) (12.5)  
Interest on pension liabilities 11.2 11.6 
NET RETIREMENT BENEFIT FINANCING/(INCOME) 1.4 (0.9)
NET FINANCING COSTS 4.1 3.3
 
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   61 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   61 8/4/10   17:26:47 8/4/10   17:26:47 62 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6. TAX ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES
    
 2009 2008 
RECOGNISED IN THE INCOME STATEMENT £M  £M 
CURRENT TAX EXPENSE 
UK current tax at 28% on the proﬁ ts of the year (2008: 28.5%)   
Current year – – 
Adjustments for prior years 0.1 0.2
 0.1 0.2 
Overseas current tax   
Current year 3.4 2.9
Adjustments for prior years (0.1) (0.1)
 3.3 2.8
 3.4 3.0
DEFERRED TAX EXPENSE   
Origination of temporary di ﬀ erences 0.5 (1.3) 
Other adjustments for prior years (0.2) (0.6)
 
 0.3 (1.9
TOTAL TAX EXPENSE IN INCOME STATEMENT 3.7 1.1
FACTORS AFFECTING THE INCOME TAX EXPENSE
The di ﬀ erence between the income tax expense for the period and the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK is explained below: 
   
  2009 2009 2008 2008
  %  £M   %  £M
RECONCILIATION OF EFFECTIVE TAX RATE     
Proﬁ t before tax  11.8  3.9
Current tax at 28% (2008: 28.5%) 28% 3.3 28% 1.1
Non-deductible expenses 1% 0.1 3% 0.1 
Depreciation on ineligible assets 1% 0.1 3% 0.1 
Overseas tax rates 3% 0.4 7% 0.3 
Adjustments for prior years (2%) (0.2) (13%) (0.5)
TOTAL TAX EXPENSE IN INCOME STATEMENT 31% 3.7 28% 1.1
DEFERRED TAX CREDIT RECOGNISED DIRECTLY IN EQUITY
Relating to retirement and employee beneﬁ ts  (9.0)  (3.5)
7. DIVIDENDS  
 2009 2008 
 £M  £M 
AMOUNTS RECOGNISED AS DISTRIBUTIONS TO EQUITY HOLDERS IN THE YEAR:   
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 7.5p per share (2007: 15.0p) 2.0  3.9 
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 3.5p per share (2008: 7.0p) 0.9 1.9
 2.9 5.8
Proposed second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 7.5p per share (2008: ﬁ nal dividend of 7.5p) 2.0 2.0
The proposed second interim dividend was approved by the Board on 1 March 2010 and has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2009.  
  
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   62 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   62 8/4/10   17:26:47 8/4/10   17:26:47 63 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE 
 2009 2008 
 000 000
WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARES
Issued ordinary shares at 1 January 26,498 26,498 
E ﬀ ect of own shares held (250) (257)
WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARES 26,248 26,241 
E ﬀ ect of share options and long-term incentive plan shares in issue 436  – 
DILUTED WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARES 26,684 26,241
Proﬁ t attributable to ordinary shareholders £8.1m £2.8m
Proﬁ t attributable to ordinary shareholders before restructuring costs £10.3m £6.7m
Basic earnings per ordinary share 30.86p 10.67p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 30.36p 10.67p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share before restructuring costs 38.60p 25.53p 
9. GOODWILL 
 2009 2008
 £M  £M
 
Balance at 1 January 0.4 0.3
Exchange adjustments – 0.1
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 0.4 0.4
 
Goodwill has been tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 “Impairment of Assets” at 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 
and no impairments have been identiﬁ ed. 
10. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
    
   OTHER    OTHER  
 CUSTOMER COMPUTER INTANGIBLE  CUSTOMER COMPUTER INTANGIBLE  
 LISTS SOFTWARE ASSETS TOTAL LISTS SOFTWARE ASSETS TOTAL
 2009 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 2008
 £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M 
COST 
Balance at 1 January 0.4 5.9 0.7 7.0 0.3 5.4 0.6 6.3
Exchange adjustments – (0.1) – (0.1) 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.4
Additions – 0.8 – 0.8 – 0.3 – 0.3
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 0.4 6.6 0.7 7.7 0.4 5.9 0.7 7.0
 
AMORTISATION 
Balance at 1 January 0.1 4.9 0.2 5.2 – 4.4 0.1 4.5
Exchange adjustments – – – – – 0.2 – 0.2
Amortisation charge in the year 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.5 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.5
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 0.2 5.2 0.3 5.7 0.1 4.9 0.2 5.2
 
CARRYING AMOUNT 
AT 31 DECEMBER 0.2 1.4 0.4 2.0 0.3 1.0 0.5 1.8
 
Carrying amount at 1 January 0.3 1.0 0.5 1.8 0.3 1.0 0.5 1.8
 
Other intangible assets currently comprises a property lease entered into at less than an economic rent on the acquisition of AT Films Inc in 2007. 
 
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   63 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   63 8/4/10   17:26:47 8/4/10   17:26:47 64 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
11. PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT
 LAND AND PLANT AND   LAND AND PLANT AND   
 BUILDINGS EQUIPMENT TOTAL BUILDINGS EQUIPMENT TOTAL
 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008
 £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M 
COST 
Balance at 1 January 56.2 264.6 320.8 49.8 235.5 285.3
E ﬀ ect of movements in foreign exchange (1.3) (5.8) (7.1) 4.5 20.5 25.0
Additions 2.5 10.0 12.5 1.9 12.6 14.5
Disposals (0.3) (12.4) (12.7) – (4.0) (4.0)
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 57.1 256.4 313.5 56.2 264.6 320.8
 
DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT 
Balance at 1 January 21.2 209.3 230.5 17.9 184.9 202.8
E ﬀ ect of movements in foreign exchange (0.6) (4.4) (5.0) 1.9 15.2 17.1
Depreciation charge for the year 1.5 12.0 13.5 1.4 11.5 12.9
Impairment charge – – – – 1.7 1.7
Disposals (0.1) (12.4) (12.5) – (4.0) (4.0)
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 22.0 204.5 226.5 21.2 209.3 230.5
 
CARRYING AMOUNT AT 31 DECEMBER 35.1 51.9 87.0 35.0 55.3 90.3
 
Carrying amount at 1 January 35.0 55.3 90.3 31.9 50.6 82.5
 
The carrying amount of plant and equipment includes £8.0 million (2008: £6.2 million) in respect of assets held under ﬁ nance leases/hire purchase and 
£4.0 million of assets in the course of construction. 
 
Capital commitments at 31 December were as follows:
   
 2009 2008
 £M  £M 
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure relating to property, plant and equipment 
not provided in the ﬁ nancial statements 8.3 5.7
 
12. INVESTMENTS 
 2009 2008  
 £M  £M 
 
Balance at 1 January 0.1 0.1
Impairment charge (0.1) –
BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER – 0.1
 
13. SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS 
Except as indicated below, the Company owns the whole issued share capital of all subsidiary undertakings. The principal subsidiary undertakings 
are as follows: 
COMPANY COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION TRADE 
British Polythene Limited England  Polythene Manufacturer   
AT Films Inc* Canada Polythene Manufacturer   
BPI plc England  Property Company   
BPI Europe BV* Netherlands Holding Company   
Combipac BV* Netherlands Polythene Manufacturer   
Formipac France SA* France Distribution Company   
Irish Polythene Industries Limited Republic of Ireland Distribution Company   
Venture Hong Kong Limited (75% owned)* Hong Kong Holding Company   
Xinhui Alida Polythene Limited
+
 China Polythene Manufacturer  
 
*Shares held through an intermediate holding company 
+
20% owned through a subsidiary undertaking 
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   64 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   64 8/4/10   17:26:47 8/4/10   17:26:47 65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14. INVENTORIES 
 2009 2008  
 £M  £M 
Raw materials  15.0 13.1  
Work in progress  3.9 2.6  
Finished goods  42.5 46.8 
 61.4 62.5 
Cost of sales includes a charge reﬂ ecting the e ﬀ ect of movements in stock provisions totalling £0.8 million (2008: £0.8 million). 
15. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 
 2009 2008  
 £M  £M 
Trade receivables  47.1 58.0  
Prepayments and accrued income  1.6 1.6  
Other receivables  0.6 0.8 
 49.3 60.4 
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value. 
CREDIT RISK  
Credit risk is the risk of ﬁ nancial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty fails to meet its contractual obligations and arises principally from amounts 
receivable from customers. 
 
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is inﬂ uenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer and before accepting any new customer, the Group 
uses an external credit scoring system to assess the potential customer’s credit quality and deﬁ nes credit limits by customer. Limits and scoring attributed to 
customers are reviewed once a year. In addition, the Group has a policy of insuring certain debtors. 
The geographical proﬁ le of credit risk over the year is broadly in line with that of turnover by geographical area as disclosed in Note 3. 
EXPOSURE TO CREDIT RISK  
The carrying amount of ﬁ nancial assets, which includes trade receivables net of impairment losses as stated below and cash of £0.5 million (2008: £0.4 million), 
represents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk at each year end.
IMPAIRMENT LOSSES
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows:
 GROSS IMPAIRMENT GROSS IMPAIRMENT 
 2009 2009 2008 2008 
 £M  £M  £M  £M
Not past due 34.0 – 40.0 –  
0 - 30 days overdue 11.4 0.3 15.2 0.1  
Over 30 days overdue 3.5 1.5 4.4 1.5 
 48.9 1.8 59.6 1.6 
An impairment allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods. 
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit 
was initially granted up to the reporting date. The Group has no signiﬁ cant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of 
counterparties and customers in many di ﬀ erent markets and sectors. This is discussed further within the Finance Review, on page 25. Accordingly, 
the Directors believe that there is no further provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts. 
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   65 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   65 8/4/10   17:26:47 8/4/10   17:26:47 66 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
For the year ended 31 December 2009
16. BANK AND OTHER BORROWINGS 
     
  2009 2008  
 £M  £M
Bank overdrafts  4.8 8.4  
Bank loans  41.5 42.8  
Other loan  – 20.0  
Finance leases/hire purchase  6.4 5.2
  
 52.7 76.4 
 
 
 BANK OTHER LOANS  BANK OTHER LOANS   
 OVERDRAFT & BORROWINGS TOTAL OVERDRAFT & BORROWINGS TOTAL  
 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008  
 £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M 
REPRESENTED BY: 
Amounts falling due within one year 4.8 2.0 6.8 8.4 21.3 29.7  
Amounts falling due after more than one year – 45.9 45.9 – 46.7 46.7
  4.8 47.9 52.7 8.4 68.0 76.4 
The following analysis details outstanding borrowings, the facilities available to the Group and the undrawn amounts at the balance sheet date:  
 LESS THAN  BETWEEN BETWEEN  LESS THAN BETWEEN BETWEEN
 1 YEAR 1 - 2 YEARS 2 - 5 YEARS TOTAL  1 YEAR 1 - 2 YEARS 2 - 5 YEARS TOTAL  
 2009 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 2008  
 £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M 
MATURITY 
Cash at bank (0.5) – – (0.5) (0.4) – – (0.4)  
Bank overdrafts 4.8 – – 4.8 8.4 – – 8.4 
Cash and cash 
equivalents in the 
cash ﬂ ow statement 4.3 – – 4.3 8.0 – – 8.0
Bank loans – 41.5 – 41.5 – – 42.8 42.8
Other loans – – – – 20.0 – – 20.0
Finance leases/hire purchase 2.0 2.0 2.4 6.4 1.3 1.3 2.6 5.2 
 6.3 43.5 2.4 52.2 29.3 1.3 45.4 76.0 
   
UNDRAWN FACILITIES 
Bank overdrafts 30.3 – – 30.3 32.5 – – 32.5
Bank loans 5.0 16.0 – 21.0 – – 14.7 14.7
Finance leases/hire purchase – – 2.1 2.1 – – 12.5 12.5 
   
TOTAL FACILITIES 42.1 59.5 4.5 106.1 62.2 1.3 72.6 136.1 
  
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   66 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   66 8/4/10   17:26:48 8/4/10   17:26:48 67 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16. BANK AND OTHER BORROWINGS continued
  FIXED RATE FLOATING RATE CASH AT BANK TOTAL FIXED RATE FLOATING RATE CASH AT BANK TOTAL  
  2009 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 2008 
 £M  £M  £M £M  £M  £M  £M  £M 
CURRENCY AND INTEREST RATE PROFILE  
Currency 
Sterling placement
1
  – – – – 20.0 – – 20.0  
Sterling
2
   – 5.5 – 5.5 – 5.9 (0.1) 5.8  
Euro
2
  – 40.8 – 40.8 – 42.1 (0.2) 41.9  
Euro interest rate swaps
3
 17.8 (17.8) – – – – – –  
Other
2
  – 6.4 (0.5) 5.9 – 8.4 (0.1) 8.3 
  17.8 34.9 (0.5) 52.2 20.0 56.4 (0.4) 76.0 
1. The 10-year unsecured ﬁ xed term facility with a major ﬁ nancial institution at a ﬁ xed interest rate of 6.73% has been fully repaid in 2009.   
2. The ﬂ oating rate borrowings are all rolled over on periods of three months or less based on the appropriate LIBOR or base rates.  
3. The euro interest rate swaps expire in June 2014 and are at varying rates of interest over the period covered.     
17. OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
LIQUIDITY RISK 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its ﬁ nancial obligations as they fall due. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining 
adequate banking facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash ﬂ ows and matching the maturity proﬁ les of ﬁ nancial assets and liabilities. 
The Group has at its disposal undrawn facilities as noted above, which further reduces liquidity risk. Refer to the Finance Review on page 25 for further 
discussion of liquidity risk.  
The following analysis details the contractual maturities of ﬁ nancial liabilities at the balance sheet date including interest and principal cash ﬂ ows, 
using undiscounted cash ﬂ ows: 
 LESS THAN  BETWEEN BETWEEN  LESS THAN BETWEEN BETWEEN
 1 YEAR 1 - 2 YEARS 2 - 5 YEARS TOTAL 1 YEAR 1 - 2 YEARS 2 - 5 YEARS TOTAL 
 2009 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 2008  
 £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M 
CONTRACTUAL CASH FLOWS ANALYSED BY MATURITY DATE 
Non-derivative ﬁ nancial liabilities: 
Trade and other payables 61.4 – – 61.4 58.4 – – 58.4  
Bank overdrafts 4.8 – – 4.8 8.4 – – 8.4  
Bank loans 0.8 42.1 – 42.9 1.6 1.6 44.3 47.5  
Other loans – – – – 21.2 – – 21.2  
Finance leases/hire purchase 2.2 2.1 2.4 6.7 1.5 1.4 2.7 5.6  
Derivative ﬁ nancial liabilities: 
Euro interest rate swaps 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.6 – – – – 
 
 69.5 44.4 2.5 116.4 91.1 3.0 47.0 141.1 
Obligations under ﬁ nance leases/hire purchase are as follows:  
 MINIMUM   MINIMUM    
 LEASE FINANCE  LEASE FINANCE   
 PAYMENTS COSTS CAPITAL PAYMENTS COSTS CAPITAL  
 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008  
 £M  £M  £M  £M  £M £M
Amounts payable under ﬁ nance leases/hire purchase: 
Less than one year 2.2 0.2 2.0 1.5 0.2 1.3  
Between one and ﬁ ve years 4.5 0.1 4.4 4.1 0.2 3.9 
 6.7 0.3 6.4 5.6 0.4 5.2 
Capital represents the carrying value of four year hire purchase arrangements, repayable by periodic instalments and excludes contingent rents for future 
ﬁ nance costs calculated by reference to bank base rate on each quarterly payment date.  
Finance leases and hire purchase agreements are all denominated in sterling.  
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   67 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   67 8/4/10   17:26:48 8/4/10   17:26:48 68 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
17. OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
FAIR VALUE 
  CARRYING FAIR CARRYING FAIR  
 AMOUNT VALUE AMOUNT VALUE  
 2009 2009 2008 2008  
 £M  £M  £M  £M 
Euro interest rate swaps 0.6 0.6  –   –  
Fixed asset investment  –   –  0.1 0.1  
Fixed rate borrowings – other loans  –   –  (20.0) (20.1)
 0.6 0.6 (19.9) (20.0) 
FINANCIAL ASSETS 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. The carrying 
amount of these assets approximates to their fair value. 
INVESTMENTS 
The fair value of investments is based on estimates of likely sales values of the investments.  
FIXED RATE BORROWINGS 
The fair value is based on the quoted market prices of comparable debt issued by other companies.  
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES  
The fair value is based on observable values for underlying interest rates. 
CASH AT BANK, BORROWINGS DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR, FLOATING RATE BORROWINGS DUE AFTER MORE THAN 1 YEAR, TRADE PAYABLES, TRADE RECEIVABLES 
AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES  
The carrying value approximates to fair value either because of the short maturity of the instruments or because the interest rates are reset after periods 
of not greater than six months.
FINANCE LEASES/HIRE PURCHASE 
The fair value of the obligations approximates to their carrying amount. 
FAIR VALUE HIERARCHY
The only category of ﬁ nancial instrument carried at fair value is derivative ﬁ nancial liabilities. This has been deﬁ ned as a Level 2 instrument in line with the 
following deﬁ nitions: 
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.  
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly 
(i.e. derived from prices). 
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
There have been no transfers between levels in 2009 or 2008. 
MARKET RISK 
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, will a ﬀ ect the Group’s income or the value of 
its holdings of ﬁ nancial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, 
while optimising the return. Generally the Group seeks to minimise this risk through hedge arrangements designed to manage a proportion of the Group’s 
overall exposure.  
HEDGING 
NET INVESTMENT IN OVERSEAS OPERATIONS      
The Group has a policy of maintaining borrowings in the currency of most of its overseas operations to cover the net asset position in those companies. 
CASH FLOW HEDGE – FOREIGN CURRENCY      
Sales orders in currency are either covered at the time of receipt by the creation of a currency overdraft or with forward contracts covering a proportion of 
expected orders for a period of up to one year. Purchases are covered with forward contracts or reduction in borrowings in the relevant currency where 
appropriate. Any signiﬁ cant exception to this is approved at Board level. Any cash ﬂ ow and proﬁ t e ﬀ ect would crystalise within twelve months of the year 
end when the forecast transactions being hedged materialise. The value of these hedges at 31 December 2009 was £10.0 million (2008: £0.7 million). 
No ine ﬀ ectiveness was recognised in the income statement in relation to cash ﬂ ow hedges.        
   
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   68 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   68 8/4/10   17:26:48 8/4/10   17:26:48 69 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
17. OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
INTEREST RATE MANAGEMENT      
Exposure to ﬂ uctuating interest rates is managed by using derivative ﬁ nancial instruments to maintain the desired ﬁ xed/variable mix. Due to the seasonal nature 
of working capital requirements funded by borrowings this is done by ﬁ xing a value rather than a percentage.
CURRENCY RISK      
The Group’s signiﬁ cant exposure to foreign currency risk at 31 December 2009 is as follows: 
 2009 2009 2008 2008  
 EUR CAD EUR CAD  
 €M $M €M $M 
Trade receivables 12.1 1.7 14.4 3.3  
Trade payables (17.2) (1.2) (18.2) (1.7) 
Gross balance sheet exposure (5.1) 0.5 (3.8) 1.6 
The following signiﬁ cant exchange rates applied during the year: 
 AVERAGE RATE CLOSING RATE
 2009 2008 2009 2008 
EUR 1.1185 1.2591 1.1199 1.048 
CAD 1.7769 1.9528 1.6929 1.7914 
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS 
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term ﬂ uctuations on the Group’s earnings. 
Over the longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings. 
At 31 December 2009, it is estimated that a change of 100 basis points in interest rates would result in a change of £0.3 million in proﬁ t before tax. This has been 
calculated by taking 1% of the Group’s ﬂ oating rate borrowings as at 31 December 2009. It assumes that all other variables, including foreign currency, remain 
constant. In 2008, the estimated change in proﬁ t before tax was calculated as £0.5 million, using the same method and assumptions. 
It is estimated that a change of 10 euro cents against the value of sterling over the period would result in an increase or decrease in proﬁ t or loss by £0.8 million. 
This has been determined by calculating the e ﬀ ect of such a change on the translation of our European results. In 2008, the impact was estimated 
at £0.5 million, using the same method. 
It is estimated that a fall in the discount rate or increase in inﬂ ation of 0.5% would increase the pension scheme deﬁ cit by £15 million (2008: £15 million), 
an increase in life expectancy of one year would increase it by £4 million (2008: £4 million) and a fall in equity markets of 10% would increase it by £8 million 
(2008: £5 million). 
18. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 
     
 2009 2008
 £M  £M 
Trade payables 49.5 49.0
Other taxes and social security 4.2 4.7
Accruals and deferred income 3.4 3.1
Other payables 7.7 4.7
 64.8 61.5
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
19. CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES
 2009 2008
 £M  £M 
Current tax receivable (0.5) (0.7)  
Current tax payable 1.6 1.0 
 1.1 0.3 
The net current tax liability represents the estimated amount of income taxes payable in respect of current and prior periods.  
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   69 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   69 8/4/10   17:26:48 8/4/10   17:26:48 70 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
20. DEFERRED TAX 
  
 ACCELERATED   OTHER   ACCELERATED   OTHER 
 CAPITAL EMPLOYEE  TIMING   CAPITAL EMPLOYEE  TIMING 
 ALLOWANCES BENEFITS  DIFFERENCES   TOTAL  ALLOWANCES BENEFITS  DIFFERENCES   TOTAL  
 2009 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008 2008  
 £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M 
At 1 January 7.8 (7.3) (3.8) (3.3) 6.9 (5.0) (0.6) 1.3
(Credit)/charge to income (0.4) 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.1 1.2 (3.2) (1.9) 
Credit to equity – (9.0) – (9.0) – (3.5) – (3.5) 
Exchange di ﬀ erences (0.2) – – (0.2) 0.8 – – 0.8 
AT 31 DECEMBER 7.2 (16.0) (3.4) (12.2) 7.8 (7.3) (3.8) (3.3) 
Net deferred tax liabilities 3.6 (0.1) 0.4 3.9 3.8 (0.1) 0.3 4.0 
Net deferred tax assets 3.6 (15.9) (3.8) (16.1) 4.0 (7.2) (4.1) (7.3)
  7.2 (16.0) (3.4) (12.2) 7.8 (7.3) (3.8) (3.3) 
Accelerated capital allowances relate to property, plant and equipment and computer software.  
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been o ﬀ set where the Group has a legally enforceable right to set o ﬀ  current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and where the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdictions.  
21. GOVERNMENT GRANTS  
Government grants relate primarily to regional selective assistance received on the achievement of certain job creation and job protection targets as well 
as related capital expenditure. The grants could be repayable in the event that numbers employed at the relevant sites drop below these target levels during 
a speciﬁ ed monitoring period.
22. SHARE CAPITAL 
 2009 2008  
 £M  £M 
AUTHORISED
Equity    
80,227,336 (2008: 80,227,336) ordinary shares of 25p each 20.1 20.1 
ALLOTTED CALLED UP AND FULLY PAID
Equity 
26,498,160 (2008:26,498,160) ordinary shares of 25p each 6.6 6.6 
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries no right to ﬁ xed income. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends 
as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All shares rank equally with regards to the Company’s 
residual assets.  
The Company has granted options over its ordinary shares (see Note 28). 
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   70 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   70 8/4/10   17:26:48 8/4/10   17:26:48 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
23. OTHER RESERVES
      
    FOREIGN 
 CAPITAL   CURRENCY TOTAL
 REDEMPTION CAPITAL HEDGING TRANSLATION OTHER 
 RESERVE RESERVE  RESERVE RESERVE RESERVES 
 £M  £M  £M  £M  £M 
At 1 January 2009 7.2 0.5 (0.7) 2.3 9.3
Movement during the year – – 0.1 – 0.1
Movement on retranslation of overseas operations – – – (0.8) (0.8)
AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 7.2 0.5 (0.6) 1.5 8.6
      
    
 
    FOREIGN 
 CAPITAL   CURRENCY TOTAL
 REDEMPTION CAPITAL HEDGING TRANSLATION OTHER 
 RESERVE RESERVE  RESERVE RESERVE RESERVES 
 £M  £M  £M  £M  £M 
At 1 January 2008 7.2 0.5 (0.3) – 7.4
Movement during the year – – (0.4) – (0.4)
Movement on retranslation of overseas operations – – – 2.3 2.3
AT 31 DECEMBER 2008 7.2 0.5 (0.7) 2.3 9.3
       
Capital redemption reserve was created on the repurchase and cancellation of ordinary and preference shares in previous years.   
       
Capital reserve was created on the acquisition of a subsidiary.      
     
Hedging reserve comprises the e ﬀ ective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash ﬂ ow hedging instruments related to forecast hedging 
transactions that have not yet occurred.      
     
Foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange di ﬀ erences arising from the retranslation of ﬁ nancial statements of foreign operations, 
as well as the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in foreign operations.  
24. OWN SHARES HELD
 2009 2008
 £M  £M 
COST OF OWN SHARES HELD
At 1 January 1.2 1.2
Movement relative to shares vested under the restricted share plan (0.1) –
AT 31 DECEMBER 1.1 1.2
  
The cost of own shares held represents shares held by the British Polythene Industries Employee Share Ownership Trust to satisfy the Company’s liabilities 
under the restricted share plan and the long-term incentive plan. The market value of the shares is £0.7 million (2008: £0.5 million). 
   
 DATE OF  NUMBER OF DATE OF NUMBER OF
 ALLOCATION SHARES ALLOCATION SHARES
 2009 2009 2008 2008
MOVEMENTS IN THE NUMBER OF SHARES HELD
At 1 January  256,831   260,831 
Number of shares allocated to employees 02/03/09 (7,399)  03/03/08 (4,000) 
AT 31 DECEMBER  249,432   256,831 
       
       
  
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   71 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   71 8/4/10   17:26:48 8/4/10   17:26:48 72 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
25. MINORITY INTERESTS
 2009 2008  
 £M  £M 
At 1 January 0.4 0.2
Foreign exchange movements (0.1) 0.2
AT 31 DECEMBER 0.3 0.4
  
Minority interests comprise a 25% holding in the ordinary share capital of Venture Hong Kong Limited, along with the related share in the results of the 
Company up to 31 December 2009 as adjusted to reﬂ ect Group accounting policies. Venture Hong Kong Limited holds a 20% minority interest 
in Xinhui Alida Polythene Limited. 
26. OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS 
At 31 December, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due 
as follows:  
    
 PLANT AND   PLANT AND   
 EQUIPMENT BUILDINGS TOTAL EQUIPMENT BUILDINGS TOTAL
 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 2008
 £M  £M  £M  £M  £M  £M 
Less than one year  2.1   0.6   2.7   1.9   0.7   2.6 
Between one and ﬁ ve years  2.5   2.0   4.5   2.5   1.7   4.2 
More than ﬁ ve years  –   2.3   2.3  –   1.9   1.9 
  4.6   4.9   9.5   4.4   4.3   8.7 
       
None of the operating leases includes contingent rentals.      
     
A number of the leased buildings have been sublet to external tenants.       
     
At 31 December, the Group expects to receive future sublease rentals which fall due as follows:
   
 BUILDINGS BUILDINGS
 2009 2008
 £M  £M 
Less than one year 0.1  0.3 
Between one and ﬁ ve years  0.5   0.2 
  0.6  0.5 
       
During the year ended 31 December 2009, £3.0 million (2008: £2.6 million) was recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement in respect 
of operating leases, comprising £3.3 million (2008: £3.0 million) operating lease rentals less £0.3 million (2008: £0.4 million) sublease rentals.
The Group has also entered into a contract to guarantee the indebtedness of a third party in relation to a lease contract. In the event of default, the Group 
could be held liable for future contracted lease payments for up to ﬁ ve years from 29 July 2010. This represents a contingent liability to the Group of the 
present value of these payments. This amounted to £1.0 million at 31 December 2009 (2008: £nil). 
27. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Contingent liabilities of the Group in respect of VAT indemnities amount to £0.8 million (2008: £0.8 million). 
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   72 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   72 8/4/10   17:26:49 8/4/10   17:26:49 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
28. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 
In 2005 the Group introduced a new Long-Term Incentive Plan for senior executives. Shares are conditionally awarded under this plan and vest in employees 
based on the following performance criteria. 
The EPS part of an award will vest if the Company’s EPS growth is at least RPI plus 10% per annum over the performance period; no shares will vest if EPS 
growth is not at least RPI plus 3% per annum. For performance between these two points, vesting will occur on a sliding scale. 
For the portion of the award based on Total Shareholder Return (TSR), no vesting will occur for ranking below median. At the median 10% of the award will 
vest with the full 50% vesting for a ranking at or above the upper quartile. Vesting occurs on a sliding scale between these two points.
 
 2009 2008 
 LTIP LTIP 
Outstanding at beginning of year 801,750 773,924
Granted during the year 284,500 399,500
Forfeited/lapsed during the year (236,750) (371,674) 
Outstanding at the end of the year 849,500 801,750
Exercisable at the end of the year 113,750 – 
SAVINGS RELATED SHARE OPTION SCHEME 
The employee savings related share option scheme is open to almost all UK employees. Employees save over three or ﬁ ve years at the end of which shares 
can be purchased during the following six month period. During the period the Group did not issue any shares (2008: none) under this scheme. Grants 
of options were made on 19 October 2006 and 9 October 2007 at a price 10% below the market price on the date of o ﬀ er and on 13 October 2008 and 
13 October 2009 at market price. 
At 31 December 2009 the individual options, not yet exercised, of Directors and other employees under the savings related share option scheme 
are as follows: 
 DATE FROM
DATE  WHICH    OTHER
OF GRANT EXERCISABLE EXPIRY DATE OPTION PRICE DIRECTORS  EMPLOYEES TOTAL TOTAL 
    2009 2009 2009 2008 
19/10/06 01/12/09 31/05/10 369.45p – 62,522 62,522 76,732  
19/10/06 01/12/11 31/05/12 369.45p – 108,072 108,072 131,465  
09/10/07 01/12/10 31/05/11 392.40p – 27,615 27,615 40,031  
09/10/07 01/12/12 31/05/13 392.40p – 28,928 28,928 38,873  
13/10/08 01/12/11 31/05/12 236.00p 14,194 55,431 69,625 99,551  
13/10/08 01/12/13 31/05/14 236.00p – 91,104 91,104 111,256  
13/10/09 01/12/12 31/05/13 242.00p – 103,875 103,875 –  
13/10/09 01/12/14 31/05/15 242.00p – 85,578 85,578 – 
AT 31 DECEMBER     14,194 563,125 577,319 497,908
  
A charge to the income statement for all of these schemes has been based on the Binomial model and the inputs into the model are as follows: 
 SAYE SAYE SAYE LTIP LTIP LTIP  
YEAR OF GRANT 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 
Share price £2.36 £1.95 £3.76 £1.78 £2.58 £4.31 
Exercise price £2.42 £2.36 £3.92 Nil Nil Nil 
Expected volatility 49.32% 43.59% 30.75% 45.58% 36.36% 26.26%  
Expected life 3/5 years 3/5 years 3/5 years 3 years 3 years 3 years  
Risk-free rate 2.96% 4.11% 5.01% 4.00% 4.50% 4.40%  
Expected dividends 6.44% 11.28% 5.85% 8.15% 8.53% 5.11% 
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the three years immediately preceding grant. 
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the e ﬀ ects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, 
and behavioural considerations.
The Group recognised total expenses of £0.3 million relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in 2009 (2008: £0.4 million).  
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   73 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   73 8/4/10   17:26:49 8/4/10   17:26:49 74 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
29. RETIREMENT AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS 
 NON- NON-  NON- NON-   
 CURRENT CURRENT 2009 CURRENT CURRENT 2008  
 ASSETS LIABILITIES TOTAL ASSETS LIABILITIES TOTAL  
 £M £M £M £M £M £M
Deﬁ cit in British Polythene deﬁ ned beneﬁ t pension scheme  –  (56.9)  (56.9)   –  (25.7)  (25.7)
Other employee beneﬁ t obligations (see below)  –  (1.5)  (1.5)   –  (1.4)  (1.4)
RETIREMENT AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS  –  (58.4)  (58.4)   –  (27.1)  (27.1)  
Related deferred tax asset (see Note 20)  15.9   0.1   16.0  7.2   0.1   7.3 
 15.9  (58.3)  (42.4)   7.2  (27.0)  (19.8)
BRITISH POLYTHENE DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEME 
The assets of the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t section of the British Polythene Pension Scheme are invested in a self-administered trust fund and are separated from the 
Group’s business assets. The Scheme was closed to new entrants in June 2000. 
A full actuarial valuation in relation to the Scheme was carried out on 5 April 2008 and was updated by the actuary at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 
2009. The previous valuation was carried out on 6 April 2005 and was updated by the actuary at 31 December 2005, 2006 and 2007. The present value of the 
deﬁ ned beneﬁ t obligation, the related current service cost and past service cost were measured using the projected unit credit method. 
The major assumptions used by the actuary in the valuations were:
 2009 2008 
Rate of increase in pensionable earnings 3.50% 2.60%  
Rate of increase in pensions in payment    
 – service up to 31 December 2006 3.35% 2.60%  
 – service from 1 January 2007 2.50% 2.40%  
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 3.50% 2.60% 
Discount rate applied to scheme liabilities 5.75% 6.50% 
Inﬂ ation assumption 3.50% 2.60% 
Life expectancy: 
 – Male aged 60 (current life expectancy) 23.2   23.2 
 – Female aged 60 (current life expectancy) 26.1   26.0 
 – Male aged 45 (life expectancy at age 60)  24.9  24.9
 – Female aged 45 (life expectancy at age 60) 27.8   27.7 
The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered, 
may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
NET PENSION LIABILITY 
The amount included in the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2009 is as follows: 
 LONG-TERM RATE  LONG-TERM RATE  
 OF RETURN
+
 VALUE  OF RETURN
+
 VALUE 
 2009 2009 2008 2008 
  £M  £M 
Equities n/a –  7.75%  64.2 
Corporate bonds 4.79%  74.3  5.33%  19.7  
Government securities n/a  –  3.59%  10.6  
LDI holdings n/a  –  5.33% 43.4  
Cash and Equity Futures 7.86%  18.8  n/a  –  
Index linked Gilts and Equity Futures 8.21%  42.9  n/a – 
Corporate Bonds and Equity Futures 8.66%  21.8  n/a  –  
Other 7.06%  11.6  7.44%  13.1 
Fair value of scheme assets  169.4   151.0  
Present value of scheme liabilities  (226.3)   (176.7)
DEFICIT IN THE SCHEME  (56.9)   (25.7)  
Related deferred tax asset   15.9   7.2 
NET PENSION LIABILITY  (41.0)   (18.5)
+The rates quoted are the expected net rate of return after allowing for investment expenses.  
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   74 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   74 8/4/10   17:26:49 8/4/10   17:26:49 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
29. RETIREMENT AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued
The fair value of the scheme assets are not intended to be realised in the short-term and may be subject to signiﬁ cant change before they are realised. 
The present value of the scheme liabilities is derived from cash ﬂ ow projections over a long period and is thus inherently uncertain.  
The structure of the investment portfolio was changed during the year. This is explained in the Finance Review.  
The expected rate of return on each class of scheme assets is based on market expectations, as at 31 December 2009. For equity futures it has been assumed 
that the long-term return will be 4%. 
Movements in the present value of scheme liabilities were as follows: 
 2009 2008  
 £M  £M 
At 1 January 176.7  202.6  
Current service cost  0.6  1.1  
Interest on pension liabilities 11.2  11.6  
Contributions from scheme members 0.8  1.1  
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities 1.8  5.7 
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 44.6  (37.2)
Beneﬁ ts paid (9.4)  (8.2) 
AT 31 DECEMBER 226.3  176.7 
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets were as follows:
 
 £M £M 
At 1 January 151.0  185.0 
Expected return on pension scheme assets  9.8  12.5  
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets  14.0  (43.8)  
Employer contributions  3.2  4.4  
Contributions from the scheme members  0.8  1.1 
Beneﬁ ts paid (9.4)  (8.2)
AT 31 DECEMBER  169.4  151.0 
The movements in the scheme deﬁ cit were as follows: 
 2009 2009 2008 2008  
 £M £M £M £M 
Deﬁ cit in scheme at 1 January  (25.7)   (17.6)  
Current service cost (0.6)   (1.1)  
TOTAL AMOUNT CHARGED TO PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS (0.6)   (1.1)  
Expected return on pension scheme assets 9.8   12.5   
Interest on pension liabilities (11.2)   (11.6)  
TOTAL AMOUNT (CHARGED)/CREDITED TO NET FINANCING COSTS (1.4)    0.9  
AMOUNT CHARGED TO INCOME STATEMENT  (2.0)   (0.2)  
Employer contributions   3.2   4.4  
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 14.0   (43.8)   
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities (1.8)   (5.7)   
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities (44.6)   37.2  
ACTUARIAL LOSS  (32.4)   (12.3) 
DEFICIT IN SCHEME AT 31 DECEMBER  (56.9)   (25.7) 
Of the charge to proﬁ t from operations for the year ended 31 December 2009, £0.5 million (2008: £0.9 million) has been included in cost of sales 
and £0.1 million (2008: £0.2 million) has been included in administrative expenses.
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   75 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   75 8/4/10   17:26:49 8/4/10   17:26:49 76 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
29. RETIREMENT AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued
EXPERIENCE ADJUSTMENTS 
The ﬁ ve-year history of experience adjustments is as follows: 
 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 
 £M £M £M £M £M 
Actual return on scheme assets 23.8  (31.3)   14.8   14.8   24.9 
Present value of scheme liabilities (226.3)  (176.7)  (202.6)  (202.7)  (208.8) 
Fair value of scheme assets  169.4   151.0   185.0   169.5   154.5 
DEFICIT IN THE SCHEME (56.9)  (25.7)  (17.6)  (33.2) (54.3) 
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities (1.8)  (5.7)   0.4   2.2  (3.4) 
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%) (0.8%) (3.2%) 0.2% 1.1% (1.6%)
Experience adjustments on scheme assets  14.0  (43.8)   3.5   5.4   16.2 
Percentage of scheme assets (%) 8.3% (29.0%) 1.9% 3.2% 10.5%
The cumulative actuarial losses recognised in equity from the date of transition to IFRS on 1 January 2004 total £39.5 million. 
Contributions in 2010 will consist of current service cost and a ﬁ xed annual contribution of £2.8 million, payable monthly.  
These contributions are subject to review at formal actuarial valuations. 
OTHER DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEMES 
The Company’s subsidiary in Ireland operates a deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme. Disclosures are not provided in relation to this scheme as the amounts involved are 
not signiﬁ cant. At 31 December 2009, the scheme has total assets of €2.8 million (2008: €2.5 million) and total liabilities of €2.6 million (2008: €2.7 million).  
The Company’s overseas subsidiary in the Netherlands operates a deﬁ ned beneﬁ t scheme in conjunction with a number of other employers. However 
as it is not possible to identify their share of the underlying assets and liabilities on a consistent and reliable basis, the Group is accounting for this scheme 
as a deﬁ ned contribution scheme. 
DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES 
The assets of the deﬁ ned contribution section of the British Polythene Pension Scheme, other deﬁ ned contribution schemes and deﬁ ned beneﬁ t schemes 
treated as deﬁ ned contribution schemes as detailed above are held separately from those of the Group, being invested in funds under the control of a number 
of insurance companies. The pension charge includes contributions payable by the Group to the various insurance companies.  The total cost charged to 
income in 2009 of £1.7 million (2008: £1.4 million) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates speciﬁ ed in the rules of the plans. 
OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 
The Group has two other arrangements classiﬁ ed as other long-term beneﬁ ts. In the UK there is a self-insured Permanent Health Scheme with recognised 
liabilities of £0.9 million (2008: £0.8 million) and in the Netherlands there is a ‘’Jubilee’’ provision of £0.5 million (2008: £0.6 million) which provides for 
additional payments to employees with long service. 
30. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries (see Note 13), with its Directors and executive o ﬃ  cers including key management personnel, 
and with the British Polythene Pension Scheme. Disclosures relating to Directors are shown on pages 40 to 44.  
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.  
There were no trading transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group in the year ended 31 December 2009.  
REMUNERATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL  
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories speciﬁ ed in IAS 24 “Related 
Party Disclosures”:
 2009 2008  
 £M  £M 
Short-term employee beneﬁ ts 3.1  2.3 
Post-employment beneﬁ ts 0.2  0.2 
 3.3  2.5 
   
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   76 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   76 8/4/10   17:26:49 8/4/10   17:26:49 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
UK GAAP PARENT COMPANY BAL ANCE SHEET
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
  2009 2008
 NOTES £M  £M 
FIXED ASSETS
Investments 2 149.9 139.4
CURRENT ASSETS
Debtors 3 19.2 55.0
Cash at bank  3.7 –
  22.9 55.0
CREDITORS – AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
Bank and other borrowings  – 21.8
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 4 0.3 –
Other creditors 5 36.8 32.0
  37.1 53.8
NET CURRENT ASSETS   (14.2) 1.2
TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES  135.7 140.6
CREDITORS – AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
Bank and other borrowings 6 41.5 42.8
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments 4 0.3 –
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings  31.2 31.2
  73.0 74.0
NET ASSETS  62.7 66.6
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Called up share capital 7 6.6 6.6
Share premium account 8 25.1 25.1
Other reserves 9 13.2 13.8
Proﬁ t and loss account 10 17.8 21.1
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS  62.7 66.6
The ﬁ nancial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2010 and signed on its behalf by
C. MCLATCHIE D. HARRIS
CHAIRMAN  FINANCE DIRECTOR 
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   77 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   77 8/4/10   17:26:49 8/4/10   17:26:49 78 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE UK GAAP PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
BASIS OF PREPARATION
The Company’s ﬁ nancial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for derivative ﬁ nancial instruments which are stated at their fair value, 
and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards. The ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, for the reasons outlined 
in the Finance Review on page 25.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Company’s 
ﬁ nancial statements.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
Under Section 408 (3) of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own proﬁ t and loss account.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
As the parent company of the British Polythene Industries PLC Group (the ﬁ nancial statements for which can be found on pages 50 to 76), the Company has 
taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with entities which are wholly owned 
subsidiaries of the Group.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES 
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet 
date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary 
assets and liabilities carried at historical cost that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the historical 
cost was determined. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the proﬁ t and loss account for the year. 
TAXATION
The Company’s tax charge is based on the result for the year and tax rates in force during the year. Estimation of the tax charge requires an assessment to be 
made of the potential tax treatment of certain items which will only be resolved once ﬁ nally agreed with the relevant tax authorities. 
DEFERRED TAXATION 
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing di ﬀ erences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes 
which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19. A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and 
therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be su ﬃ  cient taxable proﬁ ts 
from which the future reversal of the underlying timing di ﬀ erences can be deducted. 
INVESTMENTS
Investments are stated at cost less provisions for any impairment.
   
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
Certain derivative ﬁ nancial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Company’s treasury policy. Hedges are classiﬁ ed as follows:
– Fair value hedges that hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
–  Cash ﬂ ow hedges that hedge exposure to variability in cash ﬂ ows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability 
or a forecast transaction. 
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the proﬁ t and loss account. Any gain or loss 
on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the proﬁ t and 
loss account. 
For cash ﬂ ow hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an e ﬀ ective hedge, as deﬁ ned by FRS 26, is recognised 
in equity, with any ine ﬀ ective portion recognised in the proﬁ t and loss account. When hedged cash ﬂ ows result in the recognition of a non-ﬁ nancial asset or 
liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For all other cash ﬂ ow 
hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the proﬁ t and loss account in the same period in which the hedged cash ﬂ ows 
a ﬀ ect the proﬁ t and loss account. 
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative ﬁ nancial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised in the proﬁ t and loss account. 
When a hedging instrument is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction 
is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction 
occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately 
in the proﬁ t and loss account. 
FINANCIAL GUARANTEE CONTRACTS 
Where the Company enters into ﬁ nancial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company considers 
these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until 
such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.      
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   78 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   78 8/4/10   17:26:50 8/4/10   17:26:50 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 . SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The fair value of employee share options granted is calculated at grant date and the resulting cost is charged to the proﬁ t and loss account over the performance 
period of the options with a corresponding increase in equity. The value of the charge is adjusted to reﬂ ect expected and actual levels of options vesting. 
Failures to vest as a result of market conditions are not reversed. 
TREASURY SHARES
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change 
in equity. Repurchased shares are classiﬁ ed as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from proﬁ t and loss reserves.  
PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
In accordance with FRS 12 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”, provisions are recognised where there is a present obligation as a result 
of a past event, it is probable that a transfer of economic beneﬁ ts will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount 
of the obligation. If these conditions are not met, no provision is recognised. However, contingent liabilities are disclosed in the notes to the ﬁ nancial statements, 
unless the possibility of a transfer of economic beneﬁ ts is remote. Contingent gains are not recognised unless realisation of the proﬁ t is virtually certain. 
DIVIDENDS PAYABLE 
Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recorded as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved. 
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
The Company participates in a group-wide scheme, the British Polythene Pension Scheme, which has a deﬁ ned beneﬁ t section (providing beneﬁ ts based on 
ﬁ nal pensionable pay) and a deﬁ ned contribution section. The assets of the Scheme are held separately from those of the Company. The pension costs for the 
deﬁ ned contribution section are charged to the proﬁ t and loss account on the basis of contributions due in respect of the ﬁ nancial year. In relation to the deﬁ ned 
beneﬁ t section of the Scheme, the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities on a consistent and reliable basis and therefore, 
as required by FRS 17, the Company accounts for this Scheme as a deﬁ ned contribution scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the proﬁ t and loss account 
in respect of the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t section represents the contributions payable to the Scheme in respect of the year.  
2. FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS
 SUBSIDIARY  UNDERTAKINGS
 EQUITY NON-EQUITY INVESTMENTS TOTAL 
 £M  £M  £M  £M 
SHARES AT COST LESS PROVISIONS 
At 31 December 2008 85.1 54.2 0.1 139.4
Impairment charge – – (0.1) (0.1) 
Additions in the year – 10.6 – 10.6
AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 85.1 64.8 – 149.9
      
SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS      
Except as indicated below, the Company owns the whole issued share capital of all subsidiary undertakings. The principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
COMPANY COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION TRADE 
British Polythene Limited England  Polythene Manufacturer   
AT Films Inc* Canada Polythene Manufacturer   
BPI plc England  Property Company   
BPI Europe BV* Netherlands Holding Company   
Combipac BV* Netherlands Polythene Manufacturer   
Formipac France SA* France Distribution Company   
Irish Polythene Industries Limited Republic of Ireland Distribution Company   
Venture Hong Kong Limited (75% owned)* Hong Kong Holding Company   
Xinhui Alida Polythene Limited
+
 China Polythene Manufacturer  
*Shares held through an intermediate holding company      
+
20% owned through a subsidiary undertaking      
 
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   79 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   79 8/4/10   17:26:50 8/4/10   17:26:50 80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE UK GAAP PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
3. DEBTORS
 2009 2008  
 £M  £M 
Trade debtors 0.3 0.2 
Amounts due by subsidiary undertakings 16.6 51.8 
Prepayments and accrued income 0.2 0.4 
Other debtors  1.3 1.7 
Group relief receivable 0.8 0.9
 19.2 55.0
4. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Company considers the Group disclosures found at Note 17 to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements to satisfy all FRS 29 disclosure requirements 
in relation to ﬁ nancial instruments.
5. OTHER CREDITORS: amounts falling due within one year
 2009 2008  
 £M  £M 
Trade creditors 0.5 0.1
Other taxes and social security 1.3 1.2
Accruals and deferred income 1.2 1.6
Other creditors 1.0 0.1
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 32.8 29.0
   
 36.8 32.0
6. BANK AND OTHER BORROWINGS: amounts falling due after more than one year
 2009 2008  
 £M  £M 
Bank loans 41.5 22.8
Other loans – 20.0
 41.5 42.8
 
7. CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL
 2009 2008  
 £M  £M 
AUTHORISED 
Equity   
80,227,336 (2008: 80,227,336) ordinary shares of 25p each 20.1 20.1
ALLOTTED CALLED UP AND FULLY PAID
Equity
26,498,160 (2008: 26,498,160) ordinary shares of 25p each 6.6 6.6
8. SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT
   
  £M 
AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 AND 31 DECEMBER 2008  25.1
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   80 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   80 8/4/10   17:26:50 8/4/10   17:26:50 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9. OTHER RESERVES 
  CAPITAL   TOTAL 
 MERGER REDEMPTION  CAPITAL  HEDGING OTHER 
 RESERVE RESERVE RESERVE RESERVE RESERVES 
 £M  £M  £M  £M  £M 
At 1 January 2009 6.5 7.2 0.1 – 13.8
Movement during the year  – – – (0.6) (0.6)
At 31 December 2009 6.5 7.2 0.1 (0.6) 13.2
  
  CAPITAL   TOTAL 
 MERGER REDEMPTION  CAPITAL  HEDGING OTHER 
 RESERVE RESERVE RESERVE RESERVE RESERVES 
 £M  £M  £M  £M  £M 
At 1 January 2008 6.5 7.2 0.1 – 1 3.8
Movement during the year  – – – – –
At 31 December 2008 6.5 7.2 0.1 – 1 3.8
  
10. PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 
 
 2009 2008 
 £M  £M 
At 1 January 21.1 24.6 
(Loss)/proﬁ t for the ﬁ nancial year (0.7) 1.9
Dividends paid (2.9) (5.8)
FRS 20 charge in relation to equity-settled transactions 0.3 0.4
AT 31 DECEMBER  17.8 21.1
The loss after taxation for the year amounted to £0.7 million (2008: proﬁ t of £1.9 million).  
 
11. RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT IN SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS 
 2009 2008 
 £M  £M 
OPENING SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS 66.6 70.1
(Loss)/proﬁ t for the ﬁ nancial year (0.7) 1.9 
Dividends paid (2.9) (5.8) 
FRS 20 charge in relation to equity-settled transactions  0.3 0.4 
Movement in hedging reserve  (0.6) – 
NET MOVEMENT IN SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS  (3.9) (3.5) 
CLOSING SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS  62.7 66.6 
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   81 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   81 8/4/10   17:26:50 8/4/10   17:26:50 82 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTES TO THE UK GAAP PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009
12. OWN SHARES HELD 
   
 2009 2008 
  £M  £M 
COST OF OWN SHARES HELD
At 1 January  1.2 1.2 
Movement relative to shares vested under the restricted share plan  (0.1) – 
AT 31 DECEMBER  1.1 1.2 
The cost of own shares held represents shares held by the British Polythene Industries Employee Share Ownership Trust to satisfy the Company’s liabilities 
under the restricted share plan and the long-term incentive plan. The market value of the shares is £0.7 million (2008: £0.5 million). 
 
   
 DATE OF  NUMBER DATE OF  NUMBER 
 ALLOCATION OF SHARES ALLOCATION OF SHARES 
 2009 2009 2008 2008 
MOVEMENTS IN THE NUMBERS OF SHARES HELD 
At 1 January   256,831  260,831 
Number of shares allocated to employees 02/03/09 (7,399) 03/03/08 (4,000)  
AT 31 DECEMBER   249,432  256,831 
13. DIVIDENDS 
 2009 2008  
 £M  £M 
AMOUNTS RECOGNISED AS DISTRIBUTIONS TO EQUITY HOLDERS IN THE YEAR 
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 7.5p per share (2007: 15.0p)  2.0 3.9 
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 3.5p per share (2008: 7.0p)  0.9 1.9
 
 2.9 5.8 
Proposed second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 7.5p per share (2008: ﬁ nal dividend of 7.5p)  2.0 2.0 
The proposed second interim dividend was approved by the Board on 1st March 2010 and has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2009. 
14. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES  
The Company has guaranteed the bank overdrafts of certain subsidiaries amounting at 31 December 2009 to £7.9 million (2008: £10.9 million) including 
interest from time to time thereon. The Company also has an obligation under the Group VAT registration amounting at 31 December 2009 to £2.5 million 
(2008: £2.7 million).  
  
The Company has also entered into a contract to guarantee the indebtedness of a third party in relation to a lease contract. In the event of default, the 
Company could be held liable for future contracted lease payments for up to ﬁ ve years from 29 July 2010. This represents a contingent liability to the Company 
of the present value of these payments. This amounted to £1.0 million at 31 December 2009 (2008: £nil).  
  
15. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
The Company considers the IFRS 2 Group disclosures found at Note 28 to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements to satisfy all FRS 20 disclosure requirements.  
 
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   82 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   82 8/4/10   17:26:50 8/4/10   17:26:50 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16. PENSIONS  
DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES  
The assets of the deﬁ ned contribution section of the British Polythene Pension Scheme and other deﬁ ned contribution schemes are held separately from 
those of the Group, being invested with a number of insurance companies. 
 
The pension charge includes contributions payable to the various insurance companies.  
  
DEFINED BENEFIT SCHEME  
The Company is a member of a larger group-wide pension scheme providing beneﬁ ts based on pensionable pay. As the Company is unable to identify its share 
of the Scheme assets and liabilities on a reliable and consistent basis, as permitted by FRS 17 “Retirement Beneﬁ ts”, the Scheme is accounted for as if it were a 
deﬁ ned contribution scheme. The Company made contributions of £0.2 million (2008: £0.2 million) in the year. There were no outstanding or prepaid Company 
contributions at either the beginning or the end of the ﬁ nancial year. 
 
The assets of the deﬁ ned beneﬁ t section are invested in a self-administered trust fund and hence are also separated from the Group’s business assets.  
  
FRS 17 DISCLOSURES  
The Company considers the IAS 19 Group disclosures found at Note 29 to the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements to satisfy all FRS 17 disclosure requirements. 
 
17. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  
The Company has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, with its Directors and executive o ﬃ  cers including key management personnel, 
and with the British Polythene Pension Scheme. Disclosures relating to Directors are shown on pages 40 to 44.  
  
Transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries of British Polythene Industries PLC Group are not disclosed on the basis of the exemption contained 
in FRS 8. At 31 December 2009, the Company has intercompany debtor balances with two non-wholly owned subsidiaries; £1.4 million with Xinhui Alida 
Polythene Limited (2008: £1.9 million) and £0.8 million with Venture Hong Kong Limited (2008: £0.8 million). The balances relate to intercompany loans.  
REMUNERATION OF KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL  
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Company is set out below, in aggregate: 
 2009 2008
  £M £M
  
Short-term employee beneﬁ ts   2.1  1.4 
Post-employment beneﬁ ts       0.1   0.1 
  2.2  1.5
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   83 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   83 8/4/10   17:26:50 8/4/10   17:26:50 84 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS 
REGISTRARS
Enquiries concerning the holding of ordinary 
shares in the Company should be addressed to 
the Registrars who should also be notiﬁ ed of any 
changes in a holder’s address.
The Registrars are: 
Computershare Investor Services PLC, 
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ
Telephone: 0870 889 3238
YOUR SHAREHOLDING
You may check your shareholding at any 
time by visiting the Registrars website 
(www.uk.computershare.com/investors).
WEBSITE
The Company has a website (www.bpipoly.com) 
which provides details of all major stock 
exchange announcements, the current share 
price and information on businesses 
and products.
SHARE PRICE INFORMA TION
The latest information on the Company ’s share 
price is published in most newspapers, the 
Financial Times Cityline services, telephone 
number 09058 171690 (Code 3966) and a 
number of websites including the London Stock 
Exchange (www.londonstockexchange.com). 
FTSE4GOOD INDEX
The Company continues to be part of the Index.
The Index is designed to measure the perform-
ance of companies that meet globally recognised 
corporate responsibility standards, and to facilitate 
investment in those companies.
REGISTERED OFFICE
One London Wall, London, EC2Y 5AB
HEAD OFFICE
96 Port Glasgow Road, Greenock PA15 2UL
Telephone: 01 475 501 000
Fax: 01 475 7431 43
REGISTRATION NUMBER
1 081 91
FINANCIAL CALENDAR
201 0
31 March 201 0 Payment of 2009 Second Interim Dividend
1 3 May 201 0 Annual General Meeting
August 201 0  Announcement of 201 0 Interim Results
November 201 0  Payment of 201 0 Interim Dividend
201 1
March 201 1 Announcement of 201 0 Annual Results
April 201 1 Issue of 201 0 Annual Report and Accounts
May 201 1 Annual General Meeting
July 201 1 Payment of 201 0 Final Dividend
BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   84 BPI-100931 Accounts.indd   84 8/4/10   17:26:50 8/4/10   17:26:50 REPORT BY DIRECTORS & BUSINESS REVIEW 
2 Group at a Glance 
4 Chairman’s Statement 
7 Risk Factors 
10 Key Performance Indicators 
14 Market Overview 
15 Chief Executive’s Review  
21 Strategy and Business Objectives 
24 Financial Review 
27 Corporate Social Responsibility Review
36 Board of Directors and Advisers 
37 Corporate Governance Report 
40 Directors’ Remuneration Report  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
46 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
47 Independent Auditors’ Report
48 Five-Year Record
49 Consolidated Income Statement
49  Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income
50 Consolidated Balance Sheet
51 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
52 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
53 Notes to the Consolidated ﬁ nancial statements
77 UK GAAP Parent Company Balance Sheet
78 Notes to the UK GAAP Parent Company
 ﬁ nancial statements
84 Information for Shareholders
CONTENTS
CAUTIONARY ST A TEMENTS
This document is addressed to shareholders of British Polythene 
Industries Plc and has been prepared solely to provide information to 
assist them in assessing the Company’s strategies and their potential 
for success, and to inform them of the Company’s performance during 
the year ended 31 December 2009. This document contains the Report 
by Directors and Business Review, the ﬁ nancial statements and the 
Independent Auditors’ Report. 
This document contains forward-looking statements based on 
knowledge and information available to the Directors at the date the 
document was prepared. Although the Directors’ expectations are based 
on reasonable assumptions, these statements should be treated with 
caution due to the inherent uncertainties underlying such forward-
looking information and any statements about the future outlook may 
be inﬂ uenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results 
to be materially di ﬀ erent.
COVER IMAGE
The Green Sack is 100% recycled with a high 
percentage of recycled farm ﬁ lms (such as silage 
wrap and crop cover) sourced from farms in the 
UK & Ireland. This means each Green Sack has 
far fewer ‘product miles’ than an imported refuse 
sack and this, combined with using 33% less 
material than standard refuse sacks without any 
reduction in quality, allows the Green Sack
®
 to 
claim the lowest carbon footprint of any refuse 
sack in the UK Market.
created by Navyblue
Choosing a paper that sits well with our environmental vision is
important to us. That’s why the cover and text pages are printed 
on FSC-approved paper which is 80% recycled. A paper where the
carbon impact is measured and balanced through the World Land
Trust, an ecological charity. The ﬁ nancial statements have been
printed on 100% recycled paper.
OUR CHOICE OF PAPER
100%
BPI-100931 Cover.indd   2 BPI-100931 Cover.indd   2 8/4/10   21:20:59 8/4/10   21:20:59 BRITISH POLYTHENE INDUSTRIES PLC   REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009
BRITISH POLYTHENE INDUSTRIES PLC
96 PORT GLASGOW ROAD, GREENOCK, PA 1 5 2UL
T: +44 (0) 1 475 50 1 000  F: +44 (0) 1 475 7 43 1 43 
WWW.BPIPOLY.COM
8
REPORT AND 
ACCOUNTS 2009 
BRITISH POLYTHENE INDUSTRIES PLC
BPI-100931 Cover.indd   1 BPI-100931 Cover.indd   1 8/4/10   17:28:29 8/4/10   17:28:29
