 British Polythene Industries PLC
96 Port Glasgow Road 
Greenock 
PA1 5 2UL
T: +44 (0)1 475 501 000 
F: +44 (0)1 475 7 43 1 43
www.bpipoly.com
British Polythene Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 201 0
Leading through...
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 201 0 Our choice of paper
Choosing a paper that sits well with our environmental vision  
is important to us. That’s why the cover and text pages are 
printed on 80% recycled FSC-approved paper produced from 
well-managed forests. The financial statements have been 
printed on 1 00% recycled paper and the entire publication  
has been printed using vegetable oil-based inks by a FSC-
recognised printer that holds an ISO 1 4001 certification.   
The carbon impact of this paper has also been measured and 
balanced through the World Land Trust, an ecological charity. 
bpi is the largest polythene film producer in Europe
The largest recycler of polythene film in Europe. –
A leading global supplier of agricultural film products. –
A leading European supplier of packaging   –
for the protection of food and other goods.
Our expertise, built up  
over many years, means  
we are now leading through...
... people ... innovation
... brands ... recycling ... investment
From specialised research projects to product 
development, advanced manufacturing 
processes and effective customer support 
initiatives, BPI innovates across all areas  
of the business to provide product and  
service differentiation.
With more than 43% of sales outside the UK,  
BPI is a global supplier of agricultural films,  
a leading European supplier of packaging for  
food and other goods and Europe’s largest 
recycler of polythene film.
From the established brands of Silotite
®
 and 
Visqueen
®
 to the success of The Green Sack
™
  
and the flexible Bontite
®
 range, our distinctive 
brands are synonymous with high quality and 
leading technology.
Comprehensive training and development 
programmes throughout the Group ensure 
the continuing development of a highly skilled 
workforce whose collective expertise allows 
BPI to successfully meet the challenges we 
face across our business. 
As Europe’s largest recycler of waste 
polythene film, BPI can reprocess nearly 
70,000 tonnes annually. With more than  
20 years experience, we are able to handle 
even the most heavily contaminated 
agricultural waste.
BPI’s commitment to developing world class 
manufacturing facilities and willingness to exploit 
new technologies is supported by an ongoing 
investment programme. This programme has 
enabled us to stay at the forefront of 
technological advances.
... markets 01
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Financial Highlights
201 0 produced a good  
result for the Group, despite  
challenging conditions.
Cautionary statements
This document is addressed to shareholders  
of British Polythene Industries Plc and has been  
prepared solely to provide information to assist  
them in assessing the Company’s strategies and  
their potential for success, and to inform them  
of the Company’s performance during the year  
ended 31 December 2010. This document  
contains the Report by Directors and Business  
Review, the financial statements and the  
Independent Auditors’ Report.
This document contains forward-looking  
statements based on knowledge and information 
available to the Directors at the date the document  
was prepared. Although the Directors’ expectations  
are based on reasonable assumptions, these  
statements should be treated with caution due  
to the inherent uncertainties underlying such 
forward-looking information and any statements  
about the future outlook may be influenced  
by factors that could cause actual outcomes  
and results to be materially different.
Contents
Report by Directors and Business Review
02  About Us
04  Our Products at a Glance
07  Chairman’s Statement
10  Strategy and Business Objectives
1 1  Risk Factors
1 3 Market Overview
14 Key Performance Indicators
16  Chief Executive’s Review
25 Financial Review
28  Corporate Social Responsibility Review
36  Board of Directors and Advisers
37  Corporate Governance Report
40  Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements
46  Statement of Directors’  
Responsibilities
47  Independent Auditors’ Report
48  Five Year Record
49  Consolidated Income Statement
49  Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income
50  Consolidated Balance Sheet
51  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
52  Consolidated Statement  
of Changes in Equity
53  Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements
82  UK GAAP Parent Company  
Balance Sheet
83  Notes to the UK GAAP Parent  
Company Financial Statements
89  Information for Shareholders
2009 11.8
2010 16.7
2008 3.9
16 . 7
Profit before tax (£m)
2009 425
2010 478
2008 481
47 8
Turnover (£m)
2009 30.36
2010 51.07
2008 10.67
51 . 0 7
Diluted Earnings Per Share (p)
2009 11.0
2010 11.5
2008 14.5
11 . 5
Dividend per share (p)
2009 38.60
2010 38.31
2008 25.53
3 8 . 31
Diluted Earnings Per Share (p)
Before restructuring
2009 14.9
2010 13.9
2008 9.3
13 . 9
Profit before tax (£m)
Before restructuring 02
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
About Us
bpi is one of the world’ s leading 
polythene film manufacturers  
and Europe’ s largest recycler  
of waste polythene film.
Scale of Operations 
Group turnover £4 78m ( 43% outside UK) –
Manufactures 280,000+ tonnes per annum  –
20 manufacturing sites:  –
1 4 UK,  
2 Belgium,  
1 Holland,  
1 China,  
2 North America.
2,450 employees:   –
1,81 0 in UK and Ireland  
390 in Continental Europe,  
1 50 in China,  
1 00 in North America.
 5 7% UK
 1 3% Benelux
 
6%  France
 5% North America
 5% Scandinavia
 4%  Republic of Ireland
 4% Germany
 4% Other Europe
 2% Rest of World
Turnover by 
Destination
A T Films Agripac 
®
 silage bags being filled by  
Crane Harvesting at Buckeye near Phoenix, Arizona.
T urnover by Destination 03
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Geography
The Group operates in three geographic regions, 
UK and Ireland, Mainland Europe and North America.
*  Operating assets comprise non-current assets (excluding deferred  
tax and retirement benefit assets), inventory, trade and other receivables.
End use markets
We sell our products to a large number of 
customers in a wide variety of market sectors  
in more than 50 countries worldwide.
T urnover by Origin
 70% UK and Ireland
 24% Mainland Europe
 6% North America
Operating Assets*
 70% UK and Ireland
 25% Mainland Europe
 5% North America
Operating Profit
 44% UK and Ireland
 5 1% Mainland Europe
 5% North America
 32%  Agriculture  
and horticulture
 32%  Retail food chain
 1 2% Industrial
 1 1% Construction
 8% Health care and  
  waste services
 5% Non food retail
Turnover by 
Sector
Report by Directors and Business Review 04
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Our Products at a Glance
With an established international 
reputation, bpi is determined to 
offer our customers the highest 
possible quality and service.
Our Major Brands
Visqueen • 
®
Silotite • 
®
Baletite • 
®
Bontite • 
®
Novatek • 
Wrapsmart • Ultra
®
Supreme • 
Nov8 • 
®
AgripacG1 • 
®
Grainflex • 
™
The Green Sack • 
™
Zedex • 
®
With a product portfolio that includes  
globally respected brand names such  
as Silotite
®
, Visqueen
®
 and Luminance,  
our range of products has evolved from  
a commitment to provide the best results  
for farmers and growers worldwide. 
Our silage stretchfilms are used to wrap  
over 50m bales each year whilst our horticultural 
films help to increase crop yields and quality in  
a variety of climatic conditions. T o complement 
these established brands, our portfolio is continually 
refreshed with innovative new products such as 
Grainflex
™
, AgripacG1
®
 and Baletite
®
 – all new 
agricultural products that offer significant benefits. 
• Silage products
• Greenhouse films
• Field covers
• Peat and compost 
• Animal feed
• Fertiliser
Agriculture  
and Horticulture
BPI products are used in the  
construction industry across Europe. 
In addition to the market leading Visqueen
®
  
brand, which includes structural waterproofing,  
gas protection films, damp-proof membranes and 
protective sheeting, we also cater to the transit 
packaging requirements of leading manufacturers 
through our comprehensive Brithene
®
 stretchfilm 
range, our flexible Polistretch pallet protection  
films and Ventisack, our innovative backseam  
sack specifically designed for the cement industry.
• Builders merchants
• Brick and block
• Aggregates
• Insulation
• Cement
Construction
BPI is trusted to protect, preserve and  
promote the goods of many high profile food 
producers and retailers. We have demonstrated 
our ability to provide solutions that extend shelf 
life and reduce environmental impact. 
Our range includes Modified Atmosphere 
Packaging, technically advanced lamination  
films and innovative products such as Nov8
®
 
collation shrink film, with its superb print  
qualities for excellent on-shelf presence.
• Fresh produce
• Frozen foods
• Cans and bottles
• Bakery products
• Refuse sacks
• T ransit packaging
Retail Food Chain 05
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Our Major Customers 
UK and Ireland
Hanson • 
Aggregate Industries • 
Amcor • 
Haygrove • 
Associated British Foods • 
Birmingham City Council • 
Bord Na Mona • 
Britvic • 
Bunzl • 
Camvac • 
Case New Holland • 
Grafton Group • 
Glanbia • 
Coca Cola Enterprises • 
Knauf • 
Westland Horticulture • 
Marshalls • 
McArthur Group • 
Wm Morrison • 
Mole Valley Farmers • 
National Health Service • 
Pregis • 
Premier Foods • 
Saint Gobain • 
T armac • 
T esco • 
Warburtons • 
Veolia • 
T ravis Perkins • 
Wolseley • 
Europe
Basell • 
Borealis • 
Buma Handel BV • 
Coca Cola • 
Dow Chemicals • 
European Agri T rade • 
Ineos • 
Isover • 
Läderach Agro • 
McCain • 
Sabic • 
Schmidt Ulrich Farmtechnic • 
Styron Europe • 
Verkoopkantoor Fybron • 
North America
Benco PolyFilm • 
BFG Supply Co • 
BWI Companies Inc • 
CT & T Enterprises • 
Donaghys Industries • 
Green-T ek • 
Griffin Greenhouse Supplies • 
La Coop Federee • 
Mills Fleet Farm • 
Tytan International • 
United Farmers Of Alberta • 
Zwart Systems • 
In addition to a wide range of high  
performance products, BPI also offers  
the non-food retail sector considerable  
application-specific expertise. 
Our lengthy experience means we can provide  
expert technical support, consistent reliability  
of supply and excellent customer service  
to this fast moving sector, be it through our  
Gradis medical films, our Alphatec mailing  
range or our Wrapsmart
®
 stretchfilm products.
• Mailing bags for on-line retailers
• Furniture and carpets
• Mailing film
• T ransit packaging
• White goods
Non-Food Retail
As a leading manufacturer of healthcare  
and waste management solutions, BPI delivers 
tangible efficiencies through its Visqueen
®
 
high performance, hygiene critical product 
range and The Green Sack
™
 janitorial range. 
From refuse sacks for food service, washroom 
service and facilities management to specialist 
protection for clinical waste and infection  
control, BPI is an established, trusted supplier  
with proven product performance and excellent 
technical support.
• Health authorities
• W aste contractors
• Catering
• Janitorial
• Local government
Healthcare and  
Waste Services
As a leading European supplier to a blue-chip 
customer base, our range of sheeting, bags  
and sacks form a major part of the BPI business. 
Industrial ranges including Politube, Poliline and 
Polisax are used for the packaging and protection 
of a host of products across a variety of sectors 
including petro-chemicals and minerals. 
• Polymer
• Additives
• Speciality chemicals
• Salt
• Container liners
lndustrial
Report by Directors and Business Review Leading through...
innovation
Innovation is embedded into every area  
of BPI’s operations. Our commitment  
to producing a technologically advanced 
range of thinner, stronger films relies on 
our ability to harness developments in 
material and process technology.  07
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Introduction
20 1 0 showed evidence of further improvement in the underlying  
performance of our business. The Group benefitted from previously 
reported actions to align capacity with demand and significantly 
reduced costs in the UK business. However, this progress was 
impacted by escalating raw material costs during the year.
Despite increases in raw material costs of some £45m, operating profits 
were only £1.1m less than 2009. The Board is encouraged by this very 
satisfactory performance in difficult circumstances and are recommending 
an increase in the dividend for the year. 
Results
T otal volumes for the year were 280,000 tonnes (2009: 275,000) 
reflecting a slight recovery in demand from the construction and
industrial sectors and robust sales of agricultural stretchfilm. 
On sales of £4 78m (2009: £425m), operating profit, before net 
restructuring, decreased to £1 7.9m (2009: £1 9.0m).
Operating profits were impacted by a substantial increase in raw material  
costs, due to the inevitable time lag in passing these on to our customers.  
All other costs were tightly controlled and we saw improved efficiencies  
in many operations.
Net restructuring reflects costs of £1.0m for the closure of the Brampton  
site and certain other personnel changes, offset by a £3.8m gain on sales  
of the Stockton and Brampton sites. The property gain enabled us to show  
a positive contribution from restructuring in 20 1 0 of £2.8m (2009: negative 
£3.1m). We previously indicated that restructuring costs for 20 1 0 would  
be offset by this gain, although the 20 1 0 gain on the Stockton site should  
be seen in light of significant restructuring costs incurred in closing that 
site in 2008 and 2009.
Borrowing costs reduced from £2.7m to £2.1m, reflecting lower average 
borrowings during the year. 
This reduction in borrowing costs was offset by an increase in the charge  
for pension financing from £1.4m to £1.9m, resulting in a slightly reduced  
net financing cost of £4.0m (2009: £4.1million).
The profit before tax was £1 6.7m (2009: £1 1.8m). Diluted earnings per  
share were 5 1.07p (2009: 30.36p). Diluted Earnings Per Share, before 
net restructuring, were 38.3 1p (2009: 38.60p).
Dividend
After the increase in the interim dividend to 3.65p per share (2009: 3.5p), 
the Board is recommending an increase in the final dividend to 7.85p 
per share (2009: 7.5p), making a total for the year of 1 1.5p per share  
(2009: 1 1.0p).
As we indicated in last year’s accounts, the Board intends to return  
to the payment calendar which prevailed before 2009, with the final  
dividend payable in July 20 1 1.
This dividend will be payable to shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 1 8 March 20 1 1.
2010 showed evidence of further 
improvement in the underlying 
performance of our business. Despite 
increases in raw material costs of some 
£45 million, operating profits were only 
£1. 1 million less than 2009. The Board  
is encouraged by this very satisfactory 
performance in difficult circumstances 
and are recommending an increase  
in the dividend for the year. 
Cameron McLatchie
Chairman
Chairman’ s Statement
Report by Directors and Business Review 08
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Chairman’ s Statement ( continued)
Cash Flow and Borrowings
The Group generated similar operating cash flow to 2009, but this inflow  
was impacted by a net outflow of nearly £5m in working capital, as a result  
of the increases in raw material costs. This is a reversal of nearly £20m  
from the working capital flow in 2009, a considerable amount of which  
is attributable to the raw material price fluctuations.
Despite this increase in working capital, borrowings reduced to £45.6m  
(2009: £52.2m). The reduction is almost entirely due to the proceeds  
of the sale of vacated sites at Stockton and Brampton, which together 
generated £6.3m. 
Gross capital expenditure for 20 1 0 was £1 5.1m (2009: £1 3.0m),  
and we currently envisage that expenditure for 20 1 1 will be slightly  
above the 20 1 0 spend.
Major items of expenditure will include further investments in recycling 
equipment, co-extrusion lines for stretch and packaging films and  
flexographic printing presses.
In January 20 1 1, we sold the vacant site at Buckhurst Hill in Essex for a cash 
consideration of £2.5m, generating a gain of £1.95m. This sum will be used  
to further reduce our borrowings. We have now sold all vacant properties.
We have agreed new banking facilities of £70m to replace our £57.5m 
revolving credit facilities which were due to expire in November 20 1 1  
and certain short-term facilities. Of the new facilities, £1 5m will expire  
in 20 1 4 and £55m will expire early in 20 1 5. Our total facilities, including 
asset finance and overdrafts, remain in excess of £1 00m.
The terms on which we have agreed these new facilities will, on a like  
for like basis at current interest rates, see an increase of some £0.3m  
in interest costs on our borrowings in 20 1 1.
Group Pension Scheme
The IAS 1 9 deficit in the UK pension scheme decreased to £55m 
(2009: £57m).
Whilst the scheme investments performed better than the actuarial 
assumptions and the expected long-term inflation rate reduced, there was a 
further reduction in the discount rate applied to the liabilities of the scheme.
Due to the Government’s announcement that future statutory pension 
increases will be based on the consumer prices index, the scheme rules 
require that this basis is now applied to members’ deferred benefits. 
This change has reduced the scheme liabilities by £9.0m. Pensions in 
payment are currently expected to remain adjusted by the retail
prices index. 
We have reviewed the longevity assumptions to reflect increasing life 
expectancy and this has increased the scheme liabilities by £5.0m.
Following a period of consultation with the members, the scheme 
closed to future service accrual from 30 September 20 1 0.
Board Changes
Eric Hagman will retire as a Non-Executive Director at our AGM in May. 
Eric has been a Non-Executive Director since 2002 and has chaired the 
Audit Committee since 1 March 2006. The Board appreciates his valued 
input during this period, and in particular his efforts during the many changes 
in pension and accounting reporting standards over the last few years.
We are pleased to announce the appointment today of Ron Marsh as a 
Non-Executive Director of the Group. Ron is currently Chief Executive of  
RPC Group, Europe’s leading supplier of rigid plastic packaging products.  
The Group welcomes his experience in this sector and his knowledge  
of managing a European wide business.
Regulatory Issues
In May 20 1 0, we announced that we had been visited by officials from the 
European Commission (EC) and the Office of Fair T rading (OFT), as part 
of enquiries which they are conducting into the agricultural films market. 
We have co-operated with the requests for information from the OFT since  
their inspection. No requests have been received from the EC. While these 
enquiries are ongoing, it is not possible at this stage to ascertain whether  
or not any further action will be taken by these regulatory bodies as a  
result of these enquiries or the likely timetable for resolving these matters. 
We have extensive guidelines and controls in place designed to ensure 
compliance with competition laws across our operations. 
During 20 1 0, we incurred some £0.5m in legal costs in relation 
to these investigations. 
Group Development
20 1 0 was the year when our capacity in the UK became more closely
aligned with demand, resulting in a significant de-risking of our business.
After a lengthy run-down period, the Stockton site was closed and sold. 
Capacity had been moved, over an 1 8 month period, to other UK sites, 
principally Ardeer and Greenock. This involved the construction of two 
new extrusion halls at Ardeer and a significant effort by the management 
and workforce at both of these sites. After some initial teething issues, 
the product from both plants is now of similar or better quality than 
previously offered, and we have successfully retained the vast majority
of the customers.
In October, a few months later than anticipated, we began commissioning 
the new 5-layer wide-film line at Ardeer and have produced excellent 
product, although we have had a number of technical issues resulting  
in operational outages during the first few months. We expect this line  
to make a positive contribution in 20 1 1. 
In April, we closed the film extrusion plant at Brampton where the low 
roof height and out-dated equipment was making it difficult to remain 
competitive. Capacity was increased at the Bromborough site and 
this move has proved successful. We are currently in the process  
of completing a refurbishment of existing extrusion equipment at 
Bromborough, to improve both quality and output. 09
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
In January 20 1 1, we commenced production of co-extruded stretchfilm 
for agricultural applications at our A T Films plant in Canada. Subject to 
satisfactory performance, it is our intention to increase this capacity in 
the next few years.
We have successfully field-trialled machine-direction-orientated (MDO) 
film developed at our plant in Roeselare in Belgium and are investing 
further in MDO equipment at that site. We have also installed a conversion 
machine to make form-fill-and-seal (FFS) tubing at our plant in Hardenberg 
where we have a contract from a major customer to supply MDO style  
FFS for packing plastic granules. MDO films allow the customer to further 
downgauge (use thinner film) on certain specialised packaging equipment.
Any minor restructuring costs for 20 1 1 should be more than offset by 
the gain on sale of the Essex site.
Raw Material Costs
Last year, at this time, we reported that polymer prices had increased, 
but not to the level we experienced in the summer of 2008; a level that 
we thought was unsustainable. 
Events have proved us wrong, and we are now back at these levels once 
again; but only in Europe, where polyethylene polymer, our basic raw 
material, is mainly manufactured from ethylene derived from naptha 
and, in turn, from oil.
In the Middle East and North America, much of this polymer is 
manufactured from ethane gas, a much cheaper feedstock, resulting
in lower prices in these markets.
T ariff barriers, high shipping costs and transit time risk all inhibit global
trade in these polymers and there is no effective hedge available in the 
financial markets. Margins in polymer, from well-head to granule, have 
never been so high; although demand is certainly not robust in Europe. 
Despite that, there is no sign of prices coming down and we have 
seen increases from suppliers both in January and February 20 1 1.
These increased prices will slow further reduction in our borrowings
in the short-term, as working capital will increase.
We have decided to accelerate our planned investment in recycling 
equipment for both in-house and post-use polythene films. At current 
polymer prices investment in recycling should deliver very good 
returns and act as a hedge against continuing price increases. 
What must be clear to any long-term follower of our business is that 
polymer prices will always be an issue and at times a bigger issue than 
others. However, we have consistently demonstrated that we can 
trade through massive swings in polymer pricing and still deliver  
profits, albeit with squeezed margins as prices increase.
Prospects and Current T rading
As previously stated, our UK business has been significantly de-risked by  
the actions taken over the last few years. Capacity is much better aligned  
with demand and all of our plants are relatively busy. 
We are entering the main agricultural film season and currently anticipate 
that it will match or exceed performance for 20 1 0, but the final result will 
depend on the growing conditions over the next few months.
The construction sector, which was showing some modest signs of recovery 
last autumn, has had a difficult winter and we will not get a clearer picture 
of demand until winter is completely behind us. 
Margins are currently under considerable pressure due to increased raw 
material costs, but these increases are being passed on to customers 
as quickly as possible.
We have commenced the year well, with better than anticipated sales of 
agricultural stretchfilm, as customers become aware of rising raw material 
prices. The first few months will show a better outcome than last year.
Many of our smaller competitors do not have access to finance to expand 
or even sustain their operations because of the current need for increased 
working capital. Credit has become a very important issue for many of our 
suppliers as, for the most part, our industry is badly under-capitalised. 
Y our Board is confident that the actions that have been taken over the last 
few years have put our business in a better position to weather the current 
economic climate and also to be able to take advantage of any upturn in 
the economy. 20 1 1 will not be easy, but we have made a good start.
Cameron McLatchie
Chairman
7 March 20 1 1
We are confident that the actions that have  
been taken over the last few years have put  
our business in a better position to weather  
the current economic climate and also to 
be able to take advantage of any upturn in 
the economy. 201 1 will not be easy, but 
we have made a good start.
Report by Directors and Business Review 10
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Strategy and Business Objectives
Our strategy remains broadly unchanged  
in that we are a focused polythene film  
business and intend to develop our market  
leading position as: 
The largest recycler of polythene film in Europe. –
A leading global supplier of agricultural film products. –
A leading European supplier of packaging   –
for the protection of food and other goods.
The key elements  
of our strategy are:
–  Develop the growth opportunities available  
in agricultural markets, recycling and printed  
consumer and food products.
–  Develop our mainland European,  
Chinese and North American operations.
–  Restructure our UK films and UK industrial sectors.
–  Continue the development of new added  
value products.
–  Consider acquisition opportunities but  
only at the right price.
Our business  
objectives are: 
–  T o provide first-class customer service by delivering 
high quality products at competitive prices.
–  T o be number 1 or number 2 in the major markets  
in which we operate. 
–  T o achieve organic growth in product areas  
and market sectors that continue to develop.
–  T o invest in modern manufacturing equipment  
to enable us to develop new products, expand  
capacity in growing markets and improve  
added value and production efficiencies.
–  T o aim for continuing product development to ensure 
we remain at the leading edge of technical advances.
–  T o seek continual improvement in our operational 
performance and reduction in our cost base  
to ensure we remain competitive.
Our strategy and 
business objectives 
will take account of:
–  Our belief that the health and safety of our  
employees is paramount and the prevention of 
accidents involving personal injury is essential  
to the successful operation of our business.
–  That as a leading manufacturer and supplier  
of polythene, we have a responsibility to  
operate with due concern for the environment  
and communities in which we live and work,  
to minimise the impact of our activities on that 
environment, and make a positive contribution  
to those communities.
–  That the retention and development of  
our people is vital to the future success  
of our business. 
Our primary financial  
objectives are:
–  T o grow operating profits.
–  T o grow earnings per share.
–  T o improve return on capital. 11
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Risk Factors
bpi may be affected by a number of  
risks, not all of which are within our  
control. Outlined below is a description  
of some of the factors that may  
affect our business. 
Other factors, in addition to those listed 
below, may also adversely affect the Group. 
The process that BPI has in place for 
managing these risks is described in the 
Corporate Governance Report on Page 3 7.
Risk Description Mitigation
Poor economic conditions The Group is exposed to a variety of market sectors which  
may be affected, to a greater or lesser extent, by the continuing 
adverse economic conditions. More than two-thirds of the 
business is in the retail food chain, agriculture and horticulture, 
healthcare and waste services sectors which, so far, have 
remained more resilient to the economic downturn. The 
remainder of the business is in construction, industrial and 
non-food retail. These sectors suffered a significant downturn 
during 2008 and the first half of 2009. The major geographical 
markets are UK, France, Belgium, Scandinavia, Netherlands, 
Ireland and North America. Reduced demand leads to lost 
contribution, but can also put pressure on margins as 
competitors fight for remaining volumes.
For analysis of sales by market and geographical sector,  
see Page 3. 
–  The Group has undertaken considerable restructuring of  
its UK operations; notably the closure of Stockton which  
was completed in 20 1 0 and the closure of the Brampton  
site early in 20 1 0. These changes have better aligned the 
 Group’s capacity with demand. Further actions have been 
 taken to reduce the cost base of our remaining operations.
Customer failures In the poor economic climate, the risk of customer 
insolvency is increased.
–  Increased focus on credit assessment and  
prompt action on overdue accounts.
–  Some accounts credit insured, particularly  
in Europe and in the agricultural sector.
Raw material prices The Group’s main raw material, polymer, is subject to volatility  
on a month by month basis due to fluctuating prices for  
ethylene and, to a lesser extent, oil. Supplier actions can also 
influence prices due to maintenance periods and breakdowns  
at their production plants. This creates a risk of erosion in 
margins if price increases cannot be passed through immediately 
to customers. Polymer prices rose steadily throughout 20 1 0  
and, whilst they remained below the peak levels of 2008,  
the average price for 20 1 0 was the highest recorded. 
–  Centralised Group purchasing arrangements to ensure  
the best purchase price.
–  Coordinated instructions to sales teams on forward pricing.
–  Some linkage of customer pricing to polymer price indices.
–  Management of stock levels depending on anticipated  
price movements.
Energy costs As a process business and a significant user of energy,  
our results can be affected by major price movements.
–  Monitoring of energy prices and forward buying  
when advantageous.
– Group energy saving programme implemented  
 on each manufacturing site.
Weather conditions A number of our products are dependent on seasonal  
weather conditions and certain weather conditions  
could lead to reduced volumes.
– Geographical spread of markets.
–  Diversification of product portfolio.
–  Controlled stock build for seasonal products.
Foreign exchange risk  As we operate in several non-UK countries, have considerable  
exports from the UK and our main competitors are based  
in Europe, we are exposed to medium term movements  
in exchange rates, particularly the euro and the US dollar.
– Hedging of known currency exposures.
–  T ransfer of production among Group sites in UK,  
Europe, North America and China, where possible.
Perceived 
environmental issues
   While polythene film is the most lightweight durable  
packaging medium, perceptions continue to exist that  
it is environmentally unfriendly which, together with  
adverse comments on plastic and packaging, could  
lead to changes in customer preference.
–  Communication and education efforts with customers  
and others to dispel some of the myths.
Regulation Our business is subject to regulation in many countries and  
this can impact on our performance. A recent example of this  
related to the European Commission Anti-Dumping Duties  
on certain products from China.
–  Monitoring of new and existing legislation  
and training of staff accordingly.
Report by Directors and Business Review Leading through...
markets
As a leading global supplier of agricultural 
films, a leading European supplier of 
protective packaging and the largest 
recycler of polythene film in Europe,  
BPI serves a broad portfolio of markets  
in more than 50 countries worldwide.  
The retail food chain represents over  
30% of the Group’s sales with products 
including high performance packaging  
for fresh produce (pictured), frozen  
food and bakery products. 13
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
1,800
2006 2007 2008 2009 20 10
Monthly Polymer Prices Five Year Comparison (£/tonne)
Average Polymer Prices Five Year Comparison (£/tonne)
400
500
600
700
800
900
1,000
1,1 00
1,200
2006 2007 2008 2009 20 10
30
60
90
120
150
2006 2007 2008 2009 20 10
Oil Prices Five Year Comparison ($/Barrel)
A combination of the fall in oil prices, economic downturn and new capacity 
from the Middle East led to a collapse in polymer prices in the final quarter
of 2008. However, LDPE prices climbed throughout 2009 and 20 1 0 to
reach over £1,1 60 per tonne. During the early part of 20 1 1, prices have 
continued to climb and in February LDPE prices exceeded the peak level 
seen in 2008. The closure of a number of smaller LDPE plants in Europe, 
including one in the UK, was announced during 2009. Substantial investment 
has been made in the Middle East, including Iran, and significant additional 
capacity has come onstream during 20 1 0 with more expected during 20 1 1. 
A new LDPE plant in the UK commenced operation at the start of 20 1 0. 
The recycling industry has developed with over 700,000 tonnes of process
and post consumer waste recycled for use by the film extrusion industry 
in a variety of products.
Polythene film has been highly successful in substituting other materials  
within the packaging industry such as paper and aluminium, due to its 
superior characteristic of lightweight strength. The industry is now reaching 
a degree of maturity and recent years have been challenging with growth 
rates now averaging less than 2% per annum, caused by slower underlying 
economic growth, continuing downgauging of films and increased import 
penetration of converted bags from Asia. Rising raw material and other
input costs, increased imports and price pressure from customers have
all conspired to put pressure on margins.
The European polythene film extrusion  
market is estimated at over 7m tonnes  
and is highly fragmented, with no individual  
business claiming more than 5% of the market. 
The market is characterised by strong regional players and a number  
of product specialists. T otal market volumes fell in 2008 and 2009.  
The reduction was more marked in Western European economies,  
with the UK and Spain seeing the sharpest declines due to the collapse  
of the housing and property markets. 
Major end-use applications include the protection of goods in transit using 
stretchfilm, collation shrinkwrap and pallet shrinkwrap. Stretchfilm has 
enjoyed good growth rates, as in most cases it is the most cost-effective 
solution. The main process is cast technology, although the blown film 
process has greater flexibility to tailor films to particular needs and is 
mainly used for silage films and, increasingly, stretch hoods. 
Bags and sacks are a major sector with a wide variety of uses from small  
coin bags to carrier bags, to heavy-duty sacks for chemicals and animal 
feed. Carrier bag production in Europe has declined because of increasing 
volumes of imported bags and environmental pressures to reduce their 
usage. The heavy-duty sack market is moving to continuous form-fill-and 
seal processes which are replacing individual open mouth and valve sacks. 
There are still a large number of paper sacks in use and market sectors 
such as animal feed, pet food and cement are increasingly under pressure 
to move to polythene sacks. The refuse sack market continues to be 
resilient despite downgauging and movements to wheelie bins and 
communal containers. A high proportion of refuse sacks are made  
with recycled materials. 
The growth in flexible films for food packaging has been driven by changing 
consumer demands, with the requirement for extended shelf life for fresh food 
and less spoilage leading to the development of more sophisticated products.
Non-packaging uses for polythene films are primarily in building, agricultural  
and horticultural applications, including damp-proofing and film used for silage, 
mulch wrap and greenhouse covers. The greenhouse film market has been 
growing in response to increasing demand to extend the growing season  
of many varieties of fruit and vegetables. Construction film volumes have 
declined due to the collapse of construction related markets. 
The nature of the polythene film industry is such that a significant proportion  
is manufactured as film on the reel which is then sold to converters for a wide 
variety of other applications.
The implementation of the EU Packaging Directive has also influenced the 
development of the industry, with companies required to recover packaging 
waste and, therefore, encourage the demand for reduced weight of packaging.
Polymer, the main raw material, is produced as a downstream product from  
the oil industry with the main suppliers being the large multinational oil and 
petrochemical companies. There are only 1 4 producers of LDPE/LLDPE 
remaining in Europe and the top seven account for over 85% of European 
capacity. Raw material prices have always been volatile due to supply 
and demand and the influence of oil on ethylene prices. Increases in oil 
and ethylene prices, combined with increasing demand from the emerging 
economies, particularly China, have contributed to a steadily rising polymer 
price over the last six years. The average polymer price per annum has 
increased every year since 2002 reaching an all-time high in 2008. 
Substantial increases during 2008 led to a new peak in August 2008 
with Platts, the main published index, LDPE reaching £1,255 per tonne. 
Market Overview
Report by Directors and Business Review British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
14
Key Performance Indicators
The Group utilises the following 
indicators of performance to assess  
its development against its strategic, 
financial and operational objectives:
Rationale
Operating profit per tonne is the most significant measure of operating 
performance for the Group. We relate performance to the volume of sales  
rather than the value of sales because the latter can be highly volatile due  
to fluctuating raw material prices.
Definition and calculation
The definition of operating profit is profit before net restructuring as shown  
on the face of the income statement. Sales volumes were 280 ktonnes in  
20 1 0 (2009: 2 75 ktonnes).
2009 69
64
Operating profit per tonne (£/tonne)
64 2010
41 2008
 Before Restructuring
 After Restructuring
 Before Restructuring
 After Restructuring
 Before Restructuring
 After Restructuring
Financial Key Performance Indicators
Rationale
Earnings per share is important to our shareholders because it is one of the  
major factors which determine shareholder value. It is one of the measures 
on which senior management is rewarded through our L TIP plan.
Definition and calculation
Diluted Earnings Per Share is profit either before or after net restructuring  
and after tax divided by the diluted average number of ordinary shares and  
is calculated on the same basis as Note 8 to the financial statements.
3 8 . 31
Diluted Earnings Per Share (p)
51.07
38.31
Rationale
Dividend cover is important to many of our shareholders as a  
measure of our ability to maintain the payment of a dividend.
Definition and calculation
Dividend cover is diluted Earnings Per Share either before or after  
net restructuring divided by the proposed annual dividend per share. 
3 .33
Dividend cover (times)
Rationale
Return on capital employed is one of our key financial benchmarks used  
when evaluating capital investments. It is the primary measure for executive  
bonus targets and for the new share matching plan.
Definition and calculation
Return on capital employed is operating profit (both before and after  
net restructuring) expressed as a percentage of average monthly capital  
employed. Capital employed is property, plant and equipment plus other  
intangible assets, investments, inventories, trade and other receivables,  
less trade and other payables and deferred government grants. 
12 . 9
Return on capital employed (%)
14.9
12.9
2010
2010
30.36 2009
38.60 2009
10.67 2008
25.53 2008
2010
4.44 2010 2010
3.33 2010
10.9 2009 2.76 2009
13.0 2009 3.51 2009
4.7 2008 0.74 2008
8.1 2008 1.76 2008 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
15
Report by Directors and Business Review
Rationale
We monitor electricity usage per tonne as part of our overall environmental  
policy of minimising our use of resources and also as a means of controlling  
a significant input cost for the business.
Energy usage per tonne has reduced compared with 2009. This is due  
to increased volumes but with the same base load of energy.
Definition and calculation
Electricity usage is consumption in kilowatt hours per tonne of production output.
2009 697
6 93
Electricity usage (kWh/tonne)
693 2010
679 2008
Report by Directors and Business Review
Operational Key Performance Indicators
Rationale
As a manufacturing business with a very rigorous focus on Health and  
Safety issues we measure lost time accidents for each site and benchmark  
against the rest of the Group and other manufacturing businesses. 
Our L T A rate for 20 1 0 is similar to the rate for all plastics and rubber  
manufacturers published by the Health and Safety Executive. Our business, 
however, has a significant element of recycling and our performance  
compares very favourably with other recycling businesses.
Definition and calculation
Lost time accidents are accidents that cause employees to be unavailable  
for normal duties for more than three consecutive days. The rate is expressed  
as the number of accidents per 1 00,000 hours worked.
0.5
Lost time accidents (accidents/1 00k hours)
0.5 2008
2010 0.5
2009 0.5
3. 4
Absenteeism (%)
Rationale
As a relatively labour intensive business, absenteeism can be a significant cost  
and lost opportunity for the Group. We monitor absenteeism by site and for  
the Group as a whole.
The increase from 2009 has been impacted by long-term absences rather  
than increases in more manageable short-term absences.
Definition and calculation
Absenteeism is expressed as the number of hours of absence as a percentage  
of annual contractual hours. Absence is defined as time off through illness or 
authorised at the discretion of management along with any unauthorised non-
attendance. It does not include any legal or contractual absence from work. 
2009 3.1
3.4
2010
3.2 2008 16
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Business Overview
Summary
Group operating profit, before net restructuring, fell from £1 9.0m to  
£1 7.9m as margins were squeezed by increasing raw material costs.  
Overall volumes increased from 2009 as we saw some recovery in UK 
construction related activity and European industrial demand and robust 
demand from the agricultural sector. The decisive actions taken during  
2008 continue to reduce operating costs and our Stockton site was 
finally closed.
Raw Material Prices
20 1 0 proved to be another year of raw material price volatility with the 
LD Platts price index showing price increases in 1 0 out of 1 2 months. 
Prices did not, however, reach the heights of August 2008 but the average 
for 20 1 0 was the highest ever recorded. There is no doubt that the move 
in 2008 from quarterly to monthly pricing of ethylene, the raw material 
for polymer, has contributed to this increased volatility.
The prices increased initially due to rising raw material costs and then
tightness of supply with the lack of the expected supply and competition 
from the Middle East. This new Middle East commodity polymer is now 
starting to arrive in Europe, but only in relatively small volumes. While  
prices eased in early summer, they finished the year strongly on the  
back of higher oil prices, with the supply of LDPE very tight following  
the closure of a number of smaller LDPE plants in Europe in 2009. 
The outlook for prices in 20 1 1 remains uncertain, but prices have increased
in January and February and have now reached a record high, surpassing 
the previous high in August 2008. 
Sales and Margins
T otal sales increased by 1 2.5% to £4 78m reflecting a small increase 
in volumes and higher raw material prices. Sales to destinations outside 
the UK were 43%. Sales to the more resilient sectors of the retail food 
chain, agriculture and horticulture, healthcare and waste services were 
70% of total sales, with construction reduced to 1 1%.
Margins were squeezed by the continued raw material price increases but 
this reduction was partially offset by the continued benefits arising from 
our restructuring, including the closure of Brampton and final closure of 
Stockton. The sales mix improved as we continued to exit poorer margin 
business. Exchange rates continued to help as the weakness of sterling 
helped UK export volumes and margins and made imports of product 
to the UK more expensive.
Energy Costs
During 20 1 0, UK electricity costs remained at more sensible levels with 
costs now more in-line with our European competitors. During the year 
we changed electricity suppliers and our new three-year contract provides 
more flexibility for forward purchasing. European costs saw a reduction 
due to lower rates in Holland. The UK does, however, remain our most 
expensive country for electricity costs.
All energy prices for 20 1 1 are now fixed.
Our UK energy costs will increase from April 20 1 1 as the benefits from 
our participation in Climate Change Agreement (CCA) schemes are  
reduced by European Union rulings. In the UK, we believe we are exempt  
from the Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC) but we have complied  
with the registration process. However, the rules are under review along  
with CCAs as the current proposals are to turn this scheme into a tax  
with potential for significantly increased costs. The Government must  
ensure that the UK remains competitive on energy prices. 
Group operating profit, before net 
restructuring, fell from £19.0 million to 
£1 7 .9 million as margins were squeezed  
by increasing raw material costs. Overall 
volumes increased from 2009 as we  
saw some recovery in UK construction 
related activity and European industrial 
demand and robust demand from the 
agricultural sector. The decisive actions 
taken during 2008 continue to reduce 
operating costs.
John Langlands
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’ s Review Leading through...
our people
The expertise of our people is key to  
BPI’s continuing success. Specialised 
processes such as the recycling of heavily 
contaminated waste (pictured) rely on our 
highly skilled employees. Throughout the 
Group, we benefit from the experience and 
knowledge of a world class workforce. 18
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Chief Executive’ s Review ( continued)
Other major items of expenditure in 20 1 0 included the upgrading of extrusion 
equipment at Bromborough following the closure of Brampton, a new extrusion 
line at Swansea, a printing press at Zele and a silage stretch line in Canada. 
Planned expenditure in 20 1 1 will include investment in a washing plant,  
a new extrusion line at Roeselare in Belgium and a new printing press 
at Hardenberg in Holland. 
Strategy
Our strategy is set out on Page 1 0 and has been supported:
In the agricultural markets by:
Installing a five-layer wide agricultural line at Ardeer to replace the  • 
old line at Stockton.
Approving and beginning the installation of a stretch line for silage • 
stretchwrap in Canada to supply the North American silage stretch market.
In the printed consumer markets by:
Installing an eight-colour printing press at Zele. • 
Installing further machinery at Swansea to service the market  • 
for bags for mail-order and on-line retailers.
In recycling by:
Extending The Green Sack • 
™
 brand of refuse sack to other market sectors.
Authorising investment in a washing plant at one of our existing  • 
recycling sites to recycle contaminated agricultural waste
On the rationalisation of UK films and UK industrial sectors by:
Completing the phased run down at Stockton to focus production  • 
at Ardeer and Greenock.
Closing our small plant at Brampton in Cumbria. • 
Key Relationships
The Group does not have any customers that amount to more than  
3% of the Group turnover.
The Group purchases its main raw materials from a number of key suppliers 
including Dow, ExxonMobil, T otal and Polimeri Europac and has supply 
arrangements in place. Most of these suppliers have a number of plants  
in Europe, North America and the Middle East and alternative sources  
are available, except for some very specialised grades. 
Management Changes
Ian McDarmaid, our Group Purchasing Director, will retire in May after  
serving the business since 1 997 when he rejoined. Ian has done an excellent  
job through a period of very volatile polymer pricing and has earned a well 
deserved retirement.
He will be replaced by David Pendlebury, who looks after our UK plain  
film activities and joined the Group in 1 997 with the acquisition of the  
Low & Bonar film plants.
Scrap
Scrap prices increased steadily throughout the year as availability  
remained difficult with 70% of plastic packaging waste being exported  
for reprocessing overseas. Due to the lack of available good clean waste  
we continue to concentrate our recycling activities on the more difficult  
and heavily contaminated waste, including agricultural film waste. We have 
therefore authorised, in principle, investment in a second large washing  
plant to be installed at one of our existing recycling sites to recycle more 
contaminated agricultural waste and generate more feedstock to grow 
The Green Sack
™
 range.
Sales Volumes
Our total sales volumes of manufactured product increased from 275,000 
tonnes to 280,000 tonnes as we experienced some recovery in the UK 
construction activity and strong recovery in European industrial products. 
Volumes, as calculated by manufactured tonnage, were steady in the UK  
and Canada but Europe was up by 8% as it experienced a strong recovery 
in industrial volumes and continued growth in agricultural volumes.
We continued to see high levels of downgauging as the combination  
of environmental pressures and high polymer prices made customers 
demand thinner films.
Restructuring
Our major focus of restructuring in 20 1 0 was the final rundown and  
closure of operations at our Stockton plant whose closure was announced  
in November 2008. The transfer of the industrial film lines from Stockton  
to Ardeer was completed during quarter 2 of 20 1 0. We decided it was  
too difficult and costly to transfer our wide agricultural line and a new line  
was installed and commissioned during quarter 4 of 20 1 0. We were able  
to exit the Stockton site at the end of June, avoiding the continuance  
of duplicated costs. The site was sold in June.
In April 20 1 0, we completed the closure of our Brampton facility in Cumbria 
with the transfer of production elsewhere within the Group. The site had 
been marginal for several years with a significant deterioration in 2009 
due to lower volumes. The site was sold in November.
Elsewhere, we continued to take all necessary steps to reduce our cost base.
We cannot overstate the amount of disruption all of these changes have 
made to the business and our employees continue to perform well under 
these very difficult circumstances.
Capital Expenditure
T otal capital expenditure at £1 5m was greater than depreciation but lower 
than planned as some projects ran behind schedule. The major expenditure 
was at Ardeer, as we spent over £4m installing a new wide line for agricultural 
and horticultural film and the associated extrusion hall. Other expenditure at 
Ardeer included £2m on the extrusion hall and equipment transferred from 
Stockton. This cash expenditure of over £6m at Ardeer was offset by the 
proceeds of £6m from the sale of the Stockton site. 19
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Michael Huyghe, who also joined the Group in 1 997 with the Low & Bonar  
plants and is currently Managing Director of our European business, will assume 
responsibility for the UK stretchfilm activities. This will enable the consolidation 
of our leading branded silage products and deliver efficiencies in product 
development and utilisation of our stretchfilm assets.
Andrew Green, who joined the Group in 1 994 on the acquisition of High 
Performance Films, a family owned business, will assume responsibility for the 
collation shrink and converter film activities. This will enable the development  
of our market position in consumer printed products. Andrew will now be 
responsible for all the non-stretchfilm activities in the UK.
Return On Capital Employed
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) remains our main financial target  
and, while we have achieved around 1 3% in the last two financial years,  
our short-term objective is to achieve 1 5%.
Outlook for 20 1 1
The current economic outlook remains uncertain, but over 70% of our  
sales are in the more resilient sectors of the food retail chain, agriculture  
and horticulture, healthcare and waste collection. 
We have experienced raw material price increases in January and 
February and prices are now at record highs.
Exchange rate movements in the euro and US dollar remain in our favour  
in that they make our exports more competitive and make imports from  
these areas more expensive. 
We have taken decisive action to eliminate excess capacity, reduce our cost 
base and move our business towards more resilient and growing sectors.
There is no doubt that 20 1 1 will be challenging, but the positive actions  
we have taken and the encouraging start to the year enables us to look 
forward with confidence. 
Operating Review
 
Europe
 2010 2009 
 £m £m
Operating profit before net restructuring 9.2 8.0  
Net restructuring (0.3)  (0.7)
Profit from operations 8.9 7.3 
 
Tonnes sold 64,000 59,200
Our European business comprises two manufacturing sites in Belgium,  
one manufacturing site in the Netherlands and a sales operation in France.  
The business specialises in the manufacture and sale of high quality printed  
film for the food industry; form-fill-and-seal films (FFS) and heavy-duty  
sacks, including valve bags and Waviblok for the chemical, construction, 
horticulture and fertiliser industries; pallet protection films including stretch 
hoods; insulation film; general industrial films; and silage and packaging 
stretchwrap. Main markets are Belgium, the Netherlands, north of France  
and Germany, except for silage stretch, which is sold throughout  
mainland Europe.
The operating profits increased from £8.0m to £9.2m as volumes increased  
and good control over costs, production efficiencies and scrap was maintained.
Sales volumes increased by 8% as we experienced strong demand in 
industrial products and achieved some growth in agricultural products. 
T otal volume sales of silage wrap were well ahead of 2009 despite  
unfavourable weather conditions in some markets as we saw recovery  
in eastern European markets. Sales of our new products SilotitePro
®
 and 
Baletite
®
 continued to grow and we are planning for further growth in 
20 1 1. Baletite
®
 is a replacement for traditional round bale netting and  
SilotitePro
®
 is a new generation of silage film with improved economical 
and environmental properties and both will reinforce our market leading  
position in the silage wrap business. Increasing raw material prices from 
January 20 1 0 impacted on margins which reduced compared to 2009.
Silage bale wrapping using BPI’s Silotite
®
 agricultural stretchfilm.
Report by Directors and Business Review 20
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Chief Executive’ s Review ( continued)
UK and Ireland
 2010 2009 
 £m  £m
Operating profit before net restructuring  7.9 1 0.2 
Net restructuring  3.1  (2.4)
Profit from operations 1 1.0 7.8
 
Tonnes sold 203,900 204,700
Our UK and Ireland business consists of 1 4 UK manufacturing sites and  
4 sales/service offices in the UK and Ireland. It also includes our plant  
in China as most of its production is currently sold in the UK.
Operating profits fell as rising raw material prices squeezed margins, 
particularly in the consumer and silage sectors. Benefits arising from  
our restructuring programme reduced operating costs and offset some  
of the impact of rising raw material prices.
Volumes fell marginally to 204,000 tonnes. Some recovery in construction 
related activity was offset by lower volumes of industrial products. T otal  
sales to the more resilient sectors accounted for 72% of sales, with sales  
to the construction sector amounting to 1 2%.
T otal UK costs fell by £2.0m as costs were reduced by the closure  
of Brampton and final closure of Stockton.
Our UK film products include a range of film on the reel for a variety of  
different markets and include products such as stretchfilm, plain shrink
film, printed shrink film, produce films, bread films, lamination films,  
liquid packaging films and surface protection films. Incorporating highly 
respected brand names such as Novatek
®
, Brithene
®
 and Supreme,  
the range of products provides secure cost effective transit and  
primary packaging for the most demanding applications.
Sales of collation shrink wrap, which are mainly to the food and drink  
industries, fell by nearly 4% as the combination of high raw material  
costs and environmental concerns led to more downgauging. 
Demand for pallet protection film, insulation film and general purpose
film remained subdued with lack of volume putting pressure on margins. 
Sales of Bontite
®
, our high quality industrial stretch product, increased 
during the year.
Volume sales of printed film for the food industry, including film for  
deep frozen vegetables and frozen chips, were ahead of 2009 despite  
a significant level of downgauging. Raw material price increases kept 
margins under pressure. A new eight-colour printing press to replace  
two older presses and improve efficiency and increase capacity was  
installed in the summer of 20 1 0. 
Industrial volumes recovered strongly with good growth in sales of  
form-fill-and-seal (FFS). Sales to the petrochemical sector were ahead  
of 2009 as a number of customers continued to export to the Far East.  
While demand for open mouth bags continued to reduce in 2009,  
we experienced a recovery in our specialised bags. Margins saw  
some recovery despite the frequent raw material price increases.
Production volumes were well ahead of 2009 but with improved 
scrap rates and total production costs below 2009.
T otal capital expenditure was nearly €4m as we installed a replacement 
printing press at Zele and invested in more prestretch equipment at 
Roeselare to enable us to produce a range of thinner products. We have 
developed prestretched products for both the FFS and other markets 
and would expect volumes of these higher added value products to grow 
over the next few years. At Roeselare, we have ordered a three-layer 
co-extrusion line to further focus on better added value products and 
authorised a printing press and extrusion equipment at Hardenberg 
to increase capacity. 
Our European business remains well placed to deliver further growth 
with clear strategic plans for each site. Zele in Belgium will continue  
to focus on stretch products, particularly silage and printed food film. 
Hardenberg in Holland is focused on industrial products and is a leading 
supplier of FFS to the petrochemical and other industries. Roeselare 
in Belgium will focus on a reduced number of products and developing
a range of prestretched thinner products.
The Green Sack
™
. 21
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Sales to the converter sector were in-line with 2009 with strong growth  
in the bread and mailing sectors offsetting lower volumes in lamination  
and move to in-house supply by some customers. 
Bromborough benefitted from the closure of Brampton in April as 
production was transferred. The upgrade of extrusion lines to increase 
production and enable the production of thinner films commenced and 
will be completed during quarter 1 of 20 1 1.
T otal volume sales of industrial stretch wrap were 4% down on 2009,  
as we saw some very competitive pricing in cast machine stretchwrap.  
Our sales of prestretch WrapsmartUltra
®
 product continued to grow.  
The new WrapsmartUltra
®
 hand roll product is 7 micron compared to our 
traditional hand roll at 1 2 to 1 7 micron and, therefore, uses nearly half the 
material. The new hand rolls offer the same strength and high performance 
levels as standard stretchfilm products, despite their ultra-light weight 
and thinner gauge. Our cast lines continued to operate at close to capacity  
as exchange rate movements have made us more competitive against  
the European producers. The Bridgwater site is now fully focused on cast 
stretchwrap and operates as a low cost, high volume, high performance 
manufacturer of cast industrial stretchwrap. Our Widnes plant continues  
to produce a range of blown hand rolls for the packaging industry.
Sales of silage stretch were in-line with 2009 despite unfavourable 
weather conditions. In the UK, we have positioned ourselves as suppliers 
to the leading co-operatives and agricultural merchants who wish to sell 
our well marketed, branded, high quality silage film. We commenced sales,
mainly into Scandinavia, of our next generation silage film, SilotitePro
®
, 
which offers farmers significant cost savings when making baled silage. 
Increasing raw material prices from January 20 1 0 impacted on margins 
which reduced compared to 2009. The harsh winter of 20 1 0/20 1 1 has 
resulted in farmers feeding large volumes of baled forage rapidly depleting 
their stocks which bodes well for our silage film sales in the summer
of 20 1 1. 
T otal volumes of our wide film activities were just ahead of 2009 despite  
the disruption caused by the closure of the Stockton line in June and the 
installation of a new wide line at Ardeer in quarter 4.
Volumes of silage sheet were up on 2009 as we increased sales in the 
UK and introduced a new product; Visqueen Clingseal
®
, a thin silage film 
designed to sit directly beneath the traditional silage sheet and reduce 
wastage in the silage clamp.
Sales of horticultural films were in-line with 2009 with some growth 
in exports to France and Germany. There is no doubt that our product 
quality began to suffer as the Stockton line reached the end of its useful 
life. The product from the new line is much improved and this new five-
layer wide line will provide opportunities for the further development 
of our more specialised films. 
We are the leading recycler of polythene films in the UK with an annual 
recycling capacity of nearly 70,000 tonnes. We recycle scrap from 
our own operations, used products taken back from customers and 
scrap purchased in the open market. We are also able to recycle the 
more heavily contaminated scrap, including agricultural films. Recycled 
material is used in the manufacture of construction films, including 
damp-proof course, refuse sacks, rigid products and a range of 
other products.
Our construction activities trade under the Visqueen Building Products  
brand and supply construction films including temporary protective 
sheeting, damp-proof membrane, damp-proof course and a number of 
specialist products to the major builders merchants in the UK. Following 
the slowdown in construction activity in the UK and Ireland in 2008 
and 2009, we experienced some recovery in 20 1 0 as sales volumes 
were up by 8% despite a disappointing last quarter due to poor weather. 
The outlook for the construction industry remains uncertain and, given 
weak demand and excess capacity, selling prices and margins will 
remain under pressure. 
Our specification products business returned to growth with sales up  
by over 30% against 2009 as we continue to increase our market share. 
Sales volumes of refuse sacks increased over 2009 as we achieved  
growth with our The Green Sack
™
 range at a major retailer and new 
business in the food services/janitorial sector. Sales of The Green Sack
™
,
a 1 00% recycled product including UK farm waste, have continued to 
grow and are now stocked by a major UK retailer. Opportunities exist
to target other retailers in both the UK and Europe.
Report by Directors and Business Review 22
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Chief Executive’ s Review ( continued)
An area of risk is in the public sector as they look for savings to meet  
their reduced expenditure targets. We supply both the local authority  
market for domestic refuse sacks and the NHS with aprons and clinical  
waste sacks and we are examining downgauging and lower cost  
products for these markets.
Recycling volumes increased in the year reflecting higher sales activity  
and more throughput at our washing plants in Rhymney and Dumfries.
As securing scrap becomes more difficult, combined with the need  
for more pellet to support our growth in The Green Sack
™
 range,  
we have approved, in principle, the installation of a new washing plant  
for recycling contaminated agricultural waste at one of our recycling sites.
Scrap and repro prices increased steadily throughout the year,  
putting pressure on margins.
Sales of converted products, including printed film and bags, comprise  
sales from our print and conversion plants and serve a wide range  
of markets from construction to industrial to consumer.
Our industrial activities endured a difficult year as we completed the 
transfer of machinery from Stockton to Ardeer to enable the closure of 
Stockton. We completed the building of an extrusion hall at Ardeer and 
moved four film lines including three with in-line print to Ardeer. The moves 
were complex and took longer than expected, causing some frustration  
to our customer base in terms of quality and service. These relocation  
issues were mainly resolved during the second half and the plant ran  
efficiently in the final quarter. 
The closure of Stockton and relocation to Ardeer and Greenock has enabled 
our industrial activities to realign capacity and considerably reduce our cost 
base. The Ardeer site, like Greenock in 2009, has experienced considerable 
disruption with a consequent impact on performance and we anticipate a 
much improved performance in 20 1 1 as the transferred lines and enlarged 
operations settle down. We did see a significant improvement in the 
performance of Greenock in 20 1 0 following its year of disruption in 2009. 
Following the completion of restructuring, our UK industrial operations 
have been rebranded as Visqueen to retain and reflect the association 
with the brand ‘Visqueen
®
’. Many of our agricultural, horticultural and  
sack products are sold under the Visqueen
®
 name. 
T otal sales volume of industrial packaging to the construction and industrial 
markets fell by 4% despite a recovery in the construction sector and some 
volume was transferred to Europe. The main increase in construction 
came in brick, block and air-crete markets with aggregates and insulation 
remaining steady and a small pick up in the paving sector.
Volumes were down in chemicals, fertiliser and animal feed sectors but 
sales to the furniture and bedding sector were ahead of 2009.
Xinhui (China) facility (T op).
Worcester (UK) facility (Bottom). 23
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Sales to the horticultural industry were reasonable but tailed off in the 
final quarter as the cold weather pushed some sales back. 
Our backseam conversion line with in-line print began supply to the 
construction sector and we have now secured a contract for the supply  
of packaging to the cement industry as it moves certain products 
from paper to polythene packaging.
Sales volumes at our small manufacturing sites fell as we transferred the 
industrial products at Swansea to Ardeer and Greenock. Swansea will 
now focus on the manufacture and supply of mailing bags for mail-order 
and on-line retailers. This has been supported by investment in extrusion, 
print and conversion. Swansea became part of our consumer operations  
from January 20 1 1. 
Our small trading operation at Norwich continues to generate 
acceptable returns. 
Flint continues to focus on higher added value business for the  
pharmaceutical and food sectors and improved its performance in 20 1 0. 
Our consumer plant at Worcester is involved in printing and converting 
plain film into packaging for the fresh produce, bread and other food 
markets. The plant now has two ten-colour printing presses, seven  
eight-colour printing presses and a laminator, making it one of the  
largest and most modern facilities in Europe.
Sales volumes increased 1 2% over 2009 as we benefitted from a full  
year of supply of bread packaging to a major UK customer. The significant 
increase in raw material costs combined with the supermarkets continued 
attempts to reduce costs led to a very competitive environment and 
resulted in reduced margins. 
Our consumer sector in China became busier as we exported bread  
and produce bags to Australasia and the Middle East as well as the UK.
Our pre-press and plate making business provides artwork, origination  
and printing plates to Group businesses and to external customers.  
Overall sales were down on 2009, with lower demand from both internal  
and external customers, and the business recorded a loss. Action has  
been taken to reduce the cost base.
T otal capital expenditure on the UK was over £1 0m, with more than £6m  
spent at Ardeer as we completed the transfer of plant from Stockton  
and built an extrusion hall for the new wide agricultural line which was 
commissioned in the final quarter. Other expenditure included upgrading 
equipment at Bromborough and installing a new line at Swansea.
Major capital expenditure in 20 1 1 will include the installation of a new  
washing plant to increase recycling of contaminated agricultural waste. 
The UK business should see benefit in 20 1 1 from the completion of the 
restructuring in our industrial activities and the business seems well 
placed to meet the challenges of 20 1 1. 
North America
 2010 2009 
 £m £m
Operating profit 0.8  0.8
 
Tonnes sold 1 1,650 1 1,400
Our North American business comprises A T Films based at Edmonton in 
Canada. The main plant manufactures polythene film for the North American 
horticultural and agricultural markets and we also have a small conversion 
facility at Westlock in Canada which folds and packs bags used for the 
storage of silage and grain.
Sales volumes were disappointingly just ahead of the previous year, 
with construction related sales down nearly 25% due to the decline in 
construction markets. Horticultural sales fell 1 4% due to extremely 
competitive pricing particularly in overwintering films which protect 
crops during the colder months.
Agricultural sales were, however, 1 2% ahead of 2009 despite some 
unusual weather patterns. Sales of silage sheet were significantly ahead 
as our new products, including vapour-resistant sheeting and wide-width 
films continued to gain momentum. Grain bags sales were 26% ahead 
of 2009 as we diversified our distribution base and launched our  
new brand Grainflex
™
. We primed the silage wrap market by bringing  
in product from the UK.
Margins suffered as the very competitive market made it difficult  
to recover the polymer price increases.
Despite the reduction in margins, an improved sales mix, good control  
over costs and benefits from in-house recycling and exchange rates  
enabled the business to report maintained sterling profits.
A recycling unit was transferred from the UK and became operational 
in March 20 1 0 enabling us to avoid external recycling. A co-extrusion  
line for the manufacture of silage stretchwrap is currently being installed 
and will enable us to start supplying the North American silage wrap 
market in 20 1 1. Installation of this capacity for new products will enable
us to grow volumes in 20 1 1 and improve our performance.
The strategy for North America is to increase volumes by introducing 
new products and fill available capacity. The introduction of silage 
stretchwrap will enable us to offer our agricultural customer base 
a complete range of silage products including sheet, bags, tubes 
and stretchwrap.
Report by Directors and Business Review Leading through...
our brands
BPI brands communicate excellence and 
inspire a confidence which has generated 
exceptional customer loyalty. There is no 
better example of this than the Visqueen
®
 
family, which encompasses agricultural 
(pictured), construction, industrial and 
healthcare products. The Chartered Institute 
Of Marketing recognised Visqueen Clingseal
®
 
with the 2010 Marketing Excellence  
Award for Manufacturing. 25
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Results
The consolidated financial statements for the Group, which are prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by 
the EU, are included on Pages 49 to 8 1. The individual financial statements  
of the holding company, British Polythene Industries PLC, continue to be 
prepared under UK GAAP and are shown separately on Pages 82 to 88.
Sales
T otal sales increased by 1 2% to £4 77.7m. The increase in underlying 
volumes was 1.8% to 280k tonnes. Average input costs were significantly
higher than in 2009, hence the increase in turnover was greater than 
the increase in volumes. 
Operating Profit
Operating profit, before net restructuring, reduced from £1 9.0m to 
£1 7.9m. This represented a reduction in operating profit per tonne  
from £69/tonne to £64/tonne. 
Return on capital employed (before net restructuring) was 1 2.9% compared
to 1 3.0% in 2009. After net restructuring, return on capital employed  
increased to 1 4.9% compared to 1 0.9% in 2009.
Polymer prices increased in ten months of 20 1 0, peaking at £1,1 80/tonne. 
Cost savings arising from the restructuring programme and actions taken  
to protect margins have combined to mitigate the impact of these increased 
input costs on operating profits. 
The sterling/euro exchange rate continued to have a favourable impact  
on the competitiveness of our UK business, however, the translation  
rate used to restate the profits of the Mainland European business was 
slightly less favourable than in 2009.
Restructuring
Restructuring resulted in a net credit of £2.8m (2009: £3.1m charge). 
The vacated properties at Stockton and Brampton were sold in the year 
for £6.0m and £0.3m respectively, giving rise to a combined £3.8m 
gain on disposal.
Restructuring costs of £1.0m were also incurred due to the closure  
of Brampton and some additional restructuring undertaken in the UK  
and Mainland European businesses. 
Interest
Net borrowing costs reduced to £2.1m from £2.7m. Average borrowings 
were lower and a more expensive long-term facility was repaid during 2009. 
Interest cover improved to 8.5 times (2009: 7.0) before net restructuring. 
T axation
The Group’s profits are taxed in a number of locations, the corporation 
tax rates of which for the year ended 3 1 December 20 1 0 were:
United Kingdom  28.0%
Belgium  34.0%
Netherlands  25.5%
Canada  28.0%
The effective rate of 26.4% (excluding gains on sale of property) reflects  
the proportion of the Group’s profits arising in the less highly taxed locations 
and the favourable resolution of a number of items relating to earlier years. 
The property disposals did not give rise to a tax charge but there was  
a release of deferred tax of £0.3m in relation to the disposals.
Polymer prices increased in ten months  
of 2010 peaking at £1, 180/tonne. Cost 
savings arising from the restructuring 
programme and actions taken to protect 
margins have combined to mitigate  
the impact of increased input costs  
on operating profits. Net borrowings 
reduced by £6.6 million to £45.6 million.
David Harris
Group Finance Director
Financial Review
Report by Directors and Business Review 26
Financial Review ( continued)
An elevated risk of customer insolvency remains. That said, customers are 
spread across a wide range of market sectors and geographical regions 
and no single customer represents more than 3% of Group turnover. 
Some credit insurance is carried in Europe and in the agricultural sector.
Movements in exchange rates can also be a risk. Weakness of sterling, 
particularly against the euro, tends to be positive for Group performance.  
UK exports become more competitive and UK domestic sales are better 
protected against mainland European competition. In addition, profits  
from the Mainland European operations are worth more in sterling terms. 
However, euro denominated borrowings become higher in sterling terms. 
Steps have been taken to restructure parts of the UK business to reduce 
capacity in-line with current demand and reduce costs. Banking facilities are  
in place which provide sufficient headroom to support the Group’s trading.  
The revolving credit elements of the facilities have been renewed and are 
repayable in 20 1 4 and 20 1 5. Short-term overdraft facilities are renewable  
on an annual basis. Where this renewal period falls within 1 2 months, no 
matters have been drawn to the attention of the Directors to suggest  
that renewal may not be forthcoming on acceptable terms.
Further disclosures in respect of credit and liquidity risk management  
are included in Notes 1 5 to 1 7 to the financial statements.
Going Concern
The Group’s projections, taking account of the risks outlined above, show  
that the Group should be able to operate within its current banking facilities. 
As a result, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis  
in preparing the financial statements.
T reasury Policy
Borrowings are held in currencies other than sterling to provide a hedge 
against the net asset position in overseas subsidiaries and short-term trading 
assets and liabilities in subsidiary entities. All borrowings were on floating  
rates, although interest rate swaps have been taken to fix forward rates 
on €20m of borrowings until 20 1 4. Derivative instruments are only used  
to facilitate these hedging policies and, where significant, are approved  
at Board level.
The futures market for linear low-density polyethylene on the London  
Metal Exchange ceased trading in 20 1 0.
Pension Fund
The deficit in the UK pension fund reduced from £57m (net of tax £4 1m)  
at 3 1 December 2009 to £55m (net of tax £40m) at 3 1 December 20 1 0. 
The movement in the deficit is analysed below:
  £m
Deficit at 31 December 2009  57
Surplus of contributions over current service cost   (3)
Better than assumed return from investments  (5)
Increase in liabilities due to reduced corporate bond yields  1 3
Decrease in assumed long-term inflation rates  (5)
Revised mortality assumption  5
Revised inflation basis for deferred benefits  (9)
Other factors  2
Deficit at 31 December 2010  55
Earnings Per Share
Diluted Earnings Per Share after net restructuring improved to 5 1.07p  
from 30.36p. If net restructuring is excluded, diluted Earnings Per Share  
reduced from 38.60p to 38.3 1p. 
Dividend
The proposed final ordinary dividend of 7.85p per share (2009: 7.5p) is  
to be paid on 2 1 July 20 1 1 to shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 1 8 March 20 1 1 making, with the interim ordinary dividend of  
3.65p per share (2009: 3.5p) paid on 1 8 November 20 1 0, a total of 1 1.5p 
(2009: 1 1.0p) per share for the year. Dividend cover pre net restructuring  
is 3.3 times (2009: 3.5). When stated after net restructuring, cover is  
4.4 times (2009: 2.8).
Cash Flow and Borrowings
Operating cash flow was £27.5m (2009: £27.6m). Working capital increased 
by £4.8m (2009: £1 5.1m reduction) due to the impact of higher raw material 
prices. Control of working capital remains a key priority and further progress 
was made with finished stock levels and debtor recovery in 20 1 0.
Capital expenditure, including computer software, was £1 5.1m. Annual 
depreciation and amortisation was £1 3.3m. There were proceeds of £6.3m 
from the disposal of the Stockton and Brampton sites. £0.3m was realised 
from the sale of surplus equipment.
Net borrowings reduced by £6.6m to £45.6m. A large proportion of Group 
debt is denominated in euros and lesser amounts in other foreign currencies. 
Exchange rate movements contributed £0.9m to the improvement in 
borrowings. These borrowings are maintained to hedge the net investment  
in overseas subsidiaries. The net debt to EBITDA ratio improved from 1.6  
to less than 1.5.
During the year 398,7 4 1 of the Company’s shares were purchased,  
at an average cost of £2.40 per share, to be held in the Employee Share 
Ownership Trust. These shares are held for use in the Share Matching  
and Long-T erm Incentive Plans.
Borrowing Facilities
In December 20 1 0, the revolving credit facilities were renegotiated.  
New facilities were agreed totalling £70.0m, of which £1 5.0m is repayable  
in 20 1 4, with the balance of £55.0m repayable in 20 1 5. There are also  
short-term facilities of £32.0m as well as £6.6m of hire purchase facilities. 
At the end of 20 1 0, total available borrowing facilities were £1 09m.  
These facilities provide sufficient headroom to finance the Group’s trading. 
Liquidity Risk
As highlighted in the section on Risk Factors on Page 1 1, the continuing  
weak economic conditions remain challenging, however, the Directors  
believe that the Group is performing well in these circumstances.
More than two-thirds of the Group’s business is in sectors such as the  
retail food chain, agriculture, healthcare and waste services which have  
shown to be relatively resilient to the economic downturn. However,  
the possibility of reductions in customer demand remains a risk.  27
The net retirement benefit financing charge is anticipated to be £1.5m in 20 1 1.
Whilst the scheme investments performed better than the actuarial 
assumptions and the expected long-term inflation rate reduced to 3.35% 
(2009: 3.5%), the discount rate applied to the liabilities of the scheme  
reduced from 5.75% to 5.4%.
Due to the Government’s announcement that future statutory pension 
increases will be based on the Consumer Prices Index, the scheme rules  
require that this basis is now applied to members’ deferred benefits. This 
change has reduced the Scheme liabilities by £9.0m. Pensions in payment  
are currently expected to increase by reference to the Retail Prices Index. 
We have reviewed the longevity assumptions to reflect increasing life 
expectancy and this has increased the scheme liabilities by £5.0m.
Following a period of consultation with the members, the scheme closed  
to future service accrual from 30 September 20 1 0. This closure did not  
impact the scheme deficit.
The last triennial actuarial review of the fund was carried out at April 2008.  
The actuary certified a deficit of £1 9.0m and recommended a future funding 
rate of £2.8m per annum above the current service cost. This is expected 
to result in pension contributions of £2.8m during 20 1 1. The next triennial 
review will be carried out as at April 20 1 1.
Share Capital
The Company has only one class of ordinary shares as capital. The  
Company’s aim is to maintain a balance between issued share capital and  
other forms of long-term finance. Details of the shares in issue and share 
movements during the year are set out in Note 22 to the financial statements. 
The ordinary shares carry no right to fixed income, but holders are entitled  
to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one  
vote per share at meetings of the Company. All shares rank equally with  
regard to the Company’s residual assets and there are no restrictions on  
the transfer of the Company’s shares. During the period the Company  
complied fully with the requirements that apply to the Company’s shares  
as a consequence of these shares being listed on the London Stock Exchange.
All UK employees are entitled to acquire shares in the Company through  
the Save As Y ou Earn savings scheme. 
Issue and Buy-Back of Shares
The Directors have broad powers to act to promote the success of the 
Company for the benefit of its shareholders, however, there are specific  
powers in relation to issue and buy-back of its own shares.
1.  The Directors are generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise  
all the powers of the Company to allot securities up to 30% of the  
issued ordinary share capital. 
2.   The Directors can allot shares for cash provided that this power is limited to: 
•  The allotment of equity securities where such securities have been 
offered (whether by way of a rights issue or open offer or otherwise)  
to the holders of ordinary shares of 25 pence in proportion to their 
respective holdings and
 •  Otherwise, the allotment of equity securities up to 5% of the issued  
ordinary share capital.
3.  The Directors can make market purchases up to 1 0% of the issued  
share capital of ordinary shares. This is subject to a minimum price of  
25p and a maximum by reference to the Company’s recent share price.  
A maximum of 1 0% of the Company’s issued share capital can be held  
as treasury shares after such a buy-back.
Each of the above authorities requires to be renewed at each Annual  
General Meeting (AGM) or on the last date when by law the AGM  
must be held.
Policy on Payment of Suppliers
T erms and conditions are agreed with suppliers before business takes place  
and the policy is to pay agreed invoices in accordance with the terms of 
payment. At the year end, the amount owed to trade creditors by the Group 
was equivalent to 55 days (2009: 56 days) of purchases from suppliers.
The Group does not follow any code or standard on payment practice,  
but it is the Group’s policy to pay all of its suppliers within 35 days of the  
end of the month in which it receives the goods or services unless other  
payment terms have been agreed.
Auditors
A resolution is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the  
re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company and  
for their remuneration to be agreed by the Directors.
Statement as to Disclosure of Information to Auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this report confirm 
that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information  
of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and each Director has taken  
all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself  
aware of any audit information and to establish that the Company’s  
auditors are aware of that information.
Substantial Shareholders
The Company has been notified of the following interests representing  
3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company as at 7 March 20 1 1.
  % of ordinary 
 No. of shares 
 shares in issue
Liberty Square Asset Management 1,636,944 6.2
Legal and General Asset Management 1,029,495 3.9
Report by Directors and Business Review British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
28
Introduction 
The Group has a long record of leadership in understanding the sector’s 
environmental responsibilities and ensuring that our industry’s products  
and processes deliver environmental solutions whilst meeting the practical 
needs of customers, consumers and the wider community.
The Group seeks to maintain the highest standards of business conduct  
and has policies and guidelines in place which set standards concerning  
ethics, sound business practices, compliance with all local and national  
legal requirements and wider governance issues. 
We recognise that as an employer we have a responsibility to our  
employees for their safety and welfare whilst at work. This responsibility 
extends to their training and development, as well as to setting  
appropriate standards for their dealings with customers and suppliers. 
Health and Safety 
Policy
The Group’s policy on Health and Safety states:
“We firmly believe that the prevention of accidents involving personal injury  
or damage to property is essential to the successful operation of our business 
and we regard the health and safety of our employees as paramount.
We, therefore, through this statement of intent, affirm our commitment to 
achieving the highest possible standards of health and safety for all of our 
employees and any others whose health and safety may be affected by  
our work activities.
The Board of Directors:
Accept their individual and collective responsibility in providing health  • 
and safety leadership.
Will ensure that all business decisions reflect its health and safety  • 
intentions as set out in this statement.
Will provide a working environment that is both safe and which  • 
has the lowest possible risk to health.
Will provide sufficient information, instruction, training and supervision to • 
enable all employees to contribute to their own health and safety at work.
The Managing Director of each business is responsible for ensuring that  
suitable and sufficient organisation and arrangements are employed for 
achieving the defined objectives.
Health and Safety is as important an issue as all other commercial 
considerations. No task is so important that a person’s health or safety  
is put at risk. The Board of Directors will, therefore, pursue this policy  
with the utmost diligence.
We do stress, however, the need for all of our employees to co-operate 
in our aim to provide a working environment that is safe and which has  
the lowest possible risk to health. This is not simply because of our legal 
obligations, but because it is in all of our interests that we should work  
together to achieve this end.”
The Group Health and Safety Manager is independent of the individual  
Business Directors and reports directly to the Chief Executive with  
recourse to the Group Board.
Performance
We are pleased to report that ten of our operating sites reported no  
Lost Time Accidents throughout 20 1 0 (2009: seven sites).
The Group successfully achieved the lowest number of Lost Time Accidents 
reported. However, the Lost Time Accident Rate remained at 0.5 accidents/ 
1 00,000 hours worked (2009: 0.5). Minor injury rates increased slightly  
during the year to 7.4 accidents/1 00,000 hours (2009: 6.5). 
The Group has a long record of  
leadership in understanding the sector’s 
environmental responsibilities and ensuring  
that our industry’s products and processes  
deliver environmental solutions whilst  
meeting the practical needs of customers, 
consumers and the wider community.
Corporate Social Responsibility Review
Governor of the Bank of England, Mervyn King visited BPI’s 
Greenock Head Office during 20 1 0 and met with John Langlands 
and other BPI executives to discuss the Group’s view of 
business conditions in the UK. Leading through...
recycling
As Europe’s largest recycler of waste 
polythene film, our expertise and 
technology enables us to handle even 
heavily contaminated agricultural waste. 
One example of this is the recovery of 
carrot cover (pictured) for recycling. This 
recycled polythene will then form the raw 
material for products such at THE GREEN 
SACK
™
 or even next year’s carrot cover. British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
30
Shredded agricultural waste being recycled at BPI’s Dumfries facility.
are achieved at all operating sites across the world. The Audits are  
carried out by the Group Health and Safety Manager and reports  
are issued to the Chief Executive.
The audit is split into the following three areas:
Safety management arrangements • 
Management of key workplace hazards • 
Safety culture • 
A safety culture questionnaire is issued to employees during the audit.  
These questionnaires are anonymous and provide an indication of how 
employees perceive the Company to be managing health and safety.
Following the audit, each operating site is issued with a detailed report  
providing an action plan for continuous improvement.
Safety In Manufacturing of Plastics (SIMPL) Strategy 20 1 1 – 20 1 4
In October the HSE launched its three-year Safety In Manufacturing of  
Plastics (SIMPL) Initiative. This initiative is aimed at engaging with the  
whole of the plastics industry with a purpose of improving the industry’s  
health and safety performance and standards. The Group continues to  
be committed to support raising standards of health and safety in the  
wider plastics industry and has been involved in the development of  
the SIMPL Skills Strategy through its inclusion on the steering group. 
Companies who have signed up to the strategy are committed to  
continued improvement through a focused three year action plan  
covering the following five key areas:
Leadership • 
Workforce involvement • 
Management systems • 
Risk reduction • 
Accident reduction •  
Risk Assessments and Safety T raining
Our operating sites continued to review and update their workplace risk 
assessments. These risk assessments and safe operating procedures are  
the foundation of a good safety management system.
The accident severity rate, which measures the days lost as a result  
of all accidents as a percentage of the total hours worked, reduced to  
its lowest recorded level, reflecting the overall reduction in the number  
of more serious accidents that resulted in employees being absent  
from work for longer periods. 
The Group works hard to identify the root causes of all accidents, dangerous 
incidents, and near-miss situations, and uses a range of investigation 
procedures to help avoid repetition. Conclusions about underlying causes are 
used to improve our Health and Safety management systems, with relevant 
information being shared across the Group. Business Health and Safety 
Managers meet throughout the year to share best practice and ensure that 
there is a standardised approach to safety management across the Group. 
All our manufacturing sites are audited on a rolling programme by the Group 
Health and Safety Department and areas of improvement are identified.  
Some sites are externally audited and certified to OHSAS1 800 1.
The Group strives continually to improve its safety performance by:
Developing and maintaining a good safety culture at all locations. • 
Continually improving communications and sharing best practice • 
throughout the Group. • 
Ensuring the robust auditing of safety management systems. • 
Ensuring active involvement of senior managers in monitoring  • 
and promoting safety.
Safety at work remains a top priority and its importance is reflected in it 
being a key agenda item at all Main Board, Management Board, Divisional 
Boards and Business Review meetings.
Project
Group Health and Safety Audit Programme
During the year the Group launched a newly developed Group Health  
and Safety Audit System. The system provides a detailed review of the  
safety management arrangements and controls at Group Operating Sites.  
It will be used at all Group locations, ensuring that best practice standards 
Corporate Social Responsibility Review ( continued) British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
31
Report by Directors and Business Review
2011 0.5 2010
0.5 2009
2009 0.5 2008
2009 0.5 2007
2009 0.4 2006
L T A frequency rate
Accidents/1 00,000 hours worked
2011 7.4 2010
6.5 2009
2009 6.9 2008
2009 7.8 2007
2009 7.6 2006
Minor accident frequency rate
Minor accidents/1 00,000 hours worked
2011 0.008 2010
0.01 2 2009
2009 0.019 2008
2009 0.013 2007
2009 0.010 2006
Severity rate 
Number of days
Lost time accidents – Accidents that cause employees to be unavailable  
for normal duties for more than three consecutive days.
Minor accidents – All reported minor injuries 
Severity rate – Number of days lost as a result of accidents/number of hours worked
The Group is committed to providing its employees with adequate health  
and safety training, ensuring they are competent to carry out their work  
in a safe manner. In the year further behavioural safety awareness training  
was carried out.
Fire Risk Management
The Group continues to monitor and review its fire risk exposure.  
In 20 1 0 the Group carried out a further pro-active review of fire risk 
across its business.
The site in Zele (Belgium) became the third Group site to successfully attain  
the Highly Protected Risk (HPR) Award from FM Global (Property Risk 
Insurers). The HPR Award is in recognition of the very high standard  
of fire risk management at the site, with there being a very low exposure  
to loss and has previously been awarded to the sites at Ardeer (Scotland)  
and Roeselare (Belgium). 
Energy
 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
CO 2 output (kg/tonne)  358 362 356 362 36 1
– reporting standard 
CO 2 output (kg/tonne) – actual 270 1 52 1 36 1 25 1 23
Electricity (kWh/tonne) 693 697 679 675 677
The UK Government required that instead of using the UK long-term marginal 
basis for electricity, the UK rolling average must be used, which increases the 
amount calculated for CO 2. There has been a marginal reduction in CO 2 output 
per tonne. 
For actual CO 2 emissions, we have used our UK electricity suppliers’ declared 
CO 2/kWh emission rate and the Non-UK Country National Averages available 
as provided by the International Energy Agency. In April 20 1 0 we switched  
UK suppliers from one that used nuclear and coal generation to one that uses 
coal and gas with a corresponding increase in the levels of CO 2. 
Energy usage and CO 2 output per tonne has reduced compared with 2009.
This is due to increased volumes but with the same base load of energy  
thus reducing the kWh/tonne figures. Downgauging of films, requested by 
customers to reduce packaging weight, uses more sophisticated polymers. 
It has been calculated that this raises the process energy costs per tonne.
There is an ongoing improvement programme in place to purchase more 
efficient equipment and fit energy saving devices, especially to motors, 
compressors and lighting schemes. 
Twelve of our UK sites, representing 89% of UK electricity usage, are in 
Climate Change Agreements with the Department for Environment Food  
and Rural Affairs to reduce our CO 2 emissions. 
 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Oil (kWh/tonne) 2.3  3.8 4.2 4.3 5.6 
Only two sites now use heating oil. One of our larger European sites  
accounts for 76% of Group usage, with the balance consumed in China.  
Oil consumption reduced in Europe as a result of changes made to reuse 
the exhaust heat generated by air compressors for space heating.
 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Gas (kWh/tonne) 58 58 6 1 58 60
The numbers of accidents recorded were:
 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Lost time accidents 24 28 26 29 27
Minor accidents 369 34 1 381 43 1 454 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
32
Gas usage remained unchanged with increased consumption being offset by 
increased production. Gas is used for drying in our printing process, burning  
VOC emissions at a number of our printing sites and space heating. There are  
a number of sites where exhaust heat from compressors and thermal oxidisers 
is reused to provide space heating.
 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Water (litres/tonne) 0.34 0.39 0.27 0.3 1 0.33
Water consumption reduced due to the commissioning of an additional washing 
plant at our Rhymney recycling facility, resulting in increased tonnage without  
a corresponding increase in water consumption and improved efficiency.
Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions
Sites which have printing activities must comply with the Integrated Pollution 
Prevention and Control of Emissions Directive in the handling and use of 
solvents, which is a major factor in VOC emissions. At the end of 20 1 0 there 
were nine sites printing. Four of those sites are able to demonstrate the 
abatement of VOC emissions with the use of processes that change these 
potentially environmentally unfriendly substances before controlled emission 
into the atmosphere. Three sites use thermal oxidising units and one site uses 
bio-filters containing oyster shells. The remaining sites’ VOC emissions are below 
the level above which abatement is required, in some cases due to the use of 
water-based inks.
VOC solvent purchases for our print sites were:
  2010 2009 2008 2007 
  Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes
Non-abated sites  78 53 1 5 28
Abated sites  1,67 4 1,572 1,654 1,810
Total   1,752 1,625 1,669 1,838
The overall solvent used increased by 7.8% due to continued growth in printed 
volumes and increased print density. With the progressive closure of the 
Stockton site some printing work has been transferred to non-abated sites 
contributing to the increased usage on those sites. 
Whilst we remain dependent on solvent-based inks for many of our customers 
print requirements, we will use water-based ink where the application allows, 
and seek to further develop this technology where appropriate.
Environmental Policy
As a leading manufacturer and supplier of polythene film and other  
products we recognise our responsibility to operate with due concern  
for the environment in which we live and work and to minimise the impact  
of our activities on that environment. Through close contact with national 
governments and industry regulators we are at the forefront of legislative 
developments. We continue to develop our processes and working practices 
to meet, as a minimum standard, both our legal and social obligations.  
We seek continually to improve our environmental performance by setting 
objectives and targets combined with clear management programmes and 
initiatives to minimise our impact on the environment. 
Specifically we are committed to:
Manufacture all of our products to meet the relevant legislative standards  • 
in all the countries and regions in which we operate.
Minimise the use of resources and to work with our customers to  • 
minimise their use of resources through environmentally responsible 
packaging systems.
Promote the reuse, recycling and recovery of our materials and to  • 
assist in this recovery wherever it is practical and environmentally 
beneficial to do so. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Review ( continued)
Scottish Green Award (T op).
BPI was named the Best Large Green Company  
at the 20 1 0 Scottish Green Awards.
Chartered Institute of Marketing Excellence Award (Bottom). 
The Chartered Institute of Marketing recognised Visqueen Clingseal
®
  
with the 20 1 0 Marketing Excellence Award for Manufacturing. British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
33
Report by Directors and Business Review
Improve the environmental performance of our processes by reducing • 
emissions and energy use, minimising waste and controlling noise.
Be a responsible employer and a good neighbour. • 
Provide suitable and unambiguous environmental information  • 
for our employees, customers and the local community. 
Maintain leadership in the development of new products and processes  • 
using recycled materials and support initiatives which benefit 
the environment.
The Group Environmental Director, Andrew Green, is a member of the  
Group Management Board and reports to the Chief Executive. With the 
increasing focus on environmental issues, and the enhanced interest in  
packaging and recycling, it is important that the Group has an experienced 
representative and spokesman on these topics. Andrew is also on the  
Board of Valpak, the UK’s largest compliance scheme for packaging waste 
regulations, and is a member of the UK Government Advisory Committee  
on Packaging which is currently advising the Government on its Waste  
Review due to be published in mid-20 1 1. 
During 20 1 0 BPI was awarded the Best Large Green Company at the  
Scottish Green Awards. This award category recognised the efforts of  
a large company in helping to improve the environment. The independent 
research for the awards and the judging process was undertaken by the  
David Livingstone Centre for Sustainability at the University of Strathclyde.  
BPI was particularly recognised for the first ‘fully closed loop’ farm plastics 
recycling initiative (recycling used carrot cover back into new carrot cover  
film), its use of a natural bio-filtration system to control VOC emissions and  
its efforts to raise environmental awareness and to place environmental 
practices at the heart of its business activities.
Packaging and the Environment 
Having worked with industry and other stakeholders since 2004 with  
a view of implementing a national farm plastic recycling scheme, the 
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) decided at  
the end of 20 1 0 not to proceed with the proposed regulations. We had been 
closely involved in Defra’s Farm Plastic Advisory Group and other related task 
forces in promoting and supporting this initiative as it was seen as a practical, 
low-cost and nationwide solution to the problem of dealing with farm plastics 
after their useful life. We continue to collect and recycle large volumes of  
waste farm plastics from across the UK, Ireland and mainland Europe and  
will continue to explore ways in which it can promote and expand such  
activity throughout the entire agricultural and horticultural sectors in the UK.
There was continued media focus on packaging and the environment in  
20 1 0, but the debate appears to have become more balanced to reflect  
the very necessary and important role of packaging in preventing waste  
and the spoilage of products.
The Group supports packaging minimisation where it does not result in  
increased product damage or spoilage, thereby creating a more significant 
environmental problem. We have reduced the weight of our packaging  
products on like for like volumes by over 6,000 tonnes in the last few years. 
Biodegradeable Plastics 
The Group welcomes the ongoing advances made in the technical 
characteristics of biopolymers manufactured from renewable resources. 
However, we caution that the most important and valuable environmental 
credential of plastic films is their ability to perform a packaging, industrial 
or agricultural requirement using the most lightweight materials available 
for the task. The integrity and resource efficiency of this primary purpose 
of protection is of far greater environmental impact than the speed at which  
the plastic will eventually biodegrade. Above all, our overriding commitment
is to offer biodegradable products to our customers only where we can 
guarantee the integrity of our product and where their compostability 
offers an alternative disposal solution from landfill.
Recycling and Packaging W aste Legislation
We are the UK’s largest recycler of polythene films, reprocessing over 
64,000 tonnes in the year. Since the Packaging Waste Regulations were 
introduced in the UK we have invested £1 8m in state of the art plastic 
reprocessing equipment at our Environment Agency and Scottish 
Environment Protection Agency accredited sites. 
The price of Packaging Waste Recovery Notes (PRN) remained at very low 
levels, below £1 0/tonne throughout 20 1 0 as reprocessing activity, particularly
the export of plastic to the Far East, was considerably in excess of PRN and 
Packaging Export Recovery Notes (PERN) demand. The UK continues to rely  
on exporting over 70% of its waste plastic overseas, particularly to China, to 
achieve its EU recycling targets. We believe that there remains a risk in placing 
such heavy reliance on access to overseas markets to meet our EU obligations 
for reprocessing. Prior to the UK General Election in 20 1 0, the previous 
administration had consulted on whether or not to increase the packaging 
recycling targets. The response from the majority of industry and obligated 
companies in the current regulatory system was in favour of continued 
stretching but achievable increases in recycling targets. The Group, as an 
obligated company, has an interest in the UK meeting its EU obligations at 
lowest cost to industry. However, we also feel that unless the targets continue 
to rise, reprocessing activity will reduce, rather than merely remain static at 
current levels, and as such the UK’s ability to comply with the EU targets 
at low cost will be put at risk. In the event, the new Coalition Government  
decided against any increases in targets (other than some very small 
increases in targets for plastic and steel) and will shortly review whether 
to extend the existing system beyond 20 1 2 or to implement alternative 
means of achieving compliance with the EU recovery and recycling targets.
The Group’s Packaging Waste recovery and recycling obligation for 20 1 0 
was 9,655 tonnes. We continue to discharge our obligations through 
membership of the national compliance scheme, Valpak, and satisfied our
plastic recycling obligation through our own recycling plants. Our cost
of compliance was broadly in-line with 2009.
W aste to Landfill
The Group limits the amount of material which goes to landfill by ensuring  
that virtually all scrap arising from polymer used in the manufacturing  
process is reprocessed or recycled within the Group.
  2010 2009 2008 2007 
  Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes
Manufacturing waste  482 658 882 1,1 54
Non-agricultural recycled waste  327 576 759 1,464
Agricultural recycled waste  1,845 2,501 2,4 1 9 1 1 8
  2,654 3,735 4,060 2,736
  2010 2009 2008 2007 
  Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes
Bio Soil  5,897 2,543 3,307 3,782
Bio Soil (soil to landfill) is charged at 30% of the normal fee and is used  
as a covering for other waste. 94% of the waste which we sent to landfill  
is from our own agricultural recycling operations. The agricultural scrap  
is heavily contaminated with soil, water and other agricultural by-products  
and is extensively washed prior to recycling. Other brought-in scrap is less 
contaminated, but still contains an element of non-polythene which has  
to be separated out before recycling. British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
34
Training in health and safety (in conjunction with the trade unions) is a 
particular Group strength. We increasingly appraise our workforce annually  
in order to identify their training needs. Members of the Group Personnel 
Department regularly train our managers and supervisors in a variety of 
employment matters to ensure best practice people management is carried 
out. The Group Health and Safety Department actively train our managers, 
supervisors and employees to maximise their health and wellbeing at work. 
T raining grants were obtained to assist with training in our Shared Service 
Centre and to develop lean management skills in Ardeer. External training 
providers delivered a variety of development activities including training for 
our internal customer services departments at Heanor and Bromborough. 
The ‘Operations and Production Development Programme’ started in 2008  
for our 50 most senior production and operations managers and directors  
and continued in the year. The programme included modules covering best 
practice initiatives, lean manufacturing, leadership and coaching, personal 
development, finance and employment law.
The ‘Sales and Commercial Development Programme’ will be implemented  
for our senior sales and commercial teams in 20 1 1. 
Attendance 
The absenteeism rate for all Group sites in 20 1 0 was 3.4% (3.1% in 2009).  
This is disappointing following three consecutive years of improvement. 
However this has been impacted by long-term absences rather than 
increases in more manageable short-term residual absences. 
We continue to train managers in absenteeism management techniques 
and operate attendance bonus schemes across many sites.
Communications 
We recognise trade unions across ten sites in the Group for separate  
collective bargaining purposes, including two sites in North America. We  
provide information, consult and negotiate with the trade unions on a range  
of subjects including pay, hours and holidays. We have Works Councils in 
mainland Europe and at a number of our non-unionised sites in the UK. 
Our Managing Directors and senior site directors also deliver regular 
business updates direct to the workforce. 
The Group’s Employee Information and Communication Body (EICB) was 
established in 2005 and meets twice per year. The EICB brings together 
employee representatives from across our UK business to discuss business 
issues with senior directors within the Group, including Main Board members. 
This involves the provision of information, consultation and discussions with 
a view to reaching agreement regarding decisions that are likely to lead to 
substantial changes in work organisation or in contractual relations prior to
any action being taken. The annual European Communication Forum (ECF) 
was established in 1 999 and discusses trans-national issues that may 
affect our employees in the UK, Netherlands, Belgium and Ireland. Employees 
regularly receive written communications explaining issues discussed 
at these meetings.
We have a ‘Whistle Blowing Policy’ in place which seeks to encourage  
employee participation in the identification of any wrongdoing within the 
organisation. We have a ‘Grievance Policy’ which operates throughout our  
sites allowing employees to communicate any employment dissatisfaction 
which they may have. 
Pay and Benefits 
T erms and conditions (including pay) are set at local site level. We have 
a range of benefits including competitive pay rates, a number of bonus 
schemes for employees at all levels which reflect business performance and 
improvements in attendance and production and a range of healthcare benefits. 
We comply with the requirements of the National Minimum Wage in the UK. 
Throughout the Group there is a programme progressively to reduce the 
amount of waste which goes to landfill by reducing waste arising from 
operations and ensuring that as much as possible is separated and sent 
for recycling.
Our manufacturing sites in Holland and Belgium, together with Promopack, 
our pre-press operation, have adopted a ‘zero to landfill’ policy for all 
production and office waste.
Business Accreditations
Quality Assurance
All manufacturing sites in the Group have, achieved either ISO 900 1, 
covering quality management systems, or ISO 9002, which is the emerging 
global standard for product and process quality.
British Retail Consortium (BRC)
All sites (in the UK, Europe and China) which supply the retail food market
have achieved the highly regarded BRC certification. BRC is the lead UK 
trade association representing the whole range of retailers, from the large 
multiples and department stores through the independents.
Environment
Eleven sites in the Group have achieved ISO 1 400 1, which is the International 
Environmental Management System standard. 
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS 1 800 1)
Two sites in Europe have achieved OHSAS 1 800 1 certification, which requires 
robust management systems to control occupational health and safety risks 
and improve performance. The Group is looking to extend this to other 
manufacturing sites in the future.
Employment Policies
Our people continue to be central to the development of the business.  
We strive to reach the highest standards in all aspects of employment policy 
and practice in our UK, European, Chinese and North American operations. 
Recruitment and Retention 
The Group operates an equal opportunity policy and is committed to ensuring 
that it fulfils its obligations to operate fairly, justly and in accordance with  
all applicable laws. In particular, no employee or potential employee shall be 
discriminated against on grounds of gender, race or disability. The Group 
extends the concept of equal opportunity to include discrimination on 
grounds of religious or political beliefs or sexual orientation. 
We recruit graduates from universities and young workers as apprentices.  
We recruited nine engineering and polymer science graduates onto our 
Graduate Programme in 20 1 0. We employ a large number of older workers  
and have fully complied with age discrimination legislation. Our retention rates 
have improved in general and have now stabilised at an acceptable level 
and employee turnover in 20 1 0 is 1 8% (1 9% in 2009). We consistently 
retain longer serving, higher skilled employees and employee turnover 
tends to occur with shorter serving employees in lower skilled jobs. 
Disabled Employees 
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, 
bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned and the implications
of the Equality Act 20 1 0. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, 
every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group 
continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
T raining and Development 
Our employees are amongst the most skilled in the industry. We invest in  
a range of development activities including NVQs and MBAs and support  
other professional and technical training. Our capital investment programme 
is supported by training in the use of new machinery. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Review ( continued) British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
35
Cadmus (pictured) is a 40 foot long play ship constructed from BPI’s innovative  
recycled plastic wood PLASWOOD. The ship was built for the 20 1 0 Glastonbury festival.
Report by Directors and Business Review
In the UK, the final salary pension scheme was closed for future service  
for existing members in 20 1 0 and a Group Personal Pension Plan (GPPP)  
with employer contributions was offered to those affected employees.
Senior employees’ pay and rewards are formally benchmarked against 
market data. We voluntarily operate enhanced maternity and paternity pay 
schemes and regularly consider and agree requests for flexible working.  
In the UK we operate a childcare voucher scheme to support employees 
who are working parents, and a ‘Bike to Work’ scheme and regularly offer 
employees the chance to participate in a SA YE share scheme. 
China 
We have a highly committed and skilled workforce which has worked to build 
this business over the past seventeen years. The same standards of health 
and safety, fairness, equality and merit applied in our European businesses are 
replicated in China. Senior UK Directors are responsible for this business. We 
comply with International Labour Organisation standards on working hours, 
working wage, freedom of labour, child labour, freedom of association, discipline 
and discrimination. Employees are recruited from the local area, do not live at 
the work premises and return home at the end of their shift. Rates of pay are 
competitive for the region and are negotiated by elected representatives.
Education
We are active in many areas of education, working with schools, universities 
and other institutions. We support a range of activities, from providing advice 
and resources for teaching to hosting school visits and sponsoring educational 
projects aimed at increasing the awareness of plastics, packaging and the 
environment. We continue to sponsor the Schools Starpack Design Awards and 
have extended this into Higher Education with sponsorship of the equivalent 
competition for Universities and Colleges, ‘Student Starpack 09’. We believe  
our sponsorship of the Starpack Awards, together with the accompanying 
educational support package, helps both students and their tutors better 
understand the key role plastic packaging plays in reducing product wastage 
for the overall benefit of the wider environment. 
The Group continues to sponsor two teachers at the Polymer Study T ours 
organised by The British Plastics Federation and the Worshipful Company 
of Horners which assists science, design and technology teachers to 
understand the applications of polymers in the industrial environment.
In addition to our ongoing involvement in such educational initiatives  
the Group supported a number of community based projects including  
the Inverclyde Y oung Entrepreneur Competition, The Children Challenge  
in Industry Programme and the PEAK 20 1 0 Scouts Camp and donated 
polythene products to a number of charities who manage working land  
projects such as farms and gardens.
Charitable Support and Sponsorship
Charitable donations made during the year amounted to £50,000 
(2009: £62,000). No donations were given for political purposes.
The Group supports national and international charities involved in relieving 
suffering. We also support a number of wildlife funds, ecological projects 
and other good causes. This support is in both products donated and financial 
contributions. Most of our businesses sent out electronic Christmas cards, 
rather than traditional cards, and donated the money saved to local charities. 
Unclaimed dividends after a period of twelve years are donated to charity. 
The EICB agreed which charities to support including charities for cancer 
relief, children and the elderly. The Board allocated £1 0,000 to the EICB which 
agreed to support charities for cancer, children, visually impaired and service 
pensioners. The 2009 figure included an additional £1 2,000 of donations as a 
result of unclaimed dividends arising from the former Employee Share Scheme.
The Group encourages each site to donate a percentage of its turnover  
to local charities and many of our sites are regularly involved in fundraising
for local charities.
We sponsor a number of bodies relevant to our industry and our 
customers’ activities. In particular, we are regular sponsors of the Farmers 
Weekly Awards, (which recognise the achievements of British Farmers), 
the Specialist Brickwork Contract Category at the National Brick Awards  
and the Food Services Packaging Association Marketing Awards. 36
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
1
2 3
5
7
4
6
* Member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees
1. Cameron McLatchie CBE (64)
Chairman
Cameron joined the Board in 1 983 on the acquisition of Anaplast where  
he had been Chairman and Managing Director since 1 975, becoming Group 
Chairman and Chief Executive in 1 988. He relinquished the role of Chief 
Executive in May 2003.
2. John Langlands CA (58)
Chief Executive
John joined the Board in 1 994 as Group Finance Director from Eclipse Blinds plc 
where he was also Finance Director. He was previously Finance Director at 
Scottish Enterprise and United Wire Limited. Appointed Chief Operating Officer 
in May 2002 and Chief Executive in May 2003.
3. David Harris FCCA (39)
Group Finance Director
David joined BPI in 1 996 and has held a number of financial and general 
management roles with the Group, including Business Director of bpi.consumer 
and Managing Director of bpi.industrial. David joined the Board as Group Finance 
Director in July 2009.
4. Hamish Grossart (54)*
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman
Hamish joined the Board in May 2005 and is currently Chairman of Indigo  
Vision Group plc and Chairman of Artemis Investment Management Limited. 
After a career in investment banking, he has, over the last 20 years, held  
a range of executive and non-executive board positions in listed companies 
covering a wide variety of industries. Past Chairmanships include: Royal Doulton 
PLC, Eclipse Blinds plc, Scottish Highland Hotels PLC, Hicking Pentecost PLC  
and EFT Group plc. He was Deputy Chairman of Cairn Energy PLC from 
1 996 to 20 1 0.
5. Lord Jamie Lindsay (55)*
Non-Executive Director
Lord Lindsay joined the Board in March 2006 and is currently Chairman  
of the agricultural group SAC, a Non-Executive Director of Scottish Resources 
Group Limited, Chairman of UKAS (UK Accreditation Service), Chairman  
of Greenfield Holdings Ltd. and from 1 998 to 2005 was a Non-Executive 
Director of the property company UA Group PLC. He is currently joint 
Chairman of the Risk and Regulation Advisory Council. His career has included 
senior appointments in the commercial, environmental and government sectors, 
and ministerial responsibilities for agriculture, food, the environment and 
sustainable development. 
6. Eric M Hagman CA CBE (64)*
Non-Executive Director 
Eric was previously a senior partner in Andersen UK before joining the  
Board in June 2002. He is Chairman of Matthew Algie Limited and Expresso 
Warehouse Limited, a Non-Executive Director of Scottish American T rust plc 
and is treasurer of the Royal College of Art in London. He is also on the advisory 
forum of Glasgow Caledonian University and is Non-Executive Chairman  
of Kynesis, a management consultancy specialist in change management. 
7. David W arnock (53)*
Non-Executive Director 
David joined the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director in  
August 2009. He has over 30 years’ investment experience in both public 
and private companies, in both the UK and USA. He co-founded Aberforth 
Partners LLP and was a partner for 1 9 years until he retired from the firm  
in 2008, prior to which he was with Ivory & Sime plc for four years and before 
that with 3i plc for seven years. David is also a non-executive Director  
of Phoenix IT Group plc, Standard Life European Private Equity Trust plc,  
T roy Income & Growth T rust plc and a number of private companies.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
1 9 1 West George Street
Glasgow G2 2LJ
Solicitors
Maclay Murray & Spens
1 5 1 St Vincent Street
Glasgow G2 5NJ
Brokers
Investec Bank plc
2 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7QP
Main Bankers
Lloyds Banking Group plc
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
HSBC Bank PLC
Santander UK PLC
Board of Directors and Advisers 37
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Report by Directors and Business Review
Throughout the year to 3 1 December 20 1 0, the Group complied with the 
provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (June 2008) 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council. The Board remains committed  
to the highest standards of corporate governance and this statement describes 
how the principles of the Code are applied and reports on the Group’s 
compliance with the code’s provisions.
The Board
The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors which normally meets 
six times per year. The Board’s main roles are to create shareholder value,  
to provide leadership to the Group, to approve the Group’s strategic objectives 
and to ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made 
available to allow the Group to meet those objectives. The Board has adopted 
a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision such as the approval  
of corporate strategy plans, annual budgets and risk management strategy. 
Major acquisitions and disposals, as well as major capital expenditure, are 
authorised by the Board and are subsequently monitored by the Board after 
execution. The Board also reviews the environmental, health and safety 
performance of the Group.
The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the Group 
Management Board: the development and recommendation of strategic  
plans for consideration by the Board that reflect the longer-term objectives 
and priorities established by the Board; implementation of the strategies  
and policies as determined by the Board; monitoring operational and financial 
results against budgets; prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and 
human resources; ensuring that appropriate management development  
and succession plans are in place; and developing and implementing risk 
management systems.
The Group has in place appropriate insurance cover for the Board members,  
in respect of any legal action taken against them.
The Responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board,  
Cameron McLatchie, and the Chief Executive, John Langlands, is clearly 
defined and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman provides guidance to the Group Management Board in matters 
of strategy and leads the Board in the determination of its strategy and in  
the achievement of its objectives. The Chairman is responsible for organising 
the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.  
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors, 
manages the relationship between Executive and Non-Executive Directors,  
and ensures that Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information  
and that there is effective communication with shareholders. The Chairman 
continues to have an executive role in the strategy for polymer purchasing 
and authorisation of capital expenditure proposals. 
The Chief Executive has direct charge of the Group on a day to day 
basis and is accountable to the Board for its financial and operational 
performance. He chairs the Group Management Board and is also  
responsible for Environmental Matters, Health and Safety and Human  
Resources. He has a senior management team that look after the day  
to day activities and report directly to him.
The role of Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent 
Director is carried out by Hamish Grossart.
Directors and Directors’ Independence
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the 
Finance Director and four independent Non-Executive Directors. Biographical 
details of each Director are shown on Page 36. The independent Non-Executive 
Directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy  
and bring strong independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the 
Board’s deliberations. The independent Directors are of sufficient calibre 
and number that their views carry significant weight in the Board’s decision 
making. The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors who served 
during the year to be independent in character and judgement.
Professional Development
On joining the Board, Directors are provided with documentation on the 
Group and its activities. An induction programme and site visits are arranged 
to major business units and to meet with members of the Group Management 
Board and other key senior executives. Throughout their period in office the 
Directors are regularly updated on the Group’s business, the competitive and 
regulatory environment and the industry it operates in. Board Meetings are 
regularly held at operational sites and tours are arranged to ensure that the 
Board is kept up to date with the latest operational developments. 
Directors are also advised, on appointment, of their legal and other duties  
and obligations as a director of a listed company, both in writing and in face 
to face meetings with the Company Secretary. External training courses are 
provided where necessary. They are reminded of these duties each year  
and are also updated on changes to the legal and governance requirements  
of the Group and themselves as Directors. 
Performance Evaluation 
The Board has established a formal review process, led by the Chairman,  
for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its principal 
Committees and individual Directors. The Directors are made aware that  
their performance will be subject to an annual evaluation. The process
includes specific references to the objectives of the Board and Committees 
and each Board member participates in the process. The Chairman consolidates 
the feedback of the Directors into a performance assessment summary 
for each individual Director and the Board performance as a whole. The 
Chairman shares and discusses the individual performance summary  
for each Director with that Director only and discusses the consolidated 
performance review with the Board as a whole.
The Chairman meets annually with the Non–Executive Directors, without  
the Executive Directors, to review performance and other matters.
The Deputy Chairman, who is also the Company’s Senior Independent
Director, sought the views of the Executive Directors and met with each  
of the other Non-Executive Directors, in the absence of the Chairman,  
to discuss and assess the Chairman’s performance. 
Re-election of Directors
Directors appointed by the Board other than at an Annual General Meeting  
are required to retire at the following Annual General Meeting when they  
may offer themselves for election. Directors are thereafter required to  
seek re-election every three years. The Chairman, who was previously  
Chief Executive, has voluntarily decided to seek re-election each year. 
Non-Executive Directors, subject to satisfactory performance evaluation,  
are appointed for an initial period of three years. Before the third and sixth 
anniversary of the Non-Executive Director’s first appointment, the Director 
discusses with the Board whether it is appropriate for a further three-year
term to be served. No Non-Executive Directors have served for more 
than nine years.
For any new Non–Executive Director, terms and conditions of appointment 
are made available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting and the 
Company’s registered office. 
Corporate Governance Report 38
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Conflicts of Interest
Following implementation of the new rules on directors’ conflicts of interest 
in the Companies Act 2006, the Board undertook a review of its arrangements 
for dealing with conflicts to formalise the procedures for any actual or potential 
conflict situation under the new regime and for exercising the Board’s power, 
which was approved by shareholders, to authorise such conflicts. 
The procedures that have been adopted by the Board require prompt notification 
by Directors of any possible conflict situation and the scrutiny initially of the 
Nominations Committee and then the Board before any decision to authorise  
or not is taken. The Board may approve a conflict situation unconditionally, give 
approval subject to conditions or decide not to approve and require that the 
Director concerned resolve the circumstances giving rise to the conflict. Any 
approval will be reviewed regularly and may be amended or withdrawn by the 
Board at any time. Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being 
considered are able to take the relevant decisions and at all times the Directors 
making such decisions must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be 
most likely to promote the Group’s success. The Board is satisfied that these 
procedures are operating effectively and will keep them under review in light 
of emerging best practice in this area.
The Company Secretary
The Board has access to the advice and services of a full time experienced 
Company Secretary who is responsible for advising the Board through the 
Chairman on all governance matters. The Company’s Articles of Association 
and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision provide that
the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for 
the full Board.
Directors are also given access to independent professional advice, at the 
Group’s expense, when the Directors deem it necessary in order for them  
to carry out their responsibilities. No such advice was sought in the year.
Articles of Association
Any proposed amendment to the Articles of Association is subject  
to approval by the shareholders in General Meeting.
A vailability of Information
Executive management is responsible for providing the Board with all the 
information, of which it is aware, that is relevant to the discharge of the Board’s 
responsibilities. The Board therefore expects to receive timely advice on all 
material information about the Company, its operating units, its activities, 
performance and its investment projects. The Chairman, together with the 
Company Secretary, establishes the agenda for each Board meeting and 
the necessary papers are distributed to Board members in advance of 
the meeting. Presentations on specific subjects are sent to the Board  
in advance, so that Board meeting time is used for focused discussion.
Relations with Shareholders
In fulfilment of the Chairman’s obligations under the Combined Code, the 
Chairman gives feedback to the Board on issues raised with him by major 
shareholders. Non-Executive Directors remain available to meet with major 
institutional shareholders if required. External analysts’ and brokers’ reports
are circulated to all Board members and, where appropriate, formally
discussed at Board meetings.
The Board seeks to encourage shareholders to attend its Annual General 
Meeting. The Company uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate 
with private investors and to encourage their participation. They have the 
opportunity to put questions to members of the Board on matters relating  
to the Group’s operation and performance. All Directors are expected to  
be present and those who chair Committees of the Board will be available  
to answer any relevant questions. The level of proxy votes lodged on each 
Resolution is indicated at the meeting and also shown on the Group’s 
website at www.bpipoly.com 
Each year a programme of meetings with major institutional investors  
takes place covering the principal issues affecting the Group, its trading  
and its results. 
Internal Control
In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee, the Board  
of Directors is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control; sets 
appropriate policies on internal control; seeks regular assurances that enable
it to satisfy itself that the system is functioning effectively; and ensures 
that the system of internal control is effective in managing risks in the manner 
which it has approved. The risk management process and systems of internal 
control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of the Group 
failing to achieve its business objectives. It should be recognised that such 
systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.
The Directors have continued to review the effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of financial and non-financial controls. These reviews include an 
assessment of internal controls by the internal audit function, risk assessments 
by the business management and reports from the external auditors on matters 
identified in the course of the statutory audit. A key part of these reviews is a 
twice-yearly risk assessment process where responsible managers confirm the 
adequacy of their systems of internal financial and non-financial controls, their 
compliance with Group policies (including health, safety and the environment), 
local laws and industry regulations. This formal risk assessment process also 
identifies, evaluates and confirms what actions are being taken to mitigate any 
material identified risks. All these risk assessments are reviewed twice-yearly 
by the Board and Audit Committee. 
Board Committees
The number of Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each 
Director during the year was as follows:
  Nominations Remuneration Audit  
 Board Committee Committee Committee 
 meetings meetings meetings meetings
Number of meetings in year 6 1 3 3
C McLatchie 6 – – –
J T Langlands 6 – – –
D Harris 6 – – –
H M Grossart 5 1 3 2
E M Hagman 6 1 3 3
Lord Lindsay 6 1 3 3
D Warnock 6 1 3 3
A copy of the full terms of reference for the Nominations, Remuneration and 
Audit Committees is available on the Group’s website at www.bpipoly.com
Nominations Committee
The Board as a whole is responsible for the procedure of agreeing the 
appointment of its own members, for nominating them for election by the 
shareholders on first appointment and, thereafter, at three-yearly intervals. 
The Nominations Committee, comprising the Non-Executive Directors,  
has the responsibility for making recommendations for new appointments  
to the Board. Hamish Grossart, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior 
Independent Director, chairs the Committee and the other members are  
Eric Hagman, Lord Lindsay and David Warnock. 
The Nominations Committee reviews the succession planning and composition 
of the Board on an annual basis and reports its conclusions to the Board 
for further action. 
Corporate Governance Report ( continued) 39
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Report by Directors and Business Review
Remuneration Committee 
Hamish Grossart is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the  
other members are Lord Lindsay, Eric Hagman and David Warnock.  
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for advising the Board  
on the remuneration of Executive Directors. The Committee’s principal 
responsibilities are:
Setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval  • 
the Group’s overall remuneration policy.
Setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration packages  • 
for Executive Directors and the Chairman, including terms and  
conditions of employment. 
Reviewing the salary structure and terms, conditions and benefits  • 
of employment of other senior Group executives.
Approving the rules and launch of any Group share, share option  • 
or cash-based incentive scheme and the grant, award, allocation or 
issue of shares, share options or payments under any such scheme.
In addition, the Committee regularly reviews the Group’s remuneration  
policy relative to its competitors and industry norms.
The Chairman of the Committee is available to answer questions at the  
Annual General Meeting. 
Audit Committee 
The Company has an Audit Committee comprising the Non-Executive 
Directors and chaired by Eric Hagman. The Committee meets four times  
a year and has written terms of reference that outline its authority and duties. 
The Committee:
Monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Group. • 
Reviews the Group’s internal financial control and risk management systems. • 
Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function. • 
Oversees the Group’s relationship with the external auditor. • 
Should the Committee’s monitoring and review activities reveal any material 
cause for concern or scope for improvement, it will make recommendations  
to the Board on action needed to address the issue or make improvements.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and the minutes
of the Committee are circulated to all Board members. The Finance Director 
attends the meetings by invitation. The Chairman and Chief Executive also 
attend, if required to do so, by the Committee. A senior representative from 
each of the internal and external auditors also attends each meeting.  
The Committee discharges its responsibilities by:
Reviewing the external and internal audit work plans. • 
Receiving and reviewing twice-yearly risk management reports and risk • 
tables. Business and Group management operate a risk management process 
which identifies the key risks facing each business and the Group and reports 
as to how those risks are being managed. This is based on business and 
Group risk tables identifying the key risks, the probability of those risks 
occurring, the estimated potential impact if they do occur and the actions 
being taken to manage those risks.
Receiving and considering reports from management and internal audit  • 
on the system of internal control and any significant control weaknesses.  
The Audit Committee also receives reports from the external auditors,  
who consider controls only to the extent necessary to form an opinion  
as to the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
Discussing with management the actions taken on control weaknesses • 
identified in internal and external audit reports.
Receiving and reviewing the annual Combined Code internal control  • 
report. This is based on a combination of risk management reporting  
and the completion by each business of key control questionnaires which 
confirm the extent to which the business complies with the Group control 
procedures. Each business Managing Director and Finance Director is 
required to sign a declaration confirming that they have reviewed the 
business risk table and control questionnaires and confirming  
compliance with statutory obligations.
Reviewing the Group’s draft interim, preliminary and final financial • 
statements prior to Board approval and considering any significant  
financial reporting judgements contained in the financial statements  
to ensure that the integrity of these statements is maintained.  
The Committee also reviews the external auditor’s reports thereon. 
Considering the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies. • 
Reviewing the performance of the Group’s internal and external auditors  • 
and making appropriate recommendations to the Board relating to  
their reappointment and remuneration.
The external and internal auditors are given the opportunity each year  
to speak confidentially to the Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee also monitors the Group’s whistle blowing procedures, 
ensuring that appropriate procedures are in place to allow employees to  
raise matters of possible impropriety in confidence.
Auditors’ Independence and Objectivity
The Audit Committee monitors regularly the non-audit services being  
provided by the external auditors to ensure their independence. There are 
services which the external auditors are precluded from undertaking,  
including the provision of internal audit services, as well as services they  
are permitted to provide, but which require the specific approval of the  
Audit Committee. This occurs where non-audit work per project is in excess  
of £50,000 or £1 00,000 in aggregate in any one year and within these 
parameters certain services are delegated to the Executive Directors to  
approve. Any activities that may be perceived to be in conflict with the  
role of external auditor must be submitted to the Committee for approval  
prior to engagement.
Details of the amount paid to the external auditors during the year  
for audit and other services are set out in the Notes to the financial  
statements on Page 59. 40
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Policy on Directors’ Remuneration
The remuneration policy is set by the Board and is described below.  
Individual remuneration packages for Executive Directors are determined  
by the Remuneration Committee within the framework of this policy  
and approved by the Board. 
The remuneration of all Non-Executive Directors is determined by the  
Executive Directors and approved by the Board.
General Information
The names of the Directors who have served on the Remuneration 
Committee during the year are as follows: 
Hamish M Grossart – Chairman • 
Eric M Hagman • 
Lord Lindsay • 
David Warnock • 
The Remuneration Committee has previously taken advice from Kepler 
Associates on structuring Directors’ remuneration packages but no advice 
was sought during the year. Kepler Associates does not provide any other 
services to the Company.
Remuneration Policy
The Company’s policy on Directors’ remuneration is designed to attract,  
retain and motivate high calibre individuals and to reward Directors fairly  
for their contribution whilst remaining within the range of benefits offered  
by similar companies in the sector. The Remuneration Committee seeks  
to structure total benefit packages which align the interests of shareholders  
and senior executives.
The Remuneration Committee has established a number of performance  
related elements of executive remuneration, which together are anticipated 
to represent approximately 50% of the package. Details of these are set 
out below.
Annual Incentives
Executive Directors participate in an Annual Incentive Plan (AIP), with awards 
determined as a percentage of salary based on a combination of improvement  
in Pre-tax Profits before pension financing costs and Return on Capital 
Employed, recognising the need to focus on capital management as well  
as absolute profitability. 
Executive Directors also participate in the Employee Profit Sharing Scheme, 
which is available to most of the employees in the Group and rewards 
performance based on improvements in profits compared with an average  
of the previous three years’ results. It is calculated at individual business unit 
level, with overall UK and Group performance being used for employees not 
aligned to a particular business or unit.
Long-T erm Incentives
The Company operates a Long-T erm Incentive Plan (L TIP) under which annual 
awards of shares are made up to an upper limit of 1 00% of basic salary, with 
vesting dependent upon performance conditions measured over a three-year 
period. During the year the L TIP was replaced with two new plans: a Share 
Option Plan, and a Share Matching Plan, which more closely align the interests  
of the Executive Directors and key employees with the performance of the 
business and the interests of shareholders.
Long-T erm Incentive Plan
Participants were granted awards of shares, the vesting of which is dependent 
upon performance conditions measured over a period of three years. There 
was an individual upper limit on each award of 1 00% of basic salary per annum. 
The Remuneration Committee decided that one half of each award is subject
to an Earnings Per Share (EPS) performance condition and the remaining 
half is subject to a T otal Shareholder Return (TSR) performance condition, 
comparing the Company’s TSR with that of the companies comprising the 
FTSE Small Cap Industrials Index.
In respect of the proportion of any TSR linked award, no vesting will occur  
for ranking below median. At the median, 1 0% of the award will vest with the  
full 50% vesting for a ranking at or within the upper quartile. Vesting occurs  
on a sliding scale between these two points. 
The EPS linked proportion of any award will vest in full if the Company’s  
EPS growth is at least the Retail Price Index (RPI) plus 1 0% per annum over 
the performance period; no shares will vest if EPS growth is not at least  
RPI plus 3% per annum. For performance between these two points,  
vesting will occur on a sliding scale.
No awards have been granted under this plan since 2009.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that these conditions are challenging 
and that the full award will only vest if exceptional performance has been achieved.
Share Option Plan
At the 20 1 0 Annual General Meeting shareholders approved the implementation 
of a Share Option Plan. Awards of options are made to senior managers across 
the Group on an annual basis. Options are granted at market value and vest after 
three years on fulfilment of a performance condition. 
 
In order for any award to vest, the Company’s Earnings Per Share must 
exceed the RPI by at least 9%, measured over a three year period starting  
no earlier than the beginning of the financial year in which the award is made.  
In the UK, grants under this Scheme are under an HMRC approved structure.
Share Matching Plan
At the 20 1 0 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved the implementation 
of a new long-term incentive plan which provides for executives to invest  
part of their annual bonus in Company shares and to receive a matching  
award of shares based on business performance over the following three  
years. Executives are required to invest a minimum of 25% of their bonus into 
the Share Matching Plan and may increase this percentage voluntarily up to the 
lower of 50% of salary or the actual bonus awarded. A matching award of up to 
three times the number of shares allotted in respect of deferred bonus may be 
earned; in the case of Executive Directors, the measure to determine the level of 
match will be Group return on average capital employed over three years. Shares 
will be released at the end of the three-year period in respect of any part of the 
award voluntarily deferred (including any matching award on such part), with the 
remainder released a year later.
Executive Shareholding Guidelines
In conjunction with the introduction of the L TIP, the Remuneration Committee 
has adopted formal executive shareholding guidelines, which require Executive 
Directors to acquire and retain a beneficial share holding with a value equal to 
1 00% of one year’s basic annual salary over a five year period. For the purposes 
of this calculation, shares held are valued at the higher of their acquisition price 
and current market price.
Directors’ Remuneration Report 41
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Service Contracts
The Company’s policy on the duration of Directors’ contracts is that:
Executive Directors should have rolling service contracts terminable on no more than one year’s notice served by the Company or the Director; and • 
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms of three years, renewable on the agreement of both the Company and the Director. • 
The policy on termination payments is that the Company does not normally make payments beyond its contractual obligations, including any payment in 
respect of notice to which a Director is entitled after mitigation is considered. In exceptional circumstances, an additional ex-gratia payment may be considered, 
based on factors including the Director’s past contribution and the circumstances of the Director’s departure.
Directors’ Service Contracts
        Date term  
Name    Date of contract  Notice period  due to expire
C McLatchie    30 Aug 2007  1 2 months  N/A
J T Langlands    1 7 Jul 1 995  1 2 months  N/A
D Harris    09 Apr 2008  1 2 months  N/A
H Grossart    8 May 2008  N/A  AGM 201 1
E M Hagman    1 4 May 2009  N/A  AGM 201 1
Lord Lindsay     1 4 May 2009  N/A  AGM 201 2
D Warnock    1 4 May 201 0  N/A  AGM 201 3
Performance Graph
The graph below shows a comparison of the T otal Shareholder Return performance for the Company’s shares for each of the last five financial years against the 
T otal Shareholder Return for the companies comprising the FTSE Small Cap Industrials Index. The index selected was considered to be the most appropriate for 
the Company’s market capitalisation and industry sector. 
Five Y ear T otal Shareholder Return
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
1 10
120
130
Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec1 0
British Polythene 
Industries PLC
FTSE Small Cap
Industrials
Report by Directors and Business Review 42
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Benefits receivable by Executive Directors comprise a car buy out allowance  
and healthcare insurance, and for D Harris, a relocation allowance.
In addition, relocation expenses of £27,000 (2009: £35,000) were reimbursed 
to D Harris in the year.
Executive Directors are required to defer a minimum 25% of their total 
Executive Bonus to invest in the Share Matching Plan (as set out on Page 40)  
to acquire bonus ordinary shares. J T Langlands has deferred 57% and  
David Harris deferred 63% of their bonus for 20 1 0.
In addition to the above remuneration, the following amounts were declared  
as additional bonus related to performance for 2009 and invested in bonus 
ordinary share awards in the Share Matching Plan following approval by 
shareholders at the 20 1 0 Annual General Meeting:
 Bonus Ordinary  Date of Value on 
 Share Awards Grant  date of Grant
JT Langlands 20,595 28 May 20 1 0 £46,75 1
D Harris 9,086 28 May 20 1 0 £20,625
The Company contributed the following amounts to Directors’ personal  
pension arrangements:
 2010 2009
JT Langlands £68,000 £68,000
D Harris £1 9,400 £1 2,700
 £87,400 £80,700
Pension Arrangements
The pension entitlements earned during the year calculated in accordance with 
the requirements of the UK Listing Authority listing rules and the Companies Act 
2006 as provided by our consulting actuaries, and confirmed by them, were  
as follows:
J T Langlands left the British Polythene Pension Scheme on 3 1 December  
2006 and is a deferred member. D Harris ceased active membership on  
30 September 20 1 0, when the Scheme closed to the future accrual of  
benefits. Their dependants are eligible for dependants’ pensions and the 
payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
T ransfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in 
accordance with regulations for calculating transfer values for occupational 
pension schemes.
Although C McLatchie has no pension entitlement remaining in the Scheme,  
a lump sum death in service benefit is provided for him under the Scheme  
at a cost of £1,380 p.a.
JT Langlands
As previously noted, JT Langlands left the Scheme on 3 1 December 2006  
and therefore has no pension accrual during the year, but is provided with  
lump sum and spouse’s pension benefits on death in service at a cost  
of £23,8 1 0 p.a.
The pension entitlement shown above is the amount which would be paid 
annually from retirement age based on service to the end of the year 2006, 
increased for inflation to 20 1 0.
D Harris
As previously noted, D Harris left the scheme on 30 September 20 1 0 and 
became a deferred member, having accrued benefits to that date. He is provided 
with a lump sum and spouse’s pension on death in service at a cost of £1,400 p.a. 
The pension entitlement shown below is the amount which would be paid 
annually from retirement age based on service to the date of the Scheme 
closure, 30 September 20 1 0.
Member contributions are offset in calculating the values shown in columns 
headed ‘T ransfer value of net increase over year’ and ‘Net change in transfer 
value during year’.
       
    Executive Bonus  Employee  
     Share Profit 
  Salary/   Matching Sharing Total Total 
  Fees Benefits Cash Plan Scheme 2010 2009 
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executives       
C McLatchie  275 1 – – 7 283 290
J T Langlands  340 1 4 1 1 9 1 52 9 634 558
D Harris  1 65 25 49 83 4 326 229
A Thorburn (resigned 24 July 2009)  – – – – – – 1 33
Non-Executives       
H Grossart   60 – – – – 60 60
E M Hagman   45 – – – – 45 45
Lord Lindsay  50 – – – – 50 50
David Warnock  40 – – – – 40 1 5
Total 2010  975 40 1 68 235 20 1,438 –
Total 2009  1,04 1 33 269 – 37 – 1,380
Directors’ Emoluments and Compensation
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the remainder 
of this Directors’ Remuneration Report.
The emoluments in connection with qualifying services and compensation  
of each person who served as a Director during the year were as follows: 
 Increase in  Transfer value of   Net change in 
 accrued pension Total accrued net increase Transfer value of Transfer value of transfer value 
 during year pension entitlement over year (net of accrued pension accrued pension during year (net of  
 net of inflation at 31 Dec 2010 member contributions) at 31 Dec 2009 at 31 Dec 2010 member contributions) 
 £ p.a. £ p.a. £ £ £ £
JT Langlands – 49,990 – 930,400 991,500 6 1,1 00
D Harris 307 1 0,250 970 86,060 91,1 90 2,970
Directors’ Remuneration Report ( continued) 43
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Directors’ Share Incentives
Save As Y ou Earn Options
The following table sets out details of savings related share options held by each 
Director during the year: 
 
 Number  Number 
 of options Options of options    
 as at granted as at  Date from  
 1 Jan in the 31 Dec Exercise which Expiry 
 2010 year 2010 price exercisable date
C McLatchie 7,097 – 7,097 236p 1/1 2/1 3 3 1/05/1 4
J T Langlands 7,097 – 7,097 236p 1/1 2/1 3 3 1/05/1 4
D Harris – 6,546 6,546 236p 1/1 2/1 5 3 1/05/1 6
The mid-market closing share price of the Company’s 25p Ordinary Shares 
ranged from 1 90p to 308p during the year and on 3 1 December 20 1 0 was 
24 1p (2009: 272.75p).
Share Option Plan
Options granted in the year were as follows:
   Number   Market 
 Options of Options  Vesting date value on 
 granted as at  and date of 
 in year 31 Dec 2010 Date of award expiry date grant
JT Langlands 7,000 7,000 04/06/1 0 03/1 3 2 1 7p
D Harris 7,000 7,000 04/06/1 0 03/1 3 2 1 7p
The performance conditions in relation to these share options are set out on 
Page 40.
Share Matching Plan
Awards granted in the year were as follows:
     Market 
 Awards Awards  Value on  
 granted as at  date of performance 
 in Year 31 Dec 2010 Date of grant award period
JT Langlands 20,595 20,595 28/05/1 0 227p 1/0 1/1 0 to  
     3 1/1 2/1 2
D Harris 9,086 9,086 28/05/1 0 227p 1/0 1/1 0 to  
     3 1/1 2/1 2
The performance conditions in relation to these are set out on Page 40. 
Long-T erm Incentive Plan
Shareholders approved a Long-T erm Incentive Plan at the 2005 Annual  
General Meeting. The following awards were granted and remain outstanding  
at 3 1 December 20 1 0:
 
       Market 
  Awards   Awards  value on 
 Year of 1 Jan Lapsed Vested 31 Dec Date of date of 
 grant 2010 in year in year 2010 vesting grant
J T Langlands 2007 40,000 (20,000) (20,000) – N/A N/A
 2008 60,000 – – 60,000 03/1 1 237p
 2009 40,000 – – 40,000 03/1 2 1 22p
  1 40,000 (20,000) (20,000) 1 00,000  
D Harris 2007  7,500 (3,750) (3,750) – N/A N/A
 2008 20,000 – – 20,000 03/1 1 237p
 2009 1 5,000 – – 1 5,000 03/1 2 1 22p
 2009 27,500 – – 27,500 03/1 2 22 1.25p
  70,000  (3,750) (3,750) 62,500  
The 2007 awards based on TSR performance vested on 2 March 20 1 0 at a 
share price of 289.5p.
The EPS awards did not vest and have now lapsed.
The value of the shares vested during the year were:
J T Langlands  £58,800
D Harris  £1 1,025
The awards granted in 2008 will vest in 20 1 1 with Earnings Per Share awards 
achieved in full and T otal Shareholder Return awards only partly achieved. In 
total, some 84.9% of the awards will vest with the remaining 1 5.1% of awards 
lapsing as the performance criteria for T otal Shareholder Return has not been 
achieved in full. 
The number of awards shown is subject to achieving the performance 
conditions referred to on Page 40 under both the Earnings Per Share and  
T otal Shareholder Return awards. The figures shown are maximum entitlements  
and the actual number of shares (if any) will depend on the performance 
conditions being achieved. Awards take the form of nil cost options and have  
no performance re-testing facility. Subject to the performance conditions being 
achieved, any shares will vest on the day of the preliminary announcement of 
the full year results for the years ended 3 1 December 20 1 0 and December 20 1 1.
Directors’ Shareholdings
The Directors at the year end, together with details of all of their interests in  
the ordinary share capital of the Company, are listed below:
     
  31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009
C McLatchie Beneficial 83 1,689 68 1,689
 Non-Beneficial 83,1 50 83,1 50
H Grossart Beneficial – –
E M Hagman Beneficial 1 5,000 1 5,000
D Harris  Beneficial 6,6 1 6 2,7 46
J T Langlands Beneficial 1 89,1 58 1 48,842
Lord Lindsay  Beneficial 1 1,500 1 1,500
D Warnock  Beneficial 25,000 25,000
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors between  
3 1 December 20 1 0 and 7 March 20 1 1.
Approval by Shareholders
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 1 2 May 20 1 1,  
a resolution approving this report is to be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
This report was approved by the Board on 4 March 20 1 1 and signed on its 
behalf by 
H.Grossart
Deputy Chairman
7 March 20 1 1
Report by Directors and Business Review Leading through...
investment
BPI’s commitment to developing  
world class manufacturing facilities and 
exploiting new technologies is supported 
by an ongoing investment programme, 
enabling us to stay at the forefront of 
technological advances. This is exemplified 
in the recent investment in a five-layer 
wide agricultural film line at Ardeer 
(pictured) which will enable the 
development of a new generation of  
wide agricultural and horticultural films. British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
45
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
46 Statement of Directors’  
Responsibilities
4 7 Independent Auditors’ Report
48 Five Y ear Record
49 Consolidated Income Statement
49 Consolidated Statement 
of Comprehensive Income
50 Consolidated Balance Sheet
5 1 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
52 Consolidated Statement  
of Changes in Equity
53 Notes to the Consolidated  
Financial Statements
82 UK GAAP Parent Company  
Balance Sheet
83 Notes to the UK GAAP Parent  
Company Financial Statements
89 Information for Shareholders
2009 11.8
2010 16.7
2008 3.9
16 . 7
Profit before tax (£m)
2009 425
2010 478
2008 481
47 8
Turnover (£m)
2009 30.36
2010 51.07
2008 10.67
51 . 0 7
Diluted Earnings Per Share (p)
2009 11.0
2010 11.5
2008 14.5
11 . 5
Dividend per share (p)
2009 38.60
2010 38.31
2008 25.53
3 8 . 31
Diluted Earnings Per Share (p)
Before restructuring
2009 14.9
2010 13.9
2008 9.3
13 . 9
Profit before tax (£m)
Before restructuring British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
46
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
In respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they are required  
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent 
company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state  
of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; • 
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; • 
For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; • 
For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material • 
departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements; and
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue • 
in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets  
of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate 
Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation 
in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility Statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Financial Report
On behalf of the Directors of the Company we confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, • 
financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole. 
The Report by Directors and Business Review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the • 
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.
By order of the Board
J.T. Langlands 
Chief Executive 
D. Harris
Group Finance Director British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
47
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report 
T o the Members of British Polythene Industries Plc
We have audited the financial statements of British Polythene Industries PLC for the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 set out on Pages 49 to 88.  
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International  
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the  
parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 1 6 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no 
other purpose. T o the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s 
members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on Page 46, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 3 1 December 201 0 and  • 
of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; • 
The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; • 
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the Group  • 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and • 
The information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the  • 
financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches  • 
not visited by us; or
The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting • 
records and returns; or
Certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or • 
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. • 
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
The Directors’ statement, set out on Page 26, in relation to going concern; • 
The part of the Corporate Governance Statement on Pages 37 to 39 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 • 
Combined Code specified for our review; and
Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors’ remuneration. • 
Craig Anderson (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
1 9 1 West George Street
Glasgow 
G2 2LJ
7 March 201 1 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
48
Five Y ear Record
    2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
    £m £m £m £m £m
Income Statement extracts        
Turnover    477.7 424.7 480.7 424.1 4 1 4.2 
Operating profit before net restructuring    1 7.9 1 9.0 1 2.6 1 4.6 1 7.1 
Profit before tax    1 6.7 1 1.8 3.9 1 1.5 1 4.0 
Diluted earnings per ordinary share    5 1.07 30.36 1 0.67 32.36 38.46 
Diluted earnings per ordinary share before net restructuring    38.3 1 38.60 25.53 34.26 38.46 
Dividend per ordinary share    1 1.50 1 1.00 1 4.50 22.00 22.00 
Balance Sheet extracts        
Non-current assets    88.4 89.4 92.6 84.7 79.5 
Inventories    66.9 6 1.4 62.5 62.1 59.5 
Trade and other receivables    55.0 49.3 60.4 64.0 60.5 
Trade and other payables    (72.6) (65.6) (62.3) (62.9) (6 1.1) 
Capital employed    1 37.7 1 34.5 1 53.2 1 47.9 1 38.4 
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent    44.3 34.1 52.7 62.2 54.2 
Minority interests    0.3 0.3 0.4 0.2 0.2 
Net debt    45.6 52.2 76.0 64.8 52.0 
Derivative financial liabilities    1.0 0.6 – – – 
Retirement and other employee benefits    56.1 58.4 27.1 1 9.1 34.7 
Taxation    (9.6) (1 1.1) (3.0) 1.6 (2.7) 
    1 37.7 1 34.5 1 53.2 1 47.9 1 38.4 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
49
Financial Statements
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0
       2010 2009 
      Notes £m £m 
Turnover      2, 3 477.7 424.7
Profit from operations before net restructuring       1 7.9 1 9.0 
 
Restructuring costs       (1.0) (3.1) 
Gain on sale of properties       3.8 –
Net restructuring      2 2.8 (3.1)
Profit from operations      2, 3 20.7 1 5.9 
 
Borrowing costs      5 (2.1) (2.7)
Net retirement benefit financing      5 (1.9) (1.4)
Net financing costs       (4.0) (4.1)
Profit before tax       1 6.7 1 1.8
 
Tax      6 (3.1) (3.7)
Profit for the year       1 3.6 8.1
 
Attributable to:        
Equity holders of the parent       1 3.6 8.1
 
Earnings per share        
Basic      8 52.20p 30.86p
Diluted      8 5 1.07p 30.36p
Diluted earnings per share before net restructuring      8 38.3 1p 38.60p
         
       2010 2009 
      Notes £m £m 
Profit for the year       1 3.6 8.1 
Cash flow hedges: effective portion of net changes in fair value       (0.3) 0.1 
Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit pension schemes       0.9 (32.4) 
Opening surplus on Irish Polythene Industries pension scheme       0.2 – 
Movement on translation of overseas undertakings and related borrowings      – (0.8) 
Movement on translation of minority interests       – (0.1)
Tax on components of other comprehensive income      6 (0.9) 9.0 
Other comprehensive income for the year       (0.1) (24.2) 
Total comprehensive income for the year       1 3.5 (1 6.1) 
 
Attributable to:        
Equity holders of the parent       1 3.5 (1 6.0) 
Minority interests       – (0.1) 
Total comprehensive income for the year       1 3.5 (1 6.1)  British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
50
Consolidated Balance Sheet
At 3 1 December 201 0
       2010 2009 
      Notes £m £m
Non-current assets         
Goodwill      9 0.4 0.4
Other intangible assets      1 0 1.7 2.0
Property, plant and equipment      1 1 86.1 87.0
Retirement benefit asset      29 0.2 –
Deferred tax assets      20 1 5.2 1 6.1
       1 03.6 1 05.5
Current assets         
Inventories      1 4 66.9 6 1.4
Trade and other receivables      1 5 55.0 49.3
Current tax assets      1 9 – 0.5
Cash at bank      1 6 0.3 0.5
       1 22.2 1 1 1.7
Current liabilities        
Bank overdraft      1 6 5.5 4.8
Other loans and borrowings      1 6 2.6 2.0
Derivative financial instruments      1 7 0.5 0.3
Trade and other payables      1 8 7 1.6 64.8
Current tax liabilities      1 9 1.7 1.6
       8 1.9 73.5
Net current assets       40.3 38.2
Total assets less current liabilities       1 43.9 1 43.7
Non-current liabilities         
Other loans and borrowings      1 6 37.8 45.9
Derivative financial instruments      1 7 0.5 0.3
Retirement and employee benefit obligations      29 56.1 58.4
Deferred tax liabilities      20 3.9 3.9
Deferred government grants      2 1 1.0 0.8
       99.3 1 09.3
Net assets       44.6 34.4
Equity         
Issued share capital      22 6.6 6.6
Share premium account       25.1 25.1
Other reserves      23 8.3 8.6
Retained earnings       4.3 (6.2)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent       44.3 34.1
Minority interests      25 0.3 0.3
Total equity       44.6 34.4
British Polythene Industries PLC, Registration Number 108191.         
  
 The Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 07 March 201 1 and signed on its behalf by:    
C. McLatchie
Chairman
D. Harris 
Group Finance Director British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
51
Financial Statements
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0
     2010 2010 2009 2009 
    Notes £m £m £m £m 
Profit from operations      20.7  1 5.9
Amortisation of intangible assets    1 0  0.7  0.5
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment    1 1  1 2.6  1 3.5
IFRS 2 charge in relation to equity-settled transactions      0.6  0.3
Impairment of investments      –  0.1
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment      (3.9)  (0.1)
Adjustment relating to pensions      (3.2)  (2.6)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital     27.5  27.6
(Increase)/decrease in inventories      (5.4)  0.2
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables      (6.0)  1 0.2
Increase in trade and other payables      6.6  4.7
Movements in working capital      (4.8)  1 5.1
Cash generated from operations      22.7  42.7
Interest paid      (2.2)  (3.2)
Income taxes paid      (2.4)  (2.5)
Net cash from operating activities      1 8.1  37.0
Investing activities         
Purchase of property, plant and equipment     (1 4.7)  (1 2.2)
Capital amount of hire purchase received     2.7  2.8 
Net purchase of property, plant and equipment      (1 2.0)  (9.4)
Purchase of intangible assets      (0.4)  (0.8)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment      6.6  0.3
Net cash used in investing activities      (5.8)  (9.9)
Net cash flows before financing      1 2.3  27.1
Financing activities        
Dividends paid    7  (2.9)  (2.9)
Net (decrease)/increase in bank loans      (6.9)  0.7
Repayment of other loans      –  (20.0)
Repayment of obligations under hire purchase      (2.5)  (1.6)
Repurchase of ordinary shares      (1.0)  –
Net cash used in financing activities      (1 3.3)  (23.8)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents      (1.0)  3.3
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year      (4.3)  (8.0)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes      0.1  0.4
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year      (5.2)  (4.3) British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
52
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0
         
      Attributable  
      to owners   
  Share Share Other Retained of the Minority  
  capital premium reserves
1
 earnings
2
 parent interests Total 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2010  6.6 25.1 8.6 (6.2) 34.1 0.3 34.4
Profit for the year  – – – 1 3.6 1 3.6 – 1 3.6
Cash flow hedges: effective portion of net changes in fair value  – – (0.3) – (0.3) – (0.3)
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes  – – – 0.9 0.9 – 0.9
Opening surplus on Irish Polythene Industries pension scheme  – – – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2
Tax on components of other comprehensive income  – – – (0.9) (0.9) – (0.9)
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – (0.3) 1 3.8 1 3.5 – 1 3.5
IFRS 2 charge in relation to equity-settled transactions  – – – 0.6 0.6 – 0.6
Increase in own shares held  – – – (1.0) (1.0) – (1.0)
Dividends  – – – (2.9) (2.9) – (2.9)
Balance at 31 December 2010  6.6 25.1 8.3 4.3 44.3 0.3 44.6
 
         
      Attributable  
      to owners   
  Share Share Other Retained of the Minority  
  capital premium reserves
1
 earnings
2
 parent interests Total 
  £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2009  6.6 25.1 9.3 1 1.7 52.7 0.4 53.1 
Profit for the year  – – – 8.1 8.1 – 8.1 
Cash flow hedges: effective portion of net changes in fair value  – – 0.1 – 0.1 – 0.1 
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme  – – – (32.4) (32.4) – (32.4) 
Movement on translation of overseas undertakings  
and related borrowings  – – (0.8) – (0.8) – (0.8) 
Movement on translation of minority interests  – – – – – (0.1) (0.1) 
T ax on components of other comprehensive income  – – – 9.0 9.0 – 9.0
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – (0.7) (1 5.3) (1 6.0) (0.1) (1 6.1) 
 
IFRS 2 charge in relation to equity-settled transactions  – – – 0.3 0.3 – 0.3
Dividends  – – – (2.9) (2.9) – (2.9)
Balance at 31 December 2009  6.6 25.1 8.6 (6.2) 34.1 0.3 34.4
         
1 
Refer to Note 23 for breakdown of other reserves.       
2 
As at 31 December 2010 the holding company retained earnings amounted to £34.6 million (2009: £17.8 million) and are not affected by movements in retirement benefit obligations.    
              British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
53
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0
1. BASIS OF PREPARA TION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
British Polythene Industries PLC (the ‘Company’) is a company domiciled and incorporated in the United Kingdom. The consolidated annual financial 
statements (the ‘financial statements’) of the Company for the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 incorporate the financial statements of the Company  
and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’).        
 
Statement of compliance        
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (‘adopted 
IFRSs’). The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP. These are presented on Pages 82 to 88. 
       
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated  
financial statements.        
 
Basis of preparation        
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments and the assets and liabilities of the defined 
benefit pension scheme. These are stated at their fair value.        
 
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The reasons for this are outlined in the Finance Review on Page 26.   
     
Basis of consolidation        
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. 
 
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition 
or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.        
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries acquired to bring the accounting policies used into line with those 
used by the Group.        
 
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.       
 
The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minority’s proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised. Subsequently,  
any losses applicable to the minority interest in excess of the minority interest are allocated against the interests of the parent.    
            
Changes in accounting policy        
The Group has adopted the following new accounting standards in the period:        
IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business Combinations’        
The revised standard requires acquisition costs incurred in a business combination to be expensed as incurred rather than included in the cost of 
acquisition and determination of goodwill. It also brings about changes to the current accounting in relation to contingent consideration and various  
other aspects of accounting for business combinations. This has had no impact on the results or financial position of the Group during the period,  
but will affect the accounting treatment of any future acquisitions by the Group.        
IAS 27 (Revised) ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements‘        
A number of amendments have been made to the Standard, dealing primarily with the accounting for changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries after 
control is obtained, the accounting for the loss of control of subsidiaries and the allocation of profit or loss to controlling and non-controlling interests in  
a subsidiary. Amendments to IAS 28 (Investments in Associates) and IAS 3 1 (Interests in Joint Ventures), which arise as a consequence of the revisions  
to IAS 27 and IFRS 3, have also been adopted. There has been no impact on the reported results or financial position of the Group.    
    
Amendment to IFRS 2 ‘Group cash-settled and Share-based payment transactions’       
An entity which received goods or services in either an equity-settled or cash-settled Share-based payment transaction is required to account for  
the transaction in its separate or individual financial statements, even if it is another Group entity or shareholder who has the obligation to settle the 
transaction. The amended standard provides additional guidance on whether the transaction should be recognised as an equity-settled or cash-settled 
Share-based payment. This has had no impact on the consolidated financial statements.       
 
Amendment to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Eligible Hedged Items’
The amendment clarifies two hedge accounting issues: inflation in a financial hedged item and a one sided risk in a hedged item. It has not had any impact 
on the consolidated financial statements.        
        
IFRIC 1 7 ‘Distribution of non-cash assets to owners’ 
IFRIC 1 7 provides guidance on the appropriate accounting treatment when an entity distributes assets other than cash as dividends to its shareholders. 
Distributions within the scope of the interpretation are required to be measured at the fair value of the assets to be distributed. Any gain or loss on 
settlement of the liability for the dividend payable is to be recognised in profit or loss. This has had no impact on the reported results or financial position 
of the Group.        
         British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
54
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0
1. BASIS OF PREPARA TION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
 
Turnover recognition        
Turnover from the sale of goods and services is measured at the fair value of the consideration, net of rebates, trade discounts, VAT and other sales-
related taxes. Turnover from the sale of goods and services is recognised when the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership 
of the goods and services to the buyer, the amount of turnover can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with  
the transaction will flow to the Group.        
Leasing and hire purchase        
Leases are classified as finance leases when, on inception of the lease, the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
to the Group. All other leases are classified as operating leases.        
Assets held under finance leases (including hire purchase contracts) are initially recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the 
present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the 
balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to 
achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly through the income statement as 
borrowing costs.        
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.   
     
Foreign currencies        
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance 
sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. 
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in income and expense for the period. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at historical cost 
that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the historical cost was determined.   
     
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of  
a foreign entity, are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange 
rates for the period. Exchange differences arising are recognised directly in the Group’s foreign currency translation reserve. Such translation differences 
are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.       
 
Government grants        
Government grants on capital expenditure are released through cost of sales over the expected useful lives of the relevant assets or the qualifying period 
if shorter. Grants of a revenue nature are credited to the consolidated income statement in the period in which the related costs are incurred.   
     
 Retirement benefit obligations        
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-managed retirement 
benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Group’s obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those 
arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.        
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits in respect of each plan is determined in an annual actuarial report using the 
Projected Unit Credit Method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. They are recognised outside the income 
statement and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in accordance with IAS 1 9. Changes in the value of liabilities arising 
from changes in estimates during the year are recognised in reserves.        
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents an actuarial assessment of the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets before taxation, which is recognised separately. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is 
determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency 
in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.    
     British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
55
Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0
1. BASIS OF PREPARA TION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
T axation
The tax expense represents the sum of the current taxes payable and deferred tax.
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the period. T axable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because  
it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods, and further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.  
The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. 
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is  
probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control 
the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised using tax rates  
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. T ax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to 
items charged or credited through the statement of other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with through the statement 
of other comprehensive income.
Goodwill        
Goodwill has been recognised on acquisitions of subsidiaries and represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and the Group’s interest  
in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. The carrying amount is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment. Any impairment is recognised 
immediately in income or expense and is not subsequently reversed.        
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under  
UK GAAP. The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 was not reconsidered in preparing 
the Group’s opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004.        
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill 
written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1 998 which has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss  
on disposal.       
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement as a credit to profit from operations.  
     
Other intangible assets       
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation begins when an asset  
is available for use and is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate the cost of assets over their estimated useful lives as follows:   
           
Computer software  4 – 5 years      
Customer lists  3 – 1 0 years      
Other intangible assets 5 years  
    
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value at acquisition date. The cost of separately acquired intangible assets, 
including computer software, comprises the purchase cost and any directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for use. Computer software costs 
that are directly associated with the implementation of major business systems are capitalised as intangible assets.     
   British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
56
1. BASIS OF PREPARA TION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Property, plant and equipment       
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.    
   
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property,  
plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated. Depreciation begins when the asset is available for use. The estimated useful lives are as follows:  
Freehold buildings  20 – 50 years      
Leasehold buildings  1 0 – 40 years      
Plant and equipment  4 – 1 0 years      
       
Residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually.       
Assets held under finance leases/hire purchase are capitalised and depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets  
or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.       
       
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets       
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible assets and intangible assets with finite useful lives to determine 
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is 
estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss. Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, 
the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and 
goodwill arising subsequent to 1 January 2004 are tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
    
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are  
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks  
specific to the asset. 
      
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.       
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses in respect of assets other than goodwill, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised 
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined 
had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.   
    
Inventories       
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those 
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling 
price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.      
 
Trade and other receivables       
Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost less an allowance for irrecoverable amounts.      
 
Cash and cash equivalents       
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable 
on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the 
statement of cash flows.       
Trade and other payables       
Trade and other payables are stated at amortised cost.       
Provisions       
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable 
that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the 
expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks 
specific to the liability.       
Interest       
Interest is recognised in income or expense using the effective rate of interest method. Financing fees are amortised over the expected life of the 
related facility.       
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
57
Financial Statements
1. BASIS OF PREPARA TION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Earnings per share       
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) data for ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable  
to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares held. Diluted EPS  
is determined by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of shares outstanding adjusted for  
own shares held and the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.       
       
Financial instruments       
The Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital, address the exposure  
to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk from the use of financial instruments. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these  
financial statements. 
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework.    
   
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures and reviews the 
adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.       
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Group’s treasury policy. Hedges are classified as follows:   
– Fair value hedges that hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.      
–  Cash flow hedges that hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised  
asset or liability or a forecast transaction.       
– Net investment hedges that hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Group’s interests in the net assets of foreign operations.   
    
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the consolidated income statement.  
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised  
in the consolidated income statement.       
For cash flow hedges and net investment hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective  
hedge, as defined by IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion recognised in  
the consolidated income statement. When hedged cash flows result in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses 
previously recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are 
recognised in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the consolidated 
income statement.       
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised in the consolidated 
income statement.       
When a hedging instrument is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast 
transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy 
when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity  
is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.       
Share-based payments       
The fair value of equity-settled employee share options granted is calculated at grant date and the resulting cost is charged to the income statement  
over the performance period of the options, with a corresponding increase in equity. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual 
levels of options vesting. Failures to vest as a result of market and non-vesting conditions are not reversed.      
 
Treasury shares       
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised  
as a change in equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from revenue reserves.    
   
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
58
1. BASIS OF PREPARA TION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 
Key accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application  
of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience 
and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about 
carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Areas requiring the 
Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions are highlighted in these accounting policies and throughout the notes to the consolidated financial 
statements. Key estimation and judgement areas are as follows:
–  Property, plant and equipment
Depreciation rates are regularly reviewed to ensure that they accurately reflect useful lives and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis in line 
with market conditions.
–  Trade and other receivables
The recoverability of trade and other receivables is kept under constant review and provision is made where appropriate in line with  
disclosures in Note 1 5.
–  Trade and other payables
Where the amount payable in respect of any liability is uncertain, the amount provided in the accounts is based on the best estimate available  
at the time.
–  Defined benefit pension plans
 A qualified independent actuary undertakes the estimation of the present value of the Group’s obligations under defined benefit pension schemes  
using assumptions taken from a range of possible actuarial assumptions. These assumptions may not be borne out in practice, especially due to the  
long timescales involved. Changes in the key assumptions, which include discount rates, inflation, mortality and expected return on assets, could have  
a significant effect on the profit or loss for the period and the financial position of the Group. Details of assumptions employed to determine the liability  
at 3 1 December 201 0 are set out in Note 29. The valuation of scheme assets is based on the fair value at the balance sheet date. As these assets are 
not intended to be sold in the short term, their value may change significantly prior to realisation. 
–  T axation
The Group is subject to income taxes in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant judgements are required in determining the consolidated 
provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax 
determination is uncertain. As a result, the Group recognises tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional  
taxes will be due. The amount of such liabilities is based on an assessment of various factors, such as experience of previous tax audits and differing 
interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and involves a series of complex judgements about future events.  
T o the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts recognised, such differences will impact the income tax and 
deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. 
Standards and interpretations not yet applied
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 and have not  
been applied in preparing these financial statements.
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ will introduce new requirements for classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities. Other requirements, 
including matters relating to impairment and hedge accounting are expected to be added in 201 1. As a result, IFRS 9 will eventually be a complete 
replacement for IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. The Group has yet to determine the full impact of the Standard, but it  
may result in changes to the measurement of financial assets and liabilities.
 
Amendment to IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ simplifies the definition of a related party and eliminates a number of inconsistencies. It is not 
expected to have any impact on the consolidated financial statements.
 
IFRIC 1 9 ‘Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments’ clarifies that the issue of equity instruments to extinguish an obligation 
constitutes consideration paid. This should be measured at the fair value of the equity instruments issued, unless the fair value is not readily determinable, 
in which case the equity instruments should be measured at the fair value of the obligation extinguished. Any difference between the fair value of the 
equity instruments issued and the carrying value of the liability extinguished is recognised in the income statement. The interpretation is not expected  
to have any impact on the consolidated financial statements.
 
Amendment to IFRIC 1 4 ‘Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement’ addresses the situation where entities are in some circumstances  
not permitted to recognise prepayments of minimum funding contributions as an asset. It is not expected to have any impact on the consolidated  
financial statements.
The above Standards and Interpretations have been endorsed by the EU, with the exception of IFRS 9, which has not yet been endorsed.  
 
There are a number of additional standards and interpretations not yet in force which are not relevant to the Group or which have not yet been endorsed 
by the EU and are not expected to be effective for the year ended 3 1 December 201 1.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
59
Financial Statements
2. TURNOVER AND PROFIT FROM OPERA TIONS
An analysis of the Group’s turnover and profit from operations is as follows: 
   Before net Net  Before net Net  
   restructuring restructuring Total restructuring restructuring Total 
   2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover by destination  – UK   27 1.0 – 27 1.0 242.0 – 242.0 
– Other EC   1 63.6 – 1 63.6 1 42.7 – 1 42.7 
– Non EC   43.1 – 43.1 40.0 – 40.0
   477.7 – 477.7 424.7 – 424.7
Cost of sales   (408.9) (0.6) (409.5) (353.9) (2.5) (356.4)
Gross profit   68.8 (0.6) 68.2 70.8 (2.5) 68.3
Distribution costs   (1 7.0) – (1 7.0) (1 6.9) – (1 6.9)
Selling and administration expenses   (32.2) 3.4 (28.8) (32.1) (0.6) (32.7)
Profit from operations before employee profit sharing scheme   1 9.6 2.8 22.4 2 1.8 (3.1) 1 8.7
 
Amount applied to employee profit sharing scheme   (1.7) – (1.7) (2.8) – (2.8)
Profit from operations   1 7.9 2.8 20.7 1 9.0 (3.1) 1 5.9
         
         
       2010 2009 
Profit from operations is stated after charging/(crediting):       £m £m
Cost of sales         
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment       1 2.4 1 3.3
Operating lease charges  – plant       1.5 1.4 
– buildings       0.7 0.8
Restructuring costs relating to closures*       0.6 2.5
         
Selling and administration expenses         
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment       0.2 0.2
Amortisation of intangible assets       0.7 0.5
Impairment of investments       – 0.1
Operating lease charges – plant       0.7 0.8
Restructuring costs relating to closures*       0.4 0.6
Gain on sale of properties       (3.8) –
Profit on disposal of plant and equipment       (0.1) (0.1)
Auditors’ remuneration:         
 Audit of these financial statements       0.1 0.1 
Amounts receivable by auditors and their associates in respect of:        
– audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation      0.1 0.1 
– other services relating to taxation       0.2 0.2 
– all other services       0.1 –
         
*Analysis of net restructuring        
Profit on sale of properties       (3.8) –
Redundancy costs       0.7 1.5
Other machinery and site-related costs       0.3 1.6
       (2.8) 3.1
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
60
3. SEGMENT REPORTING
The Group has three reportable segments: UK and Ireland, Mainland Europe and North America. The segments were established by reviewing the management 
information regularly presented to the entity’s chief operating decision maker (CODM), which has been identified as the Board of Directors. The information 
presented to the Board is consistent with the three reportable segments identified above, with the UK and Ireland business further segregated by business 
activity. As all of the UK and Ireland segments meet the aggregation criteria set out in IFRS 8, they have been aggregated to form one reportable segment  
as permitted by the standard.  
UK and Ireland includes all of the UK manufacturing and merchanting activities along with the Irish sales operation which distributes predominately UK 
manufactured products. It also includes the manufacturing operation in China from which most of the output is exported for sale by the Group in the UK. 
Mainland Europe comprises the manufacturing and merchanting activities located in Belgium, the Netherlands and France. North America comprises the 
manufacturing business in Canada with sales throughout North America. 
The accounting policies of the reporting segments are the same as those described in Note 1. Inter-segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. 
Segment profit 
An analysis of the Group’s revenue and results by operating segment for the year is presented below. The measure of segment profit provided to the 
CODM is profit from operations. 
 UK and Ireland Mainland Europe North America Total
 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover         
Total sales 335.9 303.1 1 1 8.1 1 03.3 26.4 22.6 480.4 429.0 
Inter-segment sales (1.0) (0.9) (1.5) (3.2) (0.2) (0.2) (2.7) (4.3) 
External sales 334.9 302.2 1 1 6.6 1 00.1 26.2 22.4 477.7 424.7 
Profit from operations before net restructuring 7.9 1 0.2 9.2 8.0 0.8 0.8 1 7.9 1 9.0 
Net restructuring 3.1 (2.4) (0.3) (0.7) – – 2.8 (3.1) 
Profit from operations 1 1.0 7.8 8.9 7.3 0.8 0.8 20.7 1 5.9 
Net financing costs       (4.0) (4.1) 
Profit before tax       1 6.7 1 1.8 
Tax       (3.1) (3.7) 
Profit for the year       1 3.6 8.1 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 9.2 9.5 3.7 4.2 0.4 0.3 1 3.3 1 4.0 
Capital expenditure 1 0.4 1 1.5 3.3 1.7 1.3 0.1 1 5.0 1 3.3  
Segment assets
The Group’s assets are analysed by operating segment as follows: 
 UK and Ireland Mainland Europe North America Total
 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets* 64.9 66.0 20.7 2 1.9 2.6 1.5 88.2 89.4
Inventories and trade and other receivables 86.9 83.4 32.5 27.3 8.2 5.8 1 27.6 1 1 6.5
 1 5 1.8 1 49.4 53.2 49.2 1 0.8 7.3 2 1 5.8 205.9
Elimination of intercompany debtors       (5.7) (5.8)
Retirement benefit asset       0.2 –
Deferred tax assets       1 5.2 1 6.1
Current tax assets       – 0.5
Cash at bank       0.3 0.5
Total assets       225.8 2 1 7.2
* The measure of non-current asset used for segmental reporting comprises goodwill, other intangible assets, investments and property, plant and equipment. It excludes deferred tax and retirement benefit assets.  
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
61
Financial Statements
3. SEGMENT REPORTING (continued)
Information about products and services         
The Group’s products can be categorised as follows:           
Films – Plain film on the reel products.            
Converted – Printed and/or converted products.           
Recycled – Products manufactured from recycled polythene scrap.         
          
The revenues from external customers for each category of product are:         
      
       2010 2009 
       £m £m
Films       2 1 1.7 1 95.1 
Converted       1 93.9 1 60.6 
Recycled       72.1 69.0 
       477.7 424.7 
Information about geographical areas
The Group is domiciled in the UK. Revenues are attributed to countries on the basis of the customer’s location. Revenues from external customers in the 
UK and from foreign countries are as follows: 
       2010 2009 
       £m £m
UK       27 1.0 242.0 
Belgium       3 1.1 28.0 
France       30.7 28.5 
Netherlands       28.7 23.0 
Scandinavia       24.4 23.6 
Republic of Ireland       20.1 1 8.6 
Germany       1 7.5 1 4.7 
USA       1 7.0 1 4.6 
Canada       9.2 8.0 
All other countries       28.0 23.7 
       477.7 424.7 
Non-current assets, excluding deferred tax and retirement benefit assets, located in the UK and in foreign countries are as follows:
       2010 2009 
       £m £m
UK       60.0 60.8 
Netherlands       5.2 6.3 
Belgium       1 5.5 1 5.6 
China       4.9 5.2 
Canada       2.6 1.5 
       88.2 89.4
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
62
4. ST AFF COSTS
The average number of employees (including Executive Directors) was: 
       2010 2009 
       Number Number
Production       2,085 2,1 54
Administration       17 3 1 82
Selling       1 88 202
       2,446 2,538
Staff costs for the period were:
         
       2010 2009 
       £m £m 
Wages and salaries       66.1 67.1
Redundancy costs       0.7 1.5
Employee profit sharing scheme       1.7 2.8
Social security costs       8.0 8.2
IFRS 2 charge in relation to equity-settled transactions       0.6 0.3
Defined contribution pension scheme costs       1.5 1.7
Defined benefit pension scheme – current service cost       0.5 0.6
       79.1 82.2
Details of Directors’ remuneration and shareholdings are shown on Pages 40 to 43.      
5. FINANCING COSTS
       2010 2009 
       £m £m 
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts       1.9 2.1
Interest on other loans       – 0.4
Interest on obligations under hire purchase       0.2 0.2
Borrowing costs       2.1 2.7
Expected return on pension scheme assets       (1 0.7) (9.8)
Interest on pension liabilities       1 2.6 1 1.2
Net retirement benefit financing       1.9 1.4
Net financing costs       4.0 4.1
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
63
Financial Statements
6. T AX ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES 
      2010  2009 
Recognised in the income statement      £m  £m
Current tax expense 
UK current tax at 28% on the profits of the year (2009: 28%):       
Current year      –  –
Adjustments for prior years      (0.2)  0.1
      (0.2)  0.1
Overseas current tax:        
Current year      3.2  3.4
Adjustments for prior years      (0.1)  (0.1)
      3.1  3.3
      2.9  3.4
Deferred tax expense         
Origination of temporary differences      0.3  0.5
Other adjustments for prior years      (0.1)  (0.2)
      0.2  0.3
Total tax expense in income statement      3.1  3.7
Factors affecting the income tax expense          
The difference between the income tax expense for the period and the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK is explained below:   
       
     2010 2010 2009 2009 
     % £m % £m
Reconciliation of effective tax rate         
Profit before tax      1 6.7  1 1.8 
Current tax at 28% (2009: 28%)     28% 4.7 28% 3.3 
Non-deductible expenses     1% 0.1 1% 0.1 
Depreciation on ineligible assets     1% 0.1 1% 0.1 
Overseas tax rates     0% – 3% 0.4 
Capital gains     (9%) (1.4) 0% – 
Adjustments for prior years     (2%) (0.4) (2%) (0.2) 
Total tax expense in income statement     1 9% 3.1 3 1% 3.7 
         
Deferred tax charge/(credit) recognised directly in equity         
Relating to retirement and employee benefits  – current      0.3  (9.0)  
– change in UK tax rate     0.6  – 
      0.9  (9.0) 
         
The Emergency Budget on 22 June 201 0 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce from 28% to 24% over a period of 4 years from 201 1.  
T o date, only the reduction from 28% to 27%, effective from 1 April 201 1, has been substantively enacted. The impact of this has been reflected in the 
deferred tax charge for the year.         
   
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
64
7. DIVIDENDS 
       2010 2009 
       £m £m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:    
Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 7.5p per share (2008: final dividend of 7.5p)   2.0 2.0 
Interim dividend for the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 of 3.65p per share (2009: 3.5p)     0.9 0.9 
       2.9 2.9 
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 7.85p per share (2009: second interim dividend of 7.5p)  2.1 2.0
         
 The proposed final dividend was approved by the Board on 7 March 201 1 and has not been included as a liability as at 3 1 December 201 0.  
8. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE 
      2010  2009 
      000  000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares        
Issued ordinary shares at 1 January      26,498  26,498 
Effect of own shares held      (445)  (250) 
Weighted average number of ordinary shares      26,053  26,248 
Effect of share options and long-term incentive plan shares in issue     575  436 
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares      26,628  26,684 
 
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders      £1 3.6m  £8.1m
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders before net restructuring     £1 0.2m  £1 0.3m
Basic earnings per ordinary share      52.20p  30.86p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share      5 1.07p  30.36p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share before net restructuring      38.3 1p  38.60p
9. GOODWILL 
       2010 2009 
       £m £m
Balance at 1 January and 31 December       0.4 0.4
Goodwill has been tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ at 3 1 December 201 0 and 3 1 December 2009 and no 
impairments have been identified.            
               
     
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
65
Financial Statements
1 0. OTHER INT ANGIBLE ASSETS 
   Other    Other  
 Customer Computer intangible  Customer Computer intangible  
 lists software assets Total lists software assets Total 
 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 2009 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Cost         
Balance at 1 January 0.4 6.6 0.7 7.7 0.4 5.9 0.7 7.0 
Exchange adjustments – – – – – (0.1) – (0.1) 
Additions – 0.4 – 0.4 – 0.8 – 0.8 
Disposals – (0.4) – (0.4) – – – –
Balance at 31 December 0.4 6.6 0.7 7.7 0.4 6.6 0.7 7.7
Amortisation         
Balance at 1 January 0.2 5.2 0.3 5.7 0.1 4.9 0.2 5.2 
Amortisation charge in the year 0.1 0.5 0.1 0.7 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.5 
Disposals – (0.4) – (0.4) – – – –
Balance at 31 December 0.3 5.3 0.4 6.0 0.2 5.2 0.3 5.7
Carrying amount at 31 December 0.1 1.3 0.3 1.7 0.2 1.4 0.4 2.0
Carrying amount at 1 January 0.2 1.4 0.4 2.0 0.3 1.0 0.5 1.8
‘Other intangible assets’ currently comprises a property lease entered into at less than an economic rent on the acquisition of AT Films Inc in 2007.  
1 1. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
  Land and Plant and   Land and Plant and  
  buildings equipment Total  buildings equipment Total 
  2010 2010 2010  2009 2009 2009 
  £m £m £m  £m £m £m 
Cost         
Balance at 1 January  57.1 256.4 3 1 3.5  56.2 264.6 320.8 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange  (0.1) (0.8) (0.9)  (1.3) (5.8) (7.1) 
Additions  2.5 1 2.1 1 4.6  2.5 1 0.0 1 2.5 
Disposals  (4.5) (6.7) (1 1.2)  (0.3) (1 2.4) (1 2.7)
Balance at 31 December  55.0 26 1.0 3 1 6.0  57.1 256.4 3 1 3.5
Depreciation and impairment         
Balance at 1 January  22.0 204.5 226.5  2 1.2 209.3 230.5 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange  – (0.7) (0.7)  (0.6) (4.4) (5.0) 
Depreciation charge for the year  1.5 1 1.1 1 2.6  1.5 1 2.0 1 3.5
Disposals  (2.0) (6.5) (8.5)  (0.1) (1 2.4) (1 2.5)
Balance at 31 December  2 1.5 208.4 229.9  22.0 204.5 226.5
Carrying amount at 31 December  33.5 52.6 86.1  35.1 5 1.9 87.0
Carrying amount at 1 January  35.1 5 1.9 87.0  35.0 55.3 90.3
The carrying amount of plant and equipment includes £9.4 million (2009: £8.0 million) in respect of assets held under hire purchase. Depreciation  
on these assets during the period was £1.3 million (2009: £1.0 million). There were no assets in the course of construction at 3 1 December 201 0 
(2009: £4.0 million).
Capital commitments at 3 1 December were as follows:
       2010 2009 
       £m £m 
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure relating to property, plant and equipment    
not provided in the financial statements       4.0 8.3
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
66
1 2. INVESTMENTS  
            
       2010 2009 
       £m £m 
Balance at 1 January       – 0.1
Impairment charge       – (0.1)
Balance at 31 December       – –
1 3. SUBSIDIARY UNDERT AKINGS 
Except as indicated below, the Company owns the whole issued share capital of all subsidiary undertakings. The principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows:
 Country of  
Company incorporation Trade
British Polythene Limited England Polythene manufacturer 
AT Films Inc* Canada Polythene manufacturer 
BPI plc England Property company 
BPI Europe BV* Netherlands Holding company 
Combipac BV* Netherlands Polythene manufacturer 
Formipac France SA* France Distribution company 
Irish Polythene Industries Limited Republic of Ireland Distribution company 
Venture Hong Kong Limited (75% owned)* Hong Kong Holding company 
Xinhui Alida Polythene Limited + China Polythene manufacturer 
 
* Shares held through an intermediate holding company.         
+ 20% owned through a subsidiary undertaking.         
1 4. INVENTORIES
       2010 2009 
       £m £m 
Raw materials       1 9.6 1 5.0
Work in progress       5.1 3.9
Finished goods       42.2 42.5
       66.9 6 1.4
               
Cost of sales includes a charge reflecting the effect of movements in stock provisions totalling £0.9 million (2009: £0.8 million).    
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
67
Financial Statements
1 5. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIV ABLES
       2010 2009 
       £m £m 
Trade receivables       52.3 47.1
Prepayments and accrued income       2.1 1.6
Other receivables       0.6 0.6
       55.0 49.3
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.     
Credit risk  
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty fails to meet its contractual obligations and arises principally from 
amounts receivable from customers.            
      
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. Before accepting any new customer, the Group 
uses an external credit scoring system to assess the potential customer’s credit quality and defines credit limits by customer. Limits and scoring attributed 
to customers are reviewed on a regular basis. In addition, the Group has a policy of insuring certain debtors.      
            
The geographical profile of credit risk over the year is broadly in line with that of turnover by geographical area as disclosed in Note 3.   
Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of financial assets, which includes trade receivables net of impairment losses as stated below and cash of £0.3 million  
(2009: £0.5 million), represents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk at each year end.       
 
Impairment Losses
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows:
     2010 2010 2009 2009 
     £m £m £m £m  
     Gross Impairment Gross Impairment
Not past due     4 1.2 – 34.0 –
0 – 30 days overdue     1 1.2 0.5 1 1.4 0.3
Over 30 days overdue     1.7 1.3 3.5 1.5
     54.1 1.8 48.9 1.8
An impairment allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods.      
            
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit 
was initially granted up to the reporting date. The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of 
counterparties and customers in many different markets and sectors. This is discussed further within the Finance Review, on Page 26. Accordingly,  
the Directors believe that there is no further provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.      
            
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
68
1 6. BANK AND OTHER BORROWINGS
         
       2010 2009 
       £m £m 
Bank overdrafts       5.5 4.8
Bank loans       33.8 4 1.5
Hire purchase       6.6 6.4
       45.9 52.7
   Bank Other loans  Bank Other loans  
   overdraft & borrowings Total overdraft & borrowings Total 
   2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Represented by:         
Amounts falling due within one year   5.5 2.6 8.1 4.8 2.0 6.8
Amounts falling due after more than one year   – 37.8 37.8 – 45.9 45.9
   5.5 40.4 45.9 4.8 47.9 52.7
The following analysis details outstanding borrowings, the facilities available to the Group and the undrawn amounts at the balance sheet date:  
 Less than 1 Between Between  Less than 1 Between Between  
 year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years Total year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years Total 
 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 2009 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Maturity 
Cash at bank (0.3) – – (0.3) (0.5) – – (0.5)
Bank overdrafts 5.5 – – 5.5 4.8 – – 4.8
Cash and cash equivalents in the  
cash flow statement 5.2 – – 5.2 4.3 – – 4.3
Bank loans – – 33.8 33.8 – 4 1.5 – 4 1.5
Hire purchase 2.6 2.6 1.4 6.6 2.0 2.0 2.4 6.4
 7.8 2.6 35.2 45.6 6.3 43.5 2.4 52.2
Undrawn facilities         
Bank overdrafts 27.0 – – 27.0 30.3 – – 30.3
Bank loans – – 36.2 36.2 5.0 1 6.0 – 2 1.0
Hire purchase – – – – – – 2.1 2.1
Total facilities 35.1 2.6 7 1.4 1 09.1 42.1 59.5 4.5 1 06.1
        
 Fixed rate Floating rate Cash at bank Total Fixed rate Floating rate Cash at bank Total 
 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 2009 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Currency and interest rate profile         
Sterling
1
 ¹ – 1.6 – 1.6 – 5.5 – 5.5
Euro
1
¹ – 32.9 – 32.9 – 40.8 – 40.8
Euro interest rate swaps
2
¹ 1 7.2 (1 7.2) – – 1 7.8 (1 7.8) – –
Canadian dollar
1
 – 7.5 – 7.5 – 4.7 – 4.7
Other
1
¹ – 3.9 (0.3) 3.6 – 1.7 (0.5) 1.2
 1 7.2 28.7 (0.3) 45.6 1 7.8 34.9 (0.5) 52.2
1. The floating rate borrowings are all rolled over on periods of 3 months or less based on the appropriate LIBOR or base rates.
2. The Euro interest rate swaps expire in June 2014 and are at varying rates of interest over the period covered.        
         
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
69
Financial Statements
1 7. OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining 
adequate banking facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. 
The Group has at its disposal undrawn facilities as noted above, which further reduces liquidity risk. Refer to the Finance Review on Page 26 for further 
discussion of liquidity risk.             
     
The following analysis details the contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the balance sheet date including interest and principal cash flows, using 
undiscounted cash flows:
 Less than 1 Between Between  Less than 1 Between Between  
 year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years Total year 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years Total 
 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 2009 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m 
Contractual cash flows analysed by maturity date    
 
Non-derivative financial liabilities         
Trade and other payables 69.7 – – 69.7 6 1.4 – – 6 1.4
Bank overdrafts 5.5 – – 5.5 4.8 – – 4.8
Bank loans 1.0 1.0 36.0 38.0 0.8 42.1 – 42.9
Hire purchase 2.8 2.7 1.5 7.0 2.2 2.1 2.4 6.7
Derivative financial liabilities        
Euro interest rate swaps 0.5 0.3 0.2 1.0 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.6
 79.5 4.0 37.7 1 2 1.2 69.5 44.4 2.5 1 1 6.4
Obligations under hire purchase are as follows:
  Total Finance   Total Finance  
  payments costs Capital  payments costs Capital 
  2010 2010 2010  2009 2009 2009 
  £m £m £m  £m £m £m 
Amounts payable under hire purchase:         
Less than one year  2.8 0.2 2.6  2.2 0.2 2.0 
Between one and five years  4.2 0.2 4.0  4.5 0.1 4.4 
  7.0 0.4 6.6  6.7 0.3 6.4 
Capital represents the carrying value of four-year hire purchase arrangements, repayable in periodic instalments and excludes contingent rents for future 
finance costs calculated by reference to bank base rate on each payment date.
Hire purchase agreements are denominated in sterling and euro. 
Fair value
     Carrying Fair Carrying Fair 
     amount value amount value 
     2010 2010 2009 2009 
     £m £m £m £m
Fair Values         
Euro interest rate swaps     1.0 1.0 0.6 0.6 
Fixed asset investment     – – – – 
     1.0 1.0 0.6 0.6
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
70
1 7. OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)
Financial assets            
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. The carrying 
amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.          
Investments
The fair value of investments is based on estimates of likely sales values of the investments.
Derivative financial liabilities
The fair value is based on observable values for underlying interest rates.
Cash at bank, borrowings due within one year, floating rate borrowings due after more than one year, trade payables, trade receivables and 
other current liabilities
The carrying value approximates to fair value either because of the short maturity of the instruments or because the interest rates are reset after periods 
of not greater than six months.
Hire Purchase
The fair value of the obligations approximates to their carrying amount.         
Fair value hierarchy
The only category of financial instrument carried at fair value is derivative financial liabilities. This has been defined as a Level 2 instrument in line with the 
following definitions:
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2:  inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices)  
or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).      
There have been no transfers between levels in 201 0 or 2009.          
              
Market risk            
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, will affect the Group’s income or the  
value of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable 
parameters, while optimising the return. Generally the Group seeks to minimise this risk through hedge arrangements designed to manage a proportion  
of the Group’s overall exposure.            
       
Hedging
Net investment in overseas operations
The Group has a policy of maintaining borrowings in the currency of most of its overseas operations to cover the net asset position in those companies.  
          
Cash flow hedge – foreign currency
Sales orders in currency are either covered at the time of receipt by the creation of a currency overdraft or with forward contracts covering a proportion 
of expected orders for a period of up to one year. Purchases are covered with forward contracts or reduction in borrowings in the relevant currency where 
appropriate. Any significant exception to this is approved at Board level. Any cash flow and profit effect would crystalise within twelve months of the year 
end when the forecast transactions being hedged materialise. The value of these hedges at 3 1 December 201 0 was £9.6 million (2009: £1 0.0 million).  
No ineffectiveness was recognised in the income statement in relation to cash flow hedges. 
Interest rate management            
Exposure to fluctuating interest rates is managed by using derivative financial instruments to maintain the desired fixed/variable mix. Due to the seasonal 
nature of working capital requirements funded by borrowings this is done by fixing a value rather than a percentage.     
       
            
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
71
Financial Statements
1 7. OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)
Currency risk            
The Group’s significant exposure to foreign currency risk at 3 1 December 201 0 is as follows:       
     2010 2010 2009 2009 
     EUR CAD EUR CAD 
     €m $m €m $m
Trade receivables     1 4.1 2.5 1 2.1 1.7 
Trade payables     (2 1.8) (2.2) (1 7.2) (1.2) 
Gross balance sheet exposure     (7.7) 0.3 (5.1) 0.5 
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:          
  
 Average rate Closing rate 
     2010 2009 2010 2009
EUR     1.1 644 1.1 1 85 1.1 597 1.1 1 99
CAD     1.6005 1.7769 1.5368 1.6929
            
Sensitivity analysis            
In managing interest rate and currency risks, the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Group’s earnings. Over the longer 
term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings.    
        
At 3 1 December 20 1 0, it is estimated that a change of 1 00 basis points in interest rates would result in a change of £0.3 million in profit before tax.  
This has been calculated by taking 1% of the Group’s floating rate borrowings as at 3 1 December 20 1 0. It assumes that all other variables, including foreign 
currency, remain constant. In 2009, the estimated change in profit before tax was calculated as £0.3 million, using the same method and assumptions.
 
It is estimated that a change of 1 0 euro cents against the value of sterling over the period would result in an increase or decrease in profit or loss by  
£0.7 million. This has been determined by calculating the effect of such a change on the translation of our European results. In 2009, the impact was 
estimated at £0.8 million, using the same method.
1 8. TRADE AND OTHER PA Y ABLES
       2010 2009 
       £m £m
Trade payables       55.5 49.5 
Other taxes and social security       6.3 4.2 
Accruals and deferred income       1.9 3.4 
Other payables       7.9 7.7
       7 1.6 64.8
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
1 9. CURRENT T AX LIABILITIES
       2010 2009 
       £m £m
Current tax receivable       – (0.5)
Current tax payable       1.7 1.6
       1.7 1.1
The net current tax liability represents the estimated amount of income taxes payable in respect of current and prior periods.    
        
         
   
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
72
20. DEFERRED T AX
 Accelerated  Other  Accelerated  Other  
 capital Employee timing  capital Employee timing  
 allowances benefits differences Total allowances benefits differences Total  
 2010 2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 2009 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 7.2 (1 6.0) (3.4) (1 2.2) 7.8 (7.3) (3.8) (3.3) 
(Credit)/charge to income (0.4) 0.3 0.3 0.2 (0.4) 0.3 0.4 0.3 
Charge/(credit) to equity – 0.9 – 0.9 – (9.0) – (9.0)
Exchange differences (0.2) – – (0.2) (0.2) – – (0.2)
At 31 December 6.6 (1 4.8) (3.1) (1 1.3) 7.2 (1 6.0) (3.4) (1 2.2)
Net deferred tax liabilities 3.6 (0.1) 0.4 3.9 3.6 (0.1) 0.4 3.9
Net deferred tax assets 3.0 (1 4.7) (3.5) (1 5.2) 3.6 (1 5.9) (3.8) (1 6.1)
 6.6 (1 4.8) (3.1) (1 1.3) 7.2 (1 6.0) (3.4) (1 2.2)
Accelerated capital allowances relate to property, plant and equipment and computer software.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current  
tax liabilities and where the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdictions.
2 1. GOVERNMENT GRANTS
Government grants relate primarily to regional selective assistance received on the achievement of certain job creation and job protection targets as  
well as related capital expenditure. The grants could be repayable in the event that numbers employed at the relevant sites drop below these target  
levels during a specified monitoring period.
22. SHARE CAPIT AL            
       2010 2009 
       £m £m 
Authorised
Equity 
80,227,336 (2009: 80,227,336) ordinary shares of 25p each       20.1 20.1
Allotted called up and fully paid
Equity
26,498,160 (2009:26,498,160) ordinary shares of 25p each       6.6 6.6
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries no right to fixed income. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as 
declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All shares rank equally with regards to the Company’s 
residual assets. 
           
The Company has granted options over its ordinary shares (see Note 28).         
   
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
73
Financial Statements
23. OTHER RESERVES
       Foreign  
    Capital   currency Total 
    redemption Capital Hedging translation other 
    reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves 
    £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010    7.2 0.5 (0.6) 1.5 8.6 
Movement during the year    – – (0.3) – (0.3)
At 31 December 2010    7.2 0.5 (0.9) 1.5 8.3
       Foreign  
    Capital   currency Total 
    redemption Capital Hedging translation other 
    reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves 
    £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2009    7.2 0.5 (0.7) 2.3 9.3 
Movement during the year    – – 0.1 – 0.1 
Movement on retranslation of overseas operations    – – – (0.8) (0.8)
At 31 December 2009    7.2 0.5 (0.6) 1.5 8.6
 Capital redemption reserve was created on the repurchase and cancellation of ordinary and preference shares in previous years.   
Capital reserve was created on the acquisition of a subsidiary. 
Hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to forecast 
hedging transactions that have not yet occurred.
Foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the retranslation of financial statements of foreign 
operations, as well as the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in foreign operations.     
24. OWN SHARES HELD         
       2010 2009 
       £m £m 
Cost of own shares held         
At 1 January       1.1 1.2 
Shares purchased       1.0 –
Movement relative to shares vested under the restricted share plan      (0.6) (0.1)
At 31 December       1.5 1.1
The cost of own shares held represents shares held by the British Polythene Industries Employee Share Ownership Trust to satisfy the Company’s 
liabilities under share-based payment schemes. The market value of the shares is £1.3 million (2009: £0.7 million).     
       
     Date of  Date of 
     purchase/ Number of purchase/ Number of 
     allocation shares allocation shares 
     2010 2010 2009 2009
Movements in the numbers of shares held         
At 1 January      249,432  256,83 1 
No of shares allocated to employees     05/03/1 0 (1 1 3,750) 02/03/09 (7,399) 
Shares purchased     Various 398,7 4 1  – 
At 31 December      534,423  249,432
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
74
25. MINORITY INTERESTS
       2010 2009 
       £m £m 
At 1 January       0.3 0.4
Foreign exchange movements       – (0.1)
At 31 December       0.3 0.3
Minority interests comprise a 25% holding in the ordinary share capital of Venture Hong Kong Limited, along with the related share in the results of the 
company up to 3 1 December 201 0 as adjusted to reflect Group accounting policies. Venture Hong Kong Limited holds a 20% minority interest in Xinhui 
Alida Polythene Limited.
26. OPERA TING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS
At 3 1 December, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases,  
which fall due as follows:
   Plant and   Plant and   
   equipment Buildings Total equipment Buildings Total 
   2010 2010 2010 2009 2009 2009 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year   1.9 0.6 2.5 2.1 0.6 2.7 
Between one and five years   2.0 1.8 3.8 2.5 2.0 4.5 
More than five years   – 1.9 1.9 – 2.3 2.3 
   3.9 4.3 8.2 4.6 4.9 9.5 
None of the operating leases include contingent rentals.
A number of the leased buildings have been sublet to external tenants.
At 3 1 December, the Group expects to receive future sublease rentals which fall due as follows:     
       Buildings Buildings 
       2010 2009 
       £m £m 
Less than one year       0.1 0.1 
Between one and five years       0.3 0.5 
       0.4 0.6
During the year ended 3 1 December 201 0, £2.9 million (2009: £3.0 million) was recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement in 
respect of operating leases, comprising £3.0 million (2009: £3.3 million) operating lease rentals less £0.1 million (2009: £0.3 million) sublease rentals.
The Group has also entered into a contract to guarantee the indebtedness of a third party in relation to a lease contract. In the event of default, the Group 
could be held liable for future contracted lease payments for up to five years from 29 July 201 0. This represents a contingent liability to the Group of the 
present value of these payments. This amounted to £0.8 million at 3 1 December 201 0 (2009: £1.0 million).      
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
75
Financial Statements
27. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES             
Contingent liabilities of the Group in respect of VAT indemnities amount to £0.8 million (2009: £0.8 million).
In April 201 0, the Group was visited by officials from the European Commission (EC) and Office of Fair Trading (OFT) carrying out separate unannounced 
inspections into the agricultural films market. The Commission has stated that it has reason to believe that the companies concerned in these inspections 
may have violated EU antitrust rules that prohibit cartels and restrictive business practices and/or abuse of a dominant market position.
BPI has cooperated with the requests for further information from the OFT received since their inspection under the Enterprise Act 2002. No requests  
for information have been received from the EC.
There is no strict deadline within which either the EC or OFT must complete their enquires into possible anti competitive conduct. While these enquiries 
are ongoing, it is not possible at this stage to ascertain whether or not any further action will be taken by either the EC or the OFT as a result of these 
enquiries or the likely timetable for resolving these matters. As the Directors cannot predict with any degree of certainty the outcome of the above 
matters, it is not possible to assess accurately the likelihood of any significant financial cost to the Group or quantum of any cost. 
28. SHARE-BASED PA YMENTS
Long-T erm Incentive Plan
In 2005 the Group introduced a Long-T erm Incentive Plan for senior executives. Shares are conditionally awarded under this plan and vest in employees 
based on the following performance criteria.
The EPS part of an award will vest if the Company’s EPS growth is at least RPI plus 1 0% per annum over the performance period; no shares will vest if EPS 
growth is not at least RPI plus 3% per annum. For performance between these two points, vesting will occur on a sliding scale.
For the portion of the award based on T otal Shareholder Return (TSR), no vesting will occur for ranking below median. At the median 1 0% of the award will 
vest with the full 50% vesting for a ranking at or within the upper quartile. Vesting occurs on a sliding scale between these two points.   
       2010 2009 
       LTIP LTIP
Outstanding at beginning of year       849,500 801,750
Granted during the year       – 284,500
Vested during the year       (1 1 3,750) –
Forfeited/lapsed during the year       (1 50,250) (236,750)
Outstanding at end of the year       585,500 849,500
Exercisable at end of the year       283,552 1 1 3,750
Share Matching Plan
The implementation of a new long-term incentive plan was approved at the 201 0 Annual General Meeting. The new plan provides for executives to invest 
part of their annual bonus in Company shares and to receive a matching award of shares based on business performance of the following three years. 
Executives will invest a minimum of 25% of their bonus into the Share Matching Plan and may increase this percentage voluntarily up to the lower of  
50% of salary or the actual bonus awarded. A matching award of up to three times the number of shares deferred may be earned. In the case of Executive 
Directors, the measure to determine the level of match will be Group return on average capital employed over three years. Shares will be released at the 
end of the three-year period in respect of any part of the award voluntarily deferred (including any matching award on such part), with the remainder 
released a year later. During the period, awards were made amounting to 90,1 63 Company shares.      
Savings Related Share Option Scheme
The employee Savings Related Share Option Scheme is open to almost all UK employees. Employees save over three or five years, at the end of which  
shares can be purchased during the following six-month period. During the period the Group did not issue any shares (2009: none) under this scheme. 
Grants of options were made on 1 9 October 2006 and 9 October 2007 at a price 1 0% below the market price on the date of offer and on 1 3 October 
2008, 1 3 October 2009 and 07 October 201 0 at market price.          
 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
76
28. SHARE-BASED PA YMENTS (continued)
Company Share Option Plan
A new Share Option Plan was approved at the 201 0 Annual General meeting. Awards of options will be made to senior managers across the Group on  
an annual basis. Options, which are granted at fair market value, will vest after three years on fulfilment of a performance condition. 
At 3 1 December 201 0 the individual options, not yet exercised, of Directors and other employees under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme  
and the Company Share Option Plan are as follows: 
            
  Date from 
  which    Other 
 Date of grant exercisable Expiry date Option price Directors employees Total Total
     2010 2010 2010 2009
Savings Related Scheme 1 9/1 0/06 0 1/1 2/09 3 1/05/1 0 369.45p – – – 62,522
Savings Related Scheme 1 9/1 0/06 0 1/1 2/1 1 3 1/05/1 2 369.45p – 99,53 1 99,53 1 1 08,072
Savings Related Scheme 09/1 0/07 0 1/1 2/1 0 3 1/05/1 1 392.40p – 25,663 25,663 2 7,6 1 5
Savings Related Scheme 09/1 0/07 0 1/1 2/1 2 3 1/05/1 3 392.40p – 26,703 26,703 28,928
Savings Related Scheme 1 3/1 0/08 0 1/1 2/1 1 3 1/05/1 2 236.00p 1 4,1 94 48,058 62,252 69,625
Savings Related Scheme 1 3/1 0/08 0 1/1 2/1 3 3 1/05/1 4 236.00p – 7 4,92 7 7 4,92 7 9 1,1 04
Savings Related Scheme 1 3/1 0/09 0 1/1 2/1 2 3 1/05/1 3 242.00p – 82,725 82,725 1 03,875
Savings Related Scheme 1 3/1 0/09 0 1/1 2/1 4 3 1/05/1 5 242.00p – 75,298 75,298 85,578
Savings Related Scheme 07/1 0/1 0 0 1/1 2/1 3 3 1/05/1 4 236.00p – 84,0 1 2 84,0 1 2 –
Savings Related Scheme 07/1 0/1 0 0 1/1 2/1 5 3 1/05/1 6 236.00p 6,545 83,896 90,44 1 –
        
Company Share Option Plan 02/06/1 0 02/06/1 3 0 1/06/20 2 1 7.00p 1 4,000 280,000 294,000 –
At 31 December     34,7 39 880,8 1 3 9 1 5,552 577,3 1 9
A charge to the income statement for all of these schemes has been based on the Binomial model and the inputs into the model are as follows:  
   SAYE SAYE SAYE CSOP LTIP LTIP 
Year of grant   2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008
Share price   £2.3 1 £2.36 £1.95 £2.1 4 £1.78 £2.58
Exercise price   £2.36 £2.42 £2.36 £2.1 7 Nil Nil
Expected volatility   50.78% 49.32% 43.59% 50.39% 45.58% 36.36%
Expected life   3/5 years 3/5 years 3/5 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Risk-free rate   2.1 6% 2.96% 4.1 1% 2.67% 4.00% 4.50%
Expected dividends   6.28% 6.44% 1 1.28% 5.07% 8.1 5% 8.53%
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the three years immediately preceding grant. 
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, 
and behavioural considerations.             
The Group recognised total expenses of £0.4 million relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in 201 0 (2009: £0.3 million).
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
77
Financial Statements
29. RETIREMENT AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGA TIONS
   Non Non  Non Non  
   current current 2010 current current 2009 
   assets liabilities Total assets liabilities Total 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Deficit in British Polythene defined benefit pension scheme   – (54.8) (54.8) – (56.9) (56.9) 
Surplus in Irish Polythene Industries pension scheme   0.2 – 0.2 – – – 
Other employee benefit obligations (see below)   – (1.3) (1.3) – (1.5) (1.5) 
Retirement and employee benefit obligations   0.2 (56.1) (55.9) – (58.4) (58.4) 
Related deferred tax asset/liability (see Note 20)   1 4.7 0.1 1 4.8 1 5.9 0.1 1 6.0 
   1 4.9 (56.0) (4 1.1) 1 5.9 (58.3) (42.4) 
Defined benefit schemes
British Polythene defined benefit scheme
The assets of the defined benefit section of the British Polythene Pension scheme are invested in a self-administered trust fund and are separated from 
the Group’s business assets. The scheme was closed to new entrants in June 2000. On 30 September 201 0, the scheme ceased future accruals and all 
active members’ past service benefits were preserved on this date.
A full actuarial valuation in relation to the scheme was carried out on 5 April 2008 and was updated by the actuary at 3 1 December 2008, 3 1 December 
2009 and 3 1 December 201 0. The present value of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and past service cost were measured 
using the projected unit credit method.
Irish Polythene Industries pension scheme
The Company’s subsidiary in Ireland operates a defined benefit scheme. Disclosures have previously not been provided in relation to this scheme as the 
amounts involved were not significant. Prior year comparatives are provided for information only. On 30 September 201 0 the Scheme ceased future 
accruals and all active members’ past service benefits were preserved on this date.
Other retirement benefit schemes
The Company’s overseas subsidiary in the Netherlands operates a defined benefit scheme in conjunction with a number of other employers. However as  
it is not possible to identify their share of the underlying assets and liabilities on a consistent and reliable basis, the Group is accounting for this scheme  
as a defined contribution scheme.
Disclosures relating to the British Polythene defined benefit scheme and the Irish Polythene Industries pension scheme are set out below: 
    
 British Polythene Irish Polythene  
 Industries Industries
     2010 2009 2010 2009
The major assumptions used by the actuary in the valuations were:        
Rate of increase in pensionable earnings     n/a 3.50% n/a 2.00%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment         
 – service up to 3 1 December 2006     3.20% 3.35% 2.00% 2.00% 
– service from 1 January 2007     2.50% 2.50% 2.00% 2.00%
Rate of increase in deferred pensions     2.65% 3.50% 2.00% 2.00%
Discount rate applied to scheme liabilities     5.40% 5.75% 5.50% 6.00%
Inflation assumption     3.35% 3.50% 2.00% 2.00%
Life expectancy:         
   – Male aged 60 (current life expectancy)     24.2 23.2 n/a n/a 
– Female aged 60 (current life expectancy)     27.1 26.1 n/a n/a 
  – Male aged 45 (life expectancy at age 60)     25.9 24.9 n/a n/a 
– Female aged 45 (life expectancy at age 60)     28.8 27.8 n/a n/a 
  – Member aged 65 (current life expectancy)     n/a n/a 22.0 2 1.6 
– Member aged 40 (life expectancy at age 65)     n/a n/a 26.1 22.7
The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered, 
may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
Due to the Government’s announcement that future statutory pension increases will be based on the Consumer Prices Index (CPI), the scheme rules 
require that this basis is now applied to members’ deferred benefits. The rate of increase in deferred pensions is therefore now adjusted by reference  
to CPI rather than the Retail Prices Index (RPI) as in previous years. 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
78
29. RETIREMENT AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGA TIONS (continued)
Net pension liability
The amount included in the consolidated balance sheet at 3 1 December 201 0 is as follows:       
        
 British Polythene Industries Irish Polythene Industries 
 Long-term rate  Long-term rate  Long-term rate  Long-term rate 
 of return + Value of return + Value of return + Value of return + Value  
 2010 2010 2009 2009 2010 2010 2009 2009 
  £m  £m  £m  £m
Equity securities n/a n/a n/a n/a 6.90% 1.4 8.00% 1.2
Corporate bonds 4.46% 72.7 4.79% 7 4.3 n/a n/a n/a n/a 
Bond securities n/a n/a n/a n/a 3.60% 1.4 4.00% 1.3 
Cash and equity futures 7.69% 1 8.1 7.86% 1 8.8 n/a n/a n/a n/a 
Index linked gilts and equity futures 8.1 5% 42.4 8.2 1% 42.9 n/a n/a n/a n/a 
Corporate bonds and equity futures 8.36% 29.5 8.66% 2 1.8 n/a n/a n/a n/a 
Other 6.89% 1 3.4 7.06% 1 1.6 n/a n/a n/a n/a 
Fair value of scheme assets  1 76.1  1 69.4  2.8  2.5 
Present value of scheme liabilities  (230.9)  (226.3)  (2.6)  (2.3) 
(Deficit)/surplus in the scheme  (54.8)  (56.9)  0.2  0.2 
Related deferred tax asset  1 4.7  1 5.9  –  – 
Net pension (liability)/asset  (40.1)  (4 1.0)  0.2  0.2 
     
+ The rates quoted are the expected net rate of return after allowing for investment expenses.         
      
The fair value of the scheme assets are not intended to be realised in the short-term and may be subject to significant change before they are realised. 
The present value of the scheme liabilities is derived from cash flow projections over a long period and is thus inherently uncertain.
The expected rate of return on each class of scheme assets is based on market expectations as at 3 1 December 201 0. For equity futures it has been 
assumed that the long-term return will be 4% (2009: 4%).
The total exposure to equities through equity futures in the table above is £90 million (2009: £83 million).
Movements in the present value of scheme liabilities were as follows: 
    
 British Polythene Irish Polythene  
 Industries Industries
     2010 2009 2010 2009 
     £m £m £m £m
At 1 January     226.3 1 76.7 2.3 2.4 
Current service cost     0.5 0.6 – – 
Interest on pension liabilities     1 2.6 1 1.2 0.2 0.1 
Contributions from scheme members     0.7 0.8 – – 
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities     – 1.8 (0.1) – 
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities    4.3 44.6 0.3 (0.1) 
Benefits paid     (1 3.5) (9.4) (0.1) (0.1) 
At 31 December     230.9 226.3 2.6 2.3 
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets were as follows:
         
     £m £m £m £m
At 1 January     1 69.4 1 5 1.0 2.5 2.3 
Expected return on pension scheme assets     1 0.7 9.8 0.2 0.1 
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets     5.4 1 4.0 – 0.2 
Employer contributions     3.4 3.2 0.3 – 
Contributions from the scheme members     0.7 0.8 – – 
Benefits paid     (1 3.5) (9.4) (0.1) (0.1) 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange     – – (0.1) – 
At 31 December     1 76.1 1 69.4 2.8 2.5 
         
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
79
Financial Statements
29. RETIREMENT AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGA TIONS (continued)
The movements in the Scheme deficit were as follows: 
    
British Polythene Industries             
  
     2010 2010 2009 2009 
     £m £m £m £m
 
Deficit in scheme at 1 January      (56.9)  (25.7) 
Current service cost     (0.5)  (0.6) 
Total amount charged to profit from operations     (0.5)  (0.6) 
Expected return on pension scheme assets     1 0.7  9.8 
Interest on pension liabilities     (1 2.6)  (1 1.2) 
Total amount charged to net financing costs     (1.9)  (1.4) 
Amount charged to income statement      (2.4)  (2.0) 
Employer contributions      3.4  3.2 
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets     5.4  1 4.0 
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities     –  (1.8) 
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities    (4.3)  (44.6) 
Actuarial gain/(loss)      1.1  (32.4) 
 
Deficit in scheme at 31 December      (54.8)  (56.9) 
         
Of the charge to profit from operations for the year ended 3 1 December 201 0, £0.4 million (2009: £0.5 million) has been included in cost of sales and 
£0.1 million (2009: £0.1 million) has been included in administrative expenses.       
        
Irish Polythene Industries             
  
     2010 2010 2009 2009 
     £m £m £m £m
 
Surplus/(deficit) in scheme at 1 January      0.2  (0.1) 
Expected return on pension scheme assets     0.2  0.1  
Interest on pension liabilities     (0.2)  (0.1) 
Total amount charged to income statement      –  – 
Employer contributions      0.3  – 
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets     –  0.2  
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities     0.1  –  
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities    (0.3)  0.1 
Actuarial (loss)/gain      (0.2)  0.3 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange      (0.1)  – 
Surplus in scheme at 31 December      0.2  0.2 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
80
29. RETIREMENT AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGA TIONS (continued)
Experience adjustments
The five-year history of experience adjustments is as follows:          
     
British Polythene Industries        
    2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
    £m £m £m £m £m
Actual return on scheme assets    1 6.3 23.8 (3 1.3) 1 4.8 1 4.8 
Present value of scheme liabilities    (230.9) (226.3) (1 76.7) (202.6) (202.7) 
Fair value of scheme assets    1 76.1 1 69.4 1 5 1.0 1 85.0 1 69.5 
Deficit in scheme    (54.8) (56.9) (25.7) (1 7.6) (33.2) 
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities    – (1.8) (5.7) 0.4 2.2 
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%)    0.0% (0.8%) (3.2%) 0.2% 1.1%
Experience adjustments on scheme assets    5.4 1 4.0 (43.8) 3.5 5.4 
Percentage of scheme assets (%)    3.1% 8.3% (29.0%) 1.9% 3.2%
The cumulative actuarial losses recognised in equity from the date of transition to IFRS on 1 January 2004 total £40.6 million (December 2009: £39.5 million).
Contributions in 201 1 will consist of a fixed annual contribution of £2.8 million, payable monthly. 
These contributions are subject to review at formal actuarial valuations.         
      
Irish Polythene Industries        
    2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 
    £m £m £m £m £m
Actual return on scheme assets    0.1 0.3 (0.5) – 0.1 
Present value of scheme liabilities    (2.6) (2.3) (2.4) (2.1) (1.9) 
Fair value of scheme assets    2.8 2.5 2.3 2.3 2.1 
Surplus/(deficit) in scheme    0.2 0.2 (0.1) 0.2 0.2 
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities    0.1 – – – – 
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%)    (2.0%) 0.0% (1.8%) 0.9% (0.6%)
Experience adjustments on scheme assets    – 0.2 (0.6) (0.1) – 
Percentage of scheme assets (%)    1.0% 7.0% (5.9%) (0.5%) 0.7%
The cumulative actuarial losses recognised in equity total nil (December 2009: nil).       
        
Contributions in 201 1 will consist of a fixed annual contribution of £0.1 million.        
       
These contributions are subject to review at formal actuarial valuations.
Sensitivity analysis
It is estimated that a fall in the discount rate or increase in inflation of 0.5% would increase the pension scheme deficit by £1 7 million (2009: £1 5 million), 
an increase in life expectancy of one year would increase it by £5 million (2009: £4 million) and a fall in equity markets of 1 0% would increase it by  
£9 million (2009: £8 million).             
  
Defined contribution schemes
The assets of the defined contribution section of the British Polythene Pension Scheme, other defined contribution schemes and defined benefit  
schemes treated as defined contribution schemes as detailed above are held separately from those of the Group, being invested in funds under the 
control of a number of insurance companies. The pension charge includes contributions payable by the Group to the various insurance companies.  
             
The total cost charged to income in 201 0 of £1.5 million (2009: £1.7 million) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates 
specified in the rules of the plans.            
   
Other employee benefits
The Group has two other arrangements classified as other long-term benefits. In the UK there is a self-insured Permanent Health Scheme with recognised 
liabilities of £0.8 million (2009: £0.9 million) and in the Netherlands there is a ‘’Jubilee’’ provision of £0.5 million (2009: £0.5 million) which provides for 
additional payments to employees with long service.           
    
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
81
Financial Statements
30. RELA TED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries (see Note 1 3), with its Directors and executive officers including key management 
personnel, and with the British Polythene Pension Scheme. Disclosures relating to Directors are shown on Pages 40 to 43.    
           
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. 
              
There were no trading transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group in the year ended 3 1 December 201 0. Transactions with the 
Group’s pension schemes, which are related parties, are disclosed in Note 29.        
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24  
‘Related Party Disclosures’:
       2010 2009 
       £m £m
Short-term employee benefits       3.4 3.1 
Share-based payments       0.2 – 
Post-employment benefits       0.1 0.2 
       3.7 3.3
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued) 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
82
       2010 2009 
      Notes £m £m 
Fixed assets        
Investments      2 1 49.9 1 49.9
Current assets         
Debtors      3 30.6 1 9.2
Cash at bank       – 3.7
       30.6 22.9
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year         
Bank and other borrowings       1.0 –
Derivative financial instruments      4 0.5 0.3
Other creditors      5 34.4 36.8
       35.9 37.1
Net current liabilities       (5.3) (1 4.2)
Total assets less current liabilities       1 44.6 1 35.7
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year         
Bank and other borrowings       33.8 4 1.5
Derivative financial instruments      4 0.5 0.3
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings       3 1.2 3 1.2
       65.5 73.0
Net assets       79.1 62.7
Capital and reserves         
Called up share capital      6 6.6 6.6
Share premium account      7 25.1 25.1
Other reserves      8 1 2.8 1 3.2
Profit and loss account      9 34.6 1 7.8
Shareholders’ funds       79.1 62.7
         
The Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 07 March 201 1 and signed on its behalf by:    
C. McLatchie
Chairman
D. Harris 
Group Finance Director           
UK GAAP Parent Company Balance Sheet 
At 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
83
Financial Statements
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of preparation
The Company’s financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments which are stated at their fair 
value, and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards. The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, for the reasons 
outlined in the Finance Review on Page 26. The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered 
material in relation to the Company’s financial statements.
Profit and loss account
Under Section 408 (3) of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Related party transactions
As the parent company of the British Polythene Industries PLC Group (the financial statements for which can be found on Pages 49 to 8 1), the Company  
has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with entities which are wholly-owned 
subsidiaries of the Group.
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance 
sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at historical cost that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date 
when the historical cost was determined. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the profit and loss account for the year.
T axation
The Company’s tax charge is based on the result for the year and tax rates in force during the year. Estimation of the tax charge requires an assessment  
to be made of the potential tax treatment of certain items which will only be resolved once finally agreed with the relevant tax authorities.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting 
purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 1 9. A net deferred tax asset is regarded  
as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be 
sufficient taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Investments
Investments are stated at cost less provisions for any impairment.
Derivative financial instruments
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Company’s treasury policy. Hedges are classified as follows:
– Fair value hedges that hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
–  Cash flow hedges that hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset  
or liability or a forecast transaction.
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the profit and loss account. Any gain or loss 
on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the profit and 
loss account.
For cash flow hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge, as defined by FRS 26,  
is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion recognised in the profit and loss account. When hedged cash flows result in the recognition of a 
non-financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. 
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the profit and loss account in the same period in which 
the hedged cash flows affect the profit and loss account.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised in the profit and loss account.
When a hedging instrument is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast 
transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy 
when the transaction occurs. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity  
is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. 
Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company considers 
these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability 
until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Notes to the UK GAAP Parent Company Financial Statements 
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
84
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Share-based payments
The fair value of employee share options granted is calculated at grant date and the resulting cost is charged to the profit and loss account over the 
performance period of the options with a corresponding increase in equity. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels  
of options vesting. Failures to vest as a result of market conditions are not reversed.
Treasury shares
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised  
as a change in equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from profit and loss reserves. 
Provisions and contingent liabilities
In accordance with FRS 1 2 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’, provisions are recognised where there is a present obligation as  
a result of a past event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made  
of the amount of the obligation. If these conditions are not met, no provision is recognised. However, contingent liabilities are disclosed in the notes  
to the financial statements, unless the possibility of a transfer of economic benefits is remote. Contingent gains are not recognised unless realisation  
of the profit is virtually certain. 
Dividends payable
Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recorded as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved.
Retirement benefit obligations
The Company participates in a Group-wide scheme, the British Polythene Pension Scheme, which has a defined benefit section (providing benefits based 
on final pensionable pay) and a defined contribution section. The assets of the Scheme are held separately from those of the Company. The pension costs 
for the defined contribution section are charged to the profit and loss account on the basis of contributions due in respect of the financial year. In relation 
to the defined benefit section of the Scheme, the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities on a consistent and reliable 
basis and therefore, as required by FRS 1 7, the Company accounts for this Scheme as a defined contribution scheme. As a result, the amount charged to 
the profit and loss account in respect of the defined benefit section represents the contributions payable to the Scheme in respect of the year. 
2. FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS           
           
       Subsidiary Undertakings  
      Equity Non-equity Total 
      £m £m £m 
Shares at cost less provisions 
At 31 December 2009      85.1 64.8 1 49.9
Movement during year      – – –
At 31 December 2010      85.1 64.8 1 49.9
         
  
Subsidiary undertakings           
Except as indicated below, the Company owns the whole issued share capital of all subsidiary undertakings. The principal subsidiary undertakings  
are as follows:           
    
    
Company  Country of incorporation Trade
British Polythene Limited  England Polythene manufacturer 
AT Films Inc *  Canada Polythene manufacturer 
BPI plc  England Property company 
BPI Europe BV *  Netherlands Holding company 
Combipac BV *  Netherlands Polythene manufacturer 
Formipac France SA *  France Distribution company 
Irish Polythene Industries Limited  Republic of Ireland Distribution company 
Venture Hong Kong Limited (75% owned) *  Hong Kong Holding company 
Xinhui Alida Polythene Limited +  China Polythene manufacturer 
* Shares held through an intermediate holding company    
+ 20% owned through a subsidiary undertaking    
    
   
    
    
   
         
  
Notes to the UK GAAP Parent Company Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
85
Financial Statements
3. DEBTORS
       2010 2009 
       £m £m
Trade debtors       0.2 0.3
Amounts due by subsidiary undertakings       27.8 1 6.6 
Prepayments and accrued income       0.4 0.2
Other debtors       1.4 1.3
Group relief receivable       0.8 0.8
       30.6 1 9.2
4. DERIV A TIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Company considers the Group disclosures found at Note 1 7 to the consolidated financial statements to satisfy all FRS 29 disclosure requirements  
in relation to financial instruments.
5. OTHER CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR         
 
       2010 2009 
       £m £m
Trade creditors       0.7 0.5
Other taxes and social security       1.3 1.3
Accruals and deferred income       1.0 1.2
Other creditors       1.2 1.0
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings       30.2 32.8
       34.4 36.8
6. CALLED UP SHARE CAPIT AL 
         
       2010 2009 
       £m £m
Authorised 
Equity         
80,227,336 (2009: 80,227,336) ordinary shares of 25p each       20.1 20.1
Allotted, called up and fully paid        
Equity
26,498,160 (2009: 26,498,160) ordinary shares of 25p each       6.6 6.6
7. SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT           
         
         
        £m
At 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009        25.1
Notes to the UK GAAP Parent Company Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
86
8. OTHER RESERVES
     Capital   Total 
    Merge redemption Capital Hedging other 
    reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves 
    £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010    6.5 7.2 0.1 (0.6) 1 3.2
Movement during the year    – – – (0.4) (0.4)
At 31 December 2010    6.5 7.2 0.1 (1.0) 1 2.8
 
     Capital   Total 
    Merge redemption Capital Hedging other 
    reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves 
    £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2009    6.5 7.2 0.1 – 1 3.8
Movement during the year    – – – (0.6) (0.6)
At 31 December 2009    6.5 7.2 0.1 (0.6) 1 3.2
9. PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 
         
       2010 2009 
       £m £m
At 1 January       1 7.8 2 1.1 
Profit/(Loss) for the financial year       20.1 (0.7) 
Dividends paid       (2.9) (2.9) 
Increase in own shares held       (1.0) –
FRS 20 charge in relation to equity-settled transactions       0.6 0.3
At 31 December       34.6 1 7.8
 
The profit after taxation for the year amounted to £20.1 million (2009: loss of £0.7 million).       
1 0. RECONCILIA TION OF MOVEMENT IN SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS 
         
       2010 2009 
       £m £m
Opening shareholders’ funds       62.7 66.6
Profit/(loss) for the financial year       20.1 (0.7) 
Dividends paid       (2.9) (2.9) 
Increase in own shares held       (1.0) – 
FRS 20 charge in relation to equity-settled transactions       0.6 0.3
Movement in hedging reserve       (0.4) (0.6)
Net movement in shareholders’ funds       1 6.4 (3.9)
Closing shareholders’ funds       79.1 62.7
Notes to the UK GAAP Parent Company Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
87
Financial Statements
1 1. OWN SHARES HELD 
         
       2010 2009 
       £m £m
Cost of own shares held
At 1 January       1.1 1.2 
Shares purchased       1.0 –
Movement relative to shares vested under the restricted share plan      (0.6) (0.1)
At 31 December       1.5 1.1
The cost of own shares held represents shares held by the British Polythene Industries Employee Share Ownership Trust to satisfy the Company’s 
liabilities under share-based payment plans. The market value of the shares is £1.3 million (2009: £0.7 million).
  Date of  Number  Date of  Number 
  allocation  of shares  allocation  of shares 
  2010  2010  2009  2009
Movements in the numbers of shares held     
At 1 January    249,432    256,83 1 
No of shares allocated to employees  05/03/1 0  (1 1 3,750)  02/03/09  (7,399) 
Shares purchased  Various  398,7 4 1    – 
At 31 December    534,423    249,432 
1 2. DIVIDENDS 
         
       2010 2009 
       £m £m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:        
 Second interim dividend for the year ended 3 1 December 2009 of 7.5p per share (2008: final dividend of 7.5p)   2.0 2.0
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 3.65p per share (2009: 3.5p)     0.9 0.9
       2.9 2.9
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 7.85p per share (2009: second interim dividend of 7.5p)  2.1 2.0
The proposed final dividend was approved by the Board on 7 March 201 1 and has not been included as a liability as at 3 1 December 201 0.
1 3. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
In April 201 0, the Group was visited by officials from the European Commission (EC) and Office of Fair Trading (OFT) carrying out separate unannounced 
inspections into the agricultural films market. The Commission has stated that it has reason to believe that the companies concerned in these inspections 
may have violated EU antitrust rules that prohibit cartels and restrictive business practices and/or abuse of a dominant market position. BPI has cooperated 
with the requests for further information from the OFT received since their inspection under the Enterprise Act 2002. No requests for information have 
been received from the EC.
         
There is no strict deadline within which either the EC or OFT must complete their enquires into possible anti competitive conduct. While these enquiries 
are ongoing, it is not possible at this stage to ascertain whether or not any further action will be taken by either the EC or the OFT as a result of these 
enquiries or the likely timetable for resolving these matters. As the Directors cannot predict with any degree of certainty the outcome of the above 
matters, it is not possible to assess accurately the likelihood of any significant financial cost to the Group or quantum of any cost. 
 
The Company has guaranteed the bank overdrafts of certain subsidiaries amounting at 3 1 December 201 0 to £8.7 million (2009: £7.9 million) including 
interest from time to time thereon. The Company also has an obligation under the Group VAT registration amounting at 3 1 December 201 0 to £3.4 million 
(2009: £2.5 million).
           
The Company has also entered into a contract to guarantee the indebtedness of a third party in relation to a lease contract. In the event of default, the 
Company could be held liable for future contracted lease payments for up to five years from 29 July 201 0. This represents a contingent liability to the 
Company of the present value of these payments. This amounted to £0.8 million at 3 1 December 201 0 (2009: £1.0 million).
Notes to the UK GAAP Parent Company Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
88
1 4. SHARE-BASED PA YMENTS
The Company considers the IFRS 2 Group disclosures found at Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements to satisfy all FRS 20 disclosure requirements. 
1 5. PENSIONS
Defined Contribution Schemes
The assets of the defined contribution section of the British Polythene Pension Scheme and other defined contribution schemes are held separately  
from those of the Group, being invested with a number of insurance companies.
The pension charge includes contributions payable to the various insurance companies. 
Defined Benefit Scheme
The Company is a member of a larger Group-wide pension scheme providing benefits based on pensionable pay. As the Company is unable to  
identify its share of the Scheme assets and liabilities on a reliable and consistent basis, as permitted by FRS 1 7 ‘Retirement benefits’, the Scheme 
is accounted for as if it were a defined contribution scheme. The Company made contributions of £0.1 million (2009: £0.2 million) in the year.  
There were no outstanding or prepaid Company contributions at either the beginning or the end of the financial year. On 30 September 201 0  
the Scheme ceased future accruals and all active members’ past service benefits were preserved on this date.
The assets of the defined benefit section are invested in a self-administered trust fund and hence are also separated from the Group’s business assets.  
FRS 1 7 Disclosures
The Company considers the IAS 1 9 Group disclosures found at Note 29 to the consolidated financial statements to satisfy all FRS 1 7 disclosure requirements. 
1 6. RELA TED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The company has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, with its Directors and executive officers including key management personnel, and with 
the British Polythene pension scheme. Disclosures relating to Directors are shown on Pages 40 to 43.
Transactions with wholly-owned subsidiaries of British Polythene Industries PLC Group are not disclosed on the basis of the exemption contained in FRS 8. 
At 3 1 December 201 0, the company has intercompany debtor balances with two non-wholly-owned subsidiaries: £0.8 million with Xinhui Alida Polythene 
Limited (2009: £1.4 million) and £0.8 million with Venture Hong Kong Limited (2009: £0.8 million). The balances relate to intercompany loans.  
Remuneration of key management personnel 
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Company is set out below, in aggregate:      
       2010 2009 
       £m £m
Short-term employee benefits       2.3 2.1 
Share-based payments       0.1 – 
Post-employment benefits       0.1 0.1 
       2.5 2.2
Notes to the UK GAAP Parent Company Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 3 1 December 201 0 British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
89
Financial Statements
Financial Calendar
20 11
1 2 May 201 1  Annual General Meeting
July 201 1  Payment of 201 0 Final Dividend
August 201 1  Announcement of 201 1 Interim Results
November 201 1  Payment of 201 1 Interim Dividend
2 0 12
5 March 201 2  Announcement of 201 1 Annual Results
April 201 2  Issue of 201 1Annual Report and Accounts
May 201 2  Annual General Meeting
July 201 2  Payment of 201 1 Final Dividend
Registrars
Enquiries concerning the holding of ordinary shares in the Company  
should be addressed to the Registrars who should also be notified  
of any changes in a holder’s address.
The Registrars are: 
Computershare Investor Services PLC, 
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ.
T elephone: 0870 889 3238
Your Shareholding
You may check your shareholding at any time by visiting the Registrars 
website (www.uk.computershare.com/investors).
Website 
The Company has a website (www.bpipoly.com) which provides details  
of all major stock exchange announcements, the current share price and 
information on businesses and products.
Share Price Information
The latest information on the Company’s share price is published in most 
newspapers, the Financial Times Cityline services, telephone number 09058 
1 7 1 690) and a number of websites including the London Stock Exchange 
(www.londonstockexchange.com). 
FTSE4Good Index
The Company continues to be part of the Index.
The Index is designed to measure the performance of companies that meet 
globally recognised corporate responsibility standards, and to facilitate 
investment in those companies.
Registered Office
One London Wall, London, EC2Y 5AB
Head Office
96 Port Glasgow Road, Greenock, PA1 5 2UL
T elephone: 01 475 501 000
Fax: 01 475 7 43 1 43
Registration Number
108 1 9 1
Information for Shareholders  British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
90
Notes British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
91
Financial Statements
Notes British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
92
Notes Our choice of paper
Choosing a paper that sits well with our environmental vision  
is important to us. That’s why the cover and text pages are 
printed on 80% recycled FSC-approved paper produced from 
well-managed forests. The financial statements have been 
printed on 1 00% recycled paper and the entire publication  
has been printed using vegetable oil-based inks by a FSC-
recognised printer that holds an ISO 1 4001 certification.   
The carbon impact of this paper has also been measured and 
balanced through the World Land Trust, an ecological charity. 
bpi is the largest polythene film producer in Europe
The largest recycler of polythene film in Europe. –
A leading global supplier of agricultural film products. –
A leading European supplier of packaging   –
for the protection of food and other goods.
Our expertise, built up  
over many years, means  
we are now leading through...
... people ... innovation
... brands ... recycling ... investment
From specialised research projects to product 
development, advanced manufacturing 
processes and effective customer support 
initiatives, BPI innovates across all areas  
of the business to provide product and  
service differentiation.
With more than 43% of sales outside the UK,  
BPI is a global supplier of agricultural films,  
a leading European supplier of packaging for  
food and other goods and Europe’s largest 
recycler of polythene film.
From the established brands of Silotite
®
 and 
Visqueen
®
 to the success of The Green Sack
™
  
and the flexible Bontite
®
 range, our distinctive 
brands are synonymous with high quality and 
leading technology.
Comprehensive training and development 
programmes throughout the Group ensure 
the continuing development of a highly skilled 
workforce whose collective expertise allows 
BPI to successfully meet the challenges we 
face across our business. 
As Europe’s largest recycler of waste 
polythene film, BPI can reprocess nearly 
70,000 tonnes annually. With more than  
20 years experience, we are able to handle 
even the most heavily contaminated 
agricultural waste.
BPI’s commitment to developing world class 
manufacturing facilities and willingness to exploit 
new technologies is supported by an ongoing 
investment programme. This programme has 
enabled us to stay at the forefront of 
technological advances.
... markets British Polythene Industries PLC
96 Port Glasgow Road 
Greenock 
PA1 5 2UL
T: +44 (0)1 475 501 000 
F: +44 (0)1 475 7 43 1 43
www.bpipoly.com
British Polythene Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 201 0
Leading through...
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 201 0
