 British Polythene Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
 Resilience
A defining feature  
of our business
British Polythene Industries PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
British Polythene Industries PLC
96 Port Glasgow Road 
Greenock 
PA 1 5 2UL
T: +44 (0)1 475 501 000 
F: +44 (0)1 475 743 1 43
www.bpipoly.com Our choice of paper
Choosing a paper that sits well with our environmental vision  
is important to us. That’s why the cover and text pages are  
printed on 80% recycled FSC -approved paper produced from 
well-managed forests. The financial statements have been  
printed on 100% recycled paper and the entire publication  
has been printed using vegetable oil-based inks by a FSC -
recognised printer that holds an ISO 14001 certification.  
The carbon impact of this paper has also been measured and 
balanced through the World Land Trust, an ecological charity. 
CBP0002042603122042
Innovation in new film technologies and pioneering 
applications set us apart in agriculture where our 
world leading brands offer the combined benefits  
of cost efficiency, exceptional quality and 
outstanding performance levels.
Read more on page 18
Product Innovation 
A strategy of ongoing  
investment has created world 
class manufacturing facilities 
capable of producing high-
quality, technically advanced 
products. This investment  
enables the business to develop 
market leading positions. 
Read more on page 06
Continuing Investment Programme
18
06
With over two-thirds of our business spread across  
the agriculture, retail food and healthcare and waste 
management sectors we continue to focus on 
further enhancing the resilience of our business. 
 › The largest recycler of polythene film in Europe.
 › A leading global supplier of agricultural film products.
 › A leading European supplier of packaging  
for the protection of food and other goods.
bpi is one of the  
largest polythene film 
producers in Europe
Leadership in 
Agriculture
Leading 
through 
Investment 01
British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial Highlights
  
Overview
02  About Us
04  Our Products at a Glance
08  Chairman’s Statement
Review of the Year
12  Strategy and Business Objectives
13  Risk Factors
14 Market Overview
16 Key Performance Indicators
20  Chief Executive’s Review
28 Financial Review
34  Corporate Social Responsibility Review
Corporate Governance
44  Board of Directors and Advisers
46  Corporate Governance Report
52  Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements
60  Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
61  Independent Auditor’s Report
62  Five Year Record
63  Consolidated Income Statement
63  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
64  Consolidated Balance Sheet
65  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
66  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
67  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
93  UK GAAP Parent Company Balance Sheet
94  Notes to the UK GAAP Parent Company Financial Statements
99  Information for Shareholders
Over 30 years experience and extensive technical 
expertise have made BPI leaders in recycling 
polythene film. The recent installation of a 
new Wash Plant and Recycling line means we  
are poised to develop this position further.
Read more on page 32
With more than 46% of sales 
outside the UK into more than  
50 countries we are a global 
supplier of agricultural films,  
a leading European supplier of 
packaging for food and other 
goods and Europe’s largest  
recycler of polythene film.  
Read more on page 26
Withstanding Economic Conditions
Major Investment In Recycling
32
26
Turnover (£m)
Profit before tax (£m)
Diluted Earnings Per Share (p)
508
19.2
50.25
2010 478
2011 508
2009 425
2010 11.5
2011 12.5
2009 11.0
2010 16.7
2011 19.2
2009 11.8
2010 15.8
2011 19.1
2009 16.3
2010 51.07
2011 50.25
2009 30.36
2010 38.31
2011 46.92
2009 38.60
Dividend per share (p)
Profit after interest and  
net pension financing (£m)  
Before restructuring
Diluted Earnings Per Share (p)  
Before restructuring
12.5
1 9.1
46.92
Customers 
& Markets
Leadership 
in Recycling
Report by Directors and Business Review
Cautionary statements
This document is addressed to shareholders of British Polythene Industries Plc 
and has been prepared solely to provide information to assist them in assessing 
the Company’ s strategies and their potential for success, and to inform them  
of the Company’ s performance during the year ended 31 December 2011.  
This document contains the Report by Directors and Business Review, the 
financial statements and the Independent Auditor’ s Report.
This document contains forward-looking statements based on knowledge  
and information available to the Directors at the date the document was 
prepared. Although the Directors’ expectations are based on reasonable 
assumptions, these statements should be treated with caution due to the 
inherent uncertainties underlying such forward-looking information and  
any statements about the future outlook may be influenced by factors  
that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different. 02
About Us
British Polythene Industries  
is a global supplier of agricultural 
films, a leading European supplier 
of packaging for food and other 
goods and Europe’s largest 
recycler of polythene film.
BPI supplies customers in more than 50 countries 
with more than 46% of sales outside the UK.
We sell our products to a large number  
of customers in a wide variety of market sectors.
2% 
Canada
54%	 UK
35%	 Agriculture	 and	 Horticulture
31%	 Retail	 food	 chain
12%	 Industrial
11% 
Construction
7% 
Healthcare
and waste  
services
4% 
Non food retail
5%	 Germany
7%	 Netherlands
Turnover by Destination
End Use Markets
£508m 
Group turnover £508m (46% outside UK)
273,000t 
Manufactures 273,000+ tonnes per annum 
1 9 
1 9 manufacturing sites: 1 3 UK, 2 Belgium,  
1 Holland, 1 China, 2 North America
2,375 
Number of employees
For over 23 years BPI has enjoyed  
a long term relationship with  
the SP-M Company Ltd based  
in Hokkaido in northern Japan –  
the country’s most important  
dairy production area.
BPI has worked with SP-M and 
its trading partner the GSP 
Corporation in the development 
of the Japanese silage stretchfilm 
market where Silotite
®
 has become 
synonymous with balewrapping.
Two decades  
of successful  
co-operation.
T urnover by 
Sector
T urnover by 
Destination
7%	 Belgium
6%	 France
6%	 Scandinavia
3%	 Republic	 	 of	 Ireland
3%	 USA
7% 
Others 03
British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
The average thickness of products has been reducing due to 
a combination of the development of thinner, stronger films.
During 2011, the Group employed on average 2,375 people. The Group operates in three geographic regions;  
UK and Ireland, Mainland Europe and North America 
(with the Chinese operation being managed by and 
reported within the UK business). 
Sales Volume
K T onnes Square Metres (000)
Turnover by origin 
67% UK and Ireland 
27% Mainland Europe
6% North America
Operating assets*
70% UK and Ireland 
25% Mainland Europe
5% North America
Operating profit
(Before Net Restructuring) 
34% UK and Ireland 
62% Mainland Europe
4% North America
The Impact of Thinner Stronger Films
Employees Geography
1,733 
UK & Ireland
159	 China
381 
Mainland
Europe
102 
North America
Mr Hideaki Nozawa, 
Managing Director  
of SP-M, which has 
distributed Silotite
®
 
to Japanese farmers 
since 1988 with Mr. 
Nakakubo, SP-M 
Sales Manager.
2011 
273
2011 
8,332,530
2010 
280
2010 
8,1 60,5 1 4
2009 
275
2009 
7,871,65 1
Historically the Group’s volumes  
have been expressed in tonnage terms. 
For a number of years the average 
thickness of products has been 
reducing due to a combination of the 
development of thinner and stronger 
films (downgauging) and customers 
moving into lighter products. This 
change has been driven by the desire  
to reduce the weight of packaging,  
to take advantage of cost benefits  
and advances in packing technology. 
In the chart the Group’s volumes for 
the last three years are also expressed 
in terms of square metres. As the 
products become thinner the surface 
area remains unchanged enabling a 
comparison of the quantity of product 
sold which is unaffected by the impact 
of downgauging.
The table shows that in spite of 
tonnages having reduced from 2010  
to 2011 by 2.5% the Group’s volumes  
in square metres have increased  
by 2.1%. When compared to 2009  
the volumes in square metres  
have increased by 5.9% in spite of  
the tonnage having reduced slightly.
The production of thinner and 
stronger films requires the use of  
more advanced equipment and 
polymers. The advantage of this  
change for customers is measured  
in both environmental and cost 
benefits. The Group’s ongoing capital 
expenditure programme supports  
this by investing in state of the art  
extrusion and Machine Direction 
Orientation equipment. 
*  Operating assets comprise non current assets  
(excluding deferred tax and retirement benefit assets), 
inventory, trade and other receivables.
Employees  
by region
Today Silotite
®
 remains the leading brand of 
balewrap in Japan thanks to the ongoing work 
of Mr Takashi Kudo (GSP) and his team. 
Popular with Dairy and Beef farmers alike 
Silotite
®
 is known as a high performance  
film that provides ideal ensiling conditions  
for high quality baled silage. 
 
To meet market requirements in Japan BPI 
supplies both white and black film. 04
Our Products at a Glance Our Major Markets
UK and Ireland
•	Ambassador Antalis 
Packaging
•	Associated British Foods
•	Britvic 
•	Bulteau Systems
•	Bunzl
•	Camvac
•	Case New Holland
•	Coca Cola Enterprises
•	European Agri Trading
•	Hanson
•	Haygrove
•	Jostein Skei
•	Knauf
•	McArthur Group
•	Mole Valley Farmers
•	National Health Service
•	Next
•	Premier Foods
•	Princes Foods
•	Saint Gobain
•	SIG PLC
•	Tarmac
•	Tesco
•	Travis Perkins
•	Veolia
•	Warburtons
•	Westland Horticulture
•	Wipak
•	Wm Morrison
•	Wolseley
Europe
•	Agristo BV
•	Agro Danmark GMBH
•	Basell
•	Borealis
•	Cie Des Salins Du Midi
•	Coca Cola
•	Dow Chemical Company
•	Ineos
•	Krone Bernard GMBH
•	Läderach Agro
•	McCain
•	Pinguin Lutosa
•	Sabic
•	Schmidt Ulrich 
Farmtechnic
•	Verkoopkantoor Fybron
North America
•	Alberta Ag Bag Sealed 
Storage Inc
•	Benco PolyFilm
•	BFG Supply Co
•	BWI Companies Inc
•	CT & T Enterprises
•	Donaghys Industries
•	Green-Tek
•	Griffin Greenhouse 
Supplies
•	La Coop Federee
•	United Farmers of Alberta
•	Western Ag Enterprises Inc
•	Zwart Systems
With an established international 
reputation, bpi is determined to 
offer customers the highest 
possible quality and service.
Our Major Brands
Our Major Customers
Non Food Retail
>
Retail Food Chain >
As an established supplier to some of Europe’s  
best known food and drink producers and multiple 
retailers, our position as a preferred packaging  
partner to such high-profile organisations is a  
direct result of our ability to provide solutions  
that meet demands and exceed expectations. 
We offer products that make a difference through 
longer shelf life, reduced environmental impact  
and better product presentation in addition to the 
reassurance of our staunch commitment to quality. 
•	Bakery products
•	Frozen foods
•	Cans & bottles
•	Fresh produce
•	Refuse sacks
•	Transit packaging
Recognised as an established and trusted supplier 
by healthcare professionals, our portfolio includes 
infection control products, clinical waste sacks and 
a number of specialist application items. Our waste 
management portfolio comprises both domestic 
and commercial options in addition to our flagship 
Green Sack™ range. Manufactured from UK farm 
waste the 100% recycled Green Sack™ range enjoys 
continuing sales growth whilst helping to conserve 
resources and reduce landfill.
Healthcare and Waste Management
>
•	Health authorities
•	Waste contractors
•	Catering
•	Janitorial
•	Local government
Think of an area of modern retailing and the  
chances are BPI plays a part in it. From the  
traditional shopping aisle to a host of online  
retailers we provide high quality protective 
packaging that safeguards a variety of shapes  
and sizes whilst withstanding the rigours of 
automated supply chains, logistics handling  
and the fast-paced retail environment.
•	Mailing bags for on-line retailers
•	Mailing film
•	Transit packaging
•	Furniture and carpets 05
British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
From North America to Europe, Asia and  
Australasia our portfolio of agricultural and 
horticultural films provide enhanced crop yields  
and augmented crop quality. Backed by extensive 
technical expertise and an understanding of local 
growing conditions our range includes films for all 
climates and crop varieties. Our globally recognised 
Silotite
®
, Visqueen
®
 and Luminance
®
 brands benefit 
from ongoing scientific research with leading 
agricultural institutions to ensure their continued 
advancement in order to meet the challenges of the 
21st century food chain. 
Agriculture and Horticulture
Construction
>
>
•	Silage products
•	Greenhouse films
•	Field covers
•	Peat and compost 
•	Animal feed
•	Fertiliser
Industrial >
Employed by some of Europe’s biggest names in 
petrochemicals, minerals and speciality chemicals  
our range of heavy duty polythene films includes 
speciality films, heavy duty sacks, extra wide 
sheeting and pallet protection products.  
Additionally our flexible production processes  
allow us to create highly effective, tailor-made 
packaging for specific customer applications  
in addition to high quality flexographic  
printing and advanced conversion facilities.
•	Polymer
•	Additives
•	Speciality chemicals
•	Salt
•	Container liners
Long recognised as the leading brand of high 
performance structural waterproofing solutions 
and gas barrier systems, the Visqueen name also 
carries an established reputation for ongoing 
product innovation and technical expertise. 
Our specialised knowledge base, project design 
skills and installation expertise have led to the 
incorporation of our systems into many landmark 
construction projects. We also supply a wide 
range of packaging for the construction industry.
•	Builders merchants
•	Brick and block 
manufacturers
•	Aggregates
•	Insulation
•	Cement 06
Leading through 
Investment
A thorough understanding  
of industry needs and product 
development requirements  
drive investment decisions.  
This investment programme  
is central to the success  
of the European operations.
The ongoing investment programme  
at the Zele site will take a significant  
step in 2012 as another five-layer 
agricultural stretch-film line is installed  
to meet growing demand for our  
next generation silage films. 
An additional flexographic printing  
press and upgraded extrusion equipment  
are being installed at the Hardenberg  
site to enable further developments in  
product quality and process efficiency. 
The installation of additional Machine 
Direction Orientation technology at  
the Roeselare site will ensure that BPI 
remains the leading supplier of thinner 
stronger films.
BPI has continued to 
invest in industry leading 
technology to enable  
the development of 
advanced products and 
continual improvements 
in process efficiency. 07
British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Leading through 
Investment
BPI Europe’s 28,000 tonne site in Zele, Belgium, has 
seen an ongoing investment programme in multi-layer 
extrusion technology, state of the art printing presses 
and automated material handling equipment.
“Regular investment in the latest printing  
technology coupled with our process knowledge  
has enabled BPI to optimise both efficiency and 
throughput across all print lines. The benefits  
afforded by optimal machine management  
techniques are shared with customers through  
added value products and improved lead times.”
Case Study: Zele Investment Stef Daems, Printing Manager, Zele 08
The Group performed well in 2011, with results  
just ahead of market expectations and well ahead  
of 2010. This was achieved against a background  
of difficult trading conditions, with volatile raw 
material costs and periods of subdued demand  
from certain sectors.
Introduction
Overall, operating profits and earnings rose by over 
20%, year on year, and Group borrowings reduced 
significantly during the period.
The Board is recommending an increased final 
dividend and considers that the Group is well 
positioned to face a further challenging year  
in 2012.
Results
Total volumes for the year were 273,200 tonnes 
(2010: 279,500), reflecting a reduction in demand  
in the second half from industrial and construction 
customers in the UK, and continuing reduction in 
product thickness.
On sales of £508 million (2010: £478 million), 
operating profit, before net restructuring, increased 
to £21.6 million (2010: £17.9 million). This increase 
can be attributed to another excellent performance 
from our European operations.
Net restructuring reflects costs of £1.3 million for the 
closure of the Swansea site, offset by a £1.9 million 
gain on the sale of a previously closed site in Essex. 
This is the second consecutive year that we have 
reported a net gain from restructuring and we  
do anticipate a further small gain when we sell  
the Swansea site.
Despite a significant reduction in overall borrowings, 
our borrowing costs increased slightly, as anticipated, 
reflecting the higher rates and fees as a result of the 
new banking facilities we reported last year. 
The calculated charge for net retirement benefit 
financing reduced to £0.5 million (2010:  
£1.9 million) due to the impact of the Pension 
Funding Partnership, which is explained later  
in this Statement.
The adjusted profit before tax (before net 
restructuring gains and net pension financing) rose 
by 21% to £19.1 million (2010: £15.8 million) and 
the adjusted diluted earnings per share were 46.92p 
(2010: 38.31p), an increase of 22.5%. 
On a statutory basis, including gains from sales  
of property, the profit before tax was £19.2 million 
(2010: £16.7 million) and diluted earnings per share 
were 50.25p (2010: 51.07p).
Chairman’s Statement 
The Group performed well in 2011, with  
results just ahead of market expectations  
and well ahead of 2010. This was achieved 
against a background of difficult trading 
conditions, with volatile raw material costs  
and periods of subdued demand from 
certain sectors.
Chairman
Cameron McLatchie 09
British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
Dividend
After the increase in the interim dividend to 4.0p  
per share (2010: 3.65p), the Board is recommending 
an increase in the final dividend to 8.5p per share 
(2010: second interim dividend 7.85p), making a 
total for the year of 12.5p per share (2010: 11.5p).
This final dividend is payable on 19 July to 
shareholders on the register at the close of  
business on 16 March 2012. 
Cash Flow and Borrowings
The Group generated net cash of £13.8 million  
in 2011, influenced by the following factors; an 
increase in operating profits; a reduction in raw 
material costs towards the year-end; delays in  
planned capital expenditure; the sale of the  
Essex property.
The improved cash generation, and a translation  
of the Sterling value of our significant European 
borrowings at the year-end, resulted in a reduction  
of borrowings to £31.0 million (2010: £45.6 million).  
We are unlikely to see a recurrence of all of the 
above factors in the current year.
Gross capital expenditure for 2011 was £14.6 million 
(2010: £15.1 million), and we currently expect that 
expenditure for 2012 will be around £18 million, 
reflecting the delayed expenditure for 2011, and 
further investment in new equipment. Major items 
planned to complete in 2012 include a washing 
plant for contaminated film waste at Rhymney,  
a 5-layer agricultural stretch-film line at Zele,  
a flexographic printing press at Hardenberg  
and a 3-layer co-extrusion line at Sevenoaks.
Group Pension Scheme 
The IAS 19 deficit in the UK defined benefit pension 
scheme increased from £55 million at 31 December 
2010 to £60 million at 31 December 2011. 
This was due to a further reduction in the net 
discount rate applied to the liabilities of the scheme. 
We have also further reviewed the longevity 
assumptions reflected in the IAS 19 valuation to 
reflect increasing life expectancy. In common with 
many other schemes, given the current volatility 
experienced by many investments, returns fell short 
of the level previously assumed.
The Company agreed with the trustees of the  
scheme a property backed cash payment plan  
(the Pension Funding Partnership) under which  
the Company will make inflation linked payments  
to the scheme of £1.8 million per annum for  
a period of 20 years starting in January 2012.  
This additional funding stream was recognised  
on inception as an asset of the scheme at a value  
of £19.6 million and at the year-end, the value of  
the asset was £20.7 million. The consequent 
reduction in the deficit as it appears in the Group’s 
balance sheet is offset by a matching non-
controlling interest. The scheme’s income from  
the partnership is recognised as a credit to net 
retirement benefit financing. As this is offset by  
an equal and opposite non-controlling interest  
there is no impact on reported earnings per share.
A triennial actuarial review of the fund was carried  
out at 6 April 2011 and the actuary certified a deficit  
at that date of £54 million. The Company has agreed  
a revised future funding rate of £3.2 million per 
annum effective from April 2012. These future 
payments are inflation linked and are in addition  
to the Pension Funding Partnership payments of 
£1.8 million. This agreed funding plan is designed  
to eliminate the scheme deficit over a nine year 
period. The agreed funding plan also requires 
additional one off payments if the Company 
achieves stretching profit before tax targets. 
The actuarial valuation of the pension scheme deficit 
reflects yields on government bonds at historically 
low levels together with a more prudent view of 
longevity. These yields have continued to reduce 
since 6 April 2011 and this will have increased the 
deficit further in the period to 31 December 2011. 
Board Changes
Eric Hagman retired as a Director and Chairman  
of the Audit Committee at our AGM in May 2011, 
after serving some nine years on the Board. Eric 
made a valuable contribution over a period that saw 
many changes in accounting results and regulations.
In July 2011, we appointed Ian Russell as a Director 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee. Ian is a 
member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of Scotland and has considerable current and past 
experience on a number of Boards.
In line with current recommendations, all Directors 
will now seek re-election at each Annual General 
Meeting of the Group.
The UK Corporate Governance Code
I can confirm that we do have an effective Board 
which is collectively responsible for the long-term 
success of the Company. 
I regard the current Board as extremely competent, 
that it has the necessary breadth of skills to fulfil its 
tasks, and that the Board is supplied with sufficient 
and timely information upon which to make the 
necessary deliberations and judgements.
The Board is challenging of Executive proposals,  
and the Committees of the Board do fulfil the 
independent functions that are required of them. 
£508m
On sales of £508 million (2010: £478 million), 
operating profit, before net restructuring,  
increased to £21.6 million (2010: £17.9 million).
£21.6m
Overall, operating profits and earnings rose  
by over 20%, year on year, and Group borrowings 
reduced significantly during the period. 10
Regulatory Issues 
We announced on 3 August that the Office  
of Fair Trading had closed their enquiry into the 
agricultural films market. This was followed by our 
announcement on 27 September that the European 
Commission had closed their enquiry into the same 
market sector. The Group’s legal and associated 
costs incurred during the period of the above 
investigations amounted to some £0.6 million  
and involved many hours of executive input.
The Company will continue to operate its 
longstanding policy of extensive guidelines and 
controls designed to ensure that all our operations 
comply with competition laws.
Group Development
The major positive for the year has been the 
continued success of our European business.  
Sound investment in equipment and excellent 
management of capacity has resulted in continued 
improvement in product quality and customer 
service. Current capital investments look very 
promising and further investment is planned  
to support all three operating sites.
In the UK, we reorganised our Films operations,  
with a clearer distinction between the stretch-film 
and shrink and converter film operations. This has 
resulted in greater focus on process issues and  
we have already approved investments in both 
operations. There is considerable room for  
upside in the performance of the UK stretch-film 
operations, and action has been taken to improve 
results over the next few years, as planned 
alterations in the process are effected.
On 1 November 2011, we announced our intention 
to close the site at Swansea, the oldest polythene 
operation in the Group. We had been making 
polythene bags in Swansea since the 1960s, and 
moved to the current factory in 1984. The original 
industrial customer base had been slowly eroded 
over the years, and recent investment in mailing 
products for the e-commerce market, although 
successful, had been unable to fill the gap. The 
products have been transferred to other Group sites 
and the major customers have signified that they  
are pleased with both quality and service. 
Despite the changes we made to the UK industrial 
operations by closing the Stockton site, and the 
significant improvement in performance that this 
has generated, we continue to have difficulty in 
achieving an acceptable return in this sector. 
Subdued and patchy demand, particularly from 
customers supplying the construction sector, has 
resulted in shorter and less efficient loadings on 
machines. The situation was partly helped by the 
work transferred from the Swansea site, but neither 
of our two larger industrial sites is fully loaded,  
and the short-term outlook for demand does not 
look promising.
Nonetheless, we do anticipate an improved 
performance in 2012, but this may be tempered  
by demand. In the longer term, these operations  
are well positioned to benefit from any upturn  
in demand from their traditional customer base. 
Our business is in better 
shape than ever and is 
growing in the more resilient 
sectors of the economy with 
emphasis on agriculture and 
the food chain. 
Chairman’s Statement 
( continued) 11
British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
The agricultural stretch-film line installed in Canada 
made excellent product in 2011, and this has been 
well received by customers. We are currently 
evaluating options for further investment at that site.
Our operation in China has secured a contract  
for the supply of bread bags to a large bakery  
in New Zealand. They have previously supplied 
similar product to the UK and the Middle East. 
Our retail-facing businesses in the UK, although 
fairly busy, are finding it difficult to generate 
adequate returns in a very competitive market. 
Raw Material
2011 again showed that our businesses are coping 
well with the fluctuating raw material cycle.
The price of polyethylene polymer, our basic raw 
material, rose early in the year, and we incurred 
significant additional raw material costs during the 
first half. The second half saw prices stabilise and 
then start to decline slowly. We exited the year  
with the price much lower than at the end of 2010, 
resulting in a significant boost to our cash flow  
and associated reduction in our borrowings.
This lower level of price did not last long, and both 
January and February have seen significant increases, 
taking price levels back to the levels we experienced 
last summer. We have now been advised that the 
March contract for ethylene has been settled with  
a further large increase and it is inevitable that this 
will translate into a further increase in polyethylene 
polymers for March. These increases are being 
accepted by the market at the current time, but this 
higher level of price will no doubt attract imports,  
as Europe, once again, becomes the most attractive 
market globally for polyethylene polymers.
Against a background of patchy demand and 
converters closing for summer holidays, it seems 
unlikely that these European polymer prices will  
hold up for the remainder of the year. 
Prospects and Current Trading
At this time of year, we are entering the main 
agricultural film season, and with the advantage of 
increased capacity and improved products, we are 
well placed to improve performance on the previous 
year. However, it is unlikely that we will get the same 
favourable growing conditions, especially on the 
European mainland. Last year’s extended season 
resulted in additional sales, but has had the effect  
of depleting stocks for the 2012 season. 
Demand in the industrial and construction sectors 
remains subdued, and we currently anticipate a 
further year of patchy demand but, with the actions 
taken over the last few years, we do expect some 
improvement in our performance in these sectors.
It is inevitable that margins will be affected, short 
term, by the current polymer price increases, as 
these costs are passed through to customers.
Despite the above factors, our business is in better 
shape than ever and is growing in the more resilient 
sectors of the economy with emphasis on agriculture 
and the food chain. We have demonstrated in recent 
years that we can cope with significant raw material 
volatility, and your Board currently anticipates a 
further satisfactory year in 2012. 
Cameron McLatchie
Chairman
2 March 2012 12
Strategy and 
Business Objectives
Our strategy remained broadly 
unchanged in that we are a focused 
polythene film business and intend to 
develop our market leading positions as: 
 › A leading global supplier of agricultural film products. 
 › The largest recycler of polythene film in Europe. 
 › A leading European supplier of packaging for the 
protection of food and other goods. 
The key elements  
of our strategy are:
 > Develop the growth opportunities available in 
agricultural markets, recycling and printed consumer 
and food products.
 > Develop our mainland European, Chinese and North 
American operations.
 > Restructure our UK films and UK industrial sectors.
 > Continue the development of new added  
value products.
 > Consider acquisition opportunities but only  
at the right price.
Our business  
objectives are: 
 > To provide first class customer service by delivering 
high quality products at competitive prices.
 > To be number 1 or number 2 in the major markets  
in which we operate.
 > To achieve organic growth in product areas and 
market sectors that continue to develop.
 > To invest in modern manufacturing equipment to 
enable us to develop new products, expand capacity 
in growing markets and improve added value and 
production efficiencies.
 > To aim for continuing product development  
to ensure we remain at the leading edge of  
technical advances.
 > To seek continual improvement in our operational 
performance and reduction in our cost base to 
ensure we remain competitive.
Our strategy and 
business objectives 
will take account of 
our belief that:
 > The health and safety of our employees is paramount 
and the prevention of accidents involving personal 
injury is essential to the successful operation of  
our business.
 > As a leading manufacturer and supplier of 
polythene, we have a responsibility to operate with 
due concern for the environment and communities 
in which we live and work, to minimise any adverse 
impact of our activities on that environment, and to 
make a positive contribution to those communities.
 > The development and retention of our people  
is vital to the future success of our business. 
Our primary financial  
objectives are to:
 > Grow operating profits. 
 > Grow Earnings Per Share.
 > Improve our return on capital.
 > Maintain a strong financial position. 13
British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
Risk  
Factors
Risk Description Mitigation
Poor economic  
conditions
The Group is exposed to a variety of market sectors which may be 
affected, to a greater or lesser extent, by the continuing adverse economic 
conditions. More than two thirds of the business is in the retail food  
chain, agriculture and horticulture, healthcare and waste services sectors 
which, so far, have proven more resilient to the economic downturn. The 
remainder of the business is in construction, industrial and non-food retail. 
There are risks associated with the current situation in the Eurozone 
countries. Whilst it is impossible to identify the eventual outcome,  
there is clearly the possibility of a further recession in the Eurozone.
Reduced demand leads to lost contribution, but can also put pressure  
on margins as competitors fight for remaining volumes.
For analysis of sales by market and geographical sector, see Note 3  
to the Financial Statements. 
 > Our European operations are located in Belgium and Holland 
with more than 40% of sales into the agricultural and  
food sectors. The main European markets are France, Benelux, 
Germany and Scandinavia with limited sales into countries such 
as Greece, Italy and Spain. Outwith Mainland Europe our major 
geographical markets are the UK, Ireland and North America.
 > The Group has undertaken considerable restructuring of its UK 
operations notably closure of the Stockton and Brampton sites 
which completed in 2010. The closure of the Swansea site was 
announced late in 2011 and completed early in 2012. These 
changes have better aligned the Group’s capacity with demand. 
The cost base of all operations is continually reviewed  
and further savings were achieved in 2011. 
Credit risk In the current challenging economic climate, the risk of customer 
insolvency is increased.
Further details of the Group’ s evaluation and management of this  
risk are contained in the Financial Review on pages 28 to 31 and  
in Note 15 to the Financial Statements.
 > Increased focus on credit assessment and prompt action 
on overdue accounts.
 > Some accounts are credit insured, particularly in Europe 
and in the agricultural sector.
Raw material prices The Group’ s main raw material, polymer, is subject to volatility on a month 
by month basis due to fluctuating prices for ethylene and, to a lesser 
extent oil. Supplier actions can also influence prices due to maintenance 
periods and breakdowns at their production plants. This creates a risk of 
erosion in margins if price increases cannot be passed through immediately 
to customers. Recent years have seen exceptional levels of volatility and 
unprecedented price levels. 2011 was no exception with prices reaching  
a record high in April before easing in the following months.
 > Centralised Group purchasing arrangements to ensure  
the best purchase price.
 > Coordinated instructions to sales teams on forward pricing.
 > Some linkage of customer pricing to polymer price indices.
 > Management of stock levels depending on anticipated  
price movements.
Energy costs As a process business and a significant user of energy, our results 
can be affected by major price movements.
 > Monitor energy prices and buy forward when 
advantageous.
 > Group energy saving programme implemented  
on each manufacturing site.
Weather conditions A number of our products are dependent on seasonal 
weather conditions and certain weather conditions could 
lead to reduced volumes.
 > Geographical spread of markets.
 > Diversification of product portfolio.
 > Controlled stock build for seasonal products.
Foreign exchange risk As we operate in several non UK countries, have considerable 
exports from the UK and our main competitors are based in 
Europe, we are exposed to medium term movements in exchange 
rates, particularly the Euro and the US dollar.
 > Hedging of known currency exposures.
 > Transfer production among Group sites in the UK,  
Europe, North America and China, where possible.
Perceived 
environmental issues
While polythene film is the most lightweight durable packaging 
medium, perceptions continue to exist that it is environmentally 
unfriendly which, together with adverse comments on plastic and 
packaging, could lead to changes in customer preference.
 > Communication and education efforts with customers 
and others to dispel some of the myths.
 > In 2011 less than 60% of Group sales were of packaging 
and, with continued investment in agricultural films and 
recycling, this may reduce in future years.
Regulation Our business is subject to regulation in many countries and this 
can impact on our performance. 
 > Monitor new and existing legislation and  
train staff accordingly.
Pension risk The Group is exposed to a number of financial and demographic risks 
arising from the defined benefit pension schemes. These risks include 
financial markets risk relating to the value of the scheme’ s assets and 
demographic risk relating to the life expectancy of the scheme’ s members. 
The impact of these risks on the Group relates to the future contributions 
it is required to make to the schemes to repair any funding deficit.
A triennial actuarial review of the main fund was carried out at 6 April 
2011 and the actuary certified a deficit at that date of £54 million. A 
funding plan has been agreed with the scheme trustees. Further details of 
the actuarial valuation and the funding plan can be found in the Financial 
Review on pages 28 to 31 and in Note 29 to the Financial Statements.
Further analysis of the risks and the sensitivity of the main fund to changes 
in circumstances are provided in Note 29 to the Financial Statements.
 > A number of measures have been taken to manage the risks 
relating to the pension scheme. The scheme was closed to 
new members in 2000, steps were taken in subsequent years 
to restrict the benefits accrued by scheme members and the 
scheme closed to future accrual in September 2010.
 > The scheme trustees in conjunction with their investment 
advisors have implemented an investment strategy designed  
to better align the scheme’s assets with the scheme’s  
liabilities, this is intended to reduce the overall level of  
risk faced by the scheme.
 > The Company is evaluating options to manage the  
Scheme liabilities.
BPI may be affected by a number of risks, not all of which are 
within our control. Outlined below is a description of some of  
the factors that may affect our business. The processes that  
BPI has in place for managing these risks are described in the 
Corporate Governance Report on page 46 . Monthly Polymer Prices Five Year Comparison (£/tonne) 
0
300
600
900
1 200
1 500
Jan-1 2 Jan-1 1 Jan-1 0 Jan-09 Jan-08 Jan-07
Average Polymer Prices Five Year Comparison (£/tonne) 
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
600
700
800
900
1 000
1 100
1 200
Jan-12 Jan-11 Jan-10 Jan-09 Jan-08 Jan-07
Oil Prices Five Year Comparison (£ and US$/barrel) 
0
30
60
90
120
150
US$
UK£
14
The European polythene film 
extrusion market is estimated at 
over 7 million tonnes and is highly 
fragmented, with no individual 
business having more than  
5% of the market. 
The European polythene film extrusion market is 
estimated at over 7 million tonnes and is highly 
fragmented with no individual business having more 
than 5% of the market. The market is characterised 
by strong regional players and a number of product 
specialists. Total market volumes are reported to 
have shown modest growth in 2010 and 2011 after 
falling in 2008 and 2009. This recovery in demand 
was concentrated in packaging for food and the 
polymer industry with construction markets 
remaining subdued. 
Major end use applications include the protection  
of goods in transit using stretchfilm, collation 
shrinkwrap and pallet shrinkwrap. Stretchfilm has 
enjoyed good growth rates, as in most cases, it is 
the most cost effective solution. The main process 
for stretchfilm is cast technology although the 
blown film process has greater flexibility to tailor 
films to particular needs and is mainly used for  
silage films and, increasingly, stretchhoods. 
Bags and sacks are a major sector with a wide 
variety of uses from small coin bags to carrier bags, 
to heavy duty sacks for chemicals and animal feed. 
Carrier bag production in Europe has declined 
because of increasing volumes of imported bags  
and environmental pressures to reduce their usage. 
The heavy duty sack market is moving to continuous 
form, fill and seal (FFS) processes which are replacing 
individual open mouth and valve sacks. There are 
still a large number of paper sacks in use and market 
sectors such as animal feed, pet food and cement 
Market Overview 15
British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
are increasingly under pressure to move to polythene 
sacks. The refuse sack market continues to be resilient 
despite downgauging and movements to wheelie 
bins and communal containers. A high proportion  
of refuse sacks are made with recycled materials. 
The growth in flexible films for food packaging has 
been driven by changing consumer demands with 
the requirement for extended shelf life for fresh 
food and less spoilage leading to the development 
of more sophisticated products.
Non-packaging uses for polythene films are  
primarily in building, agricultural and horticultural 
applications, including damp proofing and film  
used for silage, mulch wrap and greenhouse  
covers. Greenhouse film has been growing due  
to increasing demand to extend the growing  
season of many varieties of fruit and vegetables. 
Construction film volumes have declined due to  
the collapse of construction related markets. 
The nature of the polythene film industry is such 
that a significant proportion is manufactured as  
film on the reel which is then sold to converters  
for a wide variety of other applications.
The implementation of the EU Packaging Directive 
has also influenced the development of the industry 
with companies required to recover packaging 
waste and, therefore, encourage the demand for 
reduced weight of packaging.
Polymer, the main raw material, is produced as a 
downstream product from the oil industry with  
the main suppliers being the large multinational  
oil and petrochemical companies. There are only  
14 producers of LDPE/LLDPE remaining in Europe 
and the top 7 account for over 85% of European 
capacity. Raw material prices have always been 
volatile due to supply and demand and the influence 
of oil on ethylene prices. Increases in oil and 
ethylene prices, combined with increasing demand 
from the emerging economies, particularly China, 
have contributed to a steadily rising polymer price 
over the last six years. 
The average LDPE polymer price per annum 
increased every year from 2002 to a peak of £1,255 
per tonne in August 2008. A combination of the fall 
in oil prices, economic downturn and new capacity 
from the Middle East led to a collapse in polymer 
prices in the final quarter of 2008. However, average 
LDPE prices increased again in 2010 and 2011 to 
reach £1,360 per tonne in April 2011. Following this 
peak, subdued market demand caused prices to ease 
downwards over the balance of 2011. During the 
early part of 2012, prices have started to climb again. 
The closure of a number of smaller LDPE plants in 
Europe, including one in the UK, was announced 
during 2009. Substantial investment has been made 
in the Middle East, including Iran, and significant 
additional capacity has come on stream during 2010 
and 2011. A new LDPE plant in the UK commenced 
operation at the start of 2010. 
The recycling industry has developed with over 
700,000 tonnes of process and post consumer 
waste recycled for use by the film extrusion  
industry in a variety of products.
Polythene film has been highly successful in 
substituting other materials within the packaging 
industry such as paper and aluminium, due to its 
superior characteristic of lightweight strength. The 
industry is now reaching a degree of maturity and 
recent years have been challenging with growth 
rates now averaging less than 2% per annum, 
caused by slower underlying economic growth, 
continuing downgauging of films and increased 
import penetration of converted bags from Asia. 
Rising raw material and other input costs, increased 
imports and price pressure from customers have  
all conspired to put pressure on margins. 
The growth in flexible films  
for food packaging has  
been driven by changing 
consumer demands, with  
the requirement for extended 
shelf life for fresh food and 
less spoilage leading to the 
development of more 
sophisticated products. 16
Key Performance Indicators
The Group utilises the following 
indicators of performance to  
assess its development against  
its strategic, financial and 
operational objectives.
Rationale
Operating profit per tonne is the most significant measure of operating performance 
for the Group. We relate performance to the volume of sales rather than the value of 
sales because the latter can be highly volatile due to fluctuating raw material prices. 
Definition and calculation
The definition of operating profit is profit before net restructuring as shown  
on the face of the Income Statement. Sales volumes were 273 ktonnes in 2011  
(2010: 280 ktonnes).  
2010 64
79
Operating profit per tonne (£/tonne)
79 2011
69 2009
 Before Restructuring
 After Restructuring
Rationale
Earnings per share is important to our shareholders because it is one of the major 
factors which determine shareholder value. It is one of the measures on which  
senior management is rewarded through the long term incentive plan.
Definition and calculation
Diluted earnings per share is profit either before or after net restructuring and after tax 
divided by the diluted average number of ordinary shares and is calculated on the same 
basis as Note 8 to the Financial Statements.
46.92
Diluted Earnings Per Share (pence)
50.25
46.92 2011
2011
51.07 2010
38.31 2010
2009
38.60 2009
 Before Restructuring
 After Restructuring
Rationale
Return on capital employed is one of our key financial benchmarks used when  
evaluating capital investments. It is the primary measure for executive bonus  
targets and for the Share Matching Plan.
Definition and calculation
Return on capital employed is operating profit (both before and after net  
restructuring) expressed as a percentage of average monthly capital employed.  
Capital employed is property, plant and equipment plus other intangible assets, 
investments, inventories, trade and other receivables, less trade and other  
payables and deferred government grants.
1 5.5
Return on capital employed (%)
15.9
15.5 2011
2011
14.9 2010
12.9 2010
10.9 2009
13.0 2009
 Before Restructuring
 After Restructuring
Rationale
Dividend cover is important to many of our shareholders as a measure of our  
ability to maintain the payment of a dividend.
Definition and calculation
Dividend cover is diluted earnings per share (both before and after net restructuring) 
divided by the proposed annual dividend per share.
3.75
Dividend cover (times)
4.03 2011
3.75 2011
4.44 2010
3.33 2010
3.51 2009
Financial Key Performance Indicators
30.36
2009 2.76 17
British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
Rationale
We monitor electricity usage per tonne and square metres as part of our  
overall environmental policy of minimising our use of resources and also as  
a means of controlling a significant input cost for the business.
We have included a new measure of energy usage per square metre to highlight  
the continuing trend to produce thinner stronger films. As the average weight  
of products has reduced, our energy usage per square metre has reduced while  
our energy use per tonne has remained stable. For more information on the  
impact of thinner stronger films, please see page 3.
2010 693
694
Electricity usage (kWh/tonne)
694 2011
697 2009
28.8
Electricity usage (kWh/’000 Square Metres)
30.5 2009
2011 28.8
2010 29.4
3.0
Absenteeism (%)
Rationale
As a relatively labour intensive business, absenteeism can be a significant cost and  
lost opportunity for the Group. We monitor absenteeism by site and for the Group  
as a whole.
The reduction from 2010 represents a significant improvement and our  
UK business has recorded its lowest ever absence rates.
Definition and calculation
Absenteeism is expressed as the number of hours of absence as a percentage  
of annual contractual hours. Absence is defined as time off through illness or 
authorised at the discretion of management along with any unauthorised non-
attendance. It does not include any legal or contractual absence from work.
2010 3.4
3.0 2011
3.1 2009
Operational Key Performance Indicators
Rationale
As a manufacturing business with a very rigorous focus on Health and Safety we 
measure lost time accidents for each site and benchmark against the rest of the Group 
and other manufacturing businesses. 
Our LTA rate for 2011 is similar to the rate for all plastics and rubber manufacturers 
published by the Health and Safety Executive. Our business, however, has a significant 
element of recycling and our performance compares very favourably with other 
recycling businesses.
Definition and calculation
Lost time accidents are accidents that cause employees to be unavailable for normal 
duties for more than three consecutive days. The rate is expressed as the number of 
accidents per 100,000 hours worked.
0.5
Lost time accidents (accidents/1 00k hours)
0.5
2009
2011 0.5
2010 0.5
Definition and calculation
Electricity usage is consumption in kilowatt hours per tonne or square metre  
of production output. 18
Leadership in 
Agriculture
Leading the  
field globally.
With more than one third of Group 
sales into the agricultural sector  
BPI supplies value-added, agricultural 
films into over 50 countries 
worldwide. Designed to enhance 
forage quality and yield across a 
variety of geographical settings, our 
portfolio includes high volume silage 
and grain bags, superior strength 
silage sheeting and advanced silage 
stretchfilms that provide the 
exceptional performance demanded 
by the 21st Century food chain. 
To meet global demand BPI has developed  
a network of agricultural film production  
centres from North America to the UK  
and continental Europe. 
In order to set its portfolio apart BPI  
has made significant investment into  
advanced extrusion technology over  
the last decade complemented by  
ongoing academic research.  
Having developed strong, long term  
links with key distributor partners  
globally BPI continues to work with  
them to develop regional markets. British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
19
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
Silotite Pro is a technically advanced, next 
generation silage stretchfilm offering the triple 
benefits of an enhanced balewrapping process, 
significant cost savings and augmented crop 
quality. Baletite replaces netwrap on round  
bales to provide better bale density, enhanced 
ensiling, reduced forage waste and more  
efficient recycling.
“As a business BPI is committed to meeting  
the ongoing silage preservation challenges of 
farmers worldwide. Increasingly cost pressures 
mean that farmers need to maximise quality in 
the most effective manner. Products such as 
Baletite and SilotitePro are just the type of 
innovations that will help them to do this.”
Next Generation Silage Products Martin Andersson, Area Sales Manager, Sweden 20
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Summary
Group operating profit, before net restructuring 
costs or property gains, increased from £17.9 million 
to £21.6 million reflecting a very strong performance 
from our European operations. Overall volumes fell 
marginally as we saw reduced demand in the final 
quarter from the industrial and construction markets. 
Raw Material Prices
2011 was again another year of raw material price 
volatility with the European LD Platts price increasing 
every month until April when it reached a record 
high Sterling price due to a very tight supply position. 
Prices then eased as supply became more available. 
The average Sterling LD Platts price for 2011 was  
the highest ever recorded. The move in 2008 from 
quarterly to monthly pricing of ethylene, the raw 
material for polymer, will ensure continuing volatility 
in raw material prices.
The price of oil remained high throughout the year 
but the lack of demand combined with greater 
availability of Middle Eastern commodity polymer 
ensured that prices eased in the second half. 
The outlook for prices in 2012 remains uncertain  
but prices have increased in January and significantly 
in February as the ethylene price has increased and 
producers attempt to recover margin. 
Sales and Margins
Total sales increased by 6.3% to £508 million 
reflecting higher raw material prices. Sales to 
destinations outside the UK moved up to 46%  
of total sales from 43% in 2010 due to greater  
volumes in Europe. Sales to the more resilient 
sectors of the retail food chain, agriculture and 
horticulture, healthcare and waste services  
increased to 73% from 71% of total sales with 
construction unchanged at 11%.
Margins were squeezed by the continued raw 
material price increases in the first half but benefited 
from the easing of prices in the second half and 
reduced costs from the closures of Brampton and 
Stockton in early 2010. The sales mix continued to 
improve as volumes of better margin products 
increased and we exited poorer margin business. 
Exchange rates were beneficial as the continued 
weakness of Sterling helped UK export volumes and 
margins and made imports of product to the UK 
more expensive.
Energy Costs
In 2011, our UK electricity costs increased by  
£1.6 million and our UK cost of production was  
£18 per tonne more expensive than our European 
operations. European costs saw an increase in 
Belgium but a further small reduction in Holland. 
The UK remains our most expensive country for 
electricity costs.
UK energy costs increased in April 2011 as the 
benefits from participation in Climate Change 
Agreements (CCA) schemes were reduced by 
European Union rulings. In the UK, we gained 
exemption from the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
(CRC) as nearly 90% of our usage is covered by 
CCA’s. The UK government has now indicated its 
intention to continue with the CCA Schemes and is 
consulting with industry and other parties. We are 
concerned that the implementation of various green 
taxes are overburdening the UK electricity cost and 
will make UK industry uncompetitive. Several taxes 
such as the Renewable Obligation and Carbon Tax 
are charged back in the cost of electricity, while 
Chief Executive’s Review
Group operating profit, before net 
restructuring costs or property gains,  
increased from £17.9 million to £21.6 million 
reflecting a very strong performance from  
our European operations. 
Chief Executive
John Langlands British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
21
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
We continued to see  
high levels of downgauging  
as the combination of 
environmental pressures  
and high polymer prices  
make customers demand 
thinner films.
transmission and distribution costs are increasing  
to accommodate renewable generation especially 
connecting offshore and onshore wind farms in 
remote locations. While the UK government has 
promised to support energy intensive industry, it is 
unlikely to include the plastics processing industry. 
The UK government must take action to ensure that 
the UK remains competitive on energy prices.
Scrap
Scrap prices increased steadily throughout the year 
and availability remained difficult, with over 70% of 
plastic packaging waste continuing to be exported 
for reprocessing overseas. Due to the lack of 
availability of clean plastic waste we continue to 
concentrate our recycling activities on the more 
difficult and heavily contaminated waste streams, 
including agricultural film waste. We have, therefore, 
installed a second large washing plant at our site  
in Rhymney in South Wales and this will become 
operational in Q1 of 2012. This will substantially 
increase our capacity to recycle contaminated farm 
plastics and will generate additional feedstock to 
grow volumes of our Green Sack™ range of refuse 
sacks. We are also examining further investment  
at our Heanor site to provide a solution for dealing 
with paper contamination from distribution transit 
waste plastic, most of which is currently exported  
to the Far East for recycling.
Sales Volumes
Sales volumes as defined by manufactured tonnage 
dropped 2% to 273,200 tonnes, despite good 
growth of 5% from Europe, reflecting poor UK 
demand in the second half from construction and 
industrial markets and continued downgauging.
We continued to see high levels of downgauging  
as the combination of environmental pressures  
and high polymer prices make customers demand 
thinner films.
We have now calculated the square metres of film 
sold and, at 8,333 million square metres for 2011, 
this shows an increase of 2% over 2010, reflecting 
the impact of downgauging and the constant move 
to thinner films. Our average film thickness in 2011 
was 35.2 micron compared to 36.6 micron in 2010 
and 38.6 micron in 2008. This demonstrates that we 
continue to grow our business despite the reduction 
in tonnage sold.
Restructuring
In November 2011, we announced the closure of  
our Swansea facility in Wales with the transfer of 
production to our Visqueen sites at Ardeer and 
Greenock. The site has seen the long term decline  
of its industrial business and, while we introduced 
the manufacture of despatch sacks for mail order 
and on-line retailers, volumes were not sufficient to 
cover the high site overheads. All business and plant 
were successfully transferred in December 2011 and 
January 2012 and the site stopped manufacture at 
the end of January 2012.
Elsewhere, we continued to take all necessary steps 
to reduce our cost base.
Capital Expenditure
Total capital expenditure at nearly £15 million was 
greater than depreciation but lower than planned  
as some projects ran behind schedule. The major 
items were expenditure on a further stretchline 
at Zele to increase capacity to meet growth in our 
advanced silage products and a washing plant at 
Rhymney to enable us to recycle more contaminated 
agricultural waste. Both these projects will become 
operational in the first half of 2012.
Other major items of expenditure in 2011 included 
the completion of upgrading extrusion equipment  
at Bromborough, a new extrusion line at Roeselare, 
a deposit on a printing press at Hardenberg and  
a recycling unit at Ardeer. 
Planned expenditure in 2012 includes completion  
of the washing plant at Rhymney in the UK, the 
stretchline at Zele in Belgium and the installation  
of the printing press at Hardenberg in Holland. 
Notwithstanding the uncertain economic climate, 
we will continue to invest in the business to 
improve our return on capital. 
Strategy
Our strategy is set out on page 12. 
During 2011, we have improved our performance  
in relation to each of our key financial objectives :
Operating Profits Up 21% to £21.6m
Earnings Per Share  
before net restructuring  Up 22% to 46.92p
Return on  
Capital Employed Up from 12.9% to 15.5%
Net Borrowings Down £14.6m to £31.0m
Our strategy has been supported by:
In the Agricultural markets:
•	Installing a stretchfilm line for silage stretchwrap 
in Canada to supply the North American silage 
stretch market.
•	Approving and beginning the installation of a large 
stretchwrap line at Zele in Belgium to meet the 
growing demand for our advanced silage products. 
In Recycling:
•	Authorising and beginning the installation of  
a washing plant at Rhymney in the UK to recycle 
contaminated agricultural waste and provide  
more feedstock to develop our range of  
Green Sack™ refuse sacks.
On the rationalisation of UK films  
and UK industrial sectors:
•	Announcing the closure of our small site at 
Swansea which supplied the industrial market.  22
Key Relationships
The Group does not have any customers that 
amount to more than 3% of the Group turnover.
The Group purchases its main raw materials from a 
number of key suppliers including Dow, ExxonMobil, 
Sabic, Total, Lyondell Basell and Polimeri Europa and 
has supply arrangements in place. Most of these 
suppliers have a number of plants in Europe, North 
America and the Middle East and alternative sources 
are available, except for some very specialised grades. 
OPERATING REVIEW
EUROPE
 20 11 20 1 0 
 £m £m
Operating Profit 13.4 9.2
 
Tonnes Sold 67,300 64,000
Our European business comprises two 
manufacturing sites in Belgium, one manufacturing 
site in the Netherlands and a sales operation in 
France. The business specialises in the manufacture 
and sale of high quality printed film for the food 
industry, form fill and seal films (FFS) and heavy duty 
sacks, including valve bags and Waviblok for the 
chemical, construction, horticulture and fertiliser 
industries, pallet protection films including stretch 
hoods, insulation film, general industrial films and 
silage and packaging stretchwrap. Main markets  
are Belgium, the Netherlands, North of France and 
Germany, except for silage stretch which is sold 
throughout mainland Europe.
The operating profits increased from £9.2 million  
to £13.4 million due to a combination of higher  
sales volumes, improvement in the sales mix,  
good control over costs and improved production 
efficiencies and scrap rates. The benefits of our 
continued investment in new equipment and 
product development contributed significantly  
to the improvement in performance.
Sales volumes increased by 5% as we experienced 
strong demand in agricultural products and printed 
film for the food industry and some growth in 
industrial products. 
Total volumes of silage wrap were well ahead of 
2010 as the favourable weather conditions during 
the mild autumn encouraged farmers to continue 
making silage late in the season. Sales of our new 
products SilotitePro
®
 and Baletite
®
 are continuing to 
grow with sales of SilotitePro
®
 more than doubling 
in 2011. Baletite
®
 is a replacement for traditional 
round bale netting and SilotitePro
®
 is a new 
generation of silage film with improved economical 
and environmental properties and both will reinforce 
our market leading position in the silage wrap 
business. A further 5 layer co-extrusion line is being 
installed at Zele to meet our growing demand for 
these advanced stretchwrap products.
Demand for pallet protection film, insulation film 
and general purpose film remained subdued with 
lack of volume putting pressure on margins. Sales  
of stretchhoods continued to grow but competitive 
pricing kept margins under pressure. Sales of 
Bontite
®
, our high quality industrial stretch product, 
were strong and increased during the year.
Volume sales of printed film for the food industry 
including film for deep frozen vegetables and frozen 
chips were ahead of 2010 with strong demand in 
the second half due to a good harvest. Total sales  
in square metres were over 10% ahead of 2010 
reflecting strong demand from our customer base. 
Industrial volumes were in line with 2010 with  
some good growth in sales of FFS, although sales  
to the petrochemical sector fell slightly as demand 
reduced in the second half. Volumes of bags 
reduced as customers continued to move to FFS. 
Margins saw some recovery despite the raw material  
price increases.
Production volumes were well ahead of 2010 and 
scrap rates continued to improve. 
At Roeselare, we have invested in pre-stretch 
equipment to enable us to produce a range of 
thinner products. We have developed pre-stretched 
products for both the polymer and insulation 
markets and would expect volumes of these higher 
added value products to grow over the next  
few years. 
We have installed a three layer coextrusion line  
at Roeselare to further focus on better added  
value products and are installing a printing press  
and extrusion equipment at Hardenberg to  
increase capacity. 
Our European business remains well placed to 
deliver further growth with clear strategic plans  
for each site. Zele in Belgium will continue to focus 
on stretch products, particularly silage, and printed 
food film. Hardenberg in Holland is focused on 
industrial products and is a leading supplier of FFS  
to the petrochemical and other industries. Roeselare 
in Belgium will focus on a reduced number of 
products and developing a range of pre-stretched 
thinner products.
While the exceptional 2011 performance will  
be difficult to repeat, we expect our continued 
investment in new capacity, combined with the 
development of new products, will enable the 
business to deliver a consistent stream of  
operating profits. 
Chief Executive’s Review  
( continued) British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
23
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
UK & IRELAND
 20 11 20 1 0 
 £m £m
Operating Profit   7.4 7.9
 
Tonnes Sold 193,900 203,900
Our UK and Ireland business consisted of 14 UK 
manufacturing sites and 4 sales/service offices in the 
UK and Ireland. It also includes our plant in China as 
most of its production is currently sold in the UK.
Operating profits fell as electricity costs increased  
by £1.6 million. Margins were also squeezed by 
rising raw material costs particularly in the consumer 
and silage sectors, but continued benefits arising 
from our restructuring programme reduced 
operating costs and this offset some of the impact 
of rising raw material prices and electricity costs.
Volumes fell to 194,000 tonnes with the main 
reductions in our construction and industrial markets. 
Total sales to the more resilient sectors accounted for 
75% of sales compared to 72% in 2010.
Total UK costs fell by £1.5 million as costs were 
reduced by the closures of Brampton and Stockton 
in early 2010.
Our UK plain film products produced at 
Bromborough and Sevenoaks include a range of 
film on the reel for a variety of different markets and 
include products such as plain shrinkfilm, printed 
shrinkfilm, produce films, bread films, lamination 
films, liquid packaging films and surface protection 
films. Incorporating highly respected brand names 
such as Novatek
®
 and Surpreme
®
, the range of 
products provides secure cost effective transit  
and primary packaging for the most  
demanding applications.
Sales of collation shrinkwrap, which are mainly  
to the food and drink industries, were broadly  
in line with 2010 despite more difficult markets  
for these industries. Sales to the converter sector  
were marginally below 2010 due to volume losses  
from customers closing plants and a result of our 
continued efforts to work with customers to  
reduce the weight of their packaging through 
downgauging. Volumes were stronger in the first 
half but somewhat weaker in the second half due  
to lower demand. Our sites at Bromborough and 
Sevenoaks both lowered scrap rates. 
At Bromborough, the upgrade of extrusion lines  
to increase production and enable the production  
of thinner films was completed. A co-extrusion  
line to increase capacity has been authorised for 
Sevenoaks to enable further coex growth.
Our three stretchwrap plants in the UK at Leominster, 
Bridgwater and Widnes produce a range of industrial 
stretchwrap products including blown and cast 
machine and hand rolls as well as the newer 
pre-stretch products and silage stretchwrap.
Management of these sites has been assumed by the 
European Managing Director and this will enable the 
consolidation of our leading branded silage products 
and deliver efficiencies in product development and 
utilisation of our stretchfilm assets.
Total sales of industrial stretchwrap were 4% down 
on 2010, as we continued to see very competitive 
pricing in cast machine stretchwrap. Our sales of 
pre-stretch WrapsmartUltra
®
 product continued  
to grow and were significantly ahead of 2010. 
Additional conversion machines have been ordered 
for installation in 2012. The new WrapsmartUltra
®
 
hand roll product is 7 micron compared to our 
traditional hand roll at 12 to 17 micron and, 
therefore, uses nearly half the material. The new 
hand rolls offer the same strength and high 
performance levels as standard stretchfilm products, 
despite their ultra light weight and thinner gauge. 
Subdued demand especially in the second half 
resulted in lower volumes of cast machine reels  
as we attempted to maintain margins in a very 
competitive market. The Bridgwater site is now fully 
focused on cast stretchwrap and operates as a low 
cost, high volume, high performance manufacturer 
of cast industrial stretchwrap. Our Widnes plant 
continues to produce a range of blown hand rolls 
for the packaging industry but poor demand in the 
second half saw volumes reduce over 2010.
Sales of silage stretch were broadly in line with  
2010 with increased sales to Scandinavia but lower 
volumes in the UK, Ireland and North America. In the 
UK, we have positioned ourselves as suppliers to the 
leading co-operatives and agricultural merchants 
who wish to sell our well marketed, branded, high 
quality silage film. As the Irish market remains the 
lowest priced in Europe, we focus on a restricted 
range of customers. AT Films in Canada installed its 
own silage line in North America and now supplies 
that market. We grew volumes into Scandinavia of 
our next generation silage film, SilotitePro
®
, which 
offers farmers significant cost savings when making 
baled silage. Increasing raw material prices kept 
pressure on margins.
Costs at all sites were well controlled but 
maintenance, mainly at Leominster, was high as  
we had to deal with a large number of machinery 
breakdowns which also reduced production outputs 
and increased scrap levels. We have authorised some 
capital expenditure to upgrade these lines. With the 
transfer of knowledge from Zele, the use of their 
standard blends and improvements to the quality 
system, we should see improvements in future years.
46%
73%
Sales to destinations outside the UK moved 
up to 46% of total sales from 43% in 2010 
due to greater volumes in Europe. 
Sales to the more resilient sections of agriculture 
and horticulture, retail food chain, healthcare and 
waste services represent 73% of Group turnover. 24
Chief Executive’s Review  
( continued)
Total volumes in our wide film activities fell below 
2010 as we struggled with the installation of our 
new wide line at Ardeer due to its scale and 
complexity. This impacted on scrap rates, production 
outputs, sales volumes and service levels.
Volumes of silage sheet were down on 2010 as 
delays to the installation of our new wide line meant 
we were unable to meet customer demand as 
opening stocks were minimal and the silage season 
started early. This line is now running well and we 
have built stock at the end of 2011 for supply into 
the 2012 season and will therefore be in a position 
to offer normal good levels of service.
Sales of horticultural films were similarly down on 
2010 as we were unable to offer normal service 
levels. The purchase of an in-house re-reeling 
winding machine has been authorised to improve 
service levels in the supply of small reels. 
We are the leading recycler of polythene films  
in the UK with an annual recycling capacity of  
nearly 70,000 tonnes. We recycle scrap from  
our own operations, used products taken back  
from customers and scrap purchased in the open  
market. We are also able to recycle the more  
heavily contaminated scrap, including agricultural 
films. Recycled material is used in the manufacture 
of construction films, including damp proof  
course, refuse sacks, rigid products and a range 
of other products.
Our construction activities trade under the Visqueen 
Building Products brand and supply construction 
films including temporary protective sheeting,  
damp proof membrane, damp proof course and a 
number of specialist products to the major builders’ 
merchants in the UK. Following some recovery in 
2010, sales volumes were down slightly as volume 
was restricted due to the availability of good scrap 
feedstock. The outlook for the construction industry 
remains uncertain and, given weak demand and 
excess capacity, selling prices and margins will 
remain under pressure. 
Our focus for growth remains with the specification 
products sector including gas barrier systems and we 
gained further market share against a flat building 
sector to increase sales by 18% in 2011. 
Sales volumes of refuse sacks were in line with  
2010 as growth in the retail and janitorial sectors  
of the Green Sack™ range offset a reduction in  
the traditional local authority sector through a 
considerable level of downgauging. Sales of the 
Green Sack™, a 100% recycled product including 
UK farm waste, have continued to grow with a major 
UK retailer stocking the range. Opportunities exist  
to target other retailers in both the UK and Europe. 
Increasing raw material and scrap prices together 
with a number of retendering exercises saw intense 
pressure on margins.
The public sector remains an area of risk as they  
look for savings to meet their reduced expenditure 
targets. We supply both the local authority market 
for domestic refuse sack and the NHS with aprons 
and clinical waste sacks and we are now offering 
downgauged and lower cost products to  
these markets.
Recycling remained a challenge as a result of 
continued lack of availability of scrap and volumes 
fell slightly in the year. However, our washing  
plant at Dumfries, which recycles contaminated 
agricultural waste, achieved its highest ever output.
With sourcing scrap becoming more difficult, 
combined with the need for more pellet to support 
our growth in the Green Sack™ range, towards the 
end of the year, we installed a new washing plant at 
Rhymney to recycle contaminated agricultural waste. 
Commissioning trials are taking place and we hope 
to be in full production this March.
Scrap and repro prices increased steadily throughout 
the year putting pressure on margins. Since 
November, prices have remained steady and, as  
is normal after Christmas, we have seen good 
availability of scrap. 
Costs at our sites at Heanor, Stroud, Rhymney and 
Dumfries remained under control and we transferred 
all freight and distribution from Rhymney to Heanor 
during the second half.
Sales of converted products, including printed  
film and bags, comprise sales from our print and 
conversion plants and serve a wide range of markets 
from construction to industrial to consumer.
Our industrial activities improved over 2010 as the 
Ardeer site settled down following the disruption  
of 2010 on the transfer of various equipment and 
business from Stockton. A new recycling unit was 
installed towards the end of the year which will 
increase capacity to meet demand from the 
enlarged site and improve the quality of pellet.
Total sales volume of industrial packaging to the 
construction and industrial markets fell by 10% as 
we saw poor demand in the second half particularly 
from the construction and peat markets with 
volumes also down in the fertiliser and animal feed 
sectors. Sales to the horticultural industry were down 
as demand fell away after April and confidence 
within the industry for 2012 remains low. 
Our backseam conversion line with in-line print 
continues to increase volumes to the construction 
sector and we are now supplying a number of 
customers as the cement industry moves certain 
products from paper to polythene packaging.
We are the leading  
recycler of polythene films  
in the UK with an annual 
recycling capacity of  
nearly 70,000 tonnes.  British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
25
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
Fixed costs fell as we gained the final benefit from 
the closure of Stockton and continued to reduce 
manning levels in response to weaker demand.
Flint continues to focus on higher added value 
business for the pharmaceutical and food sectors 
and improved its performance in 2011. 
Our small trading operation at Norwich continues  
to generate acceptable returns. 
Our site at Swansea focused on the manufacture and 
supply of mailing bags for mail order and on-line 
retailers and this was supported by investment in 
extrusion, print and conversion. While good levels of 
new business were achieved, they were not sufficient 
to cover the overheads of the site and we announced 
in November that the site would be closed. The plant 
and business have been transferred to our sites at 
Ardeer and Greenock and all plant is now up and 
running and producing good product.
Our Consumer plant at Worcester is involved in 
printing and converting plain film into packaging  
for the fresh produce, bread and other food 
markets. The plant now has two ten colour printing 
presses, seven eight colour printing presses and  
a laminator, making it one of the largest and most 
modern facilities in Europe.
Sales volumes were broadly similar to 2010 but 
margin pressure remained intense and significant 
increases in raw material prices were difficult to 
recover. The supermarkets and their suppliers 
continued to attempt to reduce costs despite the 
increasing raw material cost and margins were 
reduced. Improved efficiencies and good control  
over costs helped offset some of the margin impact. 
Our plant in China was successful in winning a  
bread bag contract in Australasia and there are  
a number of good opportunities for further growth 
in these markets. 
Our pre-press and plate making business provides 
artwork, origination and printing plates to Group 
businesses and to external customers. Overall sales 
were down on 2010, with lower demand from both 
internal and external customers, and the business 
recorded a small loss. Action has been taken to 
reduce the cost base.
Total capital expenditure on the UK was over £7 
million with nearly £3 million spent at Rhymney on 
the installation of a new washing plant to increase 
recycling of contaminated agricultural waste. Other 
expenditure included upgrading extrusion equipment 
at Bromborough and a recycling unit at Ardeer.
Major capital expenditure in 2012 will include the 
completion of the washing plant at Rhymney and  
a new extrusion line at Sevenoaks.
The UK business should see benefits in 2012 from 
the closure of Swansea and normal running of our 
new wide line at Ardeer. The business seems well 
placed to meet the challenges of 2012.
NORTH AMERICA
 20 11 20 1 0 
 £m £m
Operating Profit 0.8 0.8
 
Tonnes Sold 12,020 11,650
Our North American business comprises AT Films Inc. 
based at Edmonton, Alberta in Canada. The main 
plant manufactures polythene film for the North 
American horticultural and agricultural markets  
and also has a conversion facility nearby at Westlock 
which folds and packs bags used for the storage of 
silage and grain.
Total sales volumes were just ahead of the previous 
year as we started to supply silage stretchwrap for 
the North American market and saw horticultural 
sales increase by 20% as we recovered market share 
and entered some new markets. 
This offset a reduction in our traditional agricultural 
products which fell 9% due to some adverse 
weather patterns. While sales of silage sheet were 
broadly in line with 2010 as our new products 
including vapour resistant sheeting and wide width 
films continued to gain momentum, volumes of 
silage and grain bags were down on 2010. 
Margins suffered as the very competitive  
market made it difficult to recover the polymer  
price increases.
The small increase in volumes combined with  
good control over costs and benefits from exchange 
rates enabled the business to report maintained 
Sterling profits.
A co-extrusion line for the manufacture of silage 
stretchwrap became operational in the first quarter 
of 2011 and enabled us to supply the North 
American silage wrap market. All volume produced 
in season was sold and the product quality was well 
received by the market. Full utilisation of this capacity 
will enable us to grow volumes in 2012 and improve 
our performance.
The strategy for North America is to increase 
volumes by introducing new products and fill 
available capacity. More normal weather conditions 
should see a recovery in our traditional agricultural 
products and, combined with more sales of silage 
stretchwrap, should result in an improved 
performance in 2012. 26
Customers 
& Markets
BPI serves more than 
5,000 customers in over 
60 countries worldwide. 
In turn our customers supply a  
host of industry sectors across  
five continents where our films  
can be found protecting, promoting 
and preserving in many technical 
applications. One of our core 
strengths is the ability to understand 
and work with customers in a  
variety of markets and regions. 
More than 70% of Group sales are into the  
more resilient sectors of agriculture, retail  
food chain, healthcare and waste services.  
BPI is committed to further developing it’s 
positions in these key markets. 
Non UK sales now account for 46% of  
Group turnover, this proportion has been 
increasing and is targeted to rise further. 
BPI has a diverse customer base who in 
turn serve many different markets across 
the world. British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
27
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
Widely used across Europe by customers  
supplying global markets our frozen foods films  
excel under frozen storage and display conditions.  
The impressive strength, processing speeds and 
presentation properties of our freezer films has  
lead to their extensive use in both domestic  
and catering pack formats.
“Our position as the chosen packaging partner  
of some of Europe’s best known frozen food 
manufacturers is a direct result of our ability  
to provide cost-effective solutions that exceed 
expectations. Our sustained investment into  
both R&D and new production technology  
enables us to continually enhance our product 
attributes and customer service levels.”
Case Study: Frozen Foods Peter Brock, Internal Sales Correspondent, Zele 28
Financial Review
Results
The consolidated financial statements for the Group, 
which are prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the 
EU, are included on pages 63 to 92. The individual 
financial statements of the holding Company, British 
Polythene Industries PLC, continue to be prepared 
under UK GAAP and are shown separately on pages 
93 to 98.
Sales
Total sales increased by 6.3% to £507.7 million. 
However, underlying volumes reduced by 2%  
to 273k tonnes. Average input costs, and 
correspondingly selling prices, were higher than  
in 2010 resulting in the increase in turnover  
in spite of a reduction in volumes. 
Operating Profit
Operating profit, before net restructuring, increased 
from £17.9 million to £21.6 million. This represents 
an improvement in operating profit per tonne from 
£64 to £79. 
Return on Capital Employed (before net 
restructuring) was 15.5% compared to 12.9% in 
2010. After net restructuring, Return on Capital 
Employed increased to 15.9% compared to 14.9%  
in 2010.
The Sterling/Euro exchange rate continued to have  
a favourable impact on the competitiveness of our 
UK business. Additionally, the translation rate used 
to restate the profits of the Mainland European 
business was marginally more favourable than  
in 2010.
Restructuring
Restructuring resulted in a net credit of £0.6 million 
(2010: £2.8 million credit). The vacated property at 
Essex was sold in the year for £2.5 million giving rise 
to a £1.9 million gain on disposal.
Restructuring costs of £1.3 million were also incurred 
due to the closure of the Swansea site. These costs 
largely relate to redundancy payments, removing 
and reinstallation of equipment and the writing off 
of redundant equipment.
Interest
Net borrowing costs increased to £2.5 million from 
£2.1 million. Whilst average borrowings were lower, 
higher margins and fees were paid following the 
refinancing late in 2010 and European interest rates 
were higher for a large part of the year. Interest cover 
(based on profit before net restructuring) improved  
to 8.6 times (2010: 8.5) before net restructuring. 
Taxation
The Group’s profits are taxed in a number of 
locations, the corporation tax rates of which for  
the year ended 31 December 2011 were:
United Kingdom  26.5%
Belgium  34%
Netherlands  25%
Canada  28%
The effective rate of 25.5% (excluding gains on sale 
of property) reflects the proportion of the Group’s 
profits arising in the less highly taxed locations and 
the favourable resolution of a number of items 
relating to earlier years. The property disposals did 
not give rise to a tax charge.
Earnings Per Share
Diluted Earnings Per Share before net restructuring 
improved to 46.92p from 38.31p. After net 
restructuring, diluted Earnings Per Share reduced 
from 51.07p to 50.25p due to the lower property 
gain in 2011. The calculation of basic and diluted 
Earnings Per Share is set out in Note 8 to the  
Financial Statements.
Operating profit, before net restructuring, 
increased from £17.9 million to £21.6 million. 
Return on Capital Employed (before net 
restructuring) was 15.5% compared to 12.9%  
in 2010. Diluted Earnings Per Share before net 
restructuring improved to 46.92p from 38.31p.
Group Finance Director
David Harris British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
29
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
Dividend
The proposed final ordinary dividend of 8.5p per 
share (2010: second interim 7.85p) is to be paid on 
19 July 2012 to shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 16 March 2012 making, with 
the interim ordinary dividend of 4.0p per share 
(2010: 3.65p) paid on 17 November 2011, a total of 
12.5p (2010: 11.5p) per share for the year. Dividend 
cover pre net restructuring is 3.8 times (2010: 3.3), 
when stated after net restructuring, cover is 4.0 
times (2010: 4.4).
Cash Flow & Borrowings
Operating cash flow was £31.5 million (2010: £27.5 
million). Working capital reduced by £5.9 million 
(2010: £4.8 million increase) due primarily to lower 
raw material prices. Control of working capital 
remains a key priority and progress continues to  
be made.
Capital expenditure, including computer software, 
was £14.6 million. Annual depreciation and 
amortisation was £13.3 million. There were 
proceeds of £2.5 million from the disposal of the 
Essex site. £0.3 million was realised from the sale  
of surplus equipment.
Net borrowings reduced by £14.6 million to  
£31.0 million. A large proportion of Group debt  
is denominated in Euros and lesser amounts in  
other foreign currencies. Exchange rate movements 
contributed £0.8 million to the improvement in 
borrowings. These borrowings are maintained to 
hedge the net investment in overseas subsidiaries. 
The net debt to EBITDA ratio (before restructuring) 
improved from 1.5 to 0.9.
A special pension contribution of £19.6 million  
was paid to enable the Pension Scheme to invest 
£19.6 million in the Pension Funding Partnership. 
The Pension Funding Partnership is explained in 
more detail later in this Financial Review. 
During the year 603,000 of the Company’s shares 
were purchased, at an average cost of £2.77 per 
share, to be held in the Employee Share Ownership 
Trust. These shares are held for use in the Share 
Matching and Long Term Incentive Plans.
Borrowing Facilities
At the end of 2011, total available borrowing 
facilities were £99 million. These comprise a 
revolving multi currency credit facility totalling £70 
million, of which £15 million is repayable in 2014 
with the balance of £55 million repayable in 2015. 
There are also short term facilities of £25 million as 
well as £4 million of HP and leasing facilities. 
Liquidity Risk
As highlighted in the section on Risk Factors on 
page 13, the continuing weak economic conditions 
are challenging, however, the Directors believe that 
the Group continues to perform well despite these 
circumstances and the Group has successfully 
reduced the level of borrowings.
Given the continued uncertainty in the Eurozone, 
the risk remains of poor economic conditions 
reducing market demand. However, more than two 
thirds of the Group’s business is in sectors such as 
agriculture, retail food chain, healthcare and waste 
services which, so far, have shown to be relatively 
resilient in the face of the economic downturn. The 
main European markets are UK and Ireland, Benelux, 
Scandinavia, Germany and France with limited sales 
to the southern European nations. 
That said, an elevated risk of customer insolvency 
remains. However, customers are spread across  
a wide range of market sectors and geographical 
regions and no single customer represents more 
than 3% of Group turnover. We continue to  
carry some credit insurance in Europe and in  
the agricultural sector.
Movements in exchange rates can also be a risk. 
Weakness of Sterling, particularly against the Euro, 
tends to be positive for Group performance. UK 
exports become more competitive and UK domestic 
sales are better protected against mainland European 
competition. In addition, profits from The Mainland 
European operations are worth more in Sterling 
terms. However, the value of Euro denominated 
borrowings is sensitive to the exchange rate when 
translated into Sterling. 
A number of steps have been taken to restructure 
parts of the UK business to reduce capacity in line 
with demand and reduce costs. Banking facilities  
are in place which provide sufficient headroom to 
support the Group’s trading and development plans. 
The revolving credit elements of these facilities are 
repayable in 2014 and 2015. Short-term overdraft 
facilities are renewable on an annual basis. Where 
this renewal period falls within 12 months, no 
matters have been drawn to the attention of the 
Directors to suggest that renewal may not be 
forthcoming on acceptable terms.
Further disclosures in respect of credit and liquidity 
risk management are included in Notes 15 to 17 to 
the financial statements.
Going Concern
The Group’s projections, taking account of the 
factors outlined above, show that the Group should 
be able to operate comfortably within its current 
banking facilities. As a result, the Directors have a 
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for  
the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue 
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
Net borrowings reduced by 
£1 4.6 million to £31.0 million. 
Working capital reduced by 
£5.9 million (2010: £4.8 
million increase) due primarily 
to lower raw material prices. 30
Financial Review 
(continued)
Treasury Policy
As explained previously, borrowings are held in 
currencies other than Sterling to provide a hedge 
against the net asset position in overseas subsidiaries 
and short term trading assets and liabilities in 
subsidiary entities. All borrowings were on floating 
rates although interest rate swaps have been taken 
to fix forward rates on €20 million of borrowings 
until 2014. Derivative instruments are only used  
to facilitate these hedging policies and, where 
significant, are approved at Board level.
Pension Fund
The deficit in the UK defined benefit pension 
scheme, when calculated on an IAS 19 basis, 
increased from £55 million (Net of tax £40 million)  
at 31 December 2010 to £60 million (Net of tax  
£44 million) at 31 December 2011. The movement  
in the deficit is analysed below.
  £m
Deficit at 31 December 2010  55 
Contributions   (23) 
Lower than assumed return from investments 4 
Increase in liabilities due to reduced corporate  
 bond yields  39 
Decrease in assumed long term inflation rates (27) 
Revised mortality assumption  7 
Revised inflation basis for deferred benefits (4) 
Experience Adjustments  7 
Other factors  2
Deficit at 31 December 2011  60
The discount rate applied to the scheme liabilities 
reduced from 5.4% to 4.75%, reflecting further 
reduction in the high quality corporate bond yields, 
used to derive the rate. The assumed long term  
rate of inflation reduced from 3.35% to 2.90%.  
The longevity assumptions used in the IAS 19 
valuation were revised to reflect increasing life 
expectancy. The IAS 19 valuation also reflects the 
Pension Funding Partnership as a scheme asset.  
The return from the scheme’s assets was lower  
than previously assumed.
The Company has agreed with the trustees of the UK 
defined benefit pension scheme a property backed 
cash payment plan (the Pension Funding Partnership) 
under which the Company will provide £1.8 million 
per annum (rising in line with the consumer prices 
index) to the scheme for a period of 20 years starting 
in January 2012. The present value of this additional 
funding stream has been recognised as an asset of 
the scheme at a current value of £20.7 million. The 
corresponding reduction in the deficit as it appears 
on the Group’s balance sheet is offset by a matching 
non-controlling interest within equity. The Scheme’s 
income from this partnership in the current year  
is recognised as a credit of £1.2 million to net 
retirement benefit financing. As this is offset by an 
equal and opposite allocation to the non-controlling 
interest, it has no impact on reported Earnings  
Per Share.
A triennial actuarial review of the fund was carried 
out at 6 April 2011 by the Scheme’s Actuary, 
Hymans Robertson. The Actuary certified a deficit  
of £54 million, compared to £19 million at 6 April 
2008, using the projected unit credit method. The 
increase in the deficit can be attributed to a reduced 
discount rate and more prudent assumptions of life 
expectancy. The discount rate is derived from the 
yields on government bonds which were at low 
levels at the time of the 2011 valuation compared  
to those of previous valuations. As the yields on 
government bonds have continued to reduce since 
the valuation date the deficit when calculated  
on this basis would have increased further by  
31 December 2011.
The Company has agreed a revised future funding 
rate of £3.2 million per annum with effect from  
April 2012; these payments will rise in line with  
the consumers’ prices index subject to a cap of  
5%. There is also provision for additional one off 
payments of £0.5 million if the Group’s profit before 
tax exceeds £20 million and £1 million if the Group’s 
pre tax profit exceeds £25 million. The Funding Plan 
is designed to eliminate the deficit in 9 years. In 2012, 
total payments to the Scheme will comprise of 
contributions of £3.1 million and a payment of £1.8 
million in relation to the Pension Funding Partnership.
The UK defined benefit pension scheme was closed 
to new entrants in 2000 and closed to future accrual 
in 2010. 
The Group also operates a small defined benefit 
pension scheme in the Republic of Ireland which  
is closed to future accrual. 
The Group’s subsidiary in the Netherlands operates  
a defined benefit scheme in conjunction with a 
number of other employers. As it is not possible  
to identify their share of the underlying assets  
and liabilities on a consistent and reliable basis,  
the Group continues to account for this scheme  
as a defined contribution scheme.
The net retirement benefit financing charge is 
anticipated to be £1.0 million in 2012, after crediting 
the income from the Pension Funding Partnership 
which is offset by an equal and opposite allocation 
to the associated non-controlling interest and has no 
impact on reported Earnings Per Share. British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
31
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
Share Capital
The Company has only one class of ordinary shares 
as capital. The Company’s aim is to maintain a 
balance between issued share capital and other 
forms of long term finance. Details of the shares in 
issue and share movements during the year are set 
out in Note 22 to the Financial Statements. The 
ordinary shares carry no right to fixed income, but 
holders are entitled to receive dividends as declared 
from time to time and are entitled to one vote per 
share at meetings of the Company. All shares rank 
equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets 
and there are no restrictions on the transfer of the 
Company’s shares. During the period the Company 
complied fully with the requirements that apply to 
the Company’s shares as a consequence of these 
shares being listed on the London Stock Exchange.
All UK employees are entitled to acquire shares  
in the Company through the Save As You Earn 
savings scheme. 
Issue and Buy-Back Of Shares
The Directors have broad powers to act to promote 
the success of the Company for the benefit of its 
shareholders; however, there are specific powers in 
relation to issue and buy back of its own shares.
1.  The Directors are generally and unconditionally 
authorised to exercise all the powers of the 
Company to allot securities up to 30% of the 
issued ordinary share capital. 
2.  The Directors can allot shares for cash provided 
that this power is limited to:
	 	 • 		 t h e 	 a l l o t me n t 	 o f 	 e q u i ty 	 sec u r i t i e s 	 wh e r e 	 su c h	
securities have been offered (whether by way 
of a rights issue or open offer or otherwise)  
to the holders of ordinary shares of 25 pence  
in proportion to their respective holdings and 
	 	 • 		 o t h e r wi se , 	 t h e 	 a l l o t me n t 	 o f 	 e q u i ty 	 sec u r i t i e s	 
up to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital.
3.  The Directors can make market purchases up  
to 10% of the issued share capital of ordinary 
shares. This is subject to a minimum price of 25p 
and a maximum by reference to the Company’s 
recent share price. A maximum of 10% of the 
Company’s issued share capital can be held as 
treasury shares after such a buy back.
Each of the above authorities requires to be renewed 
at each Annual General Meeting (AGM) or on the 
last date when by law the AGM must be held.
Policy on Payment of Suppliers
Terms and conditions are agreed with suppliers 
before business takes place and the policy is to pay 
agreed invoices in accordance with the terms of 
payment. At the year-end the amount owed to 
trade creditors by the Group was equivalent to 57 
days (2010: 55 days) of purchases from suppliers.
The Group does not follow any code or standard  
on payment practice, but it is the Group’s policy to 
pay all of its suppliers within 35 days of the end of 
the month in which it receives the goods or services 
unless other payment terms have been agreed.
Auditors
A resolution is to be proposed at the Annual 
General Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG 
Audit Plc as auditors of the Company and for their 
remuneration to be agreed by the Directors.
Statement as to Disclosure of Information  
to Auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval 
of this report confirm that, so far as they are each 
aware, there is no relevant audit information of 
which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and 
each Director has taken all the steps that he ought  
to have taken as a Director to make himself aware  
of any audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Substantial Shareholders
The Company has been notified of the following 
interests representing 3% or more of the issued  
share capital of the Company as at 2 March 2012:
  % of ordinary 
 No. of shares shares in issue
Cazenove Capital 2,786,209 10.5% 
Management
Henderson 1,591,082  6.0% 
Global Investors
Legal and General 1,012,596  3.8% 
Asset Management
British Polythene 854,071  3.2% 
Industries PLC Employees  
Share Ownership Trust  
  
C McLatchie has interests amounting to more than 
3% of the share capital as disclosed on page 57. 32
Leadership in 
Recycling
BPI has been leading 
the way in recycling for 
more than 30 years, long 
before environmental 
awareness rose to the 
top of the agenda.
We are able to recycle more than 
70,000 tonnes of waste polythene 
film annually across our network of 
Environment Agency and Scottish 
Environment Protection Agency 
accredited sites. Over this time we 
have successfully demonstrated that 
the products we produce can be 
recovered and reused profitably.
BPI has invested £4.5 million into a  
state-of-the-art washing and recycling  
line in Rhymney, South Wales further 
strengthening our position as Europe’s 
largest polythene waste recycler. 
This new line, dedicated to reprocessing 
agricultural film waste, will allow BPI  
to recycle up to 15,000 tonnes of the  
most heavily contaminated waste  
material each year. 
The line itself has strong environmental 
credentials employing as it does features 
such as low energy, high output motors, 
energy saving lighting and rainwater 
harvesting to replace the water it loses 
each day. British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
33
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
Manufactured by BPI using waste agricultural 
film, The Green Sack™ range of 100% recycled 
refuse sacks offers tough, green refuse sacks  
with a carbon footprint up to a third lower than 
recycled refuse sacks typically produced in the Far 
East. In addition to helping conserve resources 
and reduce landfill The Green Sack™ range 
provides exceptional performance and tear 
resistance thanks to the superior nature of the 
used agricultural film they are made from.
“The new recycling line at Rhymney represents the 
next phase of BPI’s sustainable manufacturing 
operations. In addition to increasing our extensive 
recycling capabilities it further enhances the wealth  
of recycling expertise within the business and will 
enable us to extend both our recycled products  
range and our closed loop initiatives.”
Case Study: Green Sack™ Range Steve Harris, Rhymney Site Manager 34
Introduction 
The Group is proud of its long record of leadership 
in understanding the sector’s environmental 
responsibilities and ensuring that our industry’s 
products and processes deliver environmental 
solutions whilst meeting the practical needs of 
customers, consumers and the wider community.
The Group maintains the highest standards of 
business conduct and has policies and guidelines  
in place which set standards concerning ethics, 
sound business practices, compliance with all  
local and national legal requirements and wider 
governance issues. 
We recognise that as an employer we have a 
responsibility to our employees for their safety and 
welfare whilst at work. This responsibility extends  
to their training and development, as well as to 
setting appropriate standards for their dealings  
with customers and suppliers. 
Health and Safety 
Policy
The Group’s policy on health and safety states:
“We firmly believe that the prevention of accidents 
involving personal injury or damage to property is 
essential to the successful operation of our business 
and we regard the health and safety of our 
employees as paramount.
We, therefore, through this statement of intent, 
affirm our commitment to achieving the highest 
possible standards of health and safety for all of  
our employees and any others whose health and 
safety may be affected by our operations.
The Board of Directors:
•	Accept their individual and collective responsibility 
in providing health and safety leadership.
•	Will ensure that all business decisions reflect  
its health and safety intentions as set out in  
this statement.
•	Will provide a working environment that is  
both safe and which has the lowest possible risk  
to health.
•	Will provide sufficient information, instruction, 
training and supervision to enable all employees to 
contribute to their own health and safety at work.
The Managing Director and Business Director of each 
business are responsible for ensuring that suitable 
and sufficient organisation and arrangements are 
employed for achieving the defined objectives.
Health and Safety is as important an issue as all other 
commercial considerations. No task is so important 
that a person’s health or safety is put at risk. The 
Board of Directors will, therefore, pursue this policy 
with the utmost diligence.
We do stress, however, the need for all of our 
employees to co-operate in our aim to provide  
a working environment that is safe and which has 
the lowest possible risk to health. This is not simply 
because of our legal obligations, but because it is  
in all of our interests that we should work together 
to achieve this end.”
The Group Health and Safety Manager is 
independent of the individual Business Directors  
and reports directly to the Chief Executive with 
recourse to the Group Board.
Performance
The Group is pleased to report a 35% reduction  
in the total number of accidents reported across  
its operating sites in 2011. The number of minor 
accidents reduced significantly from 369 in 2010  
to 241 in 2011, with improvements across the whole 
business. The minor accident frequency rate for the 
year reduced to 5.0 (2010: 7.4) accidents/100,000 
hours. The total number of Lost Time Accidents 
remained at its lowest ever level of 24, with a Lost 
Time Accident frequency rate of 0.5 (2010: 0.5) 
accidents/100,000 hours worked. There was 
however a rise in the severity rate to 0.017 (0.008), 
which measures the days lost as a result of all 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Review
The Group is proud of a long record of 
leadership in understanding the sector’s 
environmental responsibilities and ensuring  
that our industry’s products and processes 
deliver environmental solutions whilst meeting 
the practical needs of customers, consumers 
and the wider community.
Waste farm film awaiting recycling. Our Recycled Products’ site at Rhymney, South Wales  
was awarded Best Environmental Business at the  
Pride in Your Place Awards, organised by Caerphilly  
Borough Council, in recognition of its commitment  
to introducing greener practices at its site.
British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
35
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
accidents as a percentage of the total hours worked, 
due to increased recovery time for four employees.
The Group works hard to identify the root causes  
of all accidents, dangerous incidents, and near- 
miss situations, and uses a range of investigation 
procedures to help avoid repetition. Conclusions 
about underlying causes are used to improve our 
Health and Safety management systems, with 
relevant information being shared across the  
Group. Business Health and Safety Managers  
meet throughout the year to share best practice  
and ensure that there is a standardised approach  
to safety management across the Group. 
All our manufacturing sites are audited on a rolling 
programme by the Group Health and Safety 
Department and areas of improvement are identified. 
The Group strives continually to improve its safety 
performance by:
•	Developing and maintaining a good safety culture 
at all locations;
•	Continually improving communications and 
sharing best practice throughout the Group;
•	Ensuring the robust auditing of safety 
management systems;
•	Ensuring active involvement of senior managers  
in monitoring and promoting safety.
Safety at work remains a top priority and its 
importance is reflected in it being a key agenda  
item at all Main Board, Management Board, 
Business Board and Site Management meetings.
Three Year Health and Safety Strategy
The Group developed and implemented a Three 
Year Health and Safety Action Plan in 2011, with  
the aim of achieving a continuous improvement  
in its overall health and safety performance. The 
Strategy sets out specific objectives which focus on: 
•	Strengthening safety leadership throughout  
the organisation; 
•	Increasing worker involvement in health  
and safety; 
•	Enhancing safety management systems and 
•	Targeting specific risk areas within the business. 
This Three Year Health and Safety Action Plan  
has been recognised by the Health and Safety 
Executive and has been used as best practice  
within the plastics industry.
Best known use of 
recyclate is the 
Green Sack range.
Pellet extruded into 
a range of products.
Recycled polythene 
in pellet form is 
ready for re-use.
Baled waste enters 
washing and 
recycling process.
Waste ﬁlm 
collected on farm.
Janitorial
Food Services
Retail/Cash & Carry
Local Authority
Healthcare
Waste film  
collected on farm.
Baled waste  
enters washing and 
recycling process.
Recycled polythene 
in pellet form is 
ready for re-use.
Pellet extruded into a 
range of products.
Best known use of 
recyclate is the Green 
Sack™ range.
The Recycling Process
> Janitorial
> Food Services
> Retail/Cash & Carry
> Local Authority
> Healthcare 36
Proactive Safety Programme
The Group has been working with Ryder Marsh UK, one of Europe’s leaders in Behaviour Based Safety  
to create the BPI Proactive Safety Programme which aims to develop and maintain a strong and effective 
safety culture across the whole organisation, with the primary aim of improving Safety Leadership. 
The Proactive Safety Programme includes the six pillars of behavioural safety, namely:
•	Awareness: to increase understanding and reduce resistance to change
•	Management: to lead by example and support the process
•	Ownership: to increase participation and develop commitment to continuous improvement 
•	Measurement: to provide a pro-active means of measuring daily safety performance 
•	Feedback: to recognise and praise good safety performance and seek understanding of how  
unsafe acts may occur 
•	Analysis: to objectively identify systemic drivers of unsafe behaviour and to allow for targeted 
recommendations for improvement
This Proactive Safety Programme will help address the behavioural safety issues which currently  
cause over 80% of workplace accidents. 
Near Miss Reporting System
A new Group health and safety system was introduced in 2011 to standardise and improve the 
identification, reporting, and investigation of near miss situations. A ‘near miss’ is any incident which  
does not result in an injury, but could have done. Encouraging employees to identify and report near miss 
incidents creates an opportunity for the business to identify and remove hazardous conditions and work 
practices that may result in future injuries or damage. Many accidents can be prevented if lessons are  
learned from near miss situations. This new system provides employees with a simple way of reporting  
near miss situations and provides the site management teams with a tool to effectively identify and  
monitor corrective actions that will prevent reoccurrence. 
Loss Prevention Seminar
Property loss prevention remains an important issue for the Group. The Group continues to work closely 
with its insurers to continually improve its loss prevention controls. Every year the Group develops  
a specific Risk Improvement Plan, which is based on the following objectives: 
•	Objective 1: 
To protect the Group’s strategic locations
•	Objective 2:  
To reduce risk of potential loss in all sites
•	Objective 3: 
To mitigate potential flood exposures
In 2011 the Group ran a successful loss prevention seminar which focused on preventing property losses  
as a result of fire. The seminar was delivered by our insurers FM Global’s engineers, and was attended by 
over 35 site directors, engineering managers and health and safety advisers from across our UK operations.
Legionella Control and Management
The Group reviewed and updated its Legionella Control and Water Management Standard for the control  
of legionella bacteria in water systems in 2011. All operating sites have up to date risk assessments which  
are independently carried out and audited, and legionella management training courses are run every year 
across the Group to ensure each operating site has competent persons appointed to safely manage and 
monitor its water systems. In addition to this, the Group continues with its policy of replacing industrial 
cooling towers with lower risk and more energy efficient chiller systems. In the UK the remaining cooling 
towers will be removed in 2012.
Risk Assessments and Safety Training
Our operating sites continued to review and update their workplace risk assessments. These risk assessments 
and safe operating procedures are the foundation of a good safety management system.
The Group is committed to providing its employees with adequate health and safety training, ensuring they 
are competent to carry out their work in a safe manner.
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Review ( continued)
2011 0.5 2011
0.5 2010
2009 0.5 2009
2009 0.5 2008
2009 0.5 2007
LTA frequency rate
Accidents/100,000 hours worked
Lost time accidents – Accidents that cause employees to be 
unavailable for normal duties for more than three consecutive days.
2009
2009
2009
Minor accident frequency rate
Minor accidents/100,000 hours worked
Minor accidents – All reported minor injuries. 
7.4
5.0
6.5
6.9
7.8
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2009
2009
2009
Severity rate
Number of days
Severity rate – Number of days lost as a result of accidents/number  
of hours worked.
0.008
0.017
0.012
0.019
0.013
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007 British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
37
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
The numbers of accidents recorded were:
  20 11 20 1 0 2009 2008 2007
Lost Time Accidents   24 24 28 26 29 
Minor Accidents   241 369 341 381 431
Energy
  20 11 20 1 0 2009 2008 2007
CO
2
 output (kg/tonne)    342 358 362 356 362 
CO
2
 output (kg/1,000 square metre)   14.2 14.7 15.3 15.7 – 
Electricity (kWh/tonne)   694 693 697 679 675 
Electricity (kWh/1,000 square metre)   28.8 29.4 30.5 30.6 –
The UK Government required that instead of using actual CO
2
 data standard conversion factors for each 
country are used for energy consumption. 
We have included new measures of CO
2
 and Energy usage per square metre to reflect the continuing trend 
to produce thinner stronger films. As the average weight of products has reduced our energy usage and CO
2
 
output per square metre has reduced whilst energy usage per tonne has remained relatively constant. For 
more information on the impact of thinner stronger films, please see page 3.
CO
2
 output per tonne has reduced compared with 2010. This is due to reduced gas and oil usage especially 
for background space heating by re-using exhaust heat from our processes and also investment in newer 
more efficient print machines.
There is a long established improvement programme in place to purchase more efficient equipment and fit 
energy saving devices, especially to motors, compressors and lighting schemes. 
Ten of our UK sites, representing 88% of 2011 UK electricity usage, are in Climate Change Agreements with 
the Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs to reduce our CO
2
 emissions. 
In 2011, the UK sites gained Group Exemption status from the new UK Carbon Reduction Commitment  
(CRC) tax.
  20 11 20 1 0  2009 2008 2007 
Oil (kWh/tonne)   1.45 2.3 3.8 4.2 4.3 
Only two sites now use heating oil. One of our larger European sites accounts for 76% of Group usage with 
the balance consumed in China. Oil consumption reduced in Europe as a result of changes made to use the 
exhaust heat generated by air compressors for space heating.
  20 11   20 1 0  2009   2008  2007 
Gas (kWh/tonne)   48 62 58 61 58
The gas usage reduced significantly. Gas is used for drying in our printing process, burning VOC emissions  
at a number of our printing sites and space heating. There are an increasing number of sites where exhaust 
heat from the production process, compressors and thermal oxidisers is re-used to provide space heating. 
Carbon Footprint
The Group is working with Valpak (the UK’s leading provider of environmental compliance and consultancy, 
recycling solutions and carbon services) in undertaking an organisational carbon foot print analysis for our 
Worcester site, as well as to establish the carbon foot print of some of our major product lines. Based on the 
results the project to produce a carbon footprint for all our organisational activities will then be extended to 
the whole Group.
Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions
Sites which have printing activities require to be compliant with the Integrated Pollution Prevention and 
Control of Emissions Directive in the handling and use of solvents which is a major factor in VOC emissions. 
At the end of 2011 there were eight solvent ink printing sites. Four of those sites are able to demonstrate  
the abatement of VOC emissions with the use of processes that change these potentially environmentally 
unfriendly substances before controlled emission into the atmosphere. Three of these sites use thermal 
oxidising units and one site uses bio-filters containing oyster shells. At six sites VOC emissions are below  
the level above which abatement is required, including two who only use water based inks.
£21 m
2,375
Since the Packaging Waste Regulations were  
introduced in the UK we have invested £21m in  
state of the art plastic reprocessing equipment at  
our Environment Agency and Scottish Environment 
Protection Agency accredited sites. 
Employees throughout the business. 38
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Review ( continued)
VOC solvent purchases for our print sites were:
  20 11  20 1 0  2009  2008  2007 
  T onnes  T onnes  T onnes  T onnes  T onnes
Non Abated Sites  128 141 63 25 38 
Abated Sites  1,668 1,674 1,572 1,654 1,810
Total    1,796 1,815 1,635 1,679 1,848
The overall solvent used decreased by 1.0% due to the efficient use of solvents and state of the art processes. 
In line with our environmental responsibilities we continue the process of reducing the total amount of solvent 
used, whilst at the same time ensuring optimum value and the quality of print that our customers require. 
Whilst we remain dependent on solvent based inks for many of our customers print requirements, we will 
use water based ink where the application allows, and seek to further develop emerging technologies 
where appropriate. 
Environmental policy
As a leading manufacturer and supplier of polythene film and other products we recognise our responsibility 
to operate with due concern for the environment in which we live and work and to minimise the impact of 
our activities on that environment. Through close contact with national governments and industry regulators 
we are at the forefront of legislative developments. We continue to develop our processes and working 
practices to meet, as a minimum standard, both our legal and social obligations. We seek continually to 
improve our environmental performance by setting objectives and targets combined with clear management 
programmes and initiatives to minimise our impact on the environment. Specifically we are committed to:
•	Manufacture our products to meet the relevant legislative standards in the countries and regions in which 
we operate;
•	Minimise the use of resources and to work with our customers to minimise their use of resources through 
environmentally responsible packaging systems;
•	Promote the reuse, recycling and recovery of our materials and to assist in this recovery wherever it is 
practical and environmentally beneficial to do so; 
•	Improve the environmental performance of our processes by reducing emissions and energy use, 
minimising waste and controlling noise;
•	Be a responsible employer and a good neighbour;
•	Provide suitable and unambiguous environmental information for our employees, customers and the  
local community;
•	Maintain leadership in the development of new products and processes using recycled materials and 
support initiatives which benefit the environment.
The Group Environmental Director, Andrew Green, is a member of the Group Management Board and 
reports to the Chief Executive. With the increasing focus on environmental issues, and the enhanced interest 
in packaging and recycling, it is important that the Group has an experienced representative and spokesman 
on these topics. Andrew is also on the Board of Valpak, the UK’s largest compliance scheme for packaging 
waste regulations and is a member of the UK Government Advisory Committee on Packaging .
Packaging and the environment 
There was continued media focus on packaging and the environment in 2011, but the debate appears to 
have become more balanced to reflect the very necessary and important role of packaging in preventing 
waste and the spoilage of products.
The Group supports packaging minimisation where it does not result in increased product damage or 
spoilage, thereby creating a more significant environmental problem. We have reduced the weight of our 
packaging products on like for like volumes by almost 15,000 tonnes in the last three years and have 
continued to work with our customers in 2011 to take further weight out of our products. 
Biodegradable plastics 
The Group welcomes the ongoing advances made in the technical characteristics of biopolymers 
manufactured from renewable resources. However, we caution that the most important and valuable 
environmental credential of plastic films is their ability to perform a packaging, industrial or agricultural 
requirement using the most lightweight materials available for the task. The integrity and resource efficiency 
of this primary purpose of protection is of far greater environmental impact than the speed at which the 
plastic will eventually biodegrade. Above all, our overriding commitment is to offer biodegradable products 
to our customers only where we can guarantee the integrity of our product and where their compostability 
offers an alternative disposal solution from landfill.
We are committed to promote 
the reuse, recycling and 
recovery of our materials  
and to assist in this recovery 
whenever it is practical and 
environmentally beneficial  
to do so.  British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
39
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
Recycling and packaging waste legislation
We are the UK’s largest recycler of polythene films, reprocessing over 64,000 tonnes in the year. Since the 
Packaging Waste Regulations were introduced in the UK we have invested £21 million in state of the art 
plastic reprocessing equipment at our Environment Agency and Scottish Environment Protection Agency  
accredited sites. 
The price of Packaging Waste Recovery Notes (PRN) remained at very low levels below £5/tonne throughout 
2011 as reprocessing activity, particularly the export of plastic to the Far East, was considerably in excess of  
PRN and Packaging Export Recovery Notes (PERN) demand. The UK continues to rely on exporting over 70%  
of its waste plastic overseas, particularly to China, to achieve its EU recycling targets. We believe that there 
remains a risk in placing such heavy reliance on access to overseas markets to meet our EU obligations for 
reprocessing. At the end of 2011 the government published its consultation on whether to maintain or to 
increase the national packaging recycling targets after 2012. The response from the majority of industry  
and obligated companies in the current regulatory system to the previous consultation regarding targets 
between 2010 and 2012 was in favour of continued stretching but achievable increases in recycling targets. 
The Group, as an obligated Company, has an interest in the UK meeting its EU obligations at lowest cost  
to industry. However we also feel that unless the targets continue to rise reprocessing activity will reduce, 
rather than merely remain static at current levels, and as such the UK’s ability to comply with the EU targets 
at low cost will be put at risk. 
The Group’s Packaging Waste recovery and recycling obligation for 2011 was 10,735 tonnes. We continue 
to discharge our obligations through membership of the national compliance scheme, Valpak, and satisfied 
our plastic recycling obligation through our own recycling plants. Our cost of compliance was broadly in line 
with 2010.
Awards
The Group was awarded the prestigious Sustainability Award at the Scotland plc Awards. The Group was 
recognised for its long term focus on sustainability as demonstrated by several projects including the UK’s 
first fully ”closed loop” farm plastics recycling scheme, the development of a reusable plastic core initiative 
and the advancements it has made in film downgauging, BPI was also recognised for the degree to which  
it incorporates care for the environment into its working practices, for the opportunities it has taken to work 
sustainably with its customer base and for the way in which it communicates its environmental activities to 
its stakeholders.
BPI Recycled Products was awarded two Green Apple Awards for Environmental Best Practice. The first gold 
award was for the flagship Green Sack™ range of 100% recycled refuse sacks and the second gold award,  
in the Environmental Improvement category, was for an innovative waste management and landfill reduction 
project at bpi.recycled products’ Stroud site which set out to cut the amount of waste sent to landfill by 5% 
each year.
Our Recycled Products’ site at Rhymney, South Wales was awarded Best Environmental Business at the  
Pride in Your Place Awards, organised by Caerphilly Borough Council, in recognition of its commitment to 
introducing greener practices at its site, its robust waste stream management practices designed to reduce 
the amount of waste sent to landfill and its work with local schools to educate children on the benefits and 
importance of recycling as part of the Rhymney First Communities Partnership.
The Group’s Greenock site was awarded the ’Best Business’ category for companies employing over  
25 people and ‘Best of the Best’ Award at the Greenock Chamber of Commerce’s Annual Business Awards. 
The ‘Bees Knees’ Awards initiative recognises best management, employment and environmental practices, 
innovation in product development and adaptability in a rapidly changing business environment. 
Our UK consumer business VMB, the UK’s leading producer of high quality flexible packaging for the retail 
food sector was awarded three high profile Awards at the European Flexographic Industry Association Annual 
Print Awards, the Gold Award in the Technical Achievement category for the expert use of inks and coatings 
in the packaging of Warburton’s Tiger Loaf to create a realistic paper feel, the Silver Award in the Wide Web 
Line & Screen category for the same product and a Highly Commended citation for the Company’s design 
work on the Morrison’s range of nut packaging. VMB, in conjunction with its customer Allied Bakeries, was 
also awarded the Sustainable Pack of the Year at the UK Packaging Awards, as a result of its initiative to 
produce a bread bag using 100% recycled process waste materials.
At the same awards, BPI Visqueen was awarded “Highly Commended” in the Investment Project of  
the Year category for its major investment project at Ardeer.
Top
Sustainability award from 2012 Scottish plc Awards. 
Bottom
Greenock Chamber of Commerce Annual Business 
Awards.  40
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Review ( continued)
Waste to landfill
The Group limits the amount of material which goes to landfill by ensuring that virtually all scrap arising from 
polymer used in the manufacturing process is reprocessed or recycled within the Group.
   20 11  20 1 0  2009  2008 
   T onnes  T onnes  T onnes  T onnes
Manufacturing waste   399 482 658 882 
Non Agricultural recycled waste   276 327 576 759 
Agricultural recycled waste   1,554 1,845 2,501 2,419
    2,229 2,654 3,735 4,060
   20 11  20 1 0  2009  2008 
   T onnes  T onnes  T onnes  T onnes
Bio Soil    4,945 5,897 2,543 3,307
Agricultural scrap is heavily contaminated with soil, water and other agricultural by-products and is 
extensively washed prior to recycling at the Group’s operations at Dumfries and Rhymney. Bio Soil (soil to 
landfill) is charged at 10% of the normal fee and is used by the land fill operator as a covering for other 
waste. Other brought-in scrap is less contaminated, but still contains an element of non-polythene which 
has to be separated out before recycling. 94% of the waste which we send to landfill is from our own 
agricultural recycling operations. 
Throughout the Group there is a programme which is targeted with reducing the amount of waste which 
goes to landfill. This will be achieved by reducing waste arising from operations and ensuring that as much 
as possible is separated and sent for recycling.
Our manufacturing sites in Holland and Belgium, together with Promopack, our pre press operation,  
have adopted a “zero to landfill” policy for all production and office waste.
Business accreditations
Quality Assurance
All manufacturing sites in the Group have, achieved either ISO 9001, covering quality management systems, 
or ISO 9002 which is the emerging global standard for product and process quality.
British Retail Consortium (BRC)
All sites (in the UK, Europe and China) which supply the retail food market have achieved the highly 
regarded BRC certification. BRC is the lead UK trade association representing the whole range of retailers, 
from the large multiples and department stores through the independents.
Environment
Eleven sites in the Group have achieved ISO 14001 which is the International Environmental Management 
System standard.
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS 18001)
Two sites in Europe have achieved OHSAS 18001 certification which requires robust management systems 
to control occupational health and safety risks and improve performance. Approximately a quarter of our 
operating sites are externally audited and certified to OHSAS 18001. Our sites at Dumfries, Stroud and 
Heanor are the latest sites to have successfully achieved this standard in 2011. 
Charitable support and sponsorship
Charitable donations made during the year amounted to £69,000 (2010: £50,000). No donations were 
given for political purposes.
The Group supports national and international charities involved in relieving suffering. We also support a 
number of wildlife funds, ecological projects and other good causes. This support is in both products donated 
and financial contributions. Most of our businesses sent out electronic Christmas cards, rather than traditional 
cards, and donated the money saved to local charities. Unclaimed dividends after a period of twelve years are 
donated to charity. The Group’s Employee Information and Communication Body agreed which charities to 
support including charities for cancer relief, children, the armed forces and the Swansea Valley Miners Appeal 
Fund. The Board allocated £10,000 to the Group’s Employee Information and Communications Body (EICB)  
which agreed to support charities for cancer, children, visually impaired and service pensioners. 
The Group encourages each site to donate a percentage of its turnover to local charities and many of our 
sites are regularly involved in fund raising for local charities.
 1 5,000 
tonnes
We have reduced the weight of our packaging 
products on like for like volumes by almost  
15,000 tonnes in the last three years. British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
41
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
Communications 
We recognise trade unions across nine sites in the Group for separate collective bargaining purposes, 
including two sites in North America. We provide information, consult and negotiate with the trade unions 
on a range of subjects including pay, hours and holidays. We have Works Councils in mainland Europe and 
at a number of our non unionised sites in the UK. Our Managing Directors and senior site directors also 
deliver regular business updates direct to the workforce. 
The Group’s Employee Information and Communication Body (EICB) was established in 2005 and meets 
twice per year. The EICB brings together employee representatives from across our UK business to discuss 
business issues with senior directors within the Group including Main Board members. This involves the 
provision of information, consultation and discussions with a view to reaching agreement regarding 
decisions that are likely to lead to substantial changes in organisation or in contractual relations prior to  
any action being taken. The annual European Communication Forum (ECF) was established in 1999 and 
discusses trans-national issues that may affect our employees in the UK, Netherlands, Belgium and Ireland. 
Employees regularly receive written communications explaining issues discussed at these meetings.
We have a ‘Whistle Blowing Policy’ in place which seeks to encourage employee participation in the 
identification of any wrong doing within the organisation. We have an existing ethical policy which has  
been amended to take account of the Bribery Act 2010 and will be fully implemented in 2012. We have  
a ‘Grievance Policy’ which operates throughout our sites allowing employees to communicate any 
employment dissatisfaction which they may have. 
Pay and Benefits 
Terms and conditions (including pay) are set at local site level. We have a range of benefits including 
competitive pay rates, a number of bonus schemes for employees at all levels which reflect business 
performance and improvements in attendance and production and a range of health care benefits.  
We comply with the requirements of the National Minimum Wage in the UK.
In the UK, the final salary pension scheme was closed for future service for existing members in 2010 and a 
Group Personal Pension Plan (GPPP) with employer contributions was offered to those affected employees.
Senior employees’ pay and rewards are formally benchmarked against market data. We voluntarily operate 
enhanced maternity and paternity pay schemes and regularly consider and agree requests for flexible 
working. 
In the UK we operate a childcare voucher scheme to support employees who are working parents, and  
a “Bike to Work” scheme and regularly offer employees the chance to participate in a SAYE share scheme. 
We introduced an Employee Assistance Programme in 2011 which is a free and confidential telephone, 
online and face to face counselling service available to employees looking for advice or support for any 
aspects of their personal life, health and well being. 
China 
We have a highly committed and skilled workforce which has worked to build this business over the past 
eighteen years. The same standards of health and safety, fairness, equality and merit applied in our European 
businesses are replicated in China. Senior UK Directors are responsible for this business. We comply with 
International Labour Organisation standards on working hours, working wage, freedom of labour, child 
labour, freedom of association, discipline and discrimination. Employees are recruited from the local area,  
do not live at the work premises and return home at the end of their shift. Rates of pay are competitive for 
the region and are negotiated by elected representatives. We have invested in considerable training for our 
Chinese workforce, provided by their colleagues from the UK to provide new skills and ensure consistency  
of quality and service.
Education
We are active in many areas of education, working with schools, universities and other institutions.  
We support a range of activities from providing advice and resources for teaching to hosting school visits 
and sponsoring educational projects aimed at increasing the awareness of plastics, packaging and the 
environment. We continue to sponsor the Schools Starpack Design Awards and have extended this into 
Higher Education with sponsorship of the equivalent competition for Universities and Colleges – ‘Student 
Starpack 11’. We believe our sponsorship of the Starpack Awards, together with the accompanying 
educational support package, helps both students and their tutors better understand the key role  
plastic packaging plays in reducing product wastage for the overall benefit of the wider environment. 
The Group continues to sponsor two teachers at the Polymer Study Tours organised by The British Plastics 
Federation and the Worshipful Company of Horners which assists science, design and technology teachers 
to understand the applications of polymers in the industrial environment.
Top
Gerry McGarry – Business Director BPI Recycled 
Products accompanied by school children and  
staff from Vale of Glamorgan schools, at the 
presentation ceremony for the Plaswood picnic 
table to Ty Hafan children’s hospice.
Bottom
BPI supported veterinary student Jennifer Still to spend 
four weeks volunteering at Antelope Park, Zimbabwe 
working in a project seeking to reintroduce the 
offspring of captive-bred lions back into the wild. 42
A focus on the highest levels of 
quality. Decades of experience. 
Technical know-how. A can-do 
approach… Many factors have  
led to BPI’s success in becoming  
a leader in the production of 
polythene film products.
Corporate Social Responsibility  
Focus on our People
Our people
Our people continue to be central to the 
development of the business. We strive to reach  
the highest standards in all aspects of employment 
policy and practice in our UK, European,  
Chinese and North American operations.
The Group benefits from a strong people culture 
where employees have a pride in their jobs and 
strive to deliver their best performance in everything 
they do. The skill, knowledge and experience of our 
workforce is comparable with anyone in our industry. 
We operate very flat management structures which 
allow immediate communication and feedback on 
daily issues and more formal structures promote 
effective communication about the values and 
direction of the business. We are proud that not  
only do our employees know their jobs but they also 
have a broader appreciation of the safety, ethical 
and environmental considerations so important to 
our business. Many opportunities exist to build 
careers within the business and we operate a strong 
meritocracy. Many supervisors and managers began 
in junior roles on the shop floor and have learned the 
business from the ‘grass roots’. We always attempt 
to fill promotion opportunities internally but do 
occasionally resort to external recruitment where 
this is not feasible. 
Recruitment and Retention 
The Group operates an equal opportunity 
policy and is committed to ensuring that it fulfils its 
obligations to operate fairly, justly and in accordance 
with all applicable laws. In particular, no employee 
or potential employee shall be discriminated against 
on grounds of gender, race, age, disability, religion, 
political beliefs or sexual orientation. 
We recruit graduates from universities and young 
workers as apprentices. We recruit in the region  
of six engineering and polymer science graduates 
onto our Graduate Programme each year. We aim 
to have at least one apprentice on each of our sites. 
We employ a large number of older workers and 
operate without a retirement age in the UK.  
Our retention rates have improved and employee 
turnover in 2011 is 14% (2010: 18%). We 
consistently retain longer serving, higher skilled 
employees and employee turnover tends to occur 
with shorter serving employees in lower skilled  
jobs. Our 50 most senior sales, commercial and 
production staff have an average 22 years service.
Disabled Employees 
Applications for employment by disabled  
persons are always fully considered, bearing in  
mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned  
and the implications of the Equality Act 2010.  
In the event of members of staff becoming  
disabled, every effort is made to ensure that  
their employment with the Group continues  
and that appropriate training is arranged.
Training and Development 
Our employees are amongst the most skilled in  
the industry. We invest in a range of development 
activities including NVQ’s and MBA’s and support 
other professional and technical training. Our capital 
investment programme is supported by training in 
the use of new machinery. Training in health and 
safety (in conjunction with the trade unions) is a 
particular Group strength. We increasingly appraise 
our workforce annually in order to identify their 
training needs and 2012 will see this programme 
extended further. Members of the Group Personnel 
Department regularly train our managers and 
supervisors in a variety of employment matters  
to ensure best practice people management is 
carried out with all sites managers and supervisors 
receiving Anti-Harassment and Anti-Bullying  
training in 2011. The Group Health and Safety 
Department also actively train our managers, 
supervisors and employees to maximise their  
health and well being at work. 
The ‘Sales and Commercial Development 
Programme’ was implemented in 2011 for 25 of  
our most senior sales and commercial managers.  
The programme concentrated on developing best 
practice across Group sales and commercial activities, 
margin analysis, credit control, negotiating skills, 
presentations, personal development, product 
innovation and coaching. This followed the 
‘Operations and Production Development 
Programme’ in 2009 and we are currently designing 
the Senior Finance Development Programme for 
implementation in 2012. 
Attendance 
The absenteeism rate for all Group sites in 2011  
was 3.0% (2010: 3.4%). This is a significant 
improvement and the absenteeism rate for UK  
sites was 2.7%, which is the lowest annual rate  
of absenteeism ever recorded in the business.
We continue to train managers in absenteeism 
management techniques and operate attendance 
bonus schemes across many sites. British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
43
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
John Langlands (Chief Executive) meeting with  
employee representatives at the 2011 EICB meeting.
Neil Peppin from the Bromborough (UK) site is pictured  
demonstrating extrusion equipment in Xinhui (China) 
to Michael Wu Extrusion supervisor.
John Haddow (Environmental Manager UK Recycling 
Operations) undertook a cycle ride between the Rhymney  
and Heanor recycling sites to raise funds for the Help for  
Heroes charity.
> >
> 44
Board of Directors and Advisers
1 / Cameron McLatchie CBE 
Chairman
2 / John Langlands CA
Chief Executive
3 / David Harris FCCA
Group Finance Director
4 / Hamish Grossart*
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman
5 / Lord Jamie Lindsay*
Non-Executive Director 
6 / Ron Marsh*
Non-Executive Director 
7 / Ian Russell CA CBE**
Non-Executive Director
 
8 / David Warnock*
Non-Executive Director British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
45
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
1. Cameron McLatchie CBE
Chairman
Cameron joined the Board in 1983 on the 
acquisition of Anaplast where he had been 
Chairman and Managing Director since 1975, 
becoming Group Chairman and Chief Executive in 
1988. He relinquished the role of Chief Executive  
in May 2003.
2. John Langlands CA
Chief Executive
John joined the Board in 1994 as Group Finance 
Director from Eclipse Blinds plc where he was also 
Finance Director. He was previously Finance Director 
at Scottish Enterprise and United Wire Limited. 
Appointed Chief Operating Officer in May 2002  
and Chief Executive in May 2003.
3. David Harris FCCA
Group Finance Director
David joined the Board as Group Finance Director  
in July 2009. Since joining the Group in 1996 David 
has held a number of senior financial and general 
management roles with the Group, including 
Managing Director of BPI Industrial and Business 
Director of BPI Consumer. He was previously with 
Grant Thornton.
4. Hamish Grossart*
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman
Hamish joined the Board in May 2005 and  
is currently Chairman of Artemis Investment 
Management and Indigovision Group. After a  
career in investment banking he has, over the  
last 25 years, held a range of executive and non 
executive positions in listed and unlisted companies 
covering a wide range of industries. He was Deputy 
Chairman and senior independent director of Cairn 
Energy from 1996 to 2010, and Deputy Chairman 
and senior independent director of Scottish Radio 
Holdings from 1993 until 2005. Past Chairmanships 
include Royal Doulton, Eclipse Blinds, Scottish 
Highland Hotels, Hicking Pentecost, and EFT  
Group. He is Chairman of the Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees.
5. Lord Jamie Lindsay*
Non-Executive Director
Lord Lindsay joined the Board in March 2006 and is 
currently Chairman of the agricultural group SAC, a 
Non-Executive Director of Scottish Resources Group 
Limited, Chairman of UKAS (UK Accreditation 
Service), Chairman of Frelish Energy Ltd and from 
1998 to 2005 was a Non-Executive Director of the 
property company UA Group PLC. His career has 
included senior appointments in the commercial, 
environmental and government sectors, and 
ministerial responsibilities for agriculture, food,  
the environment and sustainable development. 
6. Ron Marsh*
Non-Executive Director 
Ron joined the Board as an independent Non-
Executive Director in March 2011. Ron has 40 years 
experience in the packaging industry and, since 
1989, has been Chief Executive of the RPC Group, 
Europe’s leading supplier of rigid plastic packaging 
products. Prior to that he was involved in the 
manufacture and sale of folding cartons, initially 
with Metal Box (1971-1987) and subsequently  
with Reed International. Ron is also a Director  
of the Packaging Federation (a company limited  
by guarantee).
7. Ian Russell CA CBE*
Non-Executive Director 
Ian joined the Board as an independent Non-
Executive Director in July 2011. Ian is Chairman  
of Johnston Press PLC , Advance Power AG and  
of Remploy Ltd, and a Non-Executive Director of  
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc and British 
Assets plc. He is an adviser to Clyde Bergemann 
Power Group and Chairman of the campaign board 
for the University of Edinburgh. Ian was previously  
Chief Executive of Scottish Power plc following  
a career in finance with HSBC, Mars Limited and 
KPMG. He is a Chartered Accountant and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee. 
8. David Warnock*
Non-Executive Director 
David joined the Board as an independent 
Non-Executive Director in August 2009. He has  
over 30 years’ investment experience in both public 
and private companies, in both the UK and USA.  
He co-founded Aberforth Partners LLP and was a 
partner for 19 years until he retired from the firm in 
2008, prior to which he was with Ivory & Sime plc 
for four years and before that with 3i plc for seven 
years. David is also a Non-Executive Director of 
Phoenix IT Group plc, Standard Life European Private 
Equity Trust plc, Troy Income & Growth Trust plc and 
a number of private companies.
*  Member of the Remuneration, Audit and 
Nominations Committees.
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
191 West George Street
Glasgow  
G2 2LJ
Solicitors
Maclay Murray & Spens
1 George Square
Glasgow  
G2 1AL
Brokers
Investec Bank plc
2 Gresham Street
London  
EC2V 7QP
Main Bankers
Lloyds Banking Group plc
Royal Bank of Scotland plc
HSBC Bank PLC
Santander UK PLC 46
Corporate Governance Report
Throughout the year to 31 December 2011, the Group complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council. The Board remains committed to the highest 
standards of corporate governance and this statement describes how the principles of the Code are applied 
and reports on the Group’s compliance with the code’s provisions.
The Board
The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors which normally meets six times per year. The Board  
is responsible for the long term success of the Group and its main roles are to create shareholder value, to 
provide leadership to the Group, to set the Group’s strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary 
financial and other resources are made available to allow the Group to meet those objectives. The Board  
has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision such as the setting of corporate strategy 
plans, annual budgets and risk management strategy. Major acquisitions and disposals, as well as major 
capital expenditure, are authorised by the Board and in the case of acquisitions and capital expenditure are 
subsequently monitored by the Board after execution. The Board also reviews the environmental, health  
and safety performance of the Group.
The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the Group Management Board: the development 
and recommendation of strategic plans for consideration by the Board that reflect the longer term objectives 
and priorities established by the Board; implementation of the strategies and policies as determined by the 
Board; monitoring operational and financial results against budgets; prioritising the allocation of capital, 
technical and human resources; ensuring that appropriate management development and succession plans 
are in place; and developing and implementing risk management systems.
The Group has in place appropriate insurance cover for the Board members, in respect of legal action which 
might be taken against them.
The Responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board, Cameron McLatchie, and the Chief 
Executive, John Langlands, is clearly defined and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman provides guidance to the Group Management Board in matters of strategy and leads the 
Board in the determination of its strategy and in the achievement of its objectives. The Chairman is 
responsible for assessing individual board members effectiveness and performance and agreeing any training 
needs Directors may require The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring 
its effectiveness and setting its agenda and encouraging a culture of openness and debate. The Chairman 
facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors, manages the relationship between Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors, and ensures that Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information and 
that there is effective communication with shareholders. The Chairman continues to have an executive role in 
the strategy for polymer purchasing and evaluation of capital expenditure proposals. 
The Chief Executive has direct charge of the Group on a day to day basis and is accountable to the Board 
for its financial and operational performance. He chairs the Group Management Board and is also responsible 
for Environmental Matters, Health and Safety and Human Resources. He has a senior management team that 
look after the day to day activities and report direct to him.
The role of Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director is carried out by  
Hamish Grossart.
Directors, Directors’ Independence and Senior Independent Director
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and five independent 
Non-Executive Directors. Biographical details of each Director are shown on page 45. The Board’s evaluation 
and review process also covers the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors taking into account 
their integrity, objectivity and contribution to the Board and its Committees. The Board believes the 
following behaviours are essential in order for a Director to be considered independent: 
•	Provide an objective robust and consistent challenge to the assumption, beliefs and views of the senior 
management and the other Directors;
•	Questions intelligently, debates constructively and challenges rigorously and dispassionately;
•	Acts at all times in the interests of the Company and its shareholders;
•	Has knowledge of the Group business, industry and the markets as a whole and the ability to help the 
Executive Directors develop proposals on strategy.
Throughout the year  
to 31 December 201 1, 
the Group complied with  
the provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance  
Code issued by the Financial 
Reporting Council. The  
Board remains committed  
to the highest standards 
of corporate governance  
and this statement describes 
how the principles of the  
Code are applied and reports 
on the Group’s compliance 
with the code’s provisions. British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
47
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
Having reviewed the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors the Board concluded that all  
of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company are considered independent. 
The independent Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and help develop strategy and bring 
strong, independent, judgement, knowledge and experience to the Board’s deliberations. The independent 
Directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their views carry significant weight in the Board’s decision 
making. The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors who served during the year to be independent 
in character and judgement.
Hamish Grossart continues to be the Group’s Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. The main 
responsibilities of the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are as follows:
•	To provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary with other Directors  
where necessary;
•	To be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of 
Chairman, Chief Executive or other Executive Directors has failed to resolve or for which such contact  
is inappropriate;
•	To meet with other Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present at least annually in order  
to appraise the Chairman’s performance.
Professional Development
On joining the Board, Directors are provided with documentation on the Group and its activities.  
An induction programme and site visits are arranged to major business units and to meet with members  
of the Group Management Board and other key senior executives. Throughout their period in office the 
Directors are regularly updated on the Group’s business, the competitive and regulatory environment and 
the industry it operates in. Board meetings are regularly held at operational sites and tours are arranged to 
ensure that the Board is kept up to date with the latest operational developments. 
Directors are also advised, on appointment, of their legal and other duties and obligations as a Director of a 
listed company, both in writing and in face to face meetings with the Company Secretary. External training 
courses are provided where necessary. They are reminded of these duties each year and are also updated 
regarding changes to the legal and governance requirements of the Group and themselves as Directors.  
The Directors accept their collective responsibility for the management of the Group.
Performance Evaluation 
The Board has a well established process for conducting an annual evaluation of the Board and  
Committee performance which is led by the Chairman using an assessment questionnaire, prepared by  
the Company Secretary which all Directors are asked to complete. Directors grade areas such as performance 
of the Board and its Committees, the effectiveness of the Chairman, Executive and Non-Executive Directors, 
the monitoring of operational performance and corporate governance as well as leadership and culture.  
The advantage of this approach is that results can be compared year upon year with another. The results are 
presented to the Chairman which are then reported to the Board. They are discussed among Non-Executive 
Directors and they also provide a background for interviews between the Chairman and individual Directors 
as part of an annual appraisal. Overall the results for the 2011 evaluation were positive but it was agreed 
that there were a number of topics which would be explored including the diversity of the Board and 
succession planning for senior roles.
Re-election of Directors
Directors appointed by the Board other than at an Annual General Meeting are required to retire at the 
following Annual General Meeting when they may offer themselves for election. Directors are thereafter 
required to seek re-election every three years. The Nominations Committee of the Board considered the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (2010 Code) which requires the Directors of all FTSE 350 companies seek annual 
re-election. The 2010 Code does not apply to the Company, however, the Committee decided that it would 
voluntarily comply with the change and therefore all Directors will in future seek annual election commencing 
with the Annual General Meeting in May 2012. The Chairman, who was previously Chief Executive, already 
seeks re-election each year and has done so since 2004. Each year the Nominations Committee consider the 
composition of the Board and approve those seeking re-election. No Non-Executive Directors have served for 
more than nine years.
For any new Non–Executive Director, terms and conditions of appointment are made available for inspection 
at the Annual General Meeting and the Company’s registered office. 48
Corporate Governance Report 
(continued)
Conflicts of Interest
Following implementation of the new rules on directors’ conflicts of interest in the Companies Act 2006, the 
Board undertook a review of its arrangements for dealing with conflicts to formalise the procedures for any 
actual or potential conflict situation under the new regime and for exercising the Board’s power, to authorise 
such conflicts which was approved by shareholders.
The procedures that have been adopted by the Board require prompt notification by Directors of any 
possible conflict situation and the scrutiny initially of the Nominations Committee and then the Board before 
any decision to authorise or not is taken. The Board may approve a conflict situation unconditionally, give 
approval subject to conditions or decide not to approve and require that the Director concerned resolve the 
circumstances giving rise to the conflict. Any approval will be reviewed regularly and may be amended or 
withdrawn by the Board at any time. Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered  
are able to take the relevant decisions and at all times the Directors making such decisions must act in a way 
they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Group’s success. The Board is satisfied that 
these procedures are operating effectively and will keep them under review in light of emerging best 
practice in this area.
The Company Secretary
The Board has access to the advice and services of an experienced Company Secretary who is responsible for 
advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters. The Company’s Articles of Association 
and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision provide that the appointment and removal of 
the Company Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
Directors are also given access to independent professional advice, at the Group’s expense, when the 
Directors deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their responsibilities. No such advice was sought  
in the year.
Articles of Association
Any proposed amendment to the Articles of Association is subject to approval by the shareholders in 
General Meeting.
Availability of Information
Executive management is responsible for providing the Board with all the information, of which it is aware, 
that is relevant to the discharge of the Board’s responsibilities. The Board therefore expects to receive timely 
advice on all material information about the Company, its operating units, its activities, performance and its 
investment projects. The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, establishes the agenda for each 
Board meeting and the necessary papers are distributed to Board members in advance of the meeting. 
Presentations on specific subjects are sent to the Board in advance, so that Board meeting time is used for 
focused discussion.
Relations with Shareholders
In fulfilment of the Chairman’s obligations under the Combined Code, the Chairman gives feedback to the 
Board on issues raised with him by major shareholders. Non-Executive Directors remain available to meet 
with major institutional shareholders if required. External analysts’ and brokers’ reports are circulated to all 
Board members and, where appropriate, formally discussed at Board meetings.
The Board seeks to encourage shareholders to attend its Annual General Meeting. The Company uses the 
Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors and to encourage their participation. They 
have the opportunity to put questions to members of the Board on matters relating to the Group’s operation 
and performance. All Directors are expected to be present and those who chair Committees of the Board will 
be available to answer any relevant questions. The level of proxy votes lodged on each Resolution is indicated 
at the meeting and also shown on the Group’s website at www.bpipoly.com. 
Each year a programme of meetings with major institutional investors takes place covering the principal issues 
affecting the Group, its trading and its results. Reports issued by brokers on the Company are available on the 
Company website www.bpipoly.com.  British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
49
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
Internal Control
The Board of Directors is responsible for the Group’s system of internal control and sets appropriate policies 
on internal control; seeks regular assurances that enable it to satisfy itself that the system is functioning 
effectively; and ensures that the system of internal control is effective in managing risks in the manner which 
it has approved. The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather 
than eliminate the risk of the Group failing to achieve its business objectives. It should be recognised that such 
systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors have continued to review the effectiveness of the Group’s system of financial and non-
financial controls. These reviews include an assessment of internal controls by the internal audit function, risk 
assessments by the business management and reports from the external auditors on matters identified in 
the course of the statutory audit. A key part of these reviews is a twice yearly risk assessment process where 
responsible managers confirm the adequacy of their systems of internal financial and non-financial controls, 
their compliance with Group policies (including health, safety and the environment), local laws and industry 
regulations. This formal risk assessment process also identifies, evaluates and confirms what actions are 
being taken to mitigate any material identified risks. All these risk assessments are reviewed twice yearly  
by the Audit Committee and its deliberations reported to the Board. 
Board Committees
The number of Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as 
follows:
    Nominations Remuneration Audit 
   Board Committee Committee Committee 
   Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings
Number of Meetings in year   6 2 2 3 
C McLatchie   6 – – – 
J T Langlands   6 – – – 
D Harris   6 – – – 
H M Grossart   5 2 2 3 
E M Hagman   2 1 1 2 
Lord Lindsay   5 2 1 2 
R J E Marsh   5 1 1 2 
I S M Russell   2 1 1 1 
D Warnock   6 2 2 3
Notes
E M Hagman retired from the Board on 12 May 2011.
R J E Marsh was appointed to the Board on 7 March 2011.
I S M Russell was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2011.
Where a Director was unable to attend meetings of the Board or of a Board Committee he reviewed the 
papers for the meeting and provided his comments to the Board or the Board Committee in advance of 
such meetings. 
A copy of the full terms of reference for the Nominations, Remuneration and Audit Committees is available 
on the Group’s website at www.bpipoly.com. 
Nominations Committee
The Board as a whole is responsible for the procedure of agreeing the appointment of its own members,  
for nominating them for election by the shareholders on first appointment and, thereafter annually.  
The Nominations Committee, comprising the Non-Executive Directors, has the responsibility for making 
recommendations for new appointments to the Board. Hamish Grossart, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 
and Senior Independent Director, chairs the Committee and the other members are Lord Lindsay, Ron 
Marsh, Ian Russell and David Warnock. 
The Nominations Committee reviews the succession planning and composition of the Board on an annual 
basis and reports its conclusions to the Board for further action. 50
Corporate Governance Report 
(continued)
Remuneration Committee 
Hamish Grossart is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the other members are, Lord Lindsay, 
Ron Marsh, Ian Russell and David Warnock. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for advising the 
Board on the remuneration of Executive Directors. It meets twice a year and has written terms of reference 
that outline its authority and duties. The Committee’s principal responsibilities are:
•	Setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the Group’s overall remuneration policy;
•	Setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration packages for Executive Directors and the 
Chairman, including terms and conditions of employment; 
•	Reviewing the salary structure and terms, conditions and benefits of employment of other senior  
Group Executives;
•	Approving the rules, and launch, of any Group share, share option or cash based incentive scheme and  
the grant, award, allocation or issue of shares, share options or payments under any such scheme.
In addition, the Committee regularly reviews the Group’s remuneration policy relative to its competitors  
and industry norms.
The Chairman of the Committee is available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting. 
Audit Committee 
The Company has an Audit Committee comprising the Non-Executive Directors and it is chaired by Ian 
Russell. The Committee meets three times a year and has written terms of reference that outline its authority 
and duties. 
The Committee: 
•	Monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Group;
•	Reviews the Group’s internal financial control and risk management systems;
•	Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function; and
•	Oversees the Group’s relationship with the external auditor including the development and implementation 
of the policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services and making 
recommendations on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor.
Should the Committee’s monitoring and review activities reveal any material cause for concern or scope  
for improvement, it will make recommendations to the Board on action needed to address the issue or  
make improvements.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and the minutes of the Committee are circulated 
to all Board members. The Finance Director attends the meetings by invitation. The Chairman and Chief 
Executive also attend, if required to do so, by the Committee. A senior representative from each of the 
internal and external auditors also attends each meeting. The Committee discharges its responsibilities by:
•	Reviewing the external and internal audit work plans;
•	Receiving and reviewing twice yearly risk management reports and risk tables. Business and Group 
management operate a risk management process which identifies the key risks facing each business and 
the Group and reports as to how those risks are being managed. This is based on business and Group risk 
tables identifying the key risks, the probability of those risks occurring, the estimated potential impact if 
they do materialise and the actions being taken to manage those risks;
•	Receiving and considering reports from management and internal audit on the system of internal control 
and any significant control weaknesses. The Audit Committee also receives reports from the external 
auditors who consider controls only to the extent necessary to form an opinion as to the truth and fairness 
of the financial statements;
•	Discussing with management the actions taken on control weaknesses identified in internal and external 
audit reports. British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
51
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
•	Receiving and reviewing the annual UK Corporate Governance Code internal control report. This is based 
on a combination of risk management reporting and the completion by each business of key control 
questionnaires which confirm the extent to which the business complies with the Group control 
procedures. Each business Managing Director and Finance Director is required to sign a declaration 
confirming that they have reviewed the business risk table and control questionnaires and confirming 
compliance with statutory obligations;
•	Reviewing the Group’s draft interim, preliminary and annual financial statements prior to Board approval 
and considering any significant financial reporting judgements contained in the financial statements to 
ensure that the integrity of these statements is maintained. The Committee also reviews the external 
auditor’s report on the annual financial statements; 
•	Considering the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies;
•	Reviewing the performance of the Group’s internal and external auditors and making appropriate 
recommendations to the Board relating to their reappointment and remuneration.
The external and internal auditors are given the opportunity each year to speak confidentially to the 
Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee also monitors the Group’s whistle blowing procedures, ensuring that appropriate 
procedures are in place to allow employees to raise matters of possible impropriety in confidence.
Auditors’ Independence and Objectivity
The Audit Committee monitors regularly the non-audit services being provided by the external auditors to 
ensure their independence. There are services which the external auditors are precluded from undertaking, 
including the provision of internal audit services, as well as services they are permitted to provide, but which 
require the specific approval of the Audit Committee. This occurs where non audit work per project is in 
excess of £50,000 or £100,000 in aggregate in any one year and within these parameters certain services 
are delegated to the Executive Directors to approve. Any activities that may be perceived to be in conflict 
with the role of external auditor must be submitted to the Committee for approval prior to engagement.
Details of the amount paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in 
Note 2 to the financial statements. 52
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Policy on Directors’ Remuneration
The remuneration policy is set by the Board and is described below. Individual remuneration packages for 
Executive Directors are determined by the Remuneration Committee within the framework of this policy and 
approved by the Board. 
The remuneration of all Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Executive Directors and approved by 
the Board.
General Information
The names of the Directors who have served on the Remuneration Committee during the year are as follows:
•	Hamish M Grossart – Chairman
•	Eric M Hagman  (Retired 11 May 2011)
•	Lord Lindsay 
•	Ron Marsh (Appointed 7 March 2011)
•	Ian Russell (Appointed 1 July 2011)
•	David Warnock
The Remuneration Committee has previously taken advice from Kepler Associates on structuring Directors’ 
remuneration packages but no advice was sought during the year. Kepler Associates does not provide any 
other services to the Company.
Remuneration Policy
The Company’s policy on Directors’ remuneration is designed to attract, retain and motivate high calibre 
individuals, to reward Directors fairly for their contribution, whilst remaining within the range of benefits 
offered by similar companies in the sector. The Remuneration Committee seeks to structure total benefit 
packages which align the interests of shareholders and senior executives.
The Remuneration Committee has established a number of performance related elements of executive 
remuneration, which together are anticipated to represent approximately 50% of the package. Details of 
these are set out below.
Annual Incentives
Executive Directors participate in an Annual Incentive Plan (AIP), with awards determined as a percentage of 
salary based on a combination of improvement in Pre Tax Profits before pension financing costs and Return 
on Capital Employed, recognising the need to focus on capital management as well as profits and capped  
at 100% of salary. 
Executive Directors also participate in the Employee Profit Sharing Scheme, which is available to most of the 
employees in the Group and rewards performance based on improvements in profits compared with an 
average of the previous three years’ results. It is calculated at individual business unit level, with overall Group 
performance being used for employees not aligned to a particular business or unit.
Long Term Incentives
The Company operated a Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) but no awards have been granted under this Plan 
since 2009. In 2010 the LTIP was replaced with two new plans: a Share Option Plan, and a Share Matching 
Plan, which more closely align the interests of the Executive Directors and key employees with the 
performance of the business and the interests of shareholders.
Long-term Incentive Plan
Participants were granted awards of shares, the vesting of which is dependent upon performance conditions 
measured over a period of three years. There was an individual upper limit on each award of 100% of basic 
salary per annum. The Remuneration Committee decided that one half of each award is subject to an 
Earnings Per Share (EPS) performance condition and the remaining half is subject to a Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) performance condition comparing the Company’s TSR with that of the companies comprising 
the FTSE Small Cap Industrials Index.
In respect of the proportion of any TSR linked award, no vesting will occur for ranking below median.  
At the median, 10% of the award will vest with the full 50% vesting for a ranking at or within the upper 
quartile. Vesting occurs on a sliding scale between these two points.  British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
53
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
The EPS linked proportion of any award will vest in full if the Company’s EPS growth is at least the Retail 
Price Index (“the RPI”) plus 10% per annum over the performance period; no shares will vest if EPS growth  
is not at least RPI plus 3% per annum. For performance between these two points, vesting will occur on  
a sliding scale.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that these conditions are challenging and that the full award will 
only vest if exceptional performance has been achieved.
Share Option Plan
Awards of options are made to senior managers across the Group on an annual basis. Options are granted 
at market value and vest after three years on fulfilment of a performance condition. In order for any award 
to vest, the Company’s earnings per share must exceed the RPI by at least 9% measured over a three year 
period starting no earlier than the beginning of the financial year in which the award is made. In the UK, 
grants under this Scheme are under an HMRC approved structure.
Share Matching Plan
The Share Matching Plan provides for executives to invest part of their annual bonus in Company shares  
and to receive a matching award of shares based on business performance over the following three years. 
Executives are required to invest a minimum of 25% of their bonus into the Share Matching Plan and  
may increase this percentage voluntarily up to the lower of 50% of salary or the actual bonus awarded.  
A matching award of up to three times the number of shares allotted in respect of deferred bonus may be 
earned; in the case of Executive Directors, the measure to determine the level of match will be Group return 
on average capital employed over three years. Shares will be released at the end of the three-year period in 
respect of any part of the award voluntarily deferred (including any matching award on such part) , with the 
remainder released a year later.
Executive shareholding guidelines
In conjunction with the introduction of the LTIP, the Remuneration Committee has adopted formal executive 
shareholding guidelines, which require Executive Directors to acquire and retain a beneficial share holding 
with a value equal to 100% of one year’s basic annual salary over a five year period. For the purposes of this 
calculation, shares held are valued at the higher of their acquisition price and current market price.
Performance Graph
The graph below shows a comparison of the total shareholder return performance for the Company’s shares 
for each of the last five financial years, against the total shareholder return for the companies comprising the 
FTSE Small Cap Industrials Index. The index selected was considered to be the most appropriate for the 
Company’s market capitalisation and industry sector.
5 Year Total Shareholder Return
£20
£30
£40
£50
£60
£70
£80
£90
£100
£110
Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec11
British Polythene 
Industries PLC
FTSE Small Cap
Industrials
Growth in the Value of a Hypothetical £100 Holding Over Five Years  
FTSE Small Cap Industrials Comparison Based on Spot Value 54
Service Contracts
The Company’s policy on the duration of Directors’ contracts is that:
•	Executive Directors should have rolling service contracts terminable on no more than one year’s notice 
served by the Company or the Director; and
•	Non-Executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms of three years, renewable on the agreement of  
both the Company and the Director and subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The policy on termination payments is that the Company does not normally make payments beyond its 
contractual obligations including any payment in respect of notice to which a Director is entitled after 
mitigation is considered. In exceptional circumstances an additional ex gratia payment may be considered, 
based on factors including the Director’s past contribution and the circumstances of the Director’s departure.
Directors’ Service Contracts
  Date of  Notice  Date term 
Name  contract  period  due to expire
C McLatchie 30 August 2007  12 months  N/A 
J T Langlands 17 July 1995  12 months  N/A 
D Harris 9 April 2008  12 months  N/A 
H Grossart 8 May 2008  N/A  AGM 2012 
Lord Lindsay  14 May 2009  N/A  AGM 2012 
R J E Marsh 12 May 2011  N/A  AGM 2012 
I S M Russell 1 July 2011  N/A  AGM 2012 
D Warnock 14 May 2010  N/A  AGM 2012
Directors’ Emoluments and Compensation
The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the remainder of this Directors’ 
Remuneration Report.
The emoluments in connection with qualifying services and compensation of each person who served as  
a Director during the year were as follows:
    Executive Bonus Employee
      Share Profit   
  Salary/    Matching Sharing  T otal  T otal 
  Fees  Benefits Cash  Plan Scheme 20 1 1  20 1 0 
  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executives        
C McLatchie  275 1 – – 7 283 283 
J T Langlands  340 14 119 170 17 660 640 
D Harris  175 10 52 88 8 333 329
Non Executives        
H Grossart   73 – – – – 73 60 
Lord Lindsay  56 – – – – 56 50 
R J E Marsh (appointed 7 March 2011) 33 – – – – 33 – 
I S M Russell (appointed 1 July 2011) 22 – – – – 22 – 
D Warnock  40 – – – – 40 40 
E M Hagman (retired 12 May 2011) 17 – – – – 17 45
Total 2011  1,031 25 171 258 32 1,517 –
Total 2010  975 40 168 235 29 – 1,447
Benefits receivable by Executive Directors comprise a car allowance and healthcare insurance. 
Executive Directors are required to defer a minimum 25% of their total Executive Bonus to invest in the 
Share Matching Plan as set out on page 53 to acquire Bonus ordinary shares. J T Langlands has deferred 
59% and D Harris deferred 63% of their bonus for 2011.
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
(continued) British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
55
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
The Company contributed the following amounts to Directors’ personal pension arrangements:
     20 1 1  20 1 0
J T Langlands     £68,000  £68,000 
D Harris     £26,250  £19,400
     £94,250  £87,400
Pension Arrangements
J T Langlands left the British Polythene Pension Scheme on 31 December 2006 and is a deferred member.  
D Harris ceased active membership on 30 September 2010 when the Scheme closed to the future accrual  
of benefits. Their dependants are eligible for dependants’ pensions and the payment of a lump sum in the 
event of death in service.
The pension entitlements earned during the year calculated in accordance with the requirements of the  
UK Listing Authority listing rules and the Companies Act 2006 as provided by our consulting actuaries  
and confirmed by them were as follows.
 T otal  Transfer  Transfer Net Change in 
 accrued  value of  value of transfer value 
 pension  accrued  accrued during year 
 entitlement  pension at  pension at (net of 
 at 3 1 Dec  at 3 1 Dec  at 3 1 Dec member 
 20 1 1  20 1 0  20 1 1 contributions) 
 £ p.a.  £  £ £
J T Langlands 50,990  991,500 1,204,600  213,100
D Harris 10,560  91,190  141,000  49,810
Transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with regulations for 
calculating transfer values for occupational pension schemes.
C McLatchie
Although C McLatchie has no pension entitlement remaining in the Scheme, a lump sum death in service 
benefit is provided for him under the Scheme at a cost of £1,510 pa.
J T Langlands
As previously noted above J T Langlands left the Scheme on 31 December 2006 and therefore has no 
pension accrual during the year but he is provided with lump sum and spouse’s pension benefits on death  
in service at a cost of £38,432 pa.
The pension entitlement shown above is the amount which would be paid annually from retirement age 
based on service to the end of the year 2006, revalued to 31 December 2011.
D Harris
As previously noted, D Harris left the Scheme on 30 September 2010 and therefore has no pension accrual 
during the year, but is provided with a lump sum and spouse’s pension benefits on death in service at an 
estimated cost of c. £1,520 per annum.
The pension entitlement shown above is the amount which would be paid annually from retirement age 
based on service to the date of the Scheme closure, 30 September 2010, revalued to 31 December 2011.
Directors’ Share Incentives
Save As You Earn Options
The following table sets out details of savings related share options held by each Director during the year:
 Number of Number of  Date 
 options as at options as at Exercise from which Expiry 
 1 Jan 20 1 1 3 1 Dec 20 1 1 price exercisable date
C McLatchie 7,097 7,097 236p 01/12/2013 31/05/2014
J T Langlands 7,097 7,097 236p 01/12/2013 31/05/2014
D Harris 6,546 6,546 236p 01/12/2015 31/05/2016
The mid market closing share price of the Company’s 25p ordinary shares ranged from 230p to 345p during 
the year and on 31 December 2011 was 340p (2010: 241p). 56
Share Option Plan
The following table sets out details of Share Options held by each Director during the year:
 
 Number of  Number of   Market 
 Options as Options Options as  Vesting Value on 
 at 1 Jan Granted at 3 1 Dec Date of Date and date of 
 20 1 1 in year 20 1 1 Award Expiry Date Grant
J T Langlands 7,000 – 7,000 04/06/10 03/2013 217p 
 – 3,000 3,000 21/03/11 03/2014 253p
 7,000 3,000 10,000   
D Harris 7,000 – 7,000  04/06/10 03/2013 217p 
 – 3,000 3,000 21/03/11 03/2014 253p
 7,000 3,000 10,000   
The performance conditions in relation to these share options are set out on page 53.
Share Matching Plan
The following table sets out details of the Share Matching Plan awards held by each Director during the year.
Share Matching Plan
   Awards  Market 
 Awards Awards as at  value 
 as at  granted 3 1 Dec Date of on date  
 1 Jan 20 1 1 in year 20 1 1 grant of award Performance period
J T Langlands 20,595 – 20,595 28/05/10 227p 01/01/10 to 31/12/12 
 – 67,239 67,239 21/03/11 253p 01/01/11 to 31/12/13
 20,595 67,239 87,834   
D Harris 9,086 – 9,086 28/05/10 227p 01/01/10 to 31/12/12 
 – 32,631 32,631 21/03/11 253p 01/01/11 to 31/12/12 
 9,086 32,631 41,717   
The performance conditions in relation to these are set out on page 53. 
Long Term Incentive Plan 
Shareholders approved a Long Term Incentive Plan at the 2005 Annual General Meeting. The following 
awards were granted and remain outstanding at 31 December 2011.
Long term Incentive Plan     
       Market 
  Awards   Awards  value 
 Y ear of 1 Jan Lapsed Vested 3 1 Dec Date of on date 
 grant 20 1 1 in year in year 20 1 1 vesting of grant
J T Langlands 2008 60,000 (9,060) (50,940) – N/A N/A 
 2009 40,000 – – 40,000 03/12 122p
  100,000 (9,060) (50,940) 40,000  
D Harris 2008 20,000 (3,020) (16,980) – N/A N/A 
 2009 15,000 – – 15,000 03/12 122p 
 2009 27,500 – – 27,500 03/12 221.25p
  62,500 (3,020) (16,980) 42,500  
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
(continued) British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
57
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
The 2008 awards vested on 9 March 2011 at a share price of 270p with Earnings Per Share awards achieved 
in full and Total Shareholder Return awards only partly achieved, in total some 84.9% of the awards vested 
with the remaining 15.1% of awards lapsing, as the performance criteria has not been achieved in full.
The value of the shares vested during the year were: 
J T Langlands £137,538
D Harris £45,846
The awards granted in 2009 will vest on 7 March 2012 with Earnings Per Share awards achieved in full and 
Total Shareholder Return awards only partly achieved. In total, some 77.5% of the awards will vest with the 
remaining 22.5% of awards lapsing as the performance criteria has not been achieved in full. 
The number of awards shown is subject to achieving the performance conditions referred to on page 52 
under both the Earnings Per Share and Total Shareholder Return awards. The figures shown are maximum 
entitlements and the actual number of shares (if any) will depend on the performance conditions being 
achieved. Awards take the form of nil cost options and have no performance re-testing facility. 
Directors’ Shareholdings
The Directors at the year-end together with details of all of their interests in the ordinary share capital of the 
Company are listed below:
       3 1 Dec 20 1 0/ 
      Date of  
    3 1 Dec 20 1 1  Appointment
C McLatchie Beneficial  831,689  831,689 
 Non Beneficial  83,150  83,150 
H Grossart –  –  – 
D Harris  Beneficial  23,596  6,616 
J T Langlands Beneficial  240,222  189,158 
Lord Lindsay  Beneficial  11,500  11,500 
R J E Marsh –  –  – 
I S M Russell Beneficial  15,000  – 
D Warnock  Beneficial  25,000  25,000
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors between 31 December 2011 and 2 March 2012.
Approval by Shareholders
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 11 May 2012 a resolution approving this 
report is to be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
This report was approved by the Board on 2 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by 
Hamish Grossart
Deputy Chairman
2 March 2012 
As at 26 March 2012 the Directors’ interests where there have been changes since 2 March 2012 were:
      
J T Langlands Beneficial  355,282
D Harris Beneficial  29,033 58
Financial
Statements
Turnover (£m)
508
2010
478
508
425
2010
2011
2009
Profit before tax (£m)
19.2
2010
16.7
19.2
11.8
2010
2011
2009
Diluted Earnings Per Share (p)
50.25
2010 51.07
2011 50.25
2009 30.36
2010 11.5
2011 12.5
2009 11.0
Dividend per share (p)
12.5
2010 15.8
2011 19.1
2009 16.3
Profit after interest and  
net pension financing (£m)  
Before restructuring
1 9.1
2010 38.31
2011 46.92
2009 38.60
Diluted Earnings Per Share (p)  
Before restructuring
46.92 Financial Statements
60  Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
61  Independent Auditor’s Report
62  Five Year Record
63  Consolidated Income Statement
63  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
64  Consolidated Balance Sheet
65  Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
66  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
67  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
93  UK GAAP Parent Company Balance Sheet
94  Notes to the UK GAAP Parent Company Financial Statements
99  Information for Shareholders
British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
59
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements 60
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
In respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law  
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company Financial Statements for each financial year. Under that law they are required to prepare 
the Group Financial Statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company Financial 
Statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under Company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
•	 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
•	 for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
•	 for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Parent Company financial statements; and
•	 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect 
fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate 
Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility Statement in respect of Annual Report 
On behalf of the Directors of the Company we confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
•	 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; 
•	 the Report by Directors and Business Review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By Order of the Board
John Langlands
Chief Executive
David Harris
Group Finance Director British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
61
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
We have audited the financial statements of British Polythene Industries PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 set out on pages 63 to 98. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements  
is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose.  
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body,  
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 60, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•	the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the Group’s  
profit for the year then ended;
•	the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
•	the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
•	the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the Group financial statements, 
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
•	the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•	adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited  
by us; or
•	the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records  
and returns; or
•	certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made.
•	Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•	the directors’ statement, set out on page 29, in relation to going concern;
•	the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 46 to 51 relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code; and
•	certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration. 
Craig Anderson (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
191 West George Street
Glasgow
G2 2LJ
2 March 2012
Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Members of British Polythene Industries PLC 62
Five Year Record
    20 11 20 1 0 2009 2008 2007 
    £m £m £m £m £m
Income Statement Extracts        
Turnover     507.7   477.7   424.7   480.7   424.1 
Operating profit before net restructuring     21.6   17.9   19.0   12.6   14.6 
Profit before tax     19.2   16.7   11.8   3.9   11.5 
Diluted earnings per ordinary share     50.25   51.07   30.36   10.67   32.36 
Diluted earnings per ordinary share before net restructuring     46.92   38.31   38.60   25.53   34.26 
Dividend per ordinary share     12.50   11.50   11.00   14.50   22.00 
         
Balance Sheet Extracts         
Non-current assets     87.5   88.4   89.4   92.6   84.7 
Inventories     67.3   66.9   61.4   62.5   62.1 
Trade and other receivables     50.4   55.0   49.3   60.4   64.0 
Trade and other payables    (73.4)  (72.6)  (65.6)  (62.3)  (62.9) 
Capital employed     131.8   137.7   134.5   153.2   147.9 
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent     33.6   44.3   34.1   52.7   62.2 
Non-controlling interests     21.0   0.3   0.3  0.4   0.2 
Net debt     31.0   45.6   52.2   76.0   64.8 
Derivative financial liabilities    1.0   1.0   0.6   –   – 
Retirement and other employee benefits     60.9   56.1   58.4   27.1   19.1 
Taxation    (15.7)  (9.6)  (11.1)  (3.0)   1.6 
     131.8   137.7   134.5   153.2   147.9  British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
63
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
Consolidated Income Statement  
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
       20 11 20 1 0 
      Notes  £m  £m 
Turnover       2,3 507.7 477.7
Profit from operations before net restructuring       21.6 17.9 
Restructuring costs       (1.3) (1.0) 
Gain on sale of properties       1.9 3.8
Net restructuring      2 0.6 2.8
Profit from operations      2,3 22.2 20.7 
Borrowing costs      5 (2.5) (2.1) 
Net retirement benefit financing      5 (0.5) (1.9)
Net financing costs       (3.0) (4.0)
Profit before tax       19.2 16.7
        
Tax      6 (4.4) (3.1)
Profit for the year       14.8 13.6
        
Attributable to:        
Equity holders of the parent       13.6 13.6
Non-controlling interests      25 1.2 –
       14.8 13.6
Earnings per share        
Basic      8 52.77p 52.20p
Diluted      8 50.25p 51.07p
Diluted earnings per share before net restructuring      8 46.92p 38.31p
        
        
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income    
For the year ended 31 December 201 1        
        
       20 11 20 1 0 
      Note £m  £m 
Profit for the year       14.8  13.6
Cash flow hedges: effective portion of net changes in fair value       0.3 (0.3)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on defined benefit pension scheme       (27.7) 0.9
Opening surplus on Irish Polythene Industries pension scheme       –  0.2
Movement on translation of overseas undertakings and related borrowings        0.5  –
Tax on components of other comprehensive income      6  5.7  (0.9)
Other comprehensive income for the year       (21.2) (0.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year       (6.4)  13.5
Attributable to:        
Equity holders of the parent       (7.5) 13.5
Non-controlling interests       1.1 –
Total comprehensive income for the year       (6.4) 13.5 64
Consolidated Balance Sheet    
At 31 December 201 1
       20 11 20 10 
      Notes £m  £m 
Non-current assets         
Goodwill      9 0.4 0.4
Other intangible assets      10 1.2 1.7
Property, plant and equipment      11 85.9 86.1
Retirement benefit asset      29 – 0.2
Deferred tax assets      20 20.9 15.2
       108.4 103.6
         
Current assets         
Inventories      14 67.3 66.9
Trade and other receivables      15 50.4 55.0
Cash at bank      16 0.3 0.3
       118.0 122.2
         
Current liabilities         
Bank overdraft      16 4.8 5.5
Other loans and borrowings      16 2.6 2.6
Derivative financial instruments      17 0.5 0.5
Trade and other payables      18 72.5 71.6
Current tax liabilities      19 1.6 1.7
       82.0 81.9
Net current assets       36.0 40.3
Total assets less current liabilities       144.4 143.9
Non-current liabilities         
Other loans and borrowings      16 23.9 37.8
Derivative financial instruments      17 0.5 0.5
Retirement and employee benefit obligations      29 60.9 56.1
Deferred tax liabilities      20 3.6 3.9
Deferred government grants      21 0.9 1.0
       89.8 99.3
Net assets       54.6 44.6
         
Equity         
Issued share capital      22 6.6 6.6
Share premium account       25.1 25.1
Other reserves      23 9.1 8.3
Retained earnings       (7.2) 4.3
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent       33.6 44.3
Non-controlling interests      25 21.0 0.3
Total equity       54.6 44.6
           
British Polythene Industries PLC, Registration Number 108191.          
The Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by:     
 
     
C. McLatchie  
Chairman   
D. Harris
Group Finance Director British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
65
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 December 201 1 
        
 
     20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 0 20 1 0 
    Notes £m  £m  £m  £m 
Profit from operations      22.2  20.7
Amortisation of intangible assets    10  0.7  0.7
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment    11  12.6  12.6
IFRS 2 charge in relation to equity settled transactions      1.6  0.6
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment      (2.0)  (3.9)
Adjustment relating to pensions      (3.6)  (3.2)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital      31.5  27.5
Increase in inventories      –  (5.4)
Decrease/(Increase) in trade and other receivables      5.0  (6.0)
Increase in trade and other payables      0.9  6.6
Movements in working capital      5.9  (4.8)
Cash generated from operations      37.4  22.7
Special contribution to the pension scheme    29  (19.6)  –
Interest paid      (2.4)  (2.2)
Income taxes paid      (4.6)  (2.4)
Net cash from operating activities      10.8  18.1
Investing activities         
Purchase of property, plant and equipment     (14.4)  (14.7) 
Capital amount of hire purchase received     –  2.7 
Net purchase of property, plant and equipment      (14.4)  (12.0)
Purchase of intangible assets      (0.2)  (0.4)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment      2.8  6.6
Net cash used in investing activities      (11.8)  (5.8)
        
Net cash flows before financing      (1.0)  12.3
Financing activities         
Investment in partnership by pension scheme    29  19.6  –
Dividends paid    7  (3.1)  (2.9)
Net decrease in bank loans      (10.9)  (6.9)
Repayment of obligations under hire purchase      (2.6)  (2.5)
Repurchase of ordinary shares      (1.7)  (1.0)
Net cash used in financing activities      1.3  (13.3)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents      0.3  (1.0)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year      (5.2)  (4.3)
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes      0.4  0.1
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year      (4.5)  (5.2) 66
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
For the year ended 31 December 201 1    
      Attributable    
      to owners Non-  
  Share  Share  Other Retained of the  controlling 
  capital premium reserves¹ earnings² parent interests³ T otal 
  £m  £m £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
Balance at 1 January 2011  6.6 25.1 8.3 4.3 44.3 0.3 44.6 
Profit for the year  – – – 13.6 13.6 1.2 14.8 
Cash flow hedges: effective portion of net changes in fair value  – – 0.3 – 0.3 – 0.3
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes  – – – (27.6) (27.6) (0.1) (27.7)
Movement on translation of overseas undertakings  
and related borrowings  – – 0.5 – 0.5 – 0.5 
T ax on components of other comprehensive income  – – – 5.7 5.7 – 5.7
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – 0.8 (8.3) (7.5) 1.1 (6.4)
    
Investment in partnership by pension scheme  – – – – – 19.6 19.6 
IFRS 2 charge in relation to equity settled transactions  – – – 1.6 1.6 – 1.6 
Increase in own shares held  – – – (1.7) (1.7) – (1.7)
Dividends  – – – (3.1) (3.1) – (3.1)
Balance at 31 December 2011  6.6 25.1 9.1 (7.2) 33.6 21.0 54.6
         
         
      Attributable    
      to owners Non-  
  Share  Share  Other Retained of the  controlling 
  capital premium reserves¹ earnings² parent interests³ T otal 
  £m  £m £m  £m  £m  £m  £m
Balance at 1 January 2010  6.6 25.1 8.6 (6.2) 34.1 0.3 34.4 
Profit for the year  – – – 13.6 13.6 – 13.6 
Cash flow hedges: effective portion of net changes in fair value  – – (0.3) – (0.3) – (0.3)
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes  – – – 0.9 0.9 – 0.9
Opening surplus on Irish Polythene Industries pension scheme  – – – 0.2 0.2 – 0.2
Tax on components of other comprehensive income  – – – (0.9) (0.9) – (0.9)
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – (0.3) 13.8 13.5 – 13.5 
    
IFRS 2 charge in relation to equity settled transactions  – – – 0.6 0.6 – 0.6 
Increase in own shares held  – – – (1.0) (1.0) – (1.0) 
Dividends  – – – (2.9) (2.9) – (2.9)
Balance at 31 December 2010  6.6 25.1 8.3 4.3 44.3 0.3 44.6
1 Refer to Note 23 for breakdown of other reserves.         
2  As at 31 December 2011 the holding Company retained earnings amounted to £39.5 million (2010: £34.6 million) and are not affected by movements in retirement benefit obligations. 
3 Refer to Note 25 for breakdown of non-controlling interest. British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
67
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 201 1   
    
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES       
British Polythene Industries PLC (the ‘Company’) is a company domiciled and incorporated in the United Kingdom. The consolidated annual financial statements  
(the ‘financial statements’) of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2011 incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries  
(together referred to as the ‘Group’).       
Statement of compliance       
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (‘adopted IFRSs’). 
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP. These are presented on pages 63 to 98.   
     
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements. 
      
Basis of preparation        
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments and the assets of the defined benefit pension scheme 
which are stated at their fair value and the liabilities of the defined benefit pension scheme which are measured by the projected unit credit method.  
     
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The reasons for this are outlined in the Financial Review on pages 28 to 31.   
     
Basis of consolidation       
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating 
policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.       
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition  
or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.       
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries acquired to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by  
the Group.       
All intra Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.        
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the Parent Company and the British Polythene Industries 
pension fund interest in the British Polythene Industries Pension Funding Limited Partnership (‘the Partnership’). Non-controlling interests are presented within  
equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from the equity attributable to the owners of the parent. Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the 
non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.       
       
Changes in accounting policy       
New standards or interpretations which came into effect for the current reporting period did not have a material impact on the net assets or results of the Group. 
These included:       
       
IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’        
IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ simplifies the definition of a related party and eliminates a number of inconsistencies.     
  
IFRIC 14 ‘Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement’        
IFRIC 14 ‘Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement’ addresses the situation where entities are in some circumstances not permitted to recognise 
prepayments of minimum funding contributions as an asset.       
       
Amendment to IFRS 2 ‘Group cash-settled and share-based payment transactions’        
An entity which received goods or services in either an equity-settled or cash-settled share-based payment transaction is required to account for the transaction  
in its separate or individual financial statements, even if it is another Group entity or shareholder who has the obligation to settle the transaction. The amended 
standard provides additional guidance on whether the transaction should be recognised as an equity-settled or cash-settled share-based payment. This has had  
no impact on the consolidated financial statements.       
       
Turnover recognition       
Turnover from the sale of goods and services is measured at the fair value of the consideration, net of rebates, trade discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. 
Turnover from the sale of goods and services is recognised when the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods and services 
to the buyer, the amount of turnover can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.  
       68
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 
Leasing and hire purchase       
Leases are classified as finance leases when, on inception of the lease, the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the 
Group. All other leases are classified as operating leases.       
Assets held under finance leases (including hire purchase contracts) are initially recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value 
of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance 
lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the 
remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly through the income statement as borrowing costs.     
   
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.   
    
Foreign currencies        
Transactions in currencies other than pounds Sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, 
monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Gains and losses arising 
on retranslation are included in income and expense for the period. Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at historical cost that are denominated in foreign 
currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the historical cost was determined.       
 
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s overseas operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign 
entity, are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period. 
Exchange differences arising are recognised directly in the Group’s foreign currency translation reserve. Such translation differences are recognised as income or as 
expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
       
Government grants       
Government grants on capital expenditure are released through cost of sales over the expected useful lives of the relevant assets or the qualifying period if shorter. 
Grants of a revenue nature are credited to the consolidated income statement in the period in which the related costs are incurred.    
   
Retirement benefit obligations        
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit 
schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Group’s obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined 
contribution retirement benefit scheme.       
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits in respect of each plan is determined in an annual actuarial report using the projected 
unit credit method. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. They are recognised outside the income statement and 
presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in accordance with IAS 19. Changes in the value of liabilities arising from changes in estimates 
during the year are recognised in reserves.       
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents an actuarial assessment of the present value of the defined benefit obligation as 
reduced by the fair value of scheme assets before taxation which is recognised separately. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by 
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits  
will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.       
 
Taxation       
The tax expense represents the sum of the current taxes payable and deferred tax.       
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes  
items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability  
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.     
  
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and 
the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are 
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available 
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.        
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal 
of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.     
  
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable 
profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.       
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited 
through the statement of other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with through the statement of other comprehensive income. 
       British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
69
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
Goodwill       
Goodwill has been recognised on acquisitions of subsidiaries and represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and the Group’s interest in the fair  
value of the identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
The carrying amount is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment. Any impairment is recognised immediately in income or expense 
and is not subsequently reversed.       
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP.  
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 was not reconsidered in preparing the Group’s opening 
IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004.        
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill written off  
to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 which has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.  
     
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement as a credit to profit from operations.  
     
Other intangible assets       
Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation begins when an asset is available for use 
and is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate the cost of assets over their estimated useful lives as follows:     
  
Computer software   4 – 5 years      
Customer lists  3 – 10 years      
Other intangible assets 5 years      
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value at acquisition date. The cost of separately acquired intangible assets, including 
computer software, comprises the purchase cost and any directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for use. Computer software costs that are directly 
associated with the implementation of major business systems are capitalised as intangible assets.        
Property, plant and equipment       
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.    
   
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment. 
Land is not depreciated. Depreciation begins when the asset is available for use. The estimated useful lives are as follows:     
  
Freehold buildings    20 – 50 years      
Leasehold buildings and related improvements 10 – 40 years      
Plant and equipment     4 – 10 years      
       
Residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually.        
Assets held under finance leases/hire purchase are capitalised and depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, 
over the term of the relevant lease.
       
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets        
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible assets and intangible assets with finite useful lives to determine whether  
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order  
to determine the extent of the impairment loss. Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates  
the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and goodwill arising subsequent  
to 1 January 2004 are tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.    
   
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their 
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.  
     
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.  
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.       
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses in respect of assets other than goodwill, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate  
of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment 
loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.     
  
Inventories       
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads 
that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all 
estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.        70
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) 
Trade and other receivables       
Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost less an allowance for irrecoverable amounts.       
 
Cash and cash equivalents       
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand 
and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows. 
      
Trade and other payables        
Trade and other payables are stated at amortised cost.        
Provisions       
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an 
outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash 
flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.   
     
Non-recurring items       
Non-recurring items are disclosed separately where either the quantum, the one off nature or volatility of these items would otherwise distort the underlying  
trade performance.       
Interest       
Interest is recognised in income or expense using the effective rate of interest method. Financing fees are amortised over the expected life of the related facility. 
      
Earnings per share       
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) data for ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary 
shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares held. Diluted EPS is determined by dividing 
the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of shares outstanding adjusted for own shares held and the effects of all 
dilutive potential ordinary shares.        
       
Financial instruments       
The Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital address the exposure to credit risk, 
liquidity risk and market risk from the use of financial instruments. Further qualitative and quantitative disclosures are included throughout these financial 
statements.
       
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework.    
   
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy  
of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.       
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Group’s treasury policy. Hedges are classified as follows:   
    
•	Fair value hedges that hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.     
•	Cash flow hedges that hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability  
or a forecast transaction.       
•	Net investment hedges that hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Group’s interests in the net assets of foreign operations.   
    
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the consolidated income statement. Any gain or loss on the 
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
For cash flow hedges and net investment hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge, as defined 
by IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion recognised in the consolidated income 
statement. When hedged cash flows result in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are 
included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the 
consolidated income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the consolidated income statement.    
   
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised in the consolidated income 
statement. 
      
When a hedging instrument is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still 
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.  
If the hedge transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognsied immediately in the 
consolidated income statement.   British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
71
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
Share-based payments       
The fair value of equity-settled employee share options granted is calculated at grant date and the resulting cost is charged to the income statement over the 
performance period of the options with a corresponding increase in equity. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options 
vesting. Failures to vest as a result of market and non-vesting conditions are not reversed.       
Treasury shares       
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change  
in equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from revenue reserves.      
  
Key accounting estimates and judgements       
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of 
policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and 
various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying 
values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Areas requiring the Directors  
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions are highlighted in these accounting policies and throughout the notes to the consolidated financial statements.  
Key estimation and judgement areas are as follows:       
       
•	Property, plant and equipment       
Depreciation rates are regularly reviewed to ensure that they accurately reflect useful lives and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis in line with  
market conditions.
       
•	Inventories       
The recoverability and value of Inventories are kept under constant review and provision is made where appropriate in line with disclosures in Note 14.  
     
•	Trade and other receivables       
The recoverability of trade and other receivables are kept under constant review and provision is made where appropriate in line with disclosures in Note 15. 
      
•	Trade and other payables       
Where the amount payable in respect of any liability is uncertain the amount provided in the accounts is based on the best estimate available at the time.  
     
•	Defined benefit pension plans       
A qualified independent actuary undertakes the estimation of the present value of the Group’s obligations under defined benefit pension schemes using 
assumptions taken from a range of possible actuarial assumptions. These assumptions may not be borne out in practice, especially due to the long timescales 
involved. Changes in the key assumptions, which include discount rates, inflation, mortality and expected return on assets, could have a significant effect on  
the profit or loss for the period and the financial position of the Group. Details of assumptions employed to determine the liability at 31 December 2011 are set  
out in Note 29. The valuation of scheme assets is based on the fair value at the balance sheet date. As these assets are not intended to be sold in the short term, 
their value may change significantly prior to realisation.        
       
•	Taxation       
The Group is subject to income taxes in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant judgements are required in determining the consolidated provision  
for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.  
As a result, the Group recognises tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. The amount of such 
liabilities is based on an assessment of various factors, such as experience of previous tax audits and differing interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on 
estimates and assumptions and involves a series of complex judgements about future events. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different 
from the amounts recognised, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. 
      
Standards and interpretations not yet applied       
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2011 and have not been applied  
in preparing these financial statements.       
       
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial statements and IAS 19 (Revised) Employee Benefits will become effective for the Group in its 2013 accounts. IFRS 10 
introduces a single control model for determining what subsidiaries are included in the financial statements and clarifies that substantive potential voting rights and 
de facto control is included in determining whether a parent has control over a subsidiary. Under IAS 19 (Revised) the interest charge on retirement benefit liabilities 
and the expected return on pension plan assets will be replaced by a net interest income or expense on net defined benefit assets or liabilities based on high-quality 
corporate bond rates. We are still assessing the potential impact of both of these standards, but the latter is likely to increase our reported net finance costs. While 
the volatility of reported net finance costs is expected to increase, adjusted net finance costs will be unaffected.      
  
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement also impact the Group from 2013 
however it is not expected that these will impact the financial statements.      
       
There are a number of additional standards and interpretations not yet in force which are not relevant to the Group or which have not yet been endorsed by the  
EU and are not expected to be effective for the year ended 31 December 2012.        72
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
2. TURNOVER AND PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS           
         
An analysis of the Group’s turnover and profit from operations is as follows:         
           
   Before net Net   Before net Net   
   restructuring restructuring T otal restructuring restructuring T otal 
   20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 0 20 1 0 20 1 0 
   £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Turnover by destination  – UK   273.4 – 273.4 271.0 – 271.0 
 – Other EC   184.6 – 184.6 163.6 – 163.6 
 – Non EC   49.7 – 49.7 43.1 – 43.1
    507.7 – 507.7 477.7 – 477.7
Cost of sales    (432.8) (1.3) (434.1) (408.9) (0.6) (409.5)
Gross profit    74.9 (1.3) 73.6 68.8 (0.6) 68.2
Distribution costs   (17.7) – (17.7) (17.0) – (17.0)
Selling and administration expenses   (33.9) 1.9 (32.0) (32.2) 3.4 (28.8)
Profit from operations before employee profit sharing scheme   23.3 0.6 23.9 19.6 2.8 22.4
Amount applied to employee profit sharing scheme   (1.7) – (1.7) (1.7) – (1.7)
Profit from operations    21.6 0.6 22.2 17.9 2.8 20.7
         
         
       20 11 20 10 
Profit from operations is stated after charging/(crediting):       £m  £m 
Cost of sales         
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment       12.4 12.4 
Operating lease charges  – plant       1.4 1.5 
– buildings       0.8 0.7
Restructuring costs relating to closures*       1.3 0.6 
Selling and administration expenses         
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment       0.2 0.2 
Amortisation of intangible assets       0.7 0.7 
Operating lease charges – plant       0.7 0.7 
Restructuring costs relating to closures*       – 0.4 
Gain on sale of properties*       (1.9) (3.8) 
Profit on disposal of plant & equipment       (0.1) (0.1) 
Auditors’ remuneration:         
Audit of these financial statements       0.1 0.1 
– audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation       0.1 0.1 
– taxation compliance services       0.1 0.1 
– taxation advisory services       – 0.1 
– all other services       0.1 – 
*Analysis of net restructuring         
Profit on sale of properties       (1.9) (3.8) 
Redundancy costs       0.5 0.7
Other machinery and site–related costs       0.8 0.3
       (0.6) (2.8) British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
73
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
3. SEGMENT REPORTING             
      
The Group has three reportable segments: UK and Ireland, Mainland Europe and North America. The segments were established by reviewing the management 
information regularly presented to the entity’s chief operating decision maker (CODM), which has been identified as the Board of Directors. The information 
presented to the Board is consistent with the three reportable segments identified above, with the UK & Ireland business further segregated by business activity.  
As all of the UK & Ireland segments meet the aggregation criteria set out in IFRS 8, they have been aggregated to form one reportable segment as permitted by  
the standard.               
     
UK & Ireland includes all of the UK manufacturing and merchanting activities along with the Irish sales operation which distributes predominately UK manufactured 
products. It also includes the manufacturing operation in China from which most of the output is exported for sale by the Group in the UK. Mainland Europe 
comprises the manufacturing and merchanting activities located in Belgium, the Netherlands and France. North America comprises the manufacturing business  
in Canada with sales throughout North America.           
        
The accounting policies of the reporting segments are the same as those described in Note 1. Inter–segment pricing is determined on an arm’s length basis. 
Segment profit             
An analysis of the Group’s revenue and results by operating segment for the year is presented below. The measure of segment profit provided to the CODM is profit 
from operations.              
     
 UK & Ireland Mainland Europe North America T otal
 20 11 20 1 0 20 11 20 1 0 20 11 20 1 0 20 11 20 10 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 
Total sales 341.9 335.9  141.5  118.1  28.3  26.4 511.7  480.4 
Inter-segment sales (1.5)  (1.0)  (2.3)  (1.5)  (0.2)  (0.2)  (4.0)  (2.7) 
External sales 340.4  334.9  139.2  116.6  28.1  26.2  507.7  477.7 
Profit from operations before net restructuring   7.4   7.9   13.4   9.2   0.8   0.8   21.6   17.9 
Net restructuring 0.6  3.1   – (0.3)   –  –  0.6   2.8 
Profit from operations 8.0  11.0   13.4  8.9   0.8   0.8   22.2   20.7 
Net financing costs       (3.0)  (4.0) 
Profit before tax       19.2   16.7 
Tax       (4.4)  (3.1) 
Profit for the year       14.8   13.6 
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 9.2   9.2   3.6   3.7   0.5   0.4   13.3   13.3 
Capital expenditure 7.3  10.4   6.5   3.3   0.2   1.3   14.0   15.0 
         
Segment assets         
The Group’ s assets are analysed by operating segment as follows:
      
 UK & Ireland Mainland Europe North America T otal
 20 11 20 1 0 20 11 20 1 0 20 11 20 1 0 20 11 20 10 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets* 62.4 64.9 22.8 20.7 2.3 2.6 87.5 88.2
Inventories and trade and other receivables 85.2 86.9 29.0 32.5 8.2 8.2 122.4 127.6
 147.6 151.8 51.8 53.2 10.5 10.8 209.9 215.8
Elimination of intercompany debtors       (4.7) (5.7)
Retirement benefit asset       – 0.2
Deferred tax assets       20.9 15.2
Cash at bank       0.3 0.3
Total assets       226.4 225.8
         
*  The measure of non–current asset used for segmental reporting comprises goodwill, other intangible assets, investments and property, plant & equipment. It excludes deferred tax and retirement 
benefit assets.               
      74
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
3. SEGMENT REPORTING (continued)            
 
Information about products and services         
The Group’s products can be categorised as follows:           
        
Films  –  Plain film on the reel products.  
Converted  –  Printed and/or converted products. 
Recycled  –  Products manufactured from recycled polythene scrap.         
           
The revenues from external customers for each category of product are:         
       20 11 20 10 
       £m £m
Films       228.5   211.7 
Converted        204.0   193.9 
Recycled       75.2   72.1 
       507.7   477.7 
Information about geographical areas            
The Group is domiciled in the UK. Revenues are attributed to countries on the basis of the customer’s location. Revenues from external customers in the UK and 
from foreign countries are as follows:           
       20 11 20 10 
       £m £m
UK       273.4  271.0
Belgium       36.2  31.1
Netherlands       33.7  28.7
France       32.7  30.7
Scandinavia       29.0  24.4
Germany       23.3  17.5
Republic of Ireland       17.8  20.1
USA       17.4  17.0
Canada       9.6  9.2
All other countries       34.6  28.0
       507.7  477.7
Non-current assets, excluding deferred tax assets, located in the UK and in foreign countries are as follows:      
       20 11 20 10 
       £m £m
UK       58.0   60.0
Netherlands       4.7  5.2 
Belgium       18.0  15.5 
China       4.5  4.9 
Canada       2.3  2.6 
       87.5  88.2  British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
75
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
4. STAFF COSTS     
       
The average number of employees (including Executive Directors) was:         
       20 11 20 10 
       Number Number
Production        2,031 2,085
Administration       159 173
Selling       185 188
       2,375 2,446
Staff costs:
       20 11 20 10 
       £m £m
Wages and salaries       67.4 66.1
Redundancy costs       0.5 0.7
Employee profit sharing scheme       1.7 1.7
Social security costs       8.3 8.0
IFRS 2 charge in relation to equity settled transactions       1.6 0.6
Defined contribution pension scheme costs       2.0 1.5
Defined benefit pension scheme – current service cost       – 0.5
       81.5 79.1
Details of Directors’ remuneration and shareholdings are shown on pages 52 to 57.        
   
5. FINANCING COSTS            
         
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m 
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts       2.3 1.9
Interest on obligations under hire purchase       0.2 0.2
Borrowing costs       2.5 2.1
         
Expected return on pension scheme assets       (11.8) (10.7)
Interest on pension liabilities       12.3 12.6
Net retirement benefit financing       0.5 1.9
Net financing costs       3.0 4.0
6. TAX ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES           
  
       20 11 20 1 0 
Recognised in the income statement       £m  £m
Current tax expense  
UK current tax at 26.5% on the profits of the year (2010: 28%)         
 Current year       – – 
 Adjustments for prior years       (0.1) (0.2)
       (0.1) (0.2)
Overseas current tax         
 Current year       4.8 3.2
 Adjustments for prior years       (0.1) (0.1)
       4.7 3.1
       4.6 2.9
Deferred tax expense         
Origination of temporary differences       0.1 0.3
Other adjustments for prior years       (0.3) (0.1)
       (0.2) 0.2
Total tax expense in income statement       4.4 3.1 76
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
6. TAX ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES (continued)          
 
Factors affecting the income tax expense           
The difference between the income tax expense for the period and the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK is explained below:   
          
     20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 0 20 1 0 
      %  £m   %  £m 
Reconciliation of effective tax rate         
Profit before tax      19.2   16.7
Current tax at 26.5% (2010: 28%)     26.5%  5.1  28% 4.7 
Non-deductible expenses     1%  0.2  1%  0.1
Depreciation on ineligible assets     1% 0.1  1%  0.1
Overseas tax rates     0% – 0% –
Capital gains      (3%) (0.5)  (9%) (1.4)
Adjustments for prior years     (3%) (0.5)  (2%) (0.4)
Total tax expense in income statement     23% 4.4  19%  3.1
Deferred tax (credit)/charge recognised directly in equity         
Relating to retirement and employee benefits  – current      (6.8)   0.3 
– change in UK tax rate      1.1    0.6
      (5.7)  0.9
The Emergency Budget on 22 June 2011 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce from 28% to 23% over a period of 4 years from 2011. To date,  
the reduction from 28% to 26%, effective from 1 April 2011 and to 25% from 1 April 2012 have been substantively enacted. The impact of this has been reflected 
in the deferred tax charge for the year.
 
            
7. DIVIDENDS 
            
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m 
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:    
Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 7.85p per share (2009: second interim dividend of 7.5p)   2.0 2.0 
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 4.00p per share (2010: 3.65p)     1.1 0.9
       3.1 2.9
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 8.5p per share (2010: second interim dividend of 7.85p)   2.3  2.1
The proposed final dividend was recommended by the Board on 2 March 2012 and is subject to shareholder approval at the 2012 Annual General Meeting and so 
has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2011.          
 
  
8. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE            
       20 11 20 10 
       000 000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares         
Issued ordinary shares at 1 January       26,501  26,498 
Effect of own shares held       (729)  (445)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares        25,772  26,053
Effect of share options and long-term incentive plan shares in issue       1,294  575 
Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares       27,066   26,628
 
       20 11 20 10
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders       £13.6m £13.6m
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders before net restructuring       £12.7m £10.2m
Basic earnings per ordinary share       52.77p 52.20p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share       50.25p 51.07p
Diluted earnings per ordinary share before net restructuring       46.92p 38.31p British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
77
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
9. GOODWILL           
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m 
Balance at 1 January and 31 December       0.4 0.4
               
Goodwill has been tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 and no impairments have 
been identified.              
 
10. OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS     
   Other    Other  
 Customer Computer intangible  Customer Computer intangible  
 lists software assets T otal lists software assets T otal 
 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 0 20 1 0 20 1 0 20 1 0 
 £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Cost         
Balance at 1 January 0.4 6.6 0.7 7.7 0.4 6.6 0.7 7.7
Exchange adjustments (0.1) – – (0.1) – – – –
Additions – 0.2 – 0.2 – 0.4 – 0.4
Disposals – (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.4) – (0.4)
Balance at 31 December 0.3 6.7 0.7 7.7 0.4 6.6 0.7 7.7
Amortisation         
Balance at 1 January 0.3 5.3 0.4 6.0 0.2 5.2 0.3 5.7
Exchange adjustments – (0.1) – (0.1) – – – –
Amortisation charge in the year – 0.5 0.2 0.7 0.1 0.5 0.1 0.7
Disposals – (0.1) – (0.1) – (0.4) – (0.4)
Balance at 31 December 0.3 5.6 0.6 6.5 0.3 5.3 0.4 6.0
Carrying amount at 31 December – 1.1 0.1 1.2 0.1 1.3 0.3 1.7
Carrying amount at 1 January 0.1 1.3 0.3 1.7 0.2 1.4 0.4 2.0
               
Other intangible assets currently comprises a property lease entered into at less than an economic rent on the acquisition of AT Films Inc in 2007.  
 
            
11. PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT   
  Land and Plant and    Land and Plant and  
  buildings equipment T otal  buildings equipment T otal 
  20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 1  20 1 0 20 1 0 20 1 0 
  £m  £m  £m   £m  £m  £m 
Cost         
Balance at 1 January  55.0 261.0 316.0  57.1 256.4 313.5
Effect of movements in foreign exchange  (0.2) (1.6) (1.8)  (0.1) (0.8) (0.9)
Additions  0.6 13.2 13.8  2.5 12.1 14.6
Disposals  (0.8) (10.7) (11.5)  (4.5) (6.7) (11.2)
Balance at 31 December  54.6 261.9 316.5  55.0 261.0 316.0
Depreciation and Impairment         
Balance at 1 January  21.5 208.4 229.9  22.0 204.5 226.5
Effect of movements in foreign exchange  (0.1) (1.1) (1.2)  – (0.7) (0.7)
Depreciation charge for the year  1.4 11.2 12.6  1.5 11.1 12.6
Disposals  (0.2) (10.5) (10.7)  (2.0) (6.5) (8.5)
Balance at 31 December  22.6 208.0 230.6  21.5 208.4 229.9
Carrying amount at 31 December  32.0 53.9 85.9  33.5 52.6 86.1
Carrying amount at 1 January  33.5 52.6 86.1  35.1 51.9 87.0
The carrying amount of plant and equipment includes £8.3 million (2010: £9.4 million) in respect of assets held under hire purchase. Depreciation on these assets 
during the period was £1.1 million (2010: £1.3 million).           
    
Capital commitments at 31 December were as follows:          
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m 
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure relating to property, plant and equipment       
not provided in the financial statements       5.4 4.0 78
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
12. INVESTMENTS              
 
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m 
Balance at 1 January       – –
Impairment charge       – –
Balance at 31 December       – –
               
13. SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS            
   
Except as indicated below, the Company owns the whole issued share capital of all subsidiary undertakings. The principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows: 
              
     Country of    
Company     incorporation    T rade 
British Polythene Limited   England   Polythene Manufacturer
AT Films Inc*   Canada Polythene Manufacturer
BPI plc   England  Property Company
BPI Europe BV*   Netherlands  Holding Company
Combipac BV*   Netherlands Polythene Manufacturer
Formipac France SA*   France Distribution Company 
Irish Polythene Industries Limited   Republic of Ireland Distribution Company
Venture Hong Kong Limited (75% owned)*   Hong Kong Holding Company
Xinhui Alida Polythene Limited 
+
   China Polythene Manufacturer
* Shares held through an intermediate holding company           
+ 20% owned through a subsidiary undertaking            
   
The Group also has an interest in the British Polythene Industries Pension Funding Limited Partnership the results of which are consolidated into these financial 
statements. The Group has taken advantage of the exemption available under regulation 7 of the Partnership (Accounts) Regulations 2008 and has therefore  
not appended the accounts of the qualifying partnership (which do not need to be filed at Companies House) to these financial statements.
14. INVENTORIES              
    
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m 
Raw materials       17.2 19.6
Work in progress       5.5 5.1
Finished goods       44.6 42.2
       67.3 66.9
               
Cost of sales includes a charge reflecting the effect of movements in stock provisions totalling £0.4 million (2010: £0.9 million).    
              
15. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES            
      
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m 
Trade receivables       47.2 52.3
Prepayments and accrued income       2.2 2.1
Other receivables       1.0 0.6
       50.4 55.0
               
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.      
             British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
79
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
Credit risk              
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty fails to meet its contractual obligations and arises principally from amounts 
receivable from customers.             
     
The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer and before accepting any new customer, the Group uses 
an external credit scoring system to assess the potential customer’s credit quality and defines credit limits by customer. Limits and scoring attributed to customers  
are reviewed on a regular basis. In addition, the Group has a policy of insuring certain debtors.       
           
The geographical profile of credit risk over the year is broadly in line with that of turnover by geographical area as disclosed in Note 3.   
               
Exposure to credit risk             
The carrying amount of financial assets, which includes trade receivables net of impairment losses as stated below and cash of £0.3 million (2010: £0.3 million), 
represents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk at each year end.         
         
Impairment losses            
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows:         
   
     20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 0 20 1 0 
     £m  £m  £m  £m  
     Gross Impairment Gross Impairment
Not past due     36.8 – 41.2 –
0 – 30 days overdue     10.3 0.5 11.2 0.5
Over 30 days overdue     2.1 1.5 1.7 1.3
     49.2 2.0 54.1 1.8
               
An impairment allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods.       
            
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was  
initially granted up to the reporting date. The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties  
and customers in many different markets and sectors. This is discussed further within the Financial Review, on pages 28 to 31. Accordingly, the Directors believe  
that there is no further provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.         
 
         
16. BANK AND OTHER BORROWINGS            
      
       20 1 1 20 10 
       £m  £m 
Bank overdrafts       4.8 5.5
Bank loans       22.5 33.8
Hire purchase       4.0 6.6
       31.3 45.9
 
         
   Bank Other loans  Bank Other loans 
   overdraft & borrowings T otal overdraft & borrowings T otal 
   20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 0 20 1 0 20 1 0 
   £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Represented by:         
Amounts falling due within one year   4.8 2.6 7.4 5.5 2.6 8.1
Amounts falling due after more than one year   – 23.9 23.9 – 37.8 37.8
   4.8 26.5 31.3 5.5 40.4 45.9
                80
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
16. BANK AND OTHER BORROWINGS (continued)           
The following analysis details outstanding borrowings, the facilities available to the Group and the undrawn amounts at the balance sheet date.
 Less than Between Between  Less than Between Between  
 1 year 1 – 2 y ears 2 – 5 y ears  T otal  1 year 1 – 2 y ears 2 – 5 y ears T otal 
 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 0 20 1 0 20 1 0 20 1 0 
 £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Maturity 
Cash at bank (0.3) – – (0.3) (0.3) – – (0.3)
Bank overdrafts 4.8 – – 4.8 5.5 – – 5.5
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement 4.5 – – 4.5 5.2 – – 5.2
Bank loans – – 22.5 22.5 – – 33.8 33.8
Hire purchase 2.6 0.9 0.5 4.0 2.6 2.6 1.4 6.6
 7.1 0.9 23.0 31.0 7.8 2.6 35.2 45.6
Undrawn facilities          
Bank overdrafts 19.9 – – 19.9 27.0 – – 27.0
Bank loans – – 47.6 47.6 – – 36.2 36.2
Total facilities 27.3 0.9 70.6 98.8 35.1 2.6 71.4 109.1
         
 
 Fixed rate Floating rate Cash at bank T otal Fixed rate Floating rate Cash at bank T otal 
 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 0 20 1 0 20 1 0 20 1 0 
 £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Effective currency and interest rate profile         
Currency         
Sterling
1,3
 – (16.8) – (16.8) – 1.6 – 1.6
Euro
1
 – 37.1 – 37.1 – 32.9 – 32.9
Euro interest rate swaps
2
 16.7 (16.7) – – 17.2 (17.2) – –
US Dollar – 5.5 – 5.5 – 1.4 – 1.4
Canadian Dollar – 3.2 – 3.2 – 7.5 – 7.5
Other
2
 – 2.3 (0.3) 2.0 – 2.5 (0.3) 2.2
 16.7 14.6 (0.3) 31.0 17.2 28.7 (0.3) 45.6
   
1. The floating rate borrowings are all rolled over on periods of 3 months or less based on the appropriate LIBOR or base rates.      
2. The Euro interest rate swaps expire in June 2014 and are at varying rates of interest over the period covered.       
3. Exposure to movements in Euro exchange rate is hedged by using Euro borrowings and short term currency swaps.       
           
17. OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS            
      
Liquidity Risk              
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate 
banking facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities. The Group has  
at its disposal undrawn facilities as noted above, which further reduces liquidity risk. Refer to the Financial Review on pages 28 to 31 for further discussion of 
liquidity risk. 
The following analysis details the contractual maturities of financial liabilities at the balance sheet date including interest and principal cash flows, using undiscounted 
cash flows:              
 Less than Between Between  Less than Between Between 
 1 year 1 – 2 y ears 2 – 5 y ears T otal 1 year 1 – 2 y ears 2 – 5 y ears T otal 
 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 0 20 1 0 20 1 0 20 1 0 
 £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Contractual cash flows analysed by maturity date         
Non derivative financial liabilities         
Trade and other payables 68.1 – – 68.1 69.7 – – 69.7
Bank overdrafts 4.8 – – 4.8 5.5 – – 5.5
Bank loans 0.6 0.6 23.1 24.3 1.0 1.0 36.0 38.0
Hire purchase 2.7 1.0 0.5 4.2 2.8 2.7 1.5 7.0
         
Derivative financial liabilities         
Euro interest rate swaps 0.5 0.3 0.2 1.0 0.5 0.3 0.2 1.0
 76.7 1.9 23.8 102.4 79.5 4.0 37.7 121.2 British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
81
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
Obligations under hire purchase are as follow:          
  T otal Finance   T otal Finance  
  payments costs Capital  payments costs Capital 
  20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 1  20 1 0 20 1 0 20 1 0 
  £m  £m  £m   £m  £m  £m 
Amounts payable under finance leases/hire purchase:         
Less than one year  2.7  0.1  2.6   2.8  0.2   2.6 
Between one and five years  1.5  0.1  1.4   4.2  0.2   4.0 
  4.2  0.2  4.0   7.0  0.4   6.6 
               
Capital represents the carrying value of four year hire purchase arrangements, repayable by periodic instalments and excludes contingent rents for future finance 
costs calculated by reference to bank base rate on each payment date.         
         
Hire purchase agreements are denominated in Sterling and Euro.
Fair Value            
     Carrying Fair Carrying Fair 
     amount value amount value 
     20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 0 20 1 0 
     £m  £m  £m  £m 
Fair Values         
Euro interest rate swaps      1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0
Fixed asset investment     – – –  –
     1.0  1.0 1.0   1.0
            
Financial assets            
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. The carrying amount  
of these assets approximates to their fair value.           
 
Investments            
The fair value of investments is based on estimates of likely sales values of the investments.       
     
Derivative financial liabilities            
The fair value is based on observable values for underlying interest rates.         
   
Cash at bank, borrowings due within 1 year, floating rate borrowings due after more than 1 year, trade payables, trade receivables and other 
current liabilities             
The carrying value approximates to fair value either because of the short maturity of the instruments or because the interest rates are reset after periods of not 
greater than six months.            
            
Hire Purchase            
The fair value of the obligations approximates to their carrying amount.         
   
Fair Value Hierarchy            
The only category of financial instrument carried at fair value is derivative financial liabilities. This has been defined as a Level 2 instrument in line with the  
following definitions:            
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.        
Level 2:  inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices)  
or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).          
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).      
      
There have been no transfers between levels in 2011 or 2010.          
  
Market Risk            
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, will affect the Group’s income or the value  
of its holdings of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, 
while optimising the return. Generally the Group seeks to minimise this risk through hedge arrangements designed to manage a proportion of the Group’s  
overall exposure.            
  82
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
17. OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)           
Hedging            
Net investment in overseas operations
The Group has a policy of maintaining borrowings in the currency of most of its overseas operations to cover the net asset position in those companies. Where there 
not sufficient borrowings to achieve a complete hedge this is topped up with inter currency swaps to maintain an effective hedge.     
        
Cash flow hedge – foreign currency           
Sales orders in currency are either covered at the time of receipt by the creation of a currency overdraft or with forward contracts covering a proportion of expected 
orders for a period of up to one year. Purchases are covered with forward contracts or reduction in borrowings in the relevant currency where appropriate. Any significant 
exception to this is approved at Board level. Any cash flow and profit effect would crystalise within twelve months of the year-end when the forecast transactions 
being hedged crystallise. The value of these hedges at 31 December 2011 was £10.9 million (2010: £9.6 million). No ineffectiveness was recognised in the income 
statement in relation to cash flow hedges.             
Interest rate management            
Exposure to fluctuating interest rates is managed by using derivative financial instruments to maintain the desired fixed/variable mix. Due to the seasonal nature  
of working capital requirements funded by borrowings this is done by fixing a value rather than a percentage.      
       
Currency Risk            
The Group’s significant exposure to foreign currency risk at 31 December 2011 is as follows:       
     
     20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 0 20 1 0 
     EUR USD EUR USD 
     €m $m €m $m
Trade receivables     14.4   2.7   14.1   2.5 
Trade payables     (23.1)  (1.6)  (21.8)  (2.2) 
Gross balance sheet exposure     (8.7)   1.1  (7.7)   0.3 
            
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:          
  
 Average rate Closing rate
     20 11 20 1 0 20 11 20 10
EUR     1.1512 1.1644 1.197 1.1597
USD     1.6035 1.5473 1.5538 1.5486
            
Sensitivity Analysis            
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Group’s earnings. Over the longer term, 
however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings.     
       
At 31 December 2011, it is estimated that a change of 100 basis points in interest rates would result in a change of £0.2 million in profit before tax. This has been 
calculated by taking 1% of the Group’s floating rate borrowings as at 31 December 2011. It assumes that all other variables, including foreign currency, remain 
constant. In 2010, the estimated change in profit before tax was calculated as £0.3 million, using the same method and assumptions.   
         
It is estimated that a change of 10 Euro cents against the value of Sterling over the period would result in an increase or decrease in profit or loss by £1.2 million.  
This has been determined by calculating the effect of such a change on the translation of our European results. In 2010, the impact was estimated at £0.7 million, 
using the same method.            
18. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES           
         
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m
Trade payables       54.7 55.5
Other taxes and social security       5.0 6.3
Accruals and deferred income       4.4 1.9
Other payables       8.4 7.9
       72.5 71.6
            
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.       
      British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
83
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
19. CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES            
         
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m 
Current tax payable       1.6 1.7
       1.6 1.7
The net current tax liability represents the estimated amount of income taxes payable in respect of current and prior periods.    
        
20. DEFERRED TAX            
            
 Accelerated   Other   Accelerated   Other   
 capital Employee  timing   capital Employee  timing  
 allowances benefits  differences   T otal  allowances benefits  differences   T otal  
 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 0 20 1 0 20 1 0 20 1 0 
 £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
At 1 January 6.6 (14.8) (3.1) (11.3) 7.2 (16.0) (3.4) (12.2) 
(Credit)/charge to income (0.3) 5.7 (5.6) (0.2) (0.4) 0.3 0.3 0.2 
Credit to equity – (6.8) – (6.8) – 0.9 – 0.9 
Change in tax rate (0.5) 1.1 0.5 1.1 – – – – 
Exchange differences (0.1) – – (0.1) (0.2) – – (0.2)
At 31 December 5.7 (14.8) (8.2) (17.3) 6.6 (14.8) (3.1) (11.3)
Net deferred tax liabilities 3.4 (0.1) 0.3 3.6 3.6 (0.1) 0.4 3.9
Net deferred tax assets 2.3 (14.7) (8.5) (20.9) 3.0 (14.7) (3.5) (15.2)
 5.7 (14.8) (8.2) (17.3) 6.6 (14.8) (3.1) (11.3)
Accelerated capital allowances relate to property, plant and equipment and computer software.       
     
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities 
and where the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdictions.      
 
     
21. GOVERNMENT GRANTS            
Government grants relate primarily to regional selective assistance received on the achievement of certain job creation and job protection targets as well as related 
capital expenditure. The grants could be repayable in the event that numbers employed at the relevant sites drop below these target levels during a specified 
monitoring period.            
 
           
22. SHARE CAPITAL            
         
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m
Authorised         
Equity         
80,227,336 (2010: 80,227,336) ordinary shares of 25p each       20.1 20.1
Allotted called up and fully paid         
Equity         
26,543,405 (2010:26,498,160) ordinary shares of 25p each       6.6 6.6
            
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries no right to fixed income. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared 
from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. All shares rank equally with regards to the Company’s residual assets. 
           
The Company has granted options over its ordinary shares (see Note 28).         
    84
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
23. OTHER RESERVES
           
       Foreign  
    Capital   currency T otal 
    redemption Capital Hedging translation other 
    reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves 
    £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
At 1 January 2011    7.2 0.5 (0.9) 1.5 8.3
Movement during the year    – – 0.3 – 0.3
Movement on retranslation of overseas operations    – – – 0.5 0.5
At 31 December 2011    7.2 0.5 (0.6) 2.0 9.1
           
       Foreign  
    Capital   currency T otal 
    redemption Capital Hedging translation other 
    reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves 
    £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
At 1 January 2010    7.2 0.5 (0.6) 1.5 8.6
Movement during the year    – – (0.3) – (0.3)
At 31 December 2010    7.2 0.5 (0.9) 1.5 8.3
           
Capital redemption reserve was created on the repurchase and cancellation of ordinary and preference shares in previous years.    
       
Capital reserve was created on the acquisition of a subsidiary.          
 
Hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to forecast hedging 
transactions that have not yet occurred.           
Foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the retranslation of financial statements of foreign operations,  
as well as the translation of liabilities that hedge the Company’s net investment in foreign operations.       
    
 
24. OWN SHARES HELD           
         
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m 
Cost of own shares held         
At 1 January       1.5 1.1
Shares purchased       1.7 1.0
Movement relative to shares vested under the long-term incentive plan       (0.9) (0.6)
At 31 December       2.3 1.5
           
The cost of own shares held represents shares held by the British Polythene Industries Employee Share Ownership Trust to satisfy the Company’s liabilities under 
share based payment schemes. The market value of the shares is £2.9 million (2010: £1.3 million).       
    
     Date of   Date of   
     purchase/ Number of purchase/ Number of 
     allocation shares allocation shares 
     20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 0 20 1 0
Movements in the numbers of shares held         
At 1 January      534,423   249,432 
No. of shares allocated to employees     09/03/2011 (283,552)  05/03/10 (113,750) 
Shares purchased     Various 603,200  Various  398,741 
At 31 December      854,071    534,423 
            British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
85
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
25. NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS           
     Pension 
     Partnership Other 20 1 1 20 10 
     £m  £m  £m  £m 
At 1 January     – 0.3 0.3 0.3
Creation of non-controlling interest – Pension Funding Partnership     19.6 – 19.6 –
Unwinding of the discount/interest – Pension Funding Partnership     1.2 – 1.2 –
Changes in assumptions     (0.1) – (0.1) –
At 31 December     20.7 0.3 21.0 0.3
           
The non-controlling interests relating to the Pension Funding Partnership with the British Polythene Pension Scheme is described fully in Note 29.  
         
Other non-controlling interests comprise a 25% holding in the ordinary share capital of Venture Hong Kong Limited, along with the related share in the results of 
the Company up to 31 December 2011 as adjusted to reflect Group accounting policies. Venture Hong Kong Limited holds a 20% minority interest in Xinhui Alida 
Polythene Limited.            
           
           
26. OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS           
At 31 December, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 
          
   Plant and   Plant and   
   equipment Buildings T otal equipment Buildings T otal 
   20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 0 20 1 0 20 1 0 
   £m  £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
Less than one year   1.5 0.4  1.9   1.9   0.6   2.5 
Between one and five years   2.3 1.6  3.9   2.0   1.8   3.8 
More than five years   –  1.2   1.2  –  1.9  1.9 
   3.8  3.2  7.0   3.9   4.3   8.2 
           
None of the operating leases include contingent rentals.          
 
A number of the leased buildings have been sublet to external tenants.          
  
At 31 December, the Group expects to receive future sublease rentals which fall due as follows:
       Buildings Buildings 
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m 
Less than one year       0.1  0.1 
Between one and five years       0.2  0.3 
       0.3  0.4 
           
During the year ended 31 December 2011, £2.9 million (2010: £2.9 million) was recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement in respect  
of operating leases, comprising £3.0 million (2010: £3.0 million) operating lease rentals less £0.1 million (2010: £0.1 million) sublease rentals.   
        
The Group has also entered into a contract to guarantee the indebtedness of a third party in relation to a lease contract. In the event of default, the Group could  
be held liable for future contracted lease payments for up to five years from 29 July 2010. This represents a contingent liability to the Group of the present value  
of these payments. This amounted to £0.6 million at 31 December 2011 (2010: £0.8 million).
27. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES             
Contingent liabilities of the Group in respect of VAT indemnities amount to £0.8 million (2010: £0.8 million).      
       
In April 2010, the Group was visited by officials from the European Commission (EC) and Office of Fair Trading (OFT) carrying out separate unannounced inspections 
into the agricultural films market. The Commission stated that it has reason to believe that the companies concerned in these inspections may have violated EU 
antitrust rules that prohibit cartels and restrictive business practices and/or abuse of a dominant market position. During the period both the EC and OFT concluded 
their enquiries with no action being taken.            
 
The Group is aware of a risk of civil claims arising from the European Commission’s decision on 30 November 2005 that a cartel had operated in the industrial bags 
market in the Benelux countries, Spain, Germany and France between 1982 and June 2001.       
      
              86
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
28. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS             
Long-term incentive plan             
In 2005 the Group introduced a Long-Term Incentive Plan for senior executives. Shares were conditionally awarded under this plan and vest in employees based  
on the following performance criteria. No further awards will be made under this plan.        
     
The EPS part of an award will vest if the Company’s EPS growth is at least RPI plus 10% per annum over the performance period; no shares will vest if EPS growth  
is not at least RPI plus 3% per annum. For performance between these two points, vesting will occur on a sliding scale.     
        
For the portion of the award based on Total Shareholder Return (TSR), no vesting will occur for ranking below median. At the median 10% of the award will vest 
with the full 50% vesting for a ranking at or within the upper quartile. Vesting occurs on a sliding scale between these two points.    
         
       20 11 20 10 
       L TIP L TIP
Outstanding at beginning of year       585,500 849,500
Granted during the year       – –
Vested during the year       (283,552) (113,750)
Forfeited/lapsed during the year       (55,948) (150,250)
Outstanding at the end of the year       246,000 585,500
Exercisable at the end of the year       190,393 283,552
             
Share Matching Plan             
The implementation of a new long-term incentive plan was approved at the 2010 Annual General Meeting. The plan provides for executives to invest part of their 
annual bonus in Company shares and to receive a matching award of shares based on business performance of the following three years. Executives will invest  
a minimum of 25% of their bonus into the Share Matching Plan and may increase this percentage voluntarily up to the lower of 50% of salary or the actual bonus 
awarded. A matching award of up to three times the number of shares deferred may be earned. In the case of Executive Directors, the measure to determine the 
level of match will be Group return on average capital employed over three years. Shares will be released at the end of the three year period in respect of any part  
of the award voluntarily deferred (including any matching award on such part), with the remainder released a year later. During the period awards were made 
amounting to 281,599 Company shares (2010: 90,163).           
   
Savings related share option scheme            
The employee savings related share option scheme is open to almost all UK employees. Employees save over three or five years at the end of which shares can be 
purchased during the following six month period. During the period the Group issued 35,245 shares (2010: none) under this scheme at a price of 236p per share. 
Grants of options were made on 19 October 2006 and 9 October 2007 at a price 10% below the market price on the date of offer and on 13 October 2008,  
13 October 2009, 7 October 2010 and 10 October 2011 market price.          
    
Company Share Option Plan             
A Share Option Plan was approved at the 2010 Annual General Meeting. Awards of options will be made to senior managers across the Group on an annual basis. 
Options, which are granted at fair market value, will vest after three years on fulfilment of a performance condition.      
        
At 31 December 2011 the individual options, not yet exercised, of Directors and other employees under the savings related share option scheme and the Company 
share option plan are as follows:             
  Date     Other   
 Date from which Expiry Option Directors employees T otal T otal 
 of grant exercisable date price 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 10
Savings Related Scheme 19/10/06 01/12/11 31/05/12 369.45p – 92,796 92,796 99,531
Savings Related Scheme 09/10/07 01/12/10 31/05/11 392.40p – – – 25,663
Savings Related Scheme 09/10/07 01/12/12 31/05/13 392.40p – 26,018 26,018 26,703
Savings Related Scheme 13/10/08 01/12/11 31/05/12 236.00p – 6,747 6,747 62,252
Savings Related Scheme 13/10/08 01/12/13 31/05/14 236.00p 14,194 53,355 67,549 74,927
Savings Related Scheme 13/10/09 01/12/12 31/05/13 242.00p – 74,775 74,775 82,725
Savings Related Scheme 13/10/09 01/12/14 31/05/15 242.00p – 65,918 65,918 75,298
Savings Related Scheme 07/10/10 01/12/13 31/05/14 236.00p – 59,842 59,842 84,012
Savings Related Scheme 07/10/10 01/12/15 31/05/16 236.00p 6,545 68,713 75,258 90,441
Savings Related Scheme 10/10/11 01/12/14 31/05/15 333.00p – 53,468 53,468 –
Savings Related Scheme 10/10/11 01/12/16 31/05/17 333.00p – 65,699 65,699 –
         
Company Share Option Plan 02/06/10 02/06/13 01/06/20 217.00p 14,000 280,000 294,000 294,000
Company Share Option Plan 07/03/11 05/03/14 04/03/21 250.00p 6,000 156,000 162,000 –
At 31 December      40,739 1,003,331 1,044,070 915,552
              British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
87
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
A charge to the income statement for all of these schemes has been based on the Binomial model and the inputs into the model are as follows:   
          
   SA YE SA YE SA YE CSOP CSOP L TIP 
Y ear of Grant   20 11 20 1 0 2009 20 11 20 1 0 2009
Share price   £3.33 £2.31 £2.36 £2.55 £2.14 £1.78
Exercise price   £3.33 £2.36 £2.42 £2.50 £2.17 Nil
Expected volatility   42.06% 50.78% 49.32% 47.34% 50.39% 45.58%
Expected life   3/5 years 3/5 years 3/5 years 3 years 3 years 3 years
Risk-free rate   1.71% 2.16% 2.96% 2.27% 2.67% 4.00%
Expected dividends   4.60% 6.28% 6.44% 4.80% 5.07% 8.15%
Fair value   £0.59 £0.42 £0.43 £0.47 £0.43  £1.39 
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the three years immediately preceding grant. The expected life 
used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations. 
The Group recognised total expenses of £1.6 million relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions in 2011 (2010: £0.6 million).
29. RETIREMENT AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS          
     
   Non Non  Non Non  
   current current 20 1 1 current current 20 1 0 
   assets liabilities T otal assets liabilities T otal 
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Deficit in British Polythene defined benefit pension scheme   – (59.5)  (59.5)  – (54.8)  (54.8) 
(Deficit)/Surplus in Irish Polythene Industries defined benefit pension scheme  – (0.1)  (0.1)   0.2  –  0.2 
Other employee benefit obligations (see below)   – (1.3)  (1.3)  – (1.3)  (1.3) 
Retirement and employee benefit obligations   – (60.9)  (60.9)   0.2  (56.1)  (55.9) 
Related deferred tax asset/(liability) (see Note 20)   14.7   0.1   14.8   14.7   0.1   14.8 
   14.7  (60.8)  (46.1)   14.9  (56.0)  (41.1) 
               
Defined Benefit Schemes            
British Polythene Defined Benefit Scheme          
The assets of the defined benefit section of the British Polythene Pension scheme are invested in a self-administered trust fund and are separated from the Group’s 
business assets. The scheme was closed to new entrants in June 2000. On 30 September 2010 the Scheme ceased future accruals and all active members’ past 
service benefits were preserved on this date.           
    
Pension Funding Partnership            
During the period the Group agreed with the trustees of the UK defined benefit pension scheme a property backed cash payment plan (The Pension Funding 
Partnership) to help address the scheme’s funding deficit. Certain freehold properties were transferred to a limited partnership established by the Group. This 
partnership is controlled by the Group and is consolidated in its financial statements. The fair value of the assets transferred was £21.9 million. The Group made  
a special contribution of £19.6 million to the pension scheme and on the same date the pension scheme obtained a nominal limited interest in the partnership  
for the same amount. This provides the scheme with a distribution of the profits of the partnership of £1.8 million per annum, increasing in line with CPI, for  
a period of 20 years starting in January 2012. The distribution is subject to discretion exercisable by the Group in certain circumstances. Should the scheme have  
a funding surplus in the future, there is a mechanism for the payments to cease.        
       
The present value of this additional funding stream has been recognised as an asset of the pension scheme at a value of £20.7 million. This reduction in the deficit  
as it appears on the Group’s balance sheet is offset by a matching non-controlling interest. The Scheme’s income arising from the Pension Funding Partnership  
is credited to the Net Retirement Benefit Financing Charge, but as this is offset by an equal and opposite non-controlling interest there is no impact on reported 
earnings per share calculations.             
   88
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
29. RETIREMENT AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS (continued)
  
Actuarial Valuation             
A full actuarial valuation in relation to the Scheme was carried out on 5 April 2011. The present value of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service 
cost and past service cost were measured using the projected unit credit method. The results of the actuarial valuation and the key assumptions used by the actuary 
are set out below:             
Results of Actuarial Valuation 
   Male Female T otal Male Female T otal 
   No No No £m £m £m
Deferred member liabilities    1,360  299  1,659 90.7 11.2 101.9
Pensioner liabilities   1,071   343  1,414 131.1 21.3 152.4
Total liabilities    2,431   642  3,073 221.8 32.5 254.3
Asset value        200.6
Net Liability as at 6 April 2011        53.7
               
The weighted average age of Pensioner members at the date of the valuation was 66 years and the weighted average age of deferred members is 49.6 years. 
              
Irish Polythene Industries Pension Scheme           
The Company’s subsidiary in Ireland operates a small defined benefit scheme. On 30 September 2010 the Scheme ceased future accruals and all active members’ 
past service benefits were preserved on this date.           
    
The actuarial valuations for both schemes were updated on an IAS 19 basis as at 31 December 2011 and disclosures are set out below:   
            
Key assumptions              
 
 British Polythene British Polythene Irish Polythene 
 Industries Industries Industries
  Actuarial valuation at 6 April 20 1 1   20 11 20 1 0 20 11 20 10
The major assumptions used by the actuary in the valuations were: 
Rate of increase in pensions in payment          
 – service up to 31 December 2006  3.51%   2.90% 3.20% 2.00% 2.00%
 – service from 1 January 2007  2.50%   2.40% 2.50% 2.00% 2.00%
Rate of increase in deferred pensions  2.61%   1.80% 2.65% 2.00% 2.00%
Discount rate applied to scheme liabilities in period before retirement  7.36%   4.75% 5.40% 5.50% 5.50%
Discount rate applied to scheme liabilities in period after retirement  5.06%   4.75% 5.40% 5.50% 5.50%
Inflation assumption  3.51%   2.90% 3.35% 2.00% 2.00%
Life expectancy:         
 – Male aged 60 (current life expectancy)  26.3    25.3   24.2  n/a n/a
 – Female aged 60 (current life expectancy)   28.6    27.6   27.1  n/a n/a
 – Male aged 45 (life expectancy at age 60)  27.4    26.4  25.9  n/a n/a
 – Female aged 45 (life expectancy at age 60)   29.5    28.5   28.8  n/a n/a
 – Member aged 65 (current life expectancy)   n/a    n/a n/a 22.0 22.0
 – Member aged 40 (life expectancy at age 65)  n/a    n/a n/a 26.1 26.1
               
The assumptions used by the actuary for IAS 19 purposes are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale 
covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.           
     British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
89
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
Net pension liability            
The amount included in the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2011 is as follows:       
        
 British Polythene Industries Irish Polythene Industries
 Long-term rate  Long-term rate  Long-term rate  Long-term rate  
 of return + Value  of return + Value  of return + Value  of return + Value  
 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 10 20 10 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 10 20 10 
  £m  £m  £m  £m
Equity Securities 6.09%  4.3   n/a   n/a  6.30% 1.3 6.90% 1.4
Corporate Bonds 4.39%  52.2  4.46%  72.7   n/a  n/a  n/a   n/a 
Bond Securities  n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a  2.90%  1.4  3.60%  1.4 
Cash and Equity Futures 6.64%  18.1  7.69%  18.1   n/a  n/a  n/a   n/a 
Index linked Gilts and Equity Futures 6.76%  52.8  8.15%  42.4   n/a  n/a  n/a   n/a 
Corporate Bonds and Equity Futures 8.29%  10.8  8.36%  29.5   n/a  n/a  n/a   n/a 
Diversified Growth Fund 4.34% 15.9   n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a 
Secured Lease Fund 6.29% 20.3  n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a 
Pension Funding Partnership Interest 8.20%  20.7   n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a 
Other 2.74%  1.7  6.89%  13.4   n/a  n/a  n/a   n/a 
Fair value of scheme assets  196.8   176.1    2.7    2.8 
Present value of scheme liabilities  (256.3)   (230.9)   (2.8)   (2.6) 
(Deficit)/surplus in the scheme  (59.5)   (54.8)   (0.1)    0.2 
Related deferred tax asset  14.7   14.7    –    – 
Net pension (liability)/asset  (44.8)   (40.1)   (0.1)    0.2 
               
+ The rates quoted are the expected net rate of return after allowing for investment expenses.         
      
The fair values of the scheme assets are not intended to be realised in the short-term and may be subject to significant change before they are realised. The present 
value of the scheme liabilities is derived from cash flow projections over a long period and is thus inherently uncertain.     
          
Equity futures are held with a nominal value of £82 million (2010: £90 million). This allows the Scheme to maintain exposure to the higher expected returns from 
equity while investing in a higher level of physical assets that more closely reflect the liability profile. This is an efficient way of managing the portfolio and balancing 
the risk and return objectives in the Scheme.            
    
The expected rate of return on each class of scheme assets is based on market expectations, as at 31 December 2011. For equity futures it has been assumed that 
the long-term return will be 4% (2010: 4%).            
    
Movements in the present value of scheme liabilities       
 British Polythene Irish Polythene 
 Industries Industries
     20 11 20 1 0 20 11 20 10 
     £m £m £m £m
At 1 January     230.9  226.3  2.6  2.3 
Current service cost     – 0.5  – –
Interest on pension liabilities     12.2   12.6  0.1   0.2 
Contributions from scheme members     –  0.7  – –
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities     7.4  – – (0.1) 
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities      15.9   4.3   0.3   0.3 
Benefits paid     (10.1)  (13.5)  (0.1) (0.1) 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange     – – (0.1)  –
At 31 December     256.3  230.9   2.8   2.6 
                90
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
29. RETIREMENT AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS (continued)
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets           
    
     £m £m £m £m
At 1 January     176.1   169.4  2.8   2.5 
Expected return on pension scheme assets      11.7   10.7   0.1  0.2 
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets     (4.0)   5.4  (0.1)  –
Employer contributions     23.1   3.4   0.1  0.3 
Contributions from the scheme members     –  0.7  – –
Benefits paid     (10.1)  (13.5)  (0.1) (0.1) 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange     – – (0.1)  (0.1) 
At 31 December     196.8   176.1   2.7   2.8 
               
Movements in the scheme deficit            
   
 British Polythene Industries Irish Polythene Industries
 20 11 20 11 20 1 0 20 1 0 20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 0 20 1 0 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
(Deficit)/Surplus in scheme at 1 January  (54.8)  – (56.9)    0.2    0.2 
Current service cost  – (0.5)   –  
Total amount charged to profit from operations  – (0.5)   –  
Expected return on pension scheme assets 11.7    10.7    0.1  – 0.2 
Interest on pension liabilities (12.2)   (12.6)   (0.1)   (0.2) 
Total amount charged to net financing costs (0.5)   (1.9)   – –
Amount charged to income statement  (0.5)  – (2.4)   – 
Employer contributions  23.1  –  3.4    0.1    0.3 
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets (4.0)    5.4   (0.1)   
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities (7.4)     –   0.1 
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value  
of scheme liabilities (15.9)   (4.3)   (0.3)   (0.3) 
Actuarial (loss)/gain  (27.3)  –  1.1   (0.4)   (0.2) 
Effect of movements in foreign exchange      –  (0.1) 
(Deficit)/surplus in scheme at 31 December  (59.5)  – (54.8)   (0.1)    0.2 
               
Of the charge to profit from operations for the year ended 31 December 2010, £0.4 million (2011: nil) has been included in cost of sales and £0.1 million (2011: nil) 
has been included in administrative expenses.            
     British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
91
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
Five-year history of experience adjustments           
    
British Polythene Industries       
    20 11 20 1 0 2009 2008 2007 
    £m £m £m £m £m
Actual return on scheme assets     7.7   16.3   23.8  (31.3)   14.8 
Present value of scheme liabilities    (256.3)  (230.9)  (226.3)  (176.7)  (202.6) 
Fair value of scheme assets     196.8   176.1   169.4   151.0   185.0 
Deficit in the scheme    (59.5)   (54.8)  (56.9)  (25.7)  (17.6) 
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities    (7.4)  – (1.8)  (5.7)   0.4 
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%)    (2.9%) – (0.8%) (3.2%) 0.2%
Experience adjustments on scheme assets    (4.0)   5.4   14.0  (43.8)   3.5 
Percentage of scheme assets (%)    (2.0%) 3.0% 8.3% (29.0%) 1.9%
               
The cumulative actuarial losses recognised in equity from the date of transition to IFRS on 1 January 2004 total £78.0 million (December 2010: £40.6 million). 
              
Contributions in 2012 will consist of a fixed annual contribution of £2.8 million, payable monthly until March. This changes on 1 April following the actuarial 
valuation to £3.2 million per annum on the same basis. Contributions in 2012 will therefore amount to £3.1 million. This is in addition to contributions of £1.8 million 
per annum paid quarterly in relation to the Pension Funding Partnership commencing on 1 January 2012.      
         
These contributions are subject to review at formal actuarial valuations.         
      
Irish Polythene Industries       
    20 11 20 1 0 2009 2008 2007 
    £m £m £m £m £m
Actual return on scheme assets    –  0.1   0.3  (0.5)  –
Present value of scheme liabilities    (2.9)  (2.6)  (2.3)  (2.4)  (2.1) 
Fair value of scheme assets     2.8   2.8   2.5   2.3   2.3 
(Deficit)/surplus in the scheme    (0.1)   0.2   0.2  (0.1)   0.2 
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities    (0.3)  0.1  – – –
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%)    9.5% (2.0%) 0.0% (1.8%) 0.9%
Experience adjustments on scheme assets    (0.2)  –  0.2  (0.6)  (0.1) 
Percentage of scheme assets (%)    (6.3%) 1.0% 7.0% 5.9% 0.5%
               
The cumulative actuarial losses recognised in equity total £0.3 million (December 2010: nil).       
        
Contributions in 2012 are expected to amount to £0.1 million.          
     
These contributions are subject to review at formal actuarial valuations.         
      
Sensitivity analysis              
The table below illustrates the impact that changes in major assumptions would have on the Scheme deficit.       
         
       20 11 20 1 0 
       £m £m
Increase in deficit caused by: 
Fall in the discount rate or increase in inflation of 0.5%        20 17
Increase in life expectancy of one year        8 5
Fall in equity markets of 10%       8 9
                92
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
29. RETIREMENT AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS (continued)
Other retirement benefit schemes           
The Company’s overseas subsidiary in the Netherlands operates a defined benefit scheme in conjunction with a number of other employers. However as it is not 
possible to identify their share of the underlying assets and liabilities on a consistent and reliable basis, the Group is accounting for this scheme as a defined 
contribution scheme.              
 
Defined contribution schemes            
The assets of the defined contribution section of the British Polythene Pension Scheme, other defined contribution schemes and defined benefit schemes treated  
as defined contribution schemes as detailed above are held separately from those of the Group, being invested in funds under the control of a number of insurance 
companies. The pension charge includes contributions payable by the Group to the various insurance companies.      
          
The total cost charged to income in 2011 of £1.2 million (2010: £1.5 million) represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates specified in the 
rules of the plans.               
 
Other employee benefits
The Group has two other arrangements classified as other long-term benefits. In the UK there is a self-insured Permanent Health Scheme with recognised liabilities 
of £0.8 million (2010: £0.8 million) and in the Netherlands there is a ‘’Jubilee’’ provision of £0.5 million (2010: £0.5 million) which provides for additional payments  
to employees with long service.             
 
 
30. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS           
The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries (see Note 13), with its Directors and executive officers including key management personnel, and with 
the British Polythene Pension Scheme. Disclosures relating to Directors are shown on pages 52 to 57.      
         
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.  
              
There were no trading transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group in the year ended 31 December 2011. Transactions with the Group’s 
pension schemes, which are related parties, are disclosed in Note 29.          
      
Remuneration of key management personnel           
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24  
‘Related Party Disclosures’:
         
       20 11 20 1 0 
       £m £m
Short-term employee benefits       3.4   3.4 
Share based payments       0.4   0.2 
Post-employment benefits       0.1  0.1 
       3.9  3.7 British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
93
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
UK Gaap Parent Company Balance Sheet
At 31 December 201 1
       20 11 20 10 
      Notes £m  £m 
Fixed assets         
Investments      2 133.6 149.9
Current assets         
Debtors      3 51.6 30.6
       51.6 30.6
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year         
Bank and other borrowings       3.4 1.0
Derivative financial instruments      4 0.5 0.5
Other creditors      5 44.9 34.4
       48.8 35.9
Net current assets/(liabilities)       2.8 (5.3)
Total assets less current liabilities       136.4 144.6
         
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year         
Bank and other borrowings       22.4 33.8
Derivative financial instruments      4 0.5 0.5
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings       29.5 31.2
       52.4 65.5
Net assets       84.0 79.1
Capital and reserves         
Called up share capital      6 6.6 6.6
Share premium account       25.1 25.1
Other reserves      7 12.8 12.8
Profit and loss account      8 39.5 34.6
Shareholders’ funds       84.0 79.1
            
The Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by     
       
            
C. McLatchie
Chairman
D. Harris
Finance Director             94
Notes to the UK Gaap Parent Company Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of preparation
The Company’s financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments which are stated at their fair value, and  
in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards. The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, for the reasons outlined in the 
Financial Review on pages 28 to 31.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Company’s financial statements.
Profit and loss account
Under Section 408 (3) of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Related party transactions
As the Parent Company of the British Polythene Industries PLC Group (the financial statements for which can be found on pages 63 to 92), the Company has taken 
advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances with entities which are wholly owned subsidiaries  
of the Group.
Foreign currencies 
Transactions in currencies other than pounds Sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance sheet date, 
monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets 
and liabilities carried at historical cost that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the historical cost was 
determined. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the profit and loss account for the year.
Taxation
The Company’s tax charge is based on the result for the year and tax rates in force during the year. Estimation of the tax charge requires an assessment to be made 
of the potential tax treatment of certain items which will only be resolved once finally agreed with the relevant tax authorities.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes 
which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19. A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and 
therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profits from 
which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Investments
Investments are stated at cost less provisions for any impairment.
Derivative financial instruments
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Company’s treasury policy. Hedges are classified as follows:
– Fair value hedges that hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
–  Cash flow hedges that hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability  
or a forecast transaction.
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the profit and loss account. Any gain or loss on the 
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the profit and loss account.
For cash flow hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge, as defined by FRS 26, is recognised  
in equity, with any ineffective portion recognised in the profit and loss account. When hedged cash flows result in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, 
the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability. For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or 
losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the profit and loss account in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the profit and loss account.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised in the profit and loss account.
When a hedging instrument is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still 
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.  
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the profit  
and loss account. 
Financial guarantee contracts
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company considers these  
to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as 
it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Share-based payments
The fair value of employee share options granted is calculated at grant date and the resulting cost is charged to the profit and loss account over the performance 
period of the options with a corresponding increase in equity. The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting. Failures to 
vest as a result of market conditions are not reversed. British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
95
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
Treasury shares
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change  
in equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from profit and loss reserves. 
Provisions and contingent liabilities
In accordance with FRS 12 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’, provisions are recognised where there is a present obligation as a result  
of a past event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount  
of the obligation. If these conditions are not met, no provision is recognised. However, contingent liabilities are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements, 
unless the possibility of a transfer of economic benefits is remote. Contingent gains are not recognised unless realisation of the profit is virtually certain. 
Dividends payable
Dividends payable to the Company’s shareholders are recorded as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved.
Retirement benefit obligations
The Company participates in a Group-wide scheme, the British Polythene Pension Scheme, which has a defined benefit section (providing benefits based on final 
pensionable pay) and a defined contribution section. The assets of the Scheme are held separately from those of the Company. The pension costs for the defined 
contribution section are charged to the profit and loss account on the basis of contributions due in respect of the financial year. In relation to the defined benefit 
section of the Scheme, the Company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities on a consistent and reliable basis and therefore, as required 
by FRS 17, the Company accounts for this Scheme as a defined contribution scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect  
of the defined benefit section represents the contributions payable to the Scheme in respect of the year.
2. FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS          
       Subsidiary undertakings
      Equity Non-equity T otal 
      £m  £m  £m 
Shares at cost less provisions 
At 31 December 2010      85.1 64.8 149.9
Movement during year      34.0 (50.3) (16.3)
At 31 December 2011      119.1 14.5 133.6
          
Subsidiary Undertakings          
Except as indicated below, the Company owns the whole issued share capital of all subsidiary undertakings. The principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows: 
         
Company    Country of incorporation   Trade
British Polythene Limited    England    Polythene Manufacturer
AT Films Inc*    Canada   Polythene Manufacturer
BPI plc    England    Property Company 
BPI Europe BV*    Netherlands   Holding Company  
Combipac BV*    Netherlands   Polythene Manufacturer  
Formipac France SA*    France   Distribution Company  
Irish Polythene Industries Limited    Republic of Ireland   Distribution Company  
Venture Hong Kong Limited (75% owned)*    Hong Kong   Holding Company  
Xinhui Alida Polythene Limited
+
    China   Polythene Manufacturer  
   
* Shares held through an intermediate holding company          
+ 20% owned through a subsidiary undertaking          
          
The Company also has an interest in the British Polythene Industries Pension Funding Limited Partnership the results of which are consolidated into the Group’s 
financial statements. The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under regulation 7 of the Partnership (Accounts) Regulations, 2008 and  
has therefore not appended the accounts of the qualifying partnership (which do not need to be filed at Companies House) to these financial statements.  
 
       
3. DEBTORS 
         
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m 
Trade debtors       – 0.2
Amounts due by subsidiary undertakings       48.9 27.8
Prepayments and accrued income       0.6 0.4
Other debtors        1.4 1.4
Group relief receivable       0.7 0.8
       51.6 30.6
           96
Notes to the UK Gaap Parent Company Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 31 December 201 1
4. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS          
The Company considers the Group disclosures found at Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements to satisfy all FRS 29 disclosure requirements in relation  
to financial instruments.          
5. OTHER CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR         
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m 
Trade creditors       0.5 0.7
Other taxes and social security       1.2 1.3
Accruals and deferred income       1.6 1.0
Other creditors       1.0 1.2
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings       40.6 30.2
       44.9 34.4
         
6. CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL         
       20 11 20 10 
        £m  £m 
Authorised 
Equity         
80,227,336 (2010: 80,227,336) ordinary shares of 25p each       20.1 20.1
Allotted called up and fully paid         
Equity         
26,543,405 (2010: 26,498,160) ordinary shares of 25p each       6.6 6.6
         
7. OTHER RESERVES           
     Capital   T otal 
    Merger redemption  Capital  Hedging other 
    reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves 
    £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
At 1 January 2011    6.5 7.2 0.1 (1.0) 12.8
Movement during the year     – – – – –
At 31 December 2011    6.5 7.2 0.1 (1.0) 12.8
         
     Capital   T otal 
    Merger redemption  Capital  Hedging other 
    reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves 
    £m  £m  £m  £m  £m 
At 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2011    6.5 7.2 0.1 (1.0) 12.8
           
8. PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT           
         
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m 
At 1 January       34.6 17.8
Profit for the financial year       8.1 20.1
Dividends paid       (3.1) (2.9)
Increase in own shares held       (1.7) (1.0)
FRS 20 charge in relation to equity settled transactions       1.6 0.6
At 31 December        39.5 34.6
           
The profit after taxation for the year amounted to £8.1 million (2010: £20.1 million).          British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
97
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
9. RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT IN SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS         
         
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m 
Opening shareholders’ funds       79.1 62.7
Profit/(loss) for the financial year       8.1 20.1
Dividends paid       (3.1) (2.9)
Increase in own shares held       (1.7) (1.0)
FRS 20 charge in relation to equity-settled transactions       1.6 0.6
Movement in hedging reserve       – (0.4)
Net movement in shareholders’ funds       4.9 16.4
Closing shareholders’ funds       84.0 79.1
           
10. OWN SHARES HELD           
           
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m 
Cost of own shares held
At 1 January       1.5 1.1
Shares purchased       1.7 1.0
Movement relative to shares vested under the restricted share plan       (0.9) (0.6)
At 31 December       2.3 1.5
           
The cost of own shares held represents shares held by the British Polythene Industries Employee Share Ownership Trust to satisfy the Company’s liabilities under 
share based payment plans. The market value of the shares is £2.9 million (2010: £1.3 million).       
    
     Date of  Number Date of  Number 
     allocation of shares allocation of shares 
     20 1 1 20 1 1 20 1 0 20 1 0
Movements in the numbers of shares held 
At 1 January      534,423    249,432 
No of shares allocated to employees     09/03/11 (283,552)  05/03/10 (113,750) 
Shares purchased     Various 603,200  Various  398,741 
At 31 December      854,071   534,423
           
           
11. DIVIDENDS           
         
       20 11 20 10 
       £m  £m 
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: 
Second interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 7.85p per share (2009: second interim dividend of 7.5p)   2.0  2.0 
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 4.00p per share (2010: 3.65p)     1.1  0.9 
       3.1  2.9 
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 8.5p per share (2010: second interim dividend of 7.85p)   2.3  2.1 
           
The proposed final dividend was approved by the Board on 2 March 2012 and has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2011.   
         98
12. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 
           
In April 2010, the Group was visited by officials from the European Commission (EC) and Office of Fair Trading (OFT) carrying out separate unannounced inspections 
into the agricultural films market. The Commission stated that it has reason to believe that the companies concerned in these inspections may have violated EU 
antitrust rules that prohibit cartels and restrictive business practices and /or abuse of a dominant market position. During the period both the EC and OFT concluded 
their enquiries with no action being taken.            
 
The Group is aware of a risk of civil claims arising from the European Commission’s decision on 30 November 2005 that a cartel had operated in the industrial bags 
market in the Benelux countries, Spain, Germany and France between 1982 and June 2001.       
      
The Company has guaranteed the bank overdrafts of certain subsidiaries amounting at 31 December 2011 to £1.5 million (2010: £8.7 million) including interest from 
time to time thereon. The Company also has an obligation under the Group VAT registration amounting at 31 December 2011 to £2.1 million (2010: £3.4 million). 
            
The Company has also entered into a contract to guarantee the indebtedness of a third party in relation to a lease contract. In the event of default, the Company 
could be held liable for future contracted lease payments for up to five years from 29 July 2010. This represents a contingent liability to the Company of the present 
value of these payments. This amounted to £0.6 million at 31 December 2011 (2010: £0.8 million).       
      
             
13. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS 
           
The Company considers the IFRS 2 Group disclosures found at Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements to satisfy all FRS 20 disclosure requirements. 
            
             
14. PENSIONS             
             
Defined Contribution Schemes           
The assets of the defined contribution section of the British Polythene Pension Scheme and other defined contribution schemes are held separately from those  
of the Group, being invested with a number of insurance companies.         
    
The pension charge includes contributions payable to the various insurance companies.        
     
Defined Benefit Scheme            
The Company is a member of a larger Group-wide pension scheme providing benefits based on pensionable pay. As the Company is unable to identify its share  
of the Scheme assets and liabilities on a reliable and consistent basis, as permitted by FRS 17 ‘Retirement benefits’, the Scheme is accounted for as if it were  
a defined contribution scheme. The Company made contributions of £0.1 million (2010: £0.1 million) in the year. There were no outstanding or prepaid Company 
contributions at either the beginning or the end of the financial year. On 30 September 2010 the Scheme ceased future accruals and all active members’ past  
service benefits were preserved on this date.           
  
The assets of the defined benefit section are invested in a self-administered trust fund and hence are also separated from the Group’s business assets.  
           
FRS 17 Disclosures             
The Company considers that the IAS 19 Group disclosures found at Note 29 to the consolidated financial statements satisfies all FRS 17 disclosure requirements. 
            
             
15. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS            
 
The Company has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, with its Directors and executive officers including key management personnel, and with the  
British Polythene Pension Scheme. Disclosures relating to Directors are shown on pages 52 to 57.       
      
Transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries of British Polythene Industries PLC Group are not disclosed on the basis of the exemption contained in FRS 8.  
At 31 December 2011, the Company has intercompany debtor balances with two non-wholly owned subsidiaries; £0.8m with Xinhui Alida Polythene Limited  
(2010: £0.8 million) and £0.8m with Venture Hong Kong Limited (2010: £0.8 million). The balances relate to intercompany loans.    
         
Remuneration of key management personnel            
The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Company is set out below, in aggregate:      
       
       20 11 20 10 
       £m £m
Short-term employee benefits       2.2   2.3 
Share based payments       0.2   0.1 
Post-employment benefits       0.1   0.1 
       2.5   2.5
Notes to the UK Gaap Parent Company Financial Statements ( continued)
For the year ended 31 December 201 1 British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
99
 Overview
 Review of the Year
 Corporate Governance
 Financial Statements
Information for Shareholders
Financial Calendar
2012
11 May 2012  Annual General Meeting
July 2012   Payment of 2011 Final Dividend
August 2012   Announcement of 2012 Interim Results
November 2012  Payment of 2012 Interim Dividend
2013
4 March 2013  Announcement of 2012 Annual Results
April 2013   Issue of 2013 Annual Report and Accounts
May 2013   Annual General Meeting
July 2013   Payment of 2013 Final Dividend
Registrars
Enquiries concerning the holding of ordinary shares in the Company should  
be addressed to the Registrars who should also be notified of any changes  
in a holder’s address.
The Registrars are: 
Computershare Investor Services PLC, 
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ
Telephone: 0870 889 3238
Your Shareholding
You may check your shareholding at any time by visiting the Registrars website 
(www.uk.computershare.com/investors).
Website 
The Company has a website (www.bpipoly.com) which provides details of all 
major stock exchange announcements, the current share price and information 
on businesses and products.
Share Price Information
The latest information on the Company’s share price is published in most 
newspapers, the Financial Times Cityline services, telephone number 09058 
171690 and a number of websites including the London Stock Exchange  
(www.londonstockexchange.com). 
FTSE4Good Index
The Company continues to be part of the Index.
The Index is designed to measure the performance of companies that meet 
globally recognised corporate responsibility standards, and to facilitate 
investment in those companies.
 
Registered Office
One London Wall, London, EC2Y 5AB
Head Office
96 Port Glasgow Road, Greenock, PA15 2UL
Telephone: 01475 501000
Fax: 01475 743143
Registration Number
108191 100
Notes Our choice of paper
Choosing a paper that sits well with our environmental vision  
is important to us. That’s why the cover and text pages are  
printed on 80% recycled FSC -approved paper produced from 
well-managed forests. The financial statements have been  
printed on 100% recycled paper and the entire publication  
has been printed using vegetable oil-based inks by a FSC -
recognised printer that holds an ISO 14001 certification.  
The carbon impact of this paper has also been measured and 
balanced through the World Land Trust, an ecological charity. 
CBP0002042603122042
Innovation in new film technologies and pioneering 
applications set us apart in agriculture where our 
world leading brands offer the combined benefits  
of cost efficiency, exceptional quality and 
outstanding performance levels.
Read more on page 18
Product Innovation 
A strategy of ongoing  
investment has created world 
class manufacturing facilities 
capable of producing high-
quality, technically advanced 
products. This investment  
enables the business to develop 
market leading positions. 
Read more on page 06
Continuing Investment Programme
18
06
With over two-thirds of our business spread across  
the agriculture, retail food and healthcare and waste 
management sectors we continue to focus on 
further enhancing the resilience of our business. 
 › The largest recycler of polythene film in Europe.
 › A leading global supplier of agricultural film products.
 › A leading European supplier of packaging  
for the protection of food and other goods.
bpi is one of the  
largest polythene film 
producers in Europe
Leadership in 
Agriculture
Leading 
through 
Investment British Polythene Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
 Resilience
A defining feature  
of our business
British Polythene Industries PLC  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
British Polythene Industries PLC
96 Port Glasgow Road 
Greenock 
PA 1 5 2UL
T: +44 (0)1 475 501 000 
F: +44 (0)1 475 743 1 43
www.bpipoly.com
