 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014
Annual Report 2014 Annual Report 2014
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Making life better  
by entertaining and 
connecting people
We make life better by entertaining and connecting people.  
We are part of everyday life for millions of customers and  
we work hard to meet their needs and earn their trust.
We believe in better. That means offering a better choice of 
high-quality entertainment for the whole family and using  
technology to put them in control, whenever and wherever they  
want. Our home communications services make it simple, safe and  
reliable for customers to connect to each other and to the world.
We make our products affordable so millions can join in. We are 
committed to providing exceptional customer service. And we are 
always looking for ways to improve in everything that we do.
Seeing the bigger picture is fundamental to how we do business.  
We are committed to behaving responsibly and doing the right  
thing for the communities where we live and work. 
Our people are critical to our success. We aim to foster a culture  
where they can do their best work, fulfil their potential and achieve 
great things together.
We want to build a business that is durable for the long term. 
Delivering for our customers, our employees and the wider  
community is how we will create a more valuable business  
for our shareholders and sustain success into the future.
Believe in better. For more information about Sky go to sky.com/corporate
To find out more about our approach to building a sustainable business, and our progress in the year go to  
sky.com/biggerpicture where you can also download the Seeing the bigger picture Summary Report 2014.
01 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Annual Report 2014
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Contents
Our Software Engineering 
Academy is training the 
developers of the future. 
Turn to page 32
Sky is creating opportunities for  
one million young people to build  
skills and experience by 2020.
Turn to page 27
Sky Sports set new audience  
records this season.
Turn to page 14
Sky Broadband Shield 
means customers can enjoy 
surfing the internet safely. 
Turn to page 23
Strategic report
At a glance 02
Chairman’s statement  04
Our business model 06
Chief Executive’s statement  07
Our performance  10
Review of the year  
– Content  12
– Innovation  18
– Customers  22
– Bigger Picture  26
– People  32
Financial review  36
Principal risks and uncertainties  40
Regulatory matters 44
Governance
Board of Directors  46
Corporate governance report  48
Directors’ remuneration report  59
Directors’ report and  
statutory disclosures  77
Financial statements 
Statement of Directors’  
responsibilities  81
Independent Auditor’s report  82
Consolidated financial  
statements  86
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements  90
Group financial record  137
Non-GAAP measures  139
Shareholder information
Shareholder information  141 
Glossary of terms  142
Sky is reaching a whole  
new set of customers  
with NOW TV. 
Turn to page 20
Our new EPG is helping  
customers to get even  
more from their subscription. 
Turn to page 19 Annual Report 2014
02 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – At a glance
Sky at a glance
Consumer business
We are Britain and Ireland’s leading home 
entertainment and communications company, 
providing services to more than 40% of homes.
£7.6bn
£6bn
Sky’s contribution to UK GDP
Revenue
Sky TV
Sky gives millions of families a better  
choice of TV to enjoy on their terms,  
at home or on the go, watching  
live or on demand.
Sky Media
Sky Media is our advertising sales  
house, offering advertisers access to  
125 TV channels. Sky Media’s portfolio  
is watched by over 90% of the population  
each week on TV, online, and on the go.
Our other businesses
We operate a number of businesses in adjacent 
sectors that draw on our core strengths in content, 
innovation and customers.
Contribution
We make a significant and growing economic  
and social contribution to life in Britain and  
Ireland, directly employing over 25,000 people.
Content business
We own and operate Britain and Ireland’s largest 
portfolio of pay TV channels across entertainment, 
sports, movies and 24-hour news.
Sky Sports
Sky Sports’ seven channels broadcast  
a wide range of live and exclusive sport,  
news and analysis, from football  
and golf to cricket and tennis.
Financial performance 03 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Annual Report 2014
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Strategic report – At a glance
34.8m
Paid-for subscription products
11.5m
Customers
105,000 117 ,000 £2.7bn
£1.3bn 60.0p
Sky Broadband
Sky is Britain and Ireland’s fastest-growing  
home communications provider, connecting 
more than 5 million customers with broadband 
and telephony services.
Sky Bet
Sky Bet offers a range of online betting  
and gaming services under the Sky Bet,  
Sky Poker, Sky Vegas and Sky Bingo brands.
Sky Business
Sky Business provides Sky’s TV and  
WiFi services to a range of commercial 
businesses, including offices, retail outlets, 
hotels, and licensed premises.
Content Distribution
Sky wholesales its channels to  
third-party pay TV platforms, as well  
as selling a wide range of programming 
internationally through Sky Vision.
NOW TV
NOW TV is our over-the-top streaming  
service, providing low-cost, low-commitment 
access to the best of Sky’s content.
Number of young people who participated  
in Sky Academy initiatives last year.
Total number of UK jobs  
supported by Sky.
Total annual tax contribution*  
to the UK Exchequer.
* From net VAT, corporation taxes  
and employee income taxes.
Sky Movies
Sky Movies is Europe’s largest in-home  
movie service, with over 800 film titles  
from the major Hollywood studios  
and independent distributors.
Sky Entertainment
Sky has four main entertainment channels:  
Sky 1, Sky Living, Sky Atlantic and Sky Arts.  
These showcase our own UK-commissioned 
content, alongside the best of the US.
Sky News
Sky News reaches over 100 million  
homes on multiple platforms across  
118 countries with its combination  
of breaking news and analysis.
Operating profit EPS Annual Report 2014
04 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Chairman’s statement
2014 has been a year of outstanding progress for Sky. 
Executing well against a clear and consistent strategy,  
the Company has delivered strong operational growth and  
an excellent financial performance in a year of investment.
A year of outstanding progress
Our results show there is very good momentum in Sky’s business with 
strong customer demand for our products and rapid growth in new 
services such as On Demand and NOW TV. This has been achieved 
against a challenging backdrop where there has been continued 
pressure on household budgets, and it is testament to the robustness 
of the strategy and the exemplary way in which management has 
executed their plans.
This year’s results build on a proven track record of delivery. Over the 
past few years, we have transformed the size and scale of the business, 
more than doubling earnings per share since 2009. This has enabled 
the Company to return a total of £3.4 billion to shareholders over  
that five-year period through a combination of share buybacks  
and dividends.
The Board is confident that Sky is well placed to take advantage of  
the growth opportunities ahead. The conditional acquisition of 100% 
of Sky Italia and 57.4% of Sky Deutschland from 21st Century Fox, 
announced on 25 July, will enable Sky to build on the strength of  
the business in Britain and Ireland to create even greater value  
for shareholders as a wider international business.
As Sky has grown, so has its economic contribution to Britain and 
Ireland. Sky is the biggest commercial supporter of the UK creative 
industries, investing more than £2.6 billion this year in high-quality 
sports, news and entertainment content. As a successful company,  
Sky contributes £6 billion to UK GDP, supports 117,000 jobs and 
generates a total of £2.7 billion in tax revenues for the Exchequer.
Sky also makes a considerable social contribution. We took a big step 
forward this year with the launch of Sky Academy, a groundbreaking 
set of initiatives to inspire young people and give them the skills and 
confidence they need to participate more fully in a changing world.  
Our aim is to create opportunities for up to one million young people 
to build skills and experience by 2020.
Over the past year, there have been a number of changes to the  
Board. We were very pleased to welcome Adine Grate, an experienced 
finance and investment professional, to the Board last July. I would  
like to thank Danny Rimer for his contribution as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. He stepped down from this role at the  
AGM in November and has been succeeded by Tracy Clarke. I would 
particularly like to thank Andy Higginson, our Senior Independent 
Director, for his outstanding contribution to the Company in the last 
ten years. Andy will retire from the Board at the AGM in November.
Finally, in light of the Company’s strong performance, the Board 
proposes a 7% increase in the full-year dividend to 32.0 pence,  
the tenth consecutive year of growth.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank shareholders for their 
continued support and to extend my thanks to all of my colleagues 
across Sky for their commitment and their invaluable contribution  
to another excellent year for the business.
Nick Ferguson, CBE
Chairman Mr Sloane
Commissioned by Sky Atlantic, Mr Sloane was a bittersweet romantic comedy from the 
Director of Curb Your Enthusiasm Robert B. Weide and starred Nick Frost and Olivia Colman. Our business model
How we create value
Annual Report 2014
06 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Our business model
Annual Report 2014
A bigger, more 
profitable 
business 
delivering 
increased 
returns to 
shareholders 
and making  
a positive 
impact  
on society
We create sustainable value by pursuing broad  
growth opportunities and achieving competitive 
advantage through our core strengths and the  
way we do business.
Our growth 
opportunities
Our  
strengths
How we do 
business
•  Expanding in pay 
TV and home 
communications
•  Opening up 
emerging market 
segments
•  Exploiting 
opportunities in 
adjacent sectors
•  Delivering great 
content
•  Market-leading 
innovation
•  Focusing on 
customers
•  In v esting f or  
the long term
•  Driving ef f iciency
•  Seeing the  
bigger picture
•  In v esting in 
people
We have an attractive 
market opportunity that is 
getting bigger and broader.
We are expanding in our 
core business of pay TV  
and home communications.
We are opening up new 
emerging areas of the 
market in the ‘pay light’ and 
transactional segments.
We are exploiting 
opportunities in adjacent 
sectors such as targeted 
advertising and betting  
and gaming.
Sky’s competitive 
advantage comes from 
a unique combination of 
strengths in three areas.
We deliver the best and 
broadest range of content 
for the whole family. 
We harness new technology 
to give customers the 
best viewing experience, 
wherever and whenever 
they want. 
We combine these with 
a deep understanding of 
customer needs and best-
in-class customer service. 
Because we want to build  
a business that is durable, 
we invest for the long term.
We underpin everything 
that we do with a rigorous 
focus on operating 
efficiency.
We make a positive impact 
on the communities where 
we live and work. We call 
this seeing the bigger 
picture. 
We invest in our people, 
recognising that their 
talent and commitment  
are critical to our success. As we mark our 25th anniversary, Sky is performing strongly 
and our potential for future growth is as exciting as it has  
ever been. We had a very good year in 2014 with more people 
choosing Sky and taking more of our products. The business  
is delivering strong financial results and we enter the new year 
with good momentum.
Our strategy
Annual Report 2014
07 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Strategic report – Chief Executive’s statement
We operate in an attractive and dynamic marketplace that is opening up 
a bigger and broader opportunity, one that we are uniquely positioned 
to take advantage of. In today’s connected world, home entertainment 
and communications are central to people’s lives and they are willing  
to commit an increasing proportion of their household spend on these 
services. In this environment, our strategy is to deliver market-leading 
content, innovation and customer service, while operating as a 
responsible business and making a positive impact on society.  
We believe this approach will allow us to continue to grow and  
create value for shareholders.
Our growth opportunities
Sky’s willingness to embrace that change and innovate is opening  
up exciting new opportunities and giving us more ways to grow.  
We see an expanding opportunity to serve the market broadly  
through multiple channels and, for the first time, to provide  
‘Sky for Everyone’, based on multiple platforms and services.
This opportunity for growth lies in three areas.
First and foremost, we see an opportunity to sell more products  
to more customers by meeting the significant demand that exists  
for our core TV and home communications products.
Notwithstanding the excellent progress that we have made over the 
last 25 years, 13 million households in Britain and Ireland have yet to 
pay for TV, and over 5 million of our customers have yet to switch their 
home communications service to Sky. Our successful transition to  
a multi-product strategy has enabled us to sell more products to  
more customers and with an average of three paid-for products  
per customer at the end of June 2014, there remains plenty more 
growth to go for. Our performance in the last year demonstrates  
that consumers’ appetite to take more from Sky remains as strong  
as ever and this gives us an important platform from which to build.
Second, we see significant additional potential for growth in new 
segments of the market that we are only just starting to address.  
NOW TV, our over-the-top streaming service, gives us the chance to 
unlock new pockets of demand in an emerging pay light sector and 
extend our reach in Freeview homes – many of whom are looking for  
an easy and flexible way to enjoy a better TV experience. Our NOW TV 
Box offers a low-cost, low-commitment way for these households to 
enjoy Sky’s content with a choice of movies, sport and entertainment 
passes. In addition, we continue to roll out NOW TV to more connected 
devices, taking advantage of the growth in video consumption over 
smartphones, tablets and games consoles.
Alongside this, we also have an opportunity to extend the Sky brand 
into the transactional market by accelerating the move from physical 
DVDs to digital. This is a market worth an estimated £1.6 billion a  
year in the UK and while we have been growing our share of the  
rental part of this market well with Sky Store, the launch this spring  
of our Buy & Keep service lets us tap into the much larger purchase 
segment of the market. We see strong potential for growth given  
our long-standing relationships with the major Studios and the 
strength of the Sky brand in home entertainment.
Jeremy Darroch
Chief Executive Our strategy
(continued)
Annual Report 2014
08 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Chief Executive’s statement
Third, we are opening up new growth opportunities in our portfolio of 
businesses in adjacent sectors. These are businesses where Sky often 
has a small share today in what are large and valuable addressable 
markets. This includes Sky Bet, our betting and gaming business, which 
has delivered sustained double-digit growth in revenue and profit and 
yet still only has 6% of a £3 billion market. We see another significant 
opportunity in targeted advertising with the launch this year of Sky 
AdSmart. Combining the power, scale and immediacy of TV advertising 
with the segmentation and targeting of direct mail and regional 
advertising, Sky AdSmart opens up a £6 billion market that we have 
been unable to reach until now.
Taken together these represent a broad opportunity for growth 
through multiple services and routes to market. Each of these areas  
is additive and highly complementary; together, they offer a route  
to building a bigger and more profitable business. 
Our strengths
Sky’s success in exploiting the growth opportunity that lies ahead 
rests on our unique combination of strengths in three areas: content, 
innovation and customers. These are areas in which Sky has developed 
significant capabilities which are hard to replicate. 
In content, we have made huge strides in recent years to increase  
the range and quality of the programmes we put on screen, right 
across our channel portfolio. We have developed our suite of 
entertainment channels, strengthened our relationships with the 
major movie studios and signed new rights deals in sport to expand 
our offering. In particular, this year we have increased our investment 
in original British programming with a focus on comedy and drama.  
This is because we know that our ability to offer the best and broadest 
range of content for the whole household is a fundamental advantage 
in an environment where customers have more choices than ever before.
Sky’s ability to innovate across multiple technologies allows us to build 
on the strength of our content and take our business into new areas. 
Our focus in the last year has been accelerating the take-up and usage 
of new connected TV services. Connecting customers’ Sky
+
HD boxes 
to broadband opens up a whole range of new on demand services 
which allow customers to choose how, when and where they watch 
that content. Services like NOW TV and Sky Store delivered over the 
internet enable us to extend our business into new areas, reaching 
customers that may not otherwise have taken Sky and opening up new 
revenue opportunities. We have also grown our home communications 
business to become Britain’s second-biggest broadband provider. 
Our strengths in content and innovation are only relevant because 
they matter to customers. And it is because we combine them with  
a deep understanding of customer needs that we are able to bring 
together home entertainment and communications better than 
anyone else.
We have established direct, long-term relationships with 11.5 million 
households across Britain and Ireland. These relationships mean  
we know what our customers want and enable us to stay focused  
on providing the services that best meet their needs. The strength  
of our brand and the capability that we have developed means we  
can bring products to market swiftly and at scale. And everything we 
do is supported by best-in-class customer service. As the connected 
home becomes more established and consumers are faced with  
an increasing array of choices, service delivery has become a more 
important differentiator than ever before. Sky’s expertise is a source 
of competitive advantage.
The acquisition of Sky Italia and a 57.4% stake in Sky Deutschland  
will give us a platform to take the strengths we have developed in the 
UK and Ireland and apply them across a broader field of opportunity. 
The enlarged business will have significantly expanded headroom for 
growth, bringing together best-in-class capabilities and experience 
from all three businesses to serve customers better, accelerate 
innovation and grow faster.
How we do business
Underpinning our strengths in content, innovation and customers  
is our desire to build a business that is durable for the long term.  
To achieve sustainable success, we know that how we do business  
is as important as what we do. This is at the heart of our Believe in 
Better ethos, a commitment to constant renewal and improvement  
in everything we do.
Investment in our people is fundamental to the creation of a durable 
business. At Sky, we support training and development for all of our 
people and strive to create a culture where they can do their best  
work and fulfil their potential.
We also understand that we need to be willing to look beyond the 
delivery of short-term results to consider the impact that we have on 
the wider communities in which we live and work. We call this seeing 
the bigger picture.
As a successful company, we make a significant and growing economic 
and social contribution to Britain and Ireland, supporting thousands  
of jobs and investing billions in the creative industries and sport.  
We are committed to behaving responsibly in all that we do and  
our high ethical, social and environmental standards underpin the 
decisions that we take every day.
But we also know that we have the opportunity to use our position  
as a leading media and communications company to reach beyond our 
business to make a positive impact on society. This is why we launched 
Sky Academy in November 2013, a unique set of initiatives that uses 
the power of TV, creativity and sport to inspire young people and help 
them reach their potential. Bringing together established programmes 
with a series of initiatives where we’re just getting going, we feel very 
excited about how Sky Academy will be able to make a difference to 
young people’s lives. 
Sky Arts Portrait Artist of the Year, presented by Joan Bakewell and Frank Skinner. Annual Report 2014
09 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Strategic report – Chief Executive’s statement
Our performance
The success of our strategy is reflected in the strong performance of 
the business over the past year. Against a challenging economic and 
competitive backdrop, we added 23% more products than the prior 
year and achieved the highest rate of customer growth for three  
years (excluding the acquired O2 customers and product base).
Strong demand across the board translated to a 7% increase in 
revenue (excluding ESPN). Combined with a continued focus on 
operating efficiency, this meant we ended a year of investment  
with earnings per share flat year on year. This is an excellent result  
in a period where we absorbed a one-off step up in Premier League 
costs and invested to accelerate take-up of new connected services, 
and it reflects the strength of the underlying business.
In light of this performance, the Board has proposed a dividend  
of 32.0 pence, an increase of 7% on the prior year and the tenth 
consecutive year of growth.
We continued to reap the benefits of our broadly-based approach  
to growth as more people chose to come to Sky and take more of our 
products. We added a total of 3.1 million new paid-for subscription 
products over the 12 months to take our total base of subscription 
products past 34 million. At the same time, we added 342,000 new 
customers to reach 11.5 million, reflecting a continuing appetite to 
switch services from other providers to Sky. At the end of the year,  
37% of our customers took all three of TV, broadband and telephony 
from Sky, extending our lead as Britain’s favourite triple-play provider.
Meanwhile, our investment to accelerate take-up and usage of our 
connected TV service delivered excellent results, increasing the value 
we offer to customers and opening up new sources of revenue.  
Over the year, the total number of connected Sky
+
HD boxes more  
than doubled to 5.7 million, equivalent to 57,000 new households  
being connected every week. This means that more than 50% of TV 
customers were connected at the end of June, making Sky Britain’s 
most popular connected TV platform.
This explosive growth has transformed the viewing experience.  
On Demand downloads grew threefold over the year as customers 
responded to greater flexibility and choice. Our expanded Box Sets 
service proved particularly popular with viewing to top titles like  
24 and Game of Thrones up fourfold in Q4. 
At the same time, the number of households registered for Sky Go, our 
mobile TV service, grew 19% to 5.5 million, helping push viewing figures 
to new highs. We saw particularly strong growth in entertainment,  
with entertainment and movies accounting for two-thirds of all viewing 
to Sky Go at the end of the year. 
Through all this, we continued to extend our lead in customer service. 
Initiatives like bringing our entire engineer workforce in-house and the 
roll-out of our ‘One Service’ operating model, where we join up different 
elements of the service experience more effectively, has helped deliver 
record levels of customer satisfaction. As a result, Sky again earned  
the top ranking from Ofcom for quality of service by a provider of TV, 
broadband and home phone services. 
Underpinning everything we achieved operationally was our continued 
work to reach beyond our business and make a positive impact on the 
wider community. We launched Sky Academy in November and were 
delighted that over 105,000 young people took part in a Sky Academy 
initiative during the year.
Of course, none of what we do would be possible without the dedication 
and hard work of our people. They are vital to our success and I would 
like to thank each and every one of them for their contribution in the 
last 12 months. 
With their continued support, the outlook for the business is very 
positive. Our strategy is delivering and there is a broad and growing 
market opportunity that Sky, with our unique combination of 
strengths, is best placed to take advantage of. Our track record  
of success in Britain and Ireland is the starting point as we expand  
into Europe. The opportunity is substantial and this is good news  
for our people, good for customers and good for our shareholders.
Revenue
£7.6bn
Products
34.8m
Customers
11.5m
Game of Thrones became the highest-rating show ever on Sky Atlantic.
We saw a particularly good performance in TV, adding twice as many 
new customers as last year. This growth was underpinned by the 
quality and range of content we offer the whole family. This is our 
biggest year in entertainment yet as we target a spend of £600 million 
by the end of 2014 on original British programmes. Highlights from  
the past 12 months included Anglo-French crime drama The Tunnel,  
a co-production with Canal Plus, and Penny Dreadful, a psychological 
thriller produced by Oscar winner Sam Mendes.
We also strengthened our relationship with some of the world’s  
leading content producers, signing major new partnerships with  
ITV and HBO and renewing a multi-year movies agreement with 
Paramount, thereby increasing our range of exclusive content. 
Meanwhile, Sky Sports enjoyed its highest share of viewing for seven 
years with the best-ever Premier League season in terms of audiences, 
while at the same time strengthening its offering for the future with  
30 new sports rights agreements. Annual Report 2014
10 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Our performance
Our performance
Operational key performance indicators
Churn
2013 10.8% 201410.9%
Description
Churn represents the number of total 
customers over a given period who 
terminated their subscriptions, net  
of former customers who reinstated 
their subscription (within 12 months of 
terminating their original subscription), 
expressed as an annualised percentage 
of total average customers.
Analysis
Churn is a good measure of customer 
satisfaction, which is a key driver  
of value for our business. Churn for  
the year 2014 was stable at 10.9% .
Content: Sky channel distribution
2014
2013
2012 2013 10.8%
14.7m
14.1m
14.0m
Description
The number of households in the UK  
and Ireland that have access to Sky  
pay channels included as part of their 
pay TV subscription service; whether 
that is directly purchased from Sky  
or from another operator to whom  
Sky wholesales its channels.
Analysis
Total reach of Sky channels is an 
important measure because broad 
distribution drives revenue growth 
opportunities for the Group.  
The Group increased the total reach  
of its pay channels by 4% in 2014.
Innovation: Connected Sky
+
HD box and Sky Go customers
 Sky Go customers Connected Sky
+
HD box
2014
2013
2012
5.5m
5.7m
4.6m
2.7m
3.5m
1.0m
Description
A connected Sky
+
HD box is one that is 
connected to the internet and therefore 
has access to Sky’s full On Demand 
subscription and transactional services. 
Sky Go households are those that have 
registered to use the Sky Go service.
Analysis
Innovation across multiple technologies 
enables the Group to expand into new 
areas, develop new revenue streams  
and exploit adjacent sectors. In 2014,  
we connected a further 3 million Sky
+
HD 
boxes and registered 1 million more 
homes for Sky Go.
Customers: Customer service satisfaction (NPS)
 
24
13
9
2014
2013
2012
Description
Net Promoter Score (NPS) is a 
standardised measure of customer 
loyalty and satisfaction. A survey  
is sent to the customer following a  
contact centre interaction with Sky.  
NPS is calculated by subtracting  
the percentage of Detractors from  
the percentage of Promoters.
Analysis
Maintaining a direct and long-term 
relationship with customers is 
fundamental to the success of our 
business. We believe customer service 
delivery is an important differentiator. 
Our NPS for service calls has dramatically 
improved over the last three years.
Description
Total products is defined as the total of 
all paid-for subscription products taken 
by our customers and includes TV, HD, 
Multiscreen, Sky Go Extra, Broadband, 
Telephony and Line Rental.
Analysis
A key element of our strategy is to 
encourage new customers to take 
multiple products when joining and to  
sell more products to existing customers. 
In 2014, we added 3.1 million products,  
23% more than the prior year (excluding 
the acquired O2 customer base). 
Total products
2014
2013
2012
34.8m
31.6m
28.4m
Description
A customer is defined as a subscriber to 
one of our TV packages or standalone 
home communications services.
Analysis
An important part of our strategy is  
to continue adding new customers.  
In 2014, we added a total of 342,000  
new customers, 33% more than the  
prior year (excluding the acquired O2 
customer base) and the highest rate  
of growth in three years.
Retail customers
2014
2013
2012
11.5m
11.2m
10.6m 11 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Annual Report 2014
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Strategic report – Our performance
Adjusted operating profit
1
2014
2013
2012
£1,260m
£1,330m
£1,223m
Description
Adjusted operating profit is a measure  
of the profit generated by the business 
from its revenues and excludes items 
that may distort comparability from  
year to year.
Analysis
Adjusted operating profit is a key 
measure of the underlying business 
performance. In 2014, adjusted operating 
profit was down by 5% on the previous 
year as the Group absorbed an increase 
in the cost of Premier League football 
rights, the consolidation of the acquired 
O2 consumer broadband and fixed line 
business and our planned investment  
in connected services.
People: Employee engagement
2014
Sky engagement
88% 2014
National benchmark
83%
Description
To measure employee engagement  
we undertake an internal survey of  
our employees and benchmark their 
answers externally. As part of a broad 
array of topics surveyed, employees are 
asked a series of questions designed  
to quantify engagement.
Analysis
Employee engagement is a good 
indicator of how our employees feel 
about the Company. As well as reaching  
a high performance indicator for 
employee engagement, we have 
improved from 2012 and outperformed 
an independent external benchmark  
of other blue chip companies.
Bigger Picture: Sky Academy participation
2014105,000
Description
Sky Academy is a groundbreaking set  
of initiatives that use the power of  
TV, creativity and sport to inspire  
young people and give them the  
skills and confidence to succeed  
in a changing world.
Analysis
Sky Academy tracks the number of 
young people taking part in Sky Academy 
initiatives. We have made a strong start 
towards our target of reaching up to  
one million young people by 2020.
We have over 40 independently assured key performance indicators that  
we use to measure our sustainability performance. These can be found at  
sky.com/biggerpicture
1 A reconciliation of statutory to adjusted measures is shown on page 139
Adjusted EPS
1
2013  60.0p
2012  50.8p
  
2014 60.0p
Description
Adjusted basic EPS is the profit after 
tax for the year, excluding adjusting 
items and related tax effects, divided 
by the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares.
Analysis
Adjusted basic EPS provides a 
measure of shareholder return that  
is comparable over time. The Group 
generated the same earnings as  
last year despite making several 
investments for growth and 
absorbing the Premier League cost 
increase in the current financial year.
Total shareholder return
5 Yr CAGR
1 Yr CAGR
2013  60.0p
2012  50.8p
  
18%
14%
12%
9%
 BSkyB FTSE 100
Description
Total shareholder return (TSR) 
represents the change in value of a share 
held for a 12-month period to 30 June, 
assuming that dividends are reinvested 
to purchase additional shares at the 
close price applicable on the ex-dividend 
date. The value of the share is based on 
the average share price over the three 
months prior to 30 June. The chart  
above illustrates the TSR performance 
for the 12 months to 30 June 2014  
and an average annual performance 
compounded over five years to  
30 June 2014.
Analysis
TSR represents a comparable measure  
of shareholder return over time.  
BSkyB shares outperformed the  
FTSE 100 index by 3 percentage points  
in the year to 30 June 2014 and by  
4 percentage points over five years.
Adjusted revenue
1
2014
2013
2012
£7,617m
£7,235m
£6,791m
Description
Adjusted revenue includes revenue 
from retail subscription, wholesale 
subscription, advertising and 
installation, hardware and service.
Analysis
Adjusted revenue is a key measure  
of how the Group is delivering on  
its strategy to grow the business.  
In 2014, adjusted revenue grew by  
5% with good growth in both retail  
and commercial operations. 
Excluding ESPN, adjusted revenue 
grew by 7%.
Financial key performance indicators Content
Strategic report – Content
12 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Annual Report 2014 Content
Strategic report Shareholder information Financial statements Governance
Strategic report – Content
13 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Annual Report 2014
Digging in
The Tunnel, our gripping crime 
drama from the makers of 
Broadchurch, became Sky Atlantic’s 
highest-performing original series 
when it aired in the autumn. A 
co-production with France’s 
CANAL+, and based on Danish 
series The Bridge, the story followed 
the uneasy relationship between 
detectives from the UK and France 
as they investigate the discovery  
of the body of a prominent French 
politician in the Channel Tunnel. 
Critically acclaimed and a ratings 
success, the series was a great 
example of the way that we present 
our content to work across all 
platforms. The series peaked at one 
million viewers on linear TV but  
the same number again watched  
it On Demand and on Sky Go.
The Tunnel was just one example  
of our increased commitment  
to drama. In all, we screened  
more than 60 hours of our own 
commissioned drama in the year, 
over 60% more than the previous 
year. There is much more to come 
next year with our largest 
commission to date, Fortitude,  
due to air on Sky Atlantic in 2015. 
Starring Michael Gambon, Sophie 
Gråbøl and Stanley Tucci, Fortitude 
shows our ambition in drama.  
We are excited about its potential, 
both for our customers at home 
and for viewers around the  
world as we sell it on to other 
broadcasters via our international 
distribution business, Sky Vision. Annual Report 2014
14 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Content
Content
(continued)
We invest more on screen than anyone else in Britain and Ireland  
– more than £2.6 billion this year – with the aim of offering the best  
and broadest range of programming for everyone in the family. A big  
part of this strategy in recent years has been about building out our Sky 
entertainment channels, bringing to them the same sense of ambition 
that has been so fundamental to our success in sport, movies and news. 
We have made huge strides expanding our portfolio of entertainment 
channels, strengthening the capability of our team and significantly 
increasing our investment in original production. By the end of calendar 
year 2014, we will have spent £600 million on home-grown British 
programming across our channels, an increase of more than 50% over 
three years.
As part of this drive to increase investment in original British commissions, 
we have put a particular focus on drama. Since last July, we have 
screened more than 60 hours of new drama programming across our 
four entertainment channels – Sky 1, Sky Atlantic, Sky Living and Sky Arts.
The single biggest reason that 
customers choose to take Sky is  
for a better choice of TV. In this,  
our biggest year of content yet,  
Sky’s on-screen offering is larger, 
more diverse and of a higher  
quality than ever before.
Unbelievable, Jeff
Sky Sports set new records for live Premier League football in the 
2013/14 season, with more fans enjoying our unrivalled coverage  
than ever before, at home or on the go. 
As the most exciting season in 
recent years came to its thrilling 
conclusion, Sky Sports was the one 
place to watch the title race unfold. 
In the final weeks of the season, 
Sky Sports was the only 
broadcaster to show games 
featuring the top four sides –
Manchester City, Liverpool, Arsenal 
and Chelsea – and was the exclusive 
live venue for all three matches on 
the final day as Manchester City 
clinched the title.
Across the season, average Premier 
League audiences on Sky Sports 
were up 7% as we showed more 
matches than ever before – 116 live 
fixtures including 49 of the 50 most 
watched Premier League matches.
Sky Sports enhanced its coverage 
by adding Liverpool legend Jamie 
Carragher to its outstanding 
line-up of experts and launching 
new shows including Saturday  
Night Football. 
And the excitement didn’t stop 
there. The football season was 
followed by another busy summer 
on Sky Sports including England 
cricket, the US PGA Golf and the 
Ryder Cup, every Formula 1 weekend 
and US Open tennis. There’s hardly 
time to take a breath before the 
start of the new season. 15 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Annual Report 2014
Strategic report
Strategic report – Content
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance
The customer response has been very positive. We have had our best 
year of TV growth in three years, adding more than a quarter of a million 
new TV customers since July 2013. At the same time, Sky 1, Sky Atlantic 
and Sky Living account for three of the top four slots in customers’ 
ranking of must-have pay TV channels; and Sky Arts has developed  
a reputation for having some of the best arts programmes on TV.
Because our channels have distinct and complementary identities,  
we are able to offer a diverse range of programming to suit the whole 
family. Successful shows this year range from Karl Pilkington’s factual 
entertainment series The Moaning of Life, which attracted 2.5 million 
viewers to its opening episode on Sky 1, to the critically-acclaimed 
Victorian thriller Penny Dreadful. Created by three-time Oscar® nominee 
John Logan and co-produced with Showtime for Sky Atlantic, it notched 
up 1.5 million viewers for its opening episode.
Our commitment to bringing our customers new and distinctive content 
extends to our acquired programming, where we continue to offer many  
of the biggest and most talked about US shows. Sky Living’s The Blacklist, 
starring James Spader, was one of the stand-out hits of the year, launching 
with an audience of 1.7 million viewers. Meanwhile, the fourth series of the 
epic Game of Thrones became the highest-rating show ever on Sky Atlantic 
with 2.2 million viewers for the first episode alone.
The success of Game of Thrones illustrates how our investment to grow 
take-up and usage of new connected TV services is transforming the 
viewing experience, with customers taking advantage of the flexibility  
to watch their favourite programmes when and where they choose.  
In the run up to the launch of series 4, Series 1-3 of Game of Thrones  
became our most downloaded box set ever.
Let’s work 
together
At Sky, we’re proud of the many 
strong partnerships that we’ve 
developed over the past 25 
years. Working closely with other 
content businesses, whether 
broadcasters, rights holders or 
content creators, has been 
crucial to our success right from 
the very start, helping us to bring 
our customers the very best 
programming from around the 
world. Channels like National 
Geographic, History and Discovery 
broaden our offering and are 
hugely valued by customers.
This year, we took our relationship 
with some of the world’s leading 
content creators to another level. 
In January, we announced a broad 
new partnership with ITV, giving 
Sky customers unrivalled access 
to ITV programming. This has 
included the launch of a brand 
new pay channel, ITV Encore, 
dedicated to drama and exclusive 
initially to Sky.
We also extended our partnership 
with HBO. Building on the success 
of Sky Atlantic, Sky will remain the 
exclusive home of HBO in Britain 
and Ireland until 2020, making  
it the only place to enjoy new  
series, of global hits such as  
True Detective and Girls or 
much-anticipated new shows like 
Silicon Valley and The Leftovers. 
Significantly, the new agreement 
will also see Sky and HBO 
co-produce major new cinematic 
drama series. 
Our deal with HBO is just one of a 
growing number of co-production 
partnerships that we are building. 
We know that if we want to deliver 
the best content from around the 
world, we can’t do that alone. That’s 
why we worked with Showtime on 
our Victorian thriller Penny Dreadful 
and with NBC Universal on Dracula, 
starring Jonathan Rhys Meyers.  
And it’s why we are partnering  
with FX Networks to develop  
brand new post-watershed  
comedy for audiences on both 
sides of the Atlantic. Annual Report 2014
16 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Content
Sky Movies is another area where the benefits of our connected  
TV strategy have been transformational. Two-thirds of Sky Movies 
customers had a connected box at the end of the year helping to 
increase On Demand views on Sky Movies by 60% on the prior year.  
Over the Christmas period, Sky Movies customers downloaded  
twice as many films as the previous year. This was helped in part  
by a dedicated Christmas Movies On Demand section complementing 
the return of the Sky Movies Christmas pop-up channel. 
We also took steps to strengthen the range and quality of titles 
available on Sky Movies with the renewal of our output deal with 
Paramount which gives us exclusive rights across all platforms to 
blockbusters like Noah and Anchorman 2. This means that we have 
secured new agreements with five of the six major Hollywood studios  
in the last two years. 
Sky Sports had another great year, enjoying its highest audience share  
in seven years. We had an outstanding football season thanks to one  
of the most exciting Premier Leagues in recent times and a great end  
Content
(continued)
to the Football League. This performance was boosted by sports 
customers choosing Sky Go to watch matches on the move. We recorded 
the three biggest-ever Sky Go audiences in the year, including a peak  
of 379,000 viewers for Manchester City against Chelsea in February.  
As the football season ended, Sky Sports’ customers could still look 
forward to an incredible summer of live cricket, rugby and Formula One, 
with the Ryder Cup — the tenth to be shown live on Sky — coming in 
September. Sports customers can also now enjoy a brand new channel, 
Sky Sports 5, which will screen up to 600 live European football matches 
over the 2014/15 season.
Meanwhile, we continued to broaden the Sky Sports offering, signing  
30 rights deals over the course of the last 12 months. This includes new 
deals for IPL cricket, Super League Rugby, Top14 Rugby, Gaelic Athletic 
Association and the Masters and PGA Tour golf, all of which gives us 
certainty over 90% of our sports costs through to 2016.
We all know that winning isn’t everything and we use lots of measures at Sky to assess  
our performance. But, it’s still great to know that the effort and investment we’ve put  
into creating world-class content has been recognised and celebrated by our peers.
Three BAFTA TV Award wins 
• A League of their Own,  
Best Comedy and Comedy 
Entertainment
• David Attenborough’s Natural 
History Museum Alive 3D, 
Specialist Factual
• Sky Sports’ coverage of last 
year’s Ashes, Best Sport  
and Live Event
International Emmy® 
• Moone Boy, Best Comedy
Three Royal Television  
Society Awards
• Game of Thrones, Best 
International Programme
• Sky Sports’ coverage of  
last year’s Ashes 
• Best Sports Presenter  
Gary Neville
Sports Industry Awards
• Sky Sports Digital Media,  
Digital Platform of the Year
Broadcast Awards
• Sky Sports’ Ryder Cup coverage, 
Best Sports Programme
• A Touch of Cloth II,  
Best Comedy Programme
• A Young Doctor’s Notebook, Best 
Multichannel Programme
British Broadcasting Press Awards
• The Tunnel, Best Multichannel 
Programme
Broadcast Digital Awards
• Bradley Wiggins: A Year in Yellow, 
Most Popular Factual.
And the Winner is...? 17 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report
Annual Report 2014
Strategic report – Content
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance
Twenty-five years after giving Britain its first taste of 24-hour rolling 
news, Sky News has lost none of its appetite for innovation. The launch 
of Sky News on Catch Up TV in May is just the latest example of the  
way that Sky News has embraced new technology to enable customers 
to curate the news in the way that they want it. Sky News’ mobile 
applications have been downloaded over 10 million times while Sky News 
for iPhone has been named in Apple’s top ten free UK apps of all time.  
All this has helped Sky News become the European news channel of 
choice, according to the 2014 European Media and Marketing Survey.
As we increase our investment on screen, it’s become increasingly 
important that we monetise that content effectively. One of the ways 
we have done that is by increasing the distribution of our content across 
the marketplace.
In October, we took a significant step forward with the launch of the 
Entertainment Month Pass on our over-the-top streaming service,  
NOW TV. This offers a simple, contract-free way to access ten of the  
top subscription TV channels, including Sky 1, Sky Atlantic, Disney and 
Discovery, allowing customers to stream episodes of the latest series, 
live and on demand on a pay-as-you go basis.
We also extended our content distribution through a series of new 
wholesale agreements. These included a major new five-year channel 
distribution deal with Virgin Media, giving Virgin customers an additional 
selection of HD channels, more content on the go, and access to the Sky 
Sports and Sky Movies apps. In addition, we agreed a new distribution 
deal with TalkTalk which significantly extends the take-up of our basic 
channels. We also added the NOW TV Sports Day Pass to TalkTalk’s 
YouView platform. 
The Chancellor, George Osborne, is quizzed by readers of children’s newspaper, First News, in an interview for Sky News. Strategic report – Innovation
18 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Annual Report 2014
Innovation Strategic report
Strategic report – Innovation
Annual Report 2014
19 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance
Innovation
If getting customers connected to 
On Demand was our first priority 
for the year, helping them to enjoy 
the full range of services on offer 
was the next. The launch of the 
new home page on our Electronic 
Programme Guide (EPG) in  
the spring was a crucial step  
to achieving that. 
For the very first time, we moved 
away from linear viewing as the 
default option in order to showcase 
all our On Demand content.  
The new EPG gives Box Sets, Catch 
Up and Sky Store much greater 
visibility, encouraging customers  
to engage with the full breadth  
of content now available to them.
The new EPG also increases the 
prominence of our new search 
functionality which delivers 
integrated search results across 
linear and On Demand, making 
it much easier for customers to  
find the programme that they  
are looking for. 
It’s early days but the initial 
response from customers has been 
very strong with On Demand 
downloads higher and customer 
satisfaction up.
And there’s more to come. Our next 
software update, later this year will 
enable us to dynamically change 
the home page to do things like 
promoting the launch of a new 
show or film. For the first time,  
we’ll also be able to make 
recommendations on programmes 
that customers might like to watch 
based on what they are choosing  
to record on their planner.
Guiding the way 20 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Annual Report 2014
Strategic report – Innovation
We have a proven track record of harnessing the latest technology and 
driving new trends in TV viewing, such as giving customers more control  
with Sky+ or a step change in picture quality with High Definition. This year, 
we built on that track record by investing to accelerate the take-up and 
usage of our new connected TV services. Our aim is to put Sky at the  
heart of the ‘connected household’, meeting customers’ growing desire  
to consume content on their own terms.
A key focus has been getting customers connected. In the last 12 months, 
we have connected 3 million Sky+HD boxes to broadband, equivalent to 
57,000 new households every week. This explosive growth means that  
more than half of our 10.7 million Sky TV customers now have access  
to the full range of On Demand services. This is more than double the  
number in the prior year and makes Sky Britain and Ireland’s most  
popular connected TV platform.
Sky’s ability to innovate across multiple 
technologies allows us to provide 
customers with the very best viewing 
experience, wherever and whenever they 
want. It is also enabling us to take our 
business into new areas, opening up new 
revenues in emerging segments of the 
market and exploiting adjacent sectors.
Innovation
(continued)
The NOW TV Box can be up  
and running in minutes. Once 
connected, homes get instant 
access to the full NOW TV 
experience which includes Sky 
Sports and Sky Movies as well  
as a huge range of Catch Up TV 
from popular online services like 
BBC iPlayer, 4OD and ITV Player.  
In October, we extended the  
range of content available on  
NOW TV with the launch of the 
Entertainment Month Pass. This 
provides customers with instant 
access to ten of the top pay TV 
channels, such as Sky 1, Sky Atlantic, 
Disney and Discovery, making more 
of the best TV available to anyone 
with a connected device.
It’s just one way that NOW TV  
is appealing to a new group of 
customers – people who love the 
quality of Sky content but want  
a more flexible approach than  
the full-service Sky subscription. 
NOW TV is also available on a broad 
range of internet-connected 
devices that includes tablets,  
PCs and consoles, with PS4 being 
added to the list this summer.
Great TV, 
NOW
This year NOW TV changed the game in ‘smart’ TVs with the launch 
of the new NOW TV Box. Available for just £9.99, this compact and 
easy-to-use box provides a low-cost, low-commitment way for  
customers to start streaming programming from the internet  
direct to their TV. And it’s a brilliantly simple way for Sky to attract  
new customers in the 13 million homes yet to pay for TV. 21
Strategic report
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Annual Report 2014
Strategic report – Innovation
Sky’s ability to innovate adds value to our content and changes  
the viewing experience for customers. It’s also enabling us to  
open up new revenue opportunities by extending our business 
into adjacent sectors. Sky AdSmart, our new targeted advertising 
service, is a great example of the way in which we are opening  
up markets that we’ve been unable to reach until now. 
Launched at the start of 2014, 
Sky AdSmart enables advertisers 
to target their campaigns more 
accurately by tailoring what’s 
shown in TV ad breaks according 
to a household’s profile and 
location. In doing so, it’s 
increasing the size of our 
advertising opportunity by 
attracting new brands to 
advertise on Sky. This includes 
local businesses that may have 
concluded TV advertising wasn’t 
for them and brands that have 
previously tried TV but left.
In just six months, almost 600 
advertising campaigns have 
been run across 180 advertisers, 
of which 15% are new to TV and  
68% are new to Sky. This includes 
brands like Audi, Dyson, Lego, 
Prime Location and Chester Zoo. 
Our new strategic partnership 
with Johnston Press further 
strengthens the Sky AdSmart 
offering by enabling local 
companies to create and  
deliver campaigns that  
combine Johnston’s  
regional print titles with  
TV advertising focused  
on specific local markets.
Sky AdSmart is another  
first for Sky – the first 
broadcaster in Europe to 
introduce targeted advertising 
– and it’s already been 
recognised, winning Best 
Technology and Best Innovation 
at the MediaTel Connected 
Consumer Awards and 
Achievement in Advertising at 
the Connected TV World Summit. 
Targeting  
new revenue
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance
Everything we see tells us that customers love the benefits that come with 
the connected box. Connected customers can access a much richer range 
of content, including Britain’s biggest Catch Up TV service and Box Sets of 
hit series like Game of Thrones, Stella, Prison Break, Mad Dogs and 24. With 
On Demand usage up more than threefold in the last year, the impact on 
the viewing experience has been transformational. Evidence shows that 
connected TV customers are watching more TV – an average of 20 minutes 
more per day – as they respond to the greater choice of content available 
and the greater flexibility over how they watch. They are also more satisfied, 
more likely to stay with Sky and more likely to recommend Sky.
More customers than ever before are also choosing our mobile TV service, 
Sky Go, to watch content both in and out of the home. The number of 
households registered for Sky Go rose by a fifth over the year to 5.5 million, 
helped by the addition of 22 new channels and the launch of the service on 
more devices including Android tablets. We ended the year with more than  
1 million customers taking Sky Go Extra, our paid-for service which offers the 
ability to watch on more devices and download content to watch offline.
As well as increasing the value that customers get from their Sky 
subscription, the new connected TV services are opening up new revenue 
opportunities for the business. With our expanded Box Sets offering 
included within our HD package, we have seen more and more customers 
upgrading to HD, while revenues from movie rentals via Sky Store have 
doubled in the year. In the spring, we also launched our Buy & Keep service, 
enabling customers to buy a film from Sky Store and download it to keep  
on their set-top box, as well as receiving a DVD in the post. It’s early days  
but we are very excited about the opportunity for Sky to enter the 
purchase segment of the film market, estimated to be worth £1.6 billion  
a year in the UK. 
For the first time, we are using innovation to provide Sky for everyone.  
We are addressing the emerging ‘pay light’ segment in the marketplace  
by rolling out our over-the-top streaming service, NOW TV. This is proving  
an effective new way of growing our TV customers among the 13 million 
homes that don’t yet take a pay TV service. Among new developments this 
year, the launch of the new NOW TV Box and our monthly Entertainment 
Pass have attracted increasing numbers of customers to the service.
Of course, our success in accelerating take up and usage of connected  
TV services has been helped by our strength in home communications. 
Continued growth in this area meant we surpassed 5 million broadband 
customers in the year, maintaining our lead as Britain’s favourite triple-play 
provider. In all, we sold 1.3 million home communications products over the 
12 months as customers’ appetite to switch from other providers to save 
money with Sky remained strong. We also successfully integrated the O2 
broadband customers we acquired in April 2013.
We know customers like our market-leading quality and value proposition 
and we continue to find new ways to give them more value and improve  
the quality of the communications product. This year, for example, we 
introduced a WiFi booster for broadband customers to help them make  
the most of their service throughout their home. With more than 60%  
of our customer base yet to take all three of TV, telephony and broadband 
from Sky, there’s plenty more growth to come. 22 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Annual Report 2014
Strategic report – Customers
© 2014 MARVEL Strategic report
23 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Annual Report 2014
Strategic report – Customers
Customers
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance
Sky Broadband Shield
As the UK’s second largest broadband provider, we take  
our responsibilities to our customers extremely seriously.  
We want them to enjoy the best of what the internet offers  
while giving them the ability to enjoy it in a safe environment. 
The launch in November 2013 of  
Sky Broadband Shield was a big 
step forward in achieving this  
aim. Free to all Sky Broadband 
customers, Broadband Shield is a 
brilliantly simple tool which enables 
customers to filter website content 
across all internet-connected 
devices in the home, giving parents 
in particular greater control over 
how their children use the web. 
Customers can filter websites 
by age-bandings similar to 
movie classifications or exclude 
sites that contain pornography 
or other categories of content 
identified by customers as a 
potential cause for concern. 
At the moment, Sky Broadband 
customers are asked to make 
an active choice about the 
filters when going online with 
Sky for the first time, or when 
they upgrade their router.
Later this year, we will ensure 
that all remaining customers 
will have made a choice about 
whether or not to apply 
whole-home filters. Even those 
homes without children can 
benefit as Sky Broadband 
Shield also helps provide 
protection against phishing 
sites and malicious websites 
containing viruses. 
We think that using technology 
in this way makes a real 
difference to our customers  
as they look to protect their 
family. However, we also know 
that technology doesn’t 
provide all the answers, which  
is why we’ve joined forces with 
the other leading ISPs to launch 
a campaign called Internet 
Matters, designed to promote 
awareness of internet safety. 
For further information go to 
internetmatters.org Annual Report 2014
24 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Customers
Customers
(continued)
Our direct, long-term relationships  
with over 11.5 million households across 
Britain and Ireland are fundamental  
to the success of our business. 
Customers value what we offer and 
trust Sky to keep meeting their needs, 
from the content we put on screen to 
the products that we put in their hands.
As the connected home becomes more established and customers are 
faced with ever-greater choice of products and providers, we believe  
that service delivery is becoming an increasingly important differentiator.  
The strength of the Sky brand in home entertainment and communications 
and the capability that we have developed in the past 25 years means  
that we are able to bring new products to market quickly and at scale, 
supported by best-in-class customer service. This is a great source of 
competitive advantage. 
We understand the value of good customer service and have continued  
to raise the bar in this area. Much of our focus this year has been on 
simplifying the customer experience. Our ‘One Service’ model was 
developed to join up different elements of the service experience  
more effectively. Piloted last year, ‘One Service’ puts customers straight 
through to an expert agent who can manage the case from start to  
finish, coordinating directly with our engineers on the ground. This year,  
we have been steadily rolling out ‘One Service’ across our contact centres, 
so that it now covers around 20% of all inbound calls. 
As part of our move towards ‘One Service’, we brought a further 740 
engineers into Sky in October. This means that Sky people now complete 
almost all UK service visits and installations, giving us greater control over 
the customer experience and helping us to drive continued improvement. 
In October 2013, we expanded our service delivery capability by 
bringing in house 740 engineers – the people who install and service 
Sky customers’ in-home equipment. The transfer of the engineers 
and other key personnel from our outsource partner AVC meant  
we were able to create one integrated nationwide team within Sky  
of around 3,000 engineers. This has had an immediate positive 
impact on our customer service operation. 
Having one integrated team, all 
working from the same systems 
and under the same terms, helps 
us to deliver a consistent level  
of service to all customers every 
day. And it’s not just about fixing 
faults. All our engineers spend six 
days a year ensuring they are up 
to speed with the latest products 
and developments. This means 
that they can take the time when 
they are in homes to show the  
customer around all the content 
and services they can get from 
their subscription. For example, 
using iPads, engineers are now 
able to demonstrate the benefits 
of Sky Go – available at no  
extra cost to all Sky customers. 
This helps us ensure that our 
customers get the best value  
from their subscription, improving 
satisfaction and increasing loyalty.
Getting closer to customers Annual Report 2014
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
25 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Customers
We are also investing more than £20 million a year in training to ensure  
that our people have the right tools and skills to do their jobs well.  
After their initial training, all our call centre staff now spend an average  
of one day a month learning about new developments and building their 
expertise of Sky products so that more of our customers get their issues 
resolved in one call.
The impact on the customer experience has been significant. According to 
our own internal performance measures, customer satisfaction is at record 
levels. Meanwhile, we have retained our service leadership in the triple-play 
sector, ranking number one in this year’s Ofcom survey, with the highest 
satisfaction scores for customer service. We have also won recognition 
from consumer group uSwitch, winning four awards in all, including Britain’s 
best triple-play provider.
Of course, equally important to the delivery of a good customer experience 
is making sure we are doing everything we can to prevent things going 
wrong. One of the ways we are achieving this is by continuing to drive 
penetration of our most reliable Sky
+
HD box, which was in 83% of homes  
at the end of June, versus 75% in the prior year. Combined with the growing 
popularity of our online self-help function, this has led to a significant 
decline in the number of calls we receive from customers and the number  
of engineer visits we need to make. Over the last four years, both have  
fallen by more than a third despite the continued growth of our customer 
and product base. 
To make sure we give customers 
great value, we have a range  
of products to suit all needs  
and budgets. Sky Broadband 
Unlimited is ideal for surfing  
and downloading music and 
movies. Sky Fibre Unlimited, with 
download speeds of up to 38Mb, 
is perfect for families who have 
lots of devices on the go at once.  
It means more online games,  
the ability to stream movies as 
well as non-stop music playlists.  
We also have Sky Broadband Lite 
for people who just occasionally 
want to browse the internet and 
check a few emails.
We know that to make the most  
of the connected home, you need 
a great broadband service.
So that’s why our unlimited 
services are genuinely unlimited, 
with no usage limits and access  
to over 20,000 Sky WiFi hotspots 
around the country – great  
news for our millions of Sky Go 
customers. We continue to 
develop our kit to make sure 
everything is easy to use and 
customers can get the best 
performance. So we have designed 
routers that customers can install 
themselves, and wireless boosters 
that extend the WiFi signal 
further. With more than 5 million 
of our customers yet to switch 
their home communications 
service to Sky, there is plenty  
more room to grow.
Our home communications business is a great example of the way in 
which we innovate and work hard to offer our customers great value. 
We have invested heavily in our network, which now serves more than 
90% of UK homes. And seven years after we launched, customers’ 
appetite to switch from other providers to save money with Sky 
remains strong: we are number two in the broadband market and 37% 
of our customers take the triple play of TV, phone and broadband 
from Sky.
Service 
without  
limits
One of the big shifts in our business has been the growing number of 
customers that want to help themselves when they have a problem 
or query about their service. We’ve responded to this by developing 
and increasing the range of customer help services we offer online. 
Over the last year, we have 
provided more information and 
tools to help customers to resolve 
many of the common problems 
that arise. By cutting out the 
middle man, we’re empowering  
the customer. But it’s also saving 
us money, reducing the number  
of calls to our contact centres  
and ensuring that the time that 
our service teams spend with 
customers is focused on helping 
those with more serious issues. 
We also provide specific guidance
for customers with disabilities  
on how to get the most out  
of our services through our 
bespoke Accessibility website.
Our online help visits have 
doubled over two years to more 
than 1.2 million visits a week.  
This summer, we are taking 
another important step forward 
with the launch of a dedicated 
customer service smartphone 
app, making all of our help topics 
even easier to access.
Help yourself Bigger
picture
Strategic report – Bigger Picture
Annual Report 2014
26 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report
Strategic report – Bigger Picture
Annual Report 2014
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 27
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance
Sky Academy
A whole generation has been born since Sky launched in 1989.  
They and their families are the bedrock of our business. So, in our 
25th anniversary year, we decided to make a step change to the 
support that we give young people across Britain and Ireland. 
This is a role that we are well 
placed to play. The nature of our 
business, spanning TV, sport  
and technology, is a good fit with 
young people and we know the 
Sky brand resonates strongly  
with them. As a major employer, 
we understand that young  
people need more than academic 
qualifications to reach their 
potential – it’s also about things 
like team work, self-confidence 
and self-awareness. We want  
to play our part in giving young 
people the help and opportunities 
they need to succeed in a 
changing world. 
This is where Sky Academy comes 
in. Bringing together a range of 
initiatives – some well-established, 
others just getting going – Sky 
Academy aims to use the power  
of television, creativity and sport 
to inspire young people and help 
them build skills and confidence. 
Just as Sky Academy is about 
encouraging the under-25s to  
aim high, we are also ambitious  
in our targets. We want to create 
opportunities for up to one million 
young people by 2020. 
Headquartered in our new Believe 
in Better building, due to open  
in the autumn at the heart of  
our West London campus, Sky 
Academy is comprised of four 
initiatives: Sky Sports Living for 
Sport, Sky Academy Skills Studios,  
Sky Academy Scholarships and 
Sky Academy Starting Out. 
Sky Academy Skills Studios has 
welcomed over 20,000 students, 
aged 8-18, to the purpose-built 
facility in West London in less  
than two years since launch.  
The Sky Academy Skills Studios 
experience takes schools behind 
the scenes at Sky, giving them  
the opportunity to use the latest 
technology to create their own 
news reports on subjects they’re 
studying. We will be launching our 
second Skills Studios in Livingston, 
Scotland in 2015. 
Sky Academy Scholarships 
provide financial assistance and 
mentoring to support some of  
the most exciting emerging talent 
in sport, television and the arts. 
This year, we have helped 17 young 
artists and athletes and this 
spring, we launched a brand new 
scheme with the National Film  
and Television School to provide 
support to young people from 
economically-disadvantaged 
backgrounds considering a career 
in television.
Sky Academy Starting Out helps 
prepare young people for work  
by offering a range of work 
experience, apprenticeships and 
graduate roles. Reaching almost 
600 young people in the last year, 
we aim to double the number of 
places across the business over 
the next three years, helping to 
create the next generation of 
talent at Sky and giving more 
young people a head start in their 
careers. As part of this, we’re set 
to launch a new one-day career 
experience for 16-18 year olds  
this autumn. Annual Report 2014
28 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Bigger Picture
Social and economic contribution
As Sky grows, so does the positive social and economic contribution  
we make to Britain and Ireland. According to this year’s research  
from the independent consultants, Oxford Economics, we contributed 
an estimated £6 billion to UK GDP in 2013/14 and worked with  
7,000 suppliers.
With more than 25,000 employees, we are one of Britain’s largest 
companies. However our total impact is much wider than this. Including 
suppliers and partners, 117,000 jobs in Britain were dependent on  
Sky in the last year. In all, Sky generated £2.7 billion of tax revenues  
in the year, equivalent to £42 for every person in the UK. 
As well as being a valued part of everyday life for millions of customers, 
we are the biggest commercial supporter of the creative and sports 
industries in the UK. Within our £2.6 billion investment in content,  
we are on track to spend a record £600 million on UK-produced content 
across our channels (excluding sports rights) by the end of December 
2014. This has seen us work with more than 150 independent production 
companies in the last 12 months, providing a platform for their creativity 
and helping them grow their businesses.
Bigger Picture
(continued)
Seeing the bigger picture is fundamental 
to the way we do business at Sky.  
It means making a positive impact on 
the communities where we live and work 
and being willing to look beyond the 
delivery of short -term results in order  
to build a better business that is durable 
for the long term. This approach helps  
us build long-term relationships and 
earn the trust of our customers, 
employees and partners. And it’s an  
area in which we made important 
progress in the past year.
Our presence in 11.5 million homes 
across Britain and Ireland gives  
us a unique opportunity to raise 
awareness of the issue of climate 
change, one of the world’s biggest 
challenges and something we feel 
passionate about. Self-confessed 
environmental sceptic Freddie 
Flintoff may not have been an 
obvious first choice for a film 
about the work that we are doing 
in the Amazon rainforest. But 
when we gave him a chance  
to embark on the journey of a 
lifetime, he jumped at the chance. 
Never one to turn down a tough 
physical test, Freddie had an 
added reason to give it a go –  
his daughter had been learning 
about the rainforest at school  
and was desperate to try to help.
The resulting two-part Sky 1 
documentary, Flintoff’s Road  
To Nowhere, followed Freddie  
and extreme cyclist and 
environmentalist Rob Penn  
as they cycled Brazil’s Trans-
Amazonian Highway, exploring  
one of the world’s most  
enigmatic regions at a time  
of unprecedented change.  
It was just one way that we  
sought to raise awareness about 
climate change over the year. 
Road to nowhere
Through Sky Rainforest Rescue, our partnership with WWF,  
we’re working together to help protect one billion trees in  
the Amazon rainforest in Brazil. Annual Report 2014
29 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Strategic report – Bigger Picture
Sky Sports Living for Sport is now 
in its 11th year and is our longest-
running initiative. Delivered in 
partnership with Youth Sport 
Trust, over 95,000 students from 
primary and secondary schools 
across Britain and Ireland have 
taken part in a Sky Sports Living 
for Sport activity this year.
At the heart of the programme is 
our team of over 90 world-class 
athlete mentors headed up by our 
ambassadors, Olympic athletes 
Jessica Ennis-Hill, Darren Campbell 
and Katie Taylor, as well as our Sky 
Academy Ambassador, David 
Beckham. Our mentors go into 
schools and use sports skills  
to help build young people’s 
confidence and life skills, whatever 
their athletic ability. We also  
host Sky Sports Living for Sport 
Community Games events in local 
communities throughout the  
UK for primary school children.
We’re proud of what we’ve achieved 
with Sky Sports Living for Sport  
but we wanted to go further, 
incorporating Sky Sports Living for 
Sport and the ethos that underpins 
it into our TV schedule. So last 
autumn, we launched Game 
Changers, a brand new TV show for 
kids that introduces inspirational 
role models and encourages  
them to try out different sports. 
Recorded live in front of a studio 
audience of children, the show  
goes out on Sky Sports 1 and  
Sky 1 on Saturday mornings, 
presented by Di Dougherty and  
Sky Sports Living for Sport 
Ambassador, Darren Campbell,  
one of Britain’s most successful  
and well-known sprinters.
The show marked the end of its  
first season in May with a live  
Game Changers Special to celebrate 
the achievements of the young 
people and teachers involved  
in Sky Sports Living for Sport.  
With awards presented by our 
Ambassadors, David Beckham  
and Jessica Ennis-Hill, it was a  
fitting end to a successful first 
season for Game Changers.
Changing the game Annual Report 2014
30 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Bigger Picture
One example of the way in which we do that is in our work to make  
our products and services accessible to everyone, including those  
with disabilities. We provide subtitling and audio description on  
24 of our Sky-owned TV channels, with over 80% of linear content 
delivered with subtitles and over 20% with audio description.  
The new Electronic Programme Guide that we rolled out this  
year was designed in consultation with the Royal National Institute  
of Blind People. And in May, we strengthened the capabilities of our 
90-strong accessibility customer service team when we extended  
the use of our Video Relay Service to enable hard of hearing customers 
to call in and use sign language. 
We continue to make good progress against our ambitious 2020 
environmental targets. Our greatest operational impact is in our  
own energy use, so we’re aiming to halve our carbon intensity  
(CO
2
e emissions relative to revenue) by 2020. As at the end of 2013/14, 
we’ve already achieved a 40% reduction against our 2008/09 baseline. 
Over the same time period, our absolute gross emissions have 
decreased by 10% to 95,000 tonnes CO
2
e. Where we have unavoidable 
emissions we offset and continue to be carbon neutral. More detail 
around our greenhouse gas emissions can be found on page 79.
In sport, we continued to strengthen our relationships at all levels, 
helping to improve performance, participation and infrastructure 
through the investment and promotion that we provide. One area of 
particular focus in the past year has been women’s sport. In the last 12 
months, Sky Sports concluded new rights deals to broadcast England 
Netball and Women’s Rugby and extended its relationship with the 
Ladies’ Professional Golf Association. Reflecting its commitment to the 
area, Sky Sports launched a new weekly show in September dedicated to 
women’s sport as well as supporting The Sunday Times as the exclusive 
partner for the 2013 Sportswomen of the Year Awards in December.
A responsible business day to day
Of course, we understand that what we do as a business is only part  
of the answer. We know that how we do business is just as important. 
For Sky, believing in better also means doing the right thing and acting 
responsibly in all that we do. This approach is integral to the culture and 
values we seek to promote among our people. The millions of customers 
across Britain and Ireland that choose Sky for their home entertainment 
and communications have high expectations of us and it’s our job to 
maintain their trust in the decisions we take every day.
Bigger Picture
(continued)
We’ve installed monitoring tools  
to measure the performance of 
our data centres and we’re making 
the most of virtual servers and 
cloud-based technology. By the 
end of 2014, we will have moved 
almost all of our servers into  
our newer, more energy-efficient 
data centres.
By 2017, we hope to have  
closed our smaller data centres 
completely, reducing costs and 
giving us greater control over  
our IT systems. This is a big step 
towards building a more durable 
business for the long term.
Powering down
We have set out ambitious targets to reduce our impact on the 
environment, including a target to improve energy efficiency  
across all our buildings by an average of 20% by 2020 (compared  
to the 2008/09 baseline). One way we are doing this is to improve  
the efficiency of our data centres, the buildings we use to house  
the millions of pieces of data that help our business work.  Annual Report 2014
31 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Strategic report – Bigger Picture
We are committed to building productive, fair and ethical relationships 
with our suppliers and distributors – relationships on which so much  
of the success of our business relies. We set out our expectations  
in our Responsible Sourcing Policy, which is available on our website.  
Over the past year we have assessed 100 per cent of our strategic 
suppliers against our responsible sourcing questionnaire.
While we do not have a specific human rights policy, we have a strong 
commitment to upholding the principles of human rights across our 
business. Our commitments to human rights are included within our 
Environment Policy and our Responsible Sourcing Policy. These principles 
are also outlined in Sky’s Ways of Working. This is the code of conduct 
that everyone who works at Sky is expected to adhere to. Further 
information is available on our website at sky.com/biggerpicture
Inspiring action
We know that we have the opportunity to use our position as a leading 
media and communications company to reach beyond our business  
and make a positive impact on society. 
We made a step change in our approach this year with the launch of  
Sky Academy in November. This is a unique and groundbreaking set of 
initiatives that use the power of TV, creativity and sport to inspire young 
people and give them the skills and confidence they need to succeed.
Sport is at the heart of what we do and we believe in its power to change 
lives. Our partnership with British Cycling, now in its sixth year, has got 
more than one million people on their bikes since 2009, and the elite 
success of Team Sky delivered a British winner of the Tour de France  
for the second consecutive year in 2013. 
Carbon intensity
1
Target: 50% reduction in gross CO
2
e emissions relative to revenue
2,3
2013/14
2012/13
2011/12
2010/11
2009/10
2008/09
12.4
12.8
13.9
16.2
19
20.6
1.  2013/14 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed  
online at sky.com/biggerpicture
2.  Relative to 2008/09 baseline
3 .  G r o s s C O
2
e emissions include emissions from premises and company-owned  
vehicles (Scope 1 and 2)
Sky Rainforest Rescue is our partnership with WWF and the State 
Government of Acre in Brazil, which aims to save a billion trees in the 
Amazon rainforest. Through the campaign, we’re also inspiring our 
customers in Britain and Ireland to take action to address climate change. 
With the partnership now in its fifth year, more than 1,500 families in  
Brazil have registered to take part in a voluntary land certification scheme 
to help give local people ways of making a living from the forest without 
cutting down trees. As a result of knowing about Sky Rainforest Rescue,  
27% of people are now more aware of the issue of deforestation. The 
partnership has raised a total of over £4 million, with Sky then matching 
every contribution pound for pound. 
We are proud of our work to make a positive contribution to society and  
we are committed to doing more in the future. Strategic report – People
Annual Report 2014
32 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
People
We know we’re only as good as  
the people that work for us and 
nowhere is this more true than  
in technology where our ability  
to stay one step ahead depends 
on attracting the best talent  
with the most up-to-date skills.
Our requirement for software  
developers has grown in the past 
few years with the expansion  
of our connected TV services. 
However, it’s also been clear  
that we’re not the only company 
out there looking in what is  
an increasingly competitive  
jobs market. 
So, we took the decision to develop 
more of our talent in house.  
In 2011, we set up the Sky Software 
Engineering Academy. This takes  
24 graduates every July, fresh out 
of university and passionate about 
technology, and over the course  
of seven months helps turn them 
into fully-fledged developers.
The new starters begin with a 
four-week boot camp to get them 
all up to the same level. We then 
get them out on the job, working  
on live projects to apply what  
they have learnt under the close 
supervision of one of our experts. 
Over the next five months,  
they work in small teams on  
a variety of different tasks to  
help get them ready for a career  
in Sky. At the end, we sit down  
with them to help them decide 
where in the business they  
might want to pursue a career. 
Two years in and the scheme’s 
been a great success so, last 
September, we decided to accept  
a further 12 young people into 
the programme.
In addition, we recruited 12 people 
into a newly-created Development 
Operations Academy with the aim 
of training up graduates to work  
on our hardware and infrastructure 
requirements. 
With almost 100 bright young 
graduates through its doors in  
the first three years, our Software 
Engineering Academy is one of  
the many ways Sky is building  
skills for the future.
Future proofing Strategic report
Strategic report – People
Annual Report 2014
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 33
Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Annual Report 2014
34 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – People
People
(continued)
Our people are critical to our success.  
We aim to foster a culture where  
they can do their best work every  
day, fulfil their potential and achieve  
great things together. 
In a fast-moving industry, we know that success comes from a willingness  
to embrace change. We want to encourage our people to strive for 
continual improvement in everything that they do. That is at the heart of 
our Believe in Better ethos and has been the basis of Sky’s achievements 
over the past 25 years. We believe it is the best foundation for the future.
Our aim is to create an environment where all of our people can fulfil their 
potential. To help them progress, we provide a wide range of opportunities 
for development such as mentoring and new skills training. The Sky 
Development Studio, for example, is an online learning portal which 
provides access to a huge choice of learning resources and courses 
available to all. Last year, this delivered more than 75,000 hours of 
e-learning across the business.
Because we know that the quality of our managers has a big influence  
on performance and engagement, we launched a new two-day training 
programme this year for newly-promoted managers. ‘Sky Management  
HD’ covers everything from interview techniques to objective setting  
over the two-day programme. More than 600 managers have completed 
the programme in the first year, contributing to a total of 100,000 training 
days in the last 12 months across the company.
However, learning is not just about formal training. As a large and diverse 
company, we are also able to offer our people the opportunity to broaden 
their experience through exposure to different parts of the business.  
We actively encourage internal moves and job rotations at all levels of  
the organisation, from project work and short-term placements to new 
full-time roles. This helps us to build a broader skills base and strengthens 
collaboration across departments.
For our people to flourish and do the best they can, it’s important that 
we provide them with the best working environment. This summer we 
opened a brand new building, known as The Hub, right at the heart of 
our campus in West London, in the latest stage of the redevelopment  
of the Osterley headquarters where we have been based since 1989.
The Hub is Sky’s first major flexible 
workspace, housing around 450 
employees over three floors. Next 
on the list is the new headquarters 
for Sky Academy and construction 
has also begun on a further phase 
of development. In line with our 
commitment to sustainability, all 
the new buildings are designed to 
have minimal environmental impact.
This project, which started in  
2010 with the construction  
of Sky Studios, represents a 
transformation of the working 
environment for the thousands of 
our people now based at Osterley. 
We aim to create a state-of-the art 
media and technology campus to 
support Sky’s growth far into the 
future and are confident that the 
new facilities will have a positive 
impact on our people, our business 
and on our local community.
It’s not just in Osterley where we’re 
constantly trying to make Sky a 
great place to work. This year we’ve 
provided access to gyms to keep 
our people fit, and refurbished  
all our cafés and restaurants.  
We know how important the 
working environment is and  
we’re always changing and adapting 
it to create the best workplace for 
our people. This year, we’ve invested 
in our sites across the UK and 
Ireland from Livingston to Victoria 
and from Dublin to Newcastle. 
Space to work Annual Report 2014
35 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Strategic report – People
Because we want Sky to be a great place to work, we offer a comprehensive 
reward package which includes generous holiday entitlement and maternity 
leave allowance, a pension and healthcare, as well as free Sky
+
HD, Sky 
Broadband and discounted Sky Talk. 
As well as developing and rewarding the people who already work at Sky,  
we want to encourage new talent to join us. We continue to grow our 
employee base, adding more than 4,500 new jobs in the last three years  
to take our total employee base to 25,400. 
The launch of Sky Academy in November 2013 has brought a step change  
in our commitment to provide opportunities for young people within the 
business. Through Sky Academy Starting Out, we will more than double the 
size of our work experience and employment programmes over the next 
three years across a range of work experience, placement, apprenticeship 
and graduate schemes. 
This means growing the size of our existing programmes, but it also means 
we’ll launch a brand new programme offering thousands of teenagers  
the opportunity to spend a day at Sky for a hands-on experience of the 
workplace. This will open Sky to even more young people and help them 
prepare for the world of work. To underline our commitment, Sky Academy 
will be headquartered in a new building at the heart of our Osterley 
campus. This will also serve as a space where Sky people will come together 
for training, development and mentoring.
We believe that a diverse workforce creates a stronger business and 
therefore we work to create an environment that encourages diversity  
and innovation.
We are committed to increasing female and ethnic representation in  
our employee base and in particular in leadership roles. The ratio of male  
to female colleagues, based on the number of employees as at 30 June 
2014, is outlined below:
Male Female
Board of Directors 13 87% 2 13%
Senior managers 105 74% 36 26%
All employees
1
14,740 66% 7,508 34%
Diversity gender
1  Based on full-time equivalent employees from continuing operations and excluding 
people who work for our joint ventures.
  2013/14 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at  
sky.com/biggerpicture
One way that we are seeking to 
improve is by increasing diversity  
on screen, including on Sky News, 
for example, where we have 
increased the representation of 
women as expert commentators. 
Another way is the introduction  
this year of five Sky Academy  
TV Scholarships. Available to 
successful applicants on courses 
run by the National Film and TV 
School (NFTS), the scholarships  
will be offered to young people 
from economically-disadvantaged 
backgrounds. We will fully fund 
three places at the NFTS on the 
Broadcast Production course and 
two on the Digital Content and 
Formats course, which we already 
support through placements  
and mentoring.
The aim is to encourage individuals 
who may not otherwise have 
considered a career in the media, 
with a particular focus on 
supporting students from  
black, Asian and minority ethnic 
backgrounds, and those with 
disabilities. Added to existing 
initiatives like our partnership  
with MAMA Youth Project, where 
Sky sponsors 12 young people  
from minority and disadvantaged 
backgrounds, the NFTS 
scholarships are another step 
towards increasing diversity in  
the broadcasting industry.
A Sky for everyone
We know that we will be better placed for success as a business  
if we have a balanced and diverse workforce that reflects our  
customers and includes the most talented people, regardless  
of gender or ethnicity. That’s why we are committed to improving 
diversity in our industry.  Annual Report 2014
36 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Financial review
Financial review
Financial performance
We delivered a good financial performance for the twelve months to 
30 June 2014. Adjusted revenue growth was 5% (or 7% after excluding 
the impact of ESPN) and this, together with continued discipline on 
costs, allowed us to deliver adjusted EBITDA of £1,667 million, down 
only 1% despite our connected services investment and the step  
up in Premier League amortisation. Adjusted basic earnings per  
share were 60.0 pence, flat on the prior year’s record level.
Unless otherwise stated, all figures and growth rates exclude adjusting 
items. A reconciliation of statutory to adjusted figures is detailed  
on page 139.
Revenue
2014 2013
For the year to 30 June £m % £m %
Retail subscription 6,255 82 5,951 82
Wholesale subscription 407 6 396 6
Advertising 472 6 440 6
Installation, hardware & service 85 1 87 1
Other 398 5 361 5
7,617 100 7,235 100
Revenue increased by 5% to £7,617 million (2013: £7,235 million) with 
continued strong growth in both our retail and commercial businesses. 
Revenue grew by 7% excluding the impact of the discontinued retailing 
of the ESPN channel in both 2014 and 2013.
Retail subscription revenue, after excluding £6 million of ESPN revenue 
(2013: £89 million), grew by 7% to £6,249 million (2013: £5,862 million) 
reflecting strong product and customer growth and price rises in the 
year. Our investments in connected services are paying back, driven  
by a strong performance from Sky Store which saw revenues more 
than double on last year.
Our commercial businesses also performed well. Advertising revenue 
was up 7% to £472 million (2013: £440 million) through a combination 
of market growth, share gains through our consolidation of two small 
sales houses in this financial year and a first time contribution from 
Sky AdSmart. Wholesale subscription revenue increased by 3% to  
£407 million (2013: £396 million) as renewed carriage agreements  
and price increases were partially offset by lower customer volumes  
on third-party platforms. 
Other revenue increased by 10% to £398 million (2013: £361 million) 
with continued strong performance from Sky Bet which saw mobile 
users up 29%, driving revenues up 18% to £183 million.
Our statutory reported revenue grew 5%.
We have delivered an excellent year of operational and 
financial growth. Continued demand across the board 
translated into strong revenue growth which, combined  
with a continued focus on operating efficiency, meant  
we absorbed our investment in connected services and 
matched last year’s record adjusted earnings per share.
Andrew Griffith
Chief Financial Officer Annual Report 2014
37 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Strategic report – Financial review
Profits and earnings
Adjusted EBITDA of £1,667 million (2013: £1,692 million) and adjusted 
operating profit of £1,260 million (2013: £1,330 million) is an excellent 
result in a period where the business absorbed a one-off step up in 
Premier League costs and invested to accelerate take-up and usage  
of new connected TV services. 
Depreciation and amortisation was up 12% at £407 million (2013: £362 
million) due to the integration of the acquired O2 business, a higher 
base of depreciable assets with more unbundled exchanges, network 
upgrades carried out across the year and a higher fixed asset base  
as we begin to depreciate the development costs of products such  
as NOW TV and Sky AdSmart.
Profit before tax was £1,186 million (2013: £1,264 million), which 
included the Group’s share of joint ventures and associates’ profits of 
£35 million (2013: £37 million) and a net interest charge of £109 million 
(2013: £103 million). Taxation for the period was £249 million (2013: 
£295 million), at an adjusted effective tax rate of 21% (2013: 23%) 
mainly as a result of the reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax.
Profit after tax for the year was £937 million (2013: £969 million), 
generating adjusted basic earnings per share of 60.0 pence (2013: 
60.0 pence). Over the year the weighted average number of shares 
excluding those held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan (‘ESOP’) 
for the settlement of employee share awards was 1,562 million (2013: 
1,614 million). The closing number of shares, excluding the ESOP shares, 
at 30 June 2014 was 1,546 million (2013: 1,573 million).
Adjusting items
Statutory operating profit of £1,161 million (2013: £1,291 million) 
includes a net exceptional cost of £99 million (2013: £39 million)  
which reflects integration costs of the acquired O2 business and the 
ongoing amortisation of acquired intangibles (£72 million), the costs  
of a corporate efficiency programme undertaken through the year  
(£40 million), offset in part by a net gain from the termination  
of an escrow agreement with a wholesale customer (£13 million).
Statutory profit after tax of £865 million (2013: £979 million) also 
includes a net exceptional gain of £27 million due to a tax credit and 
the tax effect on all adjusting items (£32 million) partially offset by a 
£5 million cost relating to mark to market values of derivative financial 
instruments.
In the prior year, statutory profit after tax included a net exceptional 
gain of £10 million, consisting of a gain of £32 million relating to a credit 
note received from BT following an Ofcom determination that BT had 
overcharged for Ethernet services, a gain of £33 million following final 
settlement of disputes with a former manufacturer of set-top boxes 
and a gain of £9 million on the disposal of our investment in MUTV 
Limited. These gains were offset by costs of £56 million for a one-off 
upgrade of set-top boxes and a programme to offer wireless 
connectors to selected Sky Movies customers, in addition to costs  
of £33 million for a corporate efficiency programme and costs of  
£15 million in relation to the acquisition and integration of O2’s 
consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony service. Other adjusting 
items in the prior year were a £23 million gain relating to mark to 
market values of derivative financial instruments and a £17 million 
credit relating to the tax exceptionals and the tax effect on all 
adjusting items.
A reconciliation of statutory to adjusted numbers is shown on page 139.
Costs
2014 2013
For the year to 30 June £m % £m %
Programming 2,662 42 2,486 42
Direct networks 819 13 715 12
Marketing 1,199 19 1,116 19
Subscriber management and 
supply chain 688 11 647 11
Transmission, technology and 
fixed networks 447 7 401 7
Administration 542 8 540 9
6,357 100 5,905 100
Excluding the one-off step up in the new Premier League deal and the 
discontinuation of ESPN carriage (2014: £223 million; 2013: £78 million), 
programming costs of £2,439 million (2013: £2,408 million) were up 1% 
in the year as we made disciplined choices across our diverse content 
portfolio. Sports accounted for the majority of the increase given our 
investment in a large number of renewed and new rights agreements. 
Movies costs increased from a broader grant of rights facilitating new 
propositions like NOW TV, Sky Go Extra and Sky Store, while payments 
to third-party channel providers were lower than the prior year as we 
negotiated more favourable terms on several renewed agreements.
Direct network costs of £819 million were up 15% (2013: £715 million),  
as we continued to grow our customer base and absorbed the 
acquired O2 customer base onto our network.
Marketing costs of £1,199 million (2013: £1,116 million) were driven by  
the increased growth of paid-for products compared to last year and 
promotions behind our drive to connect our base of set-top boxes. 
Above the line marketing was also higher as we maintained our share 
of voice in the market with targeted campaigns throughout the year.
Subscriber management and supply chain costs were up 6% at £688 
million (2013: £647 million) as we continued to see strong growth in 
products and customers, invested in our connected services and 
integrated the acquired O2 customers into the Sky base.
Transmission, technology and fixed network costs increased by  
11% to £447 million (2013: £401 million) largely due to the first time 
consolidation of the cost base associated with the acquired O2 
broadband business. Administration costs of £542 million were  
broadly flat on last year (2013: £540 million).
Adjusted
EBITDA
£1.67bn
Adjusted 
basic EPS
60.0p
Dividend
32.0p Annual Report 2014
38 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Financial review
Financial review
(continued)
Cash flow and financial position
Adjusted free cash flow, excluding campus redevelopment investment 
costs of £62 million (2013: £12 million), was 3% lower at £1,006 million 
(2013: £1,040 million) reflecting lower EBITDA and higher capital 
expenditure, offset by a positive working capital movement and  
lower cash tax.
Capital expenditure increased by £89 million to £543 million  
(2013: £454 million) due to the phasing of campus redevelopment 
investment, the integration and migration of acquired O2 customers 
and product development investment. Excluding the campus 
redevelopment, underlying capital expenditure was £481 million  
(2013: £442 million).
As at 1 
July 
2013 
£m
Cash 
move- 
ments 
£m 
Non-
cash
move-
ments
£m
As at  
30 June 
2014 
£m
Current borrowings 11 – – 11 
Non-current borrowings 2,909 – (251) 2,658 
Borrowings-related derivative 
financial instruments (327) – 247 (80) 
Gross debt 2,593 – (4) 2,589 
Cash and cash equivalents (815) (267) – (1,082) 
Short-term deposits (595) 300 – (295) 
Net debt 1,183 33 (4) 1,212 
Net debt increased slightly to £1,212 million (2013: £1,183 million) as a 
result of the £750 million cash returned to shareholders via dividends 
and share buy-back in the year. Gross debt was £2,589 million, with 
£1,377 million of cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits at 
30 June 2014. The Group’s liquidity and headroom remain comfortable.
Balance Sheet
During the year, total assets increased by £104 million to £6,449 million 
at 30 June 2014. Non-current assets increased by £100 million to 
£3,876 million, primarily due to an increase of £139 million in intangible 
assets and property, plant and equipment as a result of campus 
redevelopment investment, the integration and migration of acquired 
O2 customers and product development investment, an increase of 
£111 million in available-for-sale investments mainly resulting from the 
increase in the value of our investment in ITV plc, offset by £165 million 
decrease in non-current derivative financial assets which offsets 
against movements in non-current borrowings. Current assets 
increased by £4 million to £2,573 million at 30 June 2014.  
Total liabilities increased by £44 million to £5,377 million at 30 June 
2014. Current liabilities increased by £202 million to £2,519 million, 
primarily due to a £263 million increase in trade and other payables, 
offset by a £48 million decrease in current tax liabilities. Non-current 
liabilities decreased by £158 million to £2,858 million, principally due  
to a £251 million decrease in the Group’s non-current borrowings  
as a result of the strengthening of pounds sterling against the US 
dollar and fair value movements in the value of bonds, offset by a  
£100 million increase in non-current derivative financial liabilities.
Distributions to Shareholders
We have once again increased our ordinary dividend. The Directors’ 
proposed final dividend of 20.0 pence per share takes the total 
dividend payable in respect of the financial year to 32.0 pence per 
share, an increase of 7% on last year and double the level of seven 
years ago. Shareholders have now benefited from a decade of 
sustained dividend growth such that a holder of a single Sky share  
over that period would have received over 200 pence in dividends.
The ex-dividend date will be 13 November 2014 and, subject to 
shareholder approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, the  
final dividend of 20.0 pence will be paid on 5 December 2014 to 
shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business  
on 14 November 2014.
At the Company’s AGM on 22 November 2013, we received shareholder 
approval to return up to £500 million of capital to shareholders via a 
share buy-back. On 25 July 2014, the Company suspended its share 
buy-back programme.
Post balance sheet events
On 17 July 2014, the Group sold a shareholding of approximately  
6.4% in ITV plc, consisting of 259,820,065 ITV shares for an aggregate 
consideration of approximately £481 million.
The Company announced on 25 July 2014 that it has conditionally 
entered into share purchase agreements (the “Acquisition 
Agreements”) with 21st Century Fox (and its relevant subsidiaries)  
to acquire its 100% stake in Sky Italia Srl and its 57.4% stake in Sky 
Deutschland A.G. The Company further announced its intention to 
make a voluntary cash offer (the “Offer”) to the minority shareholders 
of Sky Deutschland A.G. The Acquisition Agreements and the Offer 
(together the “Transactions”) are conditional on, amongst other things, 
their approval by the Company’s independent shareholders and 
regulatory clearances. 
The total consideration for the acquisition of Sky Italia is £2.45 billion 
with approximately £2.07 billion to be paid in cash and the balance to 
be satisfied through the transfer of the Group’s 21% stake in National 
Geographic Channel to 21st Century Fox (“21CF”). The acquisition of 
21CF’s shareholding in Sky Deutschland A.G. is for a consideration of 
£2.9 billion in cash, valuing Sky Deutschland at €6.75 a share. Subject 
to the number of Sky Deutschland A.G. minority shareholders that 
accept the Offer, the total consideration for the transaction will range 
from £2.9 billion to £5 billion.
For further details, see note 29 to the consolidated financial 
statements. True Detective
Sky Atlantic will be the exclusive home of HBO, producer  
of critically-acclaimed series True Detective until 2020. Annual Report 2014
40 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Principal risks and uncertainties
Principal risks and uncertainties
Description of risk Mitigation
Market and competition:
The Group operates in a highly competitive environment and faces 
competition from a broad range of organisations. Technological 
developments also have the ability to create new forms of quickly 
evolving competition.
A failure to develop the Group’s product proposition in line with  
changing market dynamics and expectations could erode the  
Group’s competitive position.
Great content is central to Sky’s product proposition and increased 
competition could impact the Group’s ability to acquire content that  
its customers want on commercially attractive terms.
Economic conditions have been challenging in recent years and the 
future remains uncertain. A significant economic decline could impact 
the Group’s ability to continue to attract and retain customers.
The Group continues to make significant investments in innovation.
The Group’s product development strategic aim is to be at the 
forefront of progressive technology.
Please see the ‘Innovation’ section for further details of these 
products.
The Group regularly reviews its pricing and packaging structures  
to ensure that its product proposition is appropriately placed  
within the market.
The Group works closely with its marketing partners to ensure that 
the value of its offering is understood and communicated effectively 
to its customers.
The Group makes significant investment in the origination of  
UK content as well as in acquisition from across the world.
The Group also works to develop and maintain the brand value 
associated with its individual channels.
Regulatory breach and change:
The Group is subject to regulation primarily under UK, Irish and European 
Union legislation.
The regimes which apply to the Group’s business include, but are not 
limited to:
• Broadcasting – the Group is subject to Ofcom’s licensing regime under 
the Broadcasting Acts 1990 and 1996 and the Communications Act 
2003. These obligations include the requirement to comply with the 
relevant codes and directions issued by Ofcom, including for example, 
the Broadcasting Code, the Code on the Scheduling of Television 
Advertising and the Cross Promotions Code;
• Gambling – Alderney Gambling Control Commission (“AGCC”) regulation 
and Gambling Act 2005 (UK);
• Platform services – as a provider of EPG and CA services, the Group  
is subject to regulation under the Communications Act 2003 which, 
amongst other things, requires it to provide EPG and CA services to 
other broadcasters on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms; 
and
• Telecommunications – the Group is subject to the General Conditions 
of Entitlement adopted under the Communications Act 2003 which 
impose detailed requirements on providers of communications 
networks and services.
The Group manages these risks through active engagement in the 
regulatory processes that affect the Group’s business.
The Group actively seeks to identify and meet our regulatory 
obligations and to respond to emerging requirements. This includes, 
for example:
• Broadcasting – compliance controls, processes and contacts  
are in place in Entertainment, Movies, Sports and News services. 
Interaction with Ofcom is co-ordinated between the Compliance, 
Regulatory and Legal departments;
• Gambling – controls and processes are in place to monitor our 
compliance with, and our adherence to, our obligations under the 
AGCC regulations and the Gambling Act 2005. We are subject to 
regular independent audit by the AGCC against the Alderney 
regulations and will be applying to the UK Gambling Commission 
for a UK Remote Gambling Licence in accordance with recent 
amendments to the Gambling Act 2005;
• Platform services – processes are in place to monitor third-party 
broadcaster access to the digital satellite platform and to ensure 
that this is provided on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory 
terms; 
• Telecommunications – compliance controls, processes and 
contacts are in place overseen by the Customer Compliance 
Committee, to monitor compliance and performance against  
the General Conditions of Entitlement.
The Group risk register is reported formally to the Audit Committee 
twice a year and focused risk reporting on selected themes occurs  
on a quarterly basis. Additional information on the Group’s internal 
control and risk management processes is set out in the Corporate 
Governance Report and the Audit Committee Report (see page 54).
This section describes the current principal risks and uncertainties 
facing the Group. In addition to summarising the material risks and 
uncertainties, the table below gives examples of how we mitigate 
those risks.
The Group has a formal risk management framework embedded within 
the business to support the identification and effective management 
of risk across the Group.
The divisions within the Group are each responsible for managing and 
reporting risk in accordance with the Group’s risk management policy 
and standards that have been approved by the Audit Committee.  
The risks are then consolidated into a Group risk register which 
provides an overview of the Group risk profile. Annual Report 2014
41 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Strategic report – Principal risks and uncertainties
Description of risk Mitigation
Regulatory breach and change continued:
The Group is also subject to generally applicable legislation including,  
but not limited to, competition (antitrust), consumer protection, data 
protection and taxation.
The Group is currently, and may be in the future, subject to proceedings, 
and/or investigation and enquiries from regulatory authorities.
The Group’s ability to operate or compete effectively could be adversely 
affected by the outcome of investigations or by the introduction of new 
laws, policies or regulations, changes in the interpretation or application 
of existing laws, policies and regulations, or failure to obtain required 
regulatory approvals or licences.
Please see page 44 of the ‘Regulatory Matters’ section for further details.
The Group maintains appropriate oversight and reporting, supported 
by training, to provide assurance that it is compliant with regulatory 
requirements.
Customer service:
The Group’s business is based on a subscription model and its future 
success relies on building long-term relationships with its customers.  
A failure to meet its customers’ expectations with regards to service 
could negatively impact the Group’s brand and competitive position.
The Group strives consistently to exceed its customers’ 
expectations, to put its customers first, to understand what  
they want and to be responsive to what they say.
The Group makes significant investments in order to deliver 
continuous development and improvement to its customer  
service capabilities, including investment in its contact centres 
across the UK and Ireland and implementing ongoing training  
and development plans.
The Group tracks its customer service performance, benchmarks  
its customer service experience and strives to be best in class.
Technology and business interruption:
The products and services that the Group provides to its customers  
are reliant on complex technical infrastructure.
A failure in the operation of the Group’s key systems or infrastructure, 
such as the broadcast platform, customer management systems, OTT 
platforms or the telecommunications networks on which the Group 
relies, could cause a failure of service to our customers and negatively 
impact our brand.
The Group makes significant investment in technology infrastructure 
to ensure that it continues to support the growth of the business.
The Group is committed to achieve best-in-class business continuity 
standards and makes significant investments in the resilience and 
robustness of its business infrastructure.
The Group also organises regular scenario based group-wide 
business continuity exercises to ensure ongoing readiness of  
key staff, systems and sites.
Supply chain:
The Group relies on a number of third parties and outsourced suppliers 
operating across the globe to support its supply chain.
A significant failure within the supply chain could adversely affect  
the Group’s ability to deliver products and service to its customers.
The Group continues to invest in its supply chain infrastructure  
to support its business plan commitments.
A robust supplier selection process is in place with appropriate 
ongoing management and monitoring of key partners and suppliers.
The Group performs regular audits of key suppliers and of their 
installations and, wherever possible, has dual supply capability. Annual Report 2014
42 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Principal risks and uncertainties
Principal risks and uncertainties
(continued)
Description of risk Mitigation
Financial:
The effective management of its financial exposures is central to 
preserving the Group’s profitability.
The Group is exposed to financial market risks and may be impacted 
negatively by fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates  
which create volatility in the Group’s results to the extent that  
they are not effectively hedged.
The Group may also be affected adversely by liquidity and  
counterparty risks.
The Group’s finance teams are embedded within the business to 
provide support to management and to ensure accurate financial 
reporting and tracking of our business performance. Reporting  
on financial performance is provided on a monthly basis to senior 
management and the Board.
The Group continually invests in the improvement of its systems  
and processes in order to ensure sound financial management  
and reporting.
The Group manages treasury risk by minimising risk to capital  
and providing appropriate protection against foreign exchange  
and interest rate movements.
Cash investment is made in line with the Group’s strict treasury 
policy which is approved by the Audit Committee and sets limits  
on deposits based on counterparty credit ratings. No more than  
10% of cash deposits are held with a single bank counterparty,  
with the exception of overnight deposits which are invested  
in a spread of AAAf rated liquidity funds.
All non-sterling debt is swapped at inception to ensure appropriate 
currency and interest rate protection is in place, and trading currency 
risk is hedged up to five years in advance.
The Group manages its tax risk by ensuring that risks are identified 
and understood at an early stage and that effective compliance and 
reporting processes are in place.
The Group continues to maintain an open and proactive relationship 
with the regulating tax authorities, primarily HM Revenue & Customs. 
The Group aims to deal with taxation issues, wherever possible,  
as they arise in order to avoid unnecessary disputes.
Security:
The Group must protect its customer and corporate data and the  
safety of its people and infrastructure as well as needing to have  
in place fraud prevention and detection measures.
The Group is responsible to third-party intellectual property owners  
for the security of the content that it distributes on various platforms  
(Sky’s own and third-party platforms).
A significant breach of security could impact the Group’s ability  
to operate and deliver against its business objectives.
The Group takes measures ranging from physical and logical access 
controls to encryption, or equivalent technologies, to manage its 
security risks.
The Group continues to invest in new technological controls and  
in improving broader business process and works closely with law 
enforcement agencies and policy makers in order to protect its 
assets and to comply with its contractual obligations to third parties.
Projects:
The Group invests in, and delivers, significant capital expenditure 
projects in order to continually drive the business forward.  
The failure to deliver key projects effectively and efficiently could  
result in significantly increased project costs and impede our ability  
to execute our strategic plans.
A common project management methodology is used to enable the 
Group to manage, monitor and control its major capital expenditure 
projects and strategic programmes. This includes standardised 
reporting and monthly reviews by senior management as well as 
cross-functional executive steering groups for major projects.
Third-party partners will, where appropriate, be engaged to provide 
support and expertise in our large strategic programmes, complex 
initiatives and for emerging technologies. Annual Report 2014
43 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Strategic report – Principal risks and uncertainties
Description of risk Mitigation
Intellectual property protection:
The Group, in common with other service providers, relies on intellectual 
property and other proprietary rights, including in respect of 
programming content, which may not be adequately protected under 
current laws or which may be subject to unauthorised use.
We maintain an ongoing programme to support appropriate 
protections of our intellectual property and other rights.  
This includes, for example, the use of automated online monitoring 
tools, the implementation of on-screen imprinting of content  
together with an active programme to protect our trade marks.
People:
People at Sky are critical to the Group’s ability to meet the needs  
of its customers and achieve its goals as a business.
Failure to attract or retain suitable employees across the business  
could limit the Group’s ability to deliver its business plan commitments.
Making Sky a great place to work is central to the Group’s strategy. 
The Group champions diversity and develops talent through  
a number of activities, including the Graduate programme, 
Development Studio, an apprenticeship scheme and a leadership 
programme.
The Group has well established channels and procedures to recruit 
and retain its employees, and to ensure that an adequate number  
of suitable employees work within its customer service teams  
and across all its operations.
Further detail on our people is set out on pages 32 to 35.
The Company announced on 25 July 2014, that it has conditionally entered into share purchase agreements (the “Acquisition Agreements”)  
with 21st Century Fox (and its relevant subsidiaries) to acquire its 100% stake in Sky Italia Srl and its 57.4% (on a fully-diluted basis) stake  
in Sky Deutschland A.G. The Company further announced its intention to make a voluntary cash offer (the “Offer”) to the minority shareholders  
of Sky Deutschland A.G. The Acquisition Agreements and the Offer (together the “Transactions”) are conditional on, amongst other things,  
approval by the Company’s independent shareholders and regulatory clearances. The risks relating to the Transactions and their impact if all  
relevant conditions are satisfied and they proceed to completion, will be set out in a circular which will be sent to the Company’s shareholders, 
together with a notice of a general meeting of the Company containing the resolutions seeking shareholder approval for the Transactions. Annual Report 2014
44 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Regulatory matters
Regulatory matters
Below is an overview of the ongoing 
investigations and reviews of 
regulatory and competition matters 
involving the Group.
European Commission investigation
On 13 January 2014, the European Commission opened a formal 
antitrust investigation into cross-border provision of pay TV services 
in the EU. The Commission is examining certain provisions relating 
to territorial protection in licence agreements between major US 
film studios (Twentieth Century Fox, Warner Bros., Sony Pictures, 
NBCUniversal and Paramount) and key European pay TV broadcasters 
(the Group, Canal Plus, Sky Italia, Sky Deutschland and DTS, operating 
under the Canal Plus brand in Spain). The Commission has not reached 
any conclusions at this stage and the Group is not yet able to assess 
whether, or the extent to which, this review will have a material effect 
on the Group.
Wholesale must-offer obligations
On 31 March 2010, Ofcom published its decision to impose wholesale 
must-offer obligations on the Group (the “WMO Obligations”) for the 
channels Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 1 HD and Sky Sports  
2 HD (the “Affected Channels”). The WMO Obligations require the 
Group, amongst other things, to offer the Affected Channels on 
a wholesale basis to third parties which satisfy various minimum 
qualifying criteria (including financial, technical and security criteria). 
The WMO Obligations specify maximum prices that the Group 
may charge for Sky Sports 1 and/or Sky Sports 2. Under the WMO 
Obligations, the wholesale price is linked to the Group’s retail price.  
The WMO Obligations do not specify a maximum price for Sky Sports  
1 HD and/or Sky Sports 2 HD. Rather, the Group is required to offer 
these channels on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis.  
In April 2010, the Group applied to the Competition Appeal Tribunal 
(the “CAT”) for a suspension of the implementation of the WMO 
Obligations. On 29 April 2010, the Group’s application was resolved  
by way of an agreed Order from the President of the CAT (the “Order”). 
The terms of the Order resulted in the suspension of certain aspects 
of Ofcom’s decision, pending the outcome of the Group’s substantive 
appeal. In summary, the effect of the Order is as follows:
• The Group is required to offer, subject to certain pre-conditions 
being met, the Affected Channels to each of BT, Top Up TV and  
Virgin Media (“VM”) for distribution via DTT and to VM for distribution 
via cable. Other parties may apply to the CAT to be added to the  
list of persons to whom the Group is required to offer its channels  
(on 23 November 2010, REAL Digital EPG Services Limited was added to 
the list in respect of DTH satellite distribution, but has not commenced 
distribution of any Sky Sports channels).
• In the event that BT, Top Up TV or VM enter into a distribution 
agreement for Sky Sports 1 and/or Sky Sports 2 under the WMO 
Obligations, the distributor is required to pay the Group the 
equivalent of the maximum price the Group may charge for the 
channel(s) under the WMO Obligations. The difference between  
that price and the rate card price set by the Group will be paid  
into escrow.
On 8 August 2012, the CAT handed down its judgment on the Group’s 
appeal against Ofcom’s decision to impose the WMO Obligations  
(the “Pay TV Judgment”), publishing its full judgment on 26 October 
2012. The CAT found that “Ofcom’s core competition concern is 
unfounded” (Ofcom had found that the Group deliberately withheld 
wholesale supply of its Premium Channels) and that accordingly  
the Group’s appeal must be allowed. 
On 26 April 2013, BT was granted permission to appeal the Pay TV 
Judgment to the Court of Appeal. The Court of Appeal handed down 
judgment in BT’s appeal, and the Group’s cross-appeal on whether 
Ofcom had the power to impose the WMO Obligations, on 17 February 
2014. The Court of Appeal dismissed the Group’s cross-appeal and 
allowed BT’s appeal. The Court of Appeal found that Ofcom’s decision 
contained a further competition concern in relation to the Group’s rate 
card prices and discounts to those prices, and that the CAT should 
have considered that concern. It therefore remitted that issue to the 
CAT for further consideration. While the CAT’s finding that Ofcom’s 
core competition concern was unfounded remains undisturbed, the 
WMO Obligations (as modified by the Order) continue in force pending 
the CAT consideration of the further issue remitted to it. However,  
the Group has agreed with a major wholesale customer to terminate 
the escrow agreement and release funds in escrow to the parties.
The Group has applied for permission to the Supreme Court to 
appeal the judgment of the Court of Appeal, and a decision on that 
application is pending. The CAT has indicated that it is not minded  
to hear the remitted issue until the outcome of the Group’s application 
to the Supreme Court is known.
Ofcom has, separately, announced that it will review the WMO 
Obligation in light of sector developments since Ofcom’s decision  
to impose the WMO Obligation in 2010.
BT also made an application on 11 April 2014 to the CAT to vary the 
Order such that the WMO Obligations would extend to distribution  
on BT’s Internet Protocol Television (“IPTV”) platforms, “Cardinal”  
and “BT YouView”. That application which Sky opposed was heard  
on 23 July 2014.
The Group is currently unable to determine whether, and to what 
extent, the appeals concerning the WMO Obligations and BT’s 
application to vary the Order would be successful, and it is not possible 
for the Group to conclude on the financial impact of the outcome 
at this stage. However, should the outcome of these processes be 
adverse to the Group, this may have a significant effect on the financial 
position or profitability of the Group. Annual Report 2014
45 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Strategic report – Regulatory matters
Forward looking statements
This document contains certain forward looking statements with 
respect to our financial condition, results of operations and business, 
and our strategy, plans and objectives. 
These statements include, without limitation, those that express 
forecast, expectations and projections, such as forecasts, 
expectations and projections with respect to new products and 
services, the potential for growth of free-to-air and pay television, 
fixed-line telephony, broadband and bandwidth requirements, 
advertising growth, Direct-to-Home (“DTH”) customer growth, 
Over-the-top (“OTT”) customer growth, Multiscreen, On Demand,  
NOW TV, Sky Go, Sky Go Extra, Sky
+
, Sky
+
HD and other services,  
churn, revenue, profitability and margin growth, cash flow generation, 
programming costs, subscriber managements and supply chain  
costs, administration costs and other costs, marketing expenditure, 
capital expenditure programmes and proposals for returning capital  
to shareholders.
Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in 
such forward looking statements are reasonable, these statements 
(and all other forward looking statements contained in this document) 
are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, 
uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, 
are difficult to predict and could cause actual results to differ 
materially from those expressed or implied or forecast in the forward 
looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to,  
those risks that are highlighted in this document in the section 
entitled ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’, and information on the 
significant risks and uncertainties associated with our business  
is described therein.
No part of these results constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute,  
an invitation or inducement to invest in the Company or any other 
entity and must not be relied upon in any way in connection with any 
investment decision. All forward looking statements in this document 
are based on information known to us on the date hereof. Except as 
required by law, we undertake no obligation publicly to update or  
revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new 
information, future events or otherwise.
Ofcom Competition Act Investigation
Following receipt of a complaint from BT, on 14 June 2013, Ofcom 
opened an investigation into whether the Group has abused a 
dominant position contrary to Chapter II of the Competition  
Act 1998 and/or Article 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. 
The complaint alleges that the Group is making wholesale supply  
of Sky Sports 1 and 2 to BT for its YouView service conditional on BT 
wholesaling BT Sports channels to the Group for retail on the Group’s 
satellite platform, and that constitutes an abuse of dominance.
In its complaint, BT also made an application for interim measures 
against the Group, either to restrain the Group from insisting on the 
wholesale supply of Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 to BT’s YouView 
platform being conditional on BT wholesaling BT Sport channels  
to the Group, or to mandate Sky to provide wholesale access to  
BT to Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 on equivalent terms to those  
which the Group has already agreed for other platforms. Ofcom 
refused BT’s application for interim measures on 31 July 2013.
Ofcom’s investigation of BT’s complaint is continuing. 
The Group is currently unable to determine the outcome of Ofcom’s 
investigation or its financial impact, however, should the outcome  
be adverse to the Group, this may have a significant effect on the 
financial position or profitability of the Group.
The strategic report was approved by the Board and signed  
on its behalf by the Chief Executive Officer:
By order of the Board
Jeremy Darroch
Chief Executive Officer
25 July 2014 Annual Report 2014
46 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Board of Directors
Board of Directors
1
4
7
11
14
2
5
9
12
15
8
3
6
10
13
1. Nick Ferguson, CBE (65) ◆ ●
Chairman
Nick was appointed to the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director in June 2004 and 
became Chairman in April 2012. Nick has 
previously served as Deputy Chairman and 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Experience
Nick brings extensive leadership experience 
from the private equity and investment 
sectors. Nick was co-founder and 
instrumental in the development of Schroder 
Ventures (the private equity group which 
later became Permira) of which he served  
as Chairman from 1984 to 2001. He later 
served as Chairman of SVG Capital plc,  
a public quoted private equity group,  
from April 2005 to November 2012. Nick  
has a long-standing interest in the arts  
and philanthropy and served as Chairman  
of the Courtauld Institute of Art for ten  
years before retiring in July 2012.
External Appointments
Nick is Chairman of Alta Advisers Limited,  
an investment advisory firm, a position  
he has held since January 2007. He is also 
Chairman and Founder of the Kilfinan  
Group which offers mentoring by Chairmen 
and CEOs to Heads of Charities. Nick is a 
Fellow of Winchester College. 
2. Jeremy Darroch (52)
Chief Executive Officer
Jeremy joined Sky as Chief Financial  
Officer and Executive Director in 2004  
and was appointed to his current role  
in December 2007.
Experience
Jeremy has extensive experience in the 
retailing and fast-moving consumer goods 
sectors. Prior to joining Sky, Jeremy was 
Group Finance Director of DSG International 
plc (DSG), formerly Dixons Group plc. Prior to 
DSG, he spent 12 years at Procter & Gamble 
in a variety of roles in the UK and Europe. 
Jeremy is a former Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee of 
Marks and Spencer Group plc (2006-2013).
External appointments
In February 2014, Jeremy was appointed 
Non-Executive Director of Burberry Group 
plc and serves as a member of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nominations committees. 
Jeremy is a Business Member of the National 
Centre for Universities and Business. 
3. Andrew Griffith (43)
Chief Financial Officer
Andrew joined Sky in 1999 and held a  
number of senior finance roles prior to  
his appointment as Chief Financial Officer 
and Executive Director in April 2008.  
In addition to his role as CFO, Andrew has 
executive responsibility for Sky’s commercial 
businesses, including advertising, data 
services, WiFi and subscription services  
to commercial customers. 
Experience
Prior to joining Sky, Andrew was at 
Rothschild, the investment banking 
organisation, where he provided financial 
and strategic advice to corporate  
clients in the technology, media and 
telecommunications sector. Andrew is a 
qualified chartered accountant and has a 
degree in law from Nottingham University. 
External appointments
In March 2014, Andrew was appointed 
Non-Executive Director of Just Eat plc.  
He serves as Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director, Chairman  
of the Audit Committee and member  
of the Remuneration and Nominations 
Committees.
Andrew is a member of the 100 Group  
of Finance Directors and Advisory Board  
of the Oxford University Centre for  
Business Taxation. 
4. Chase Carey (60)
Non-Executive Director
Chase joined the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in January 2013. 
Experience
As President and Chief Operating Officer  
of 21st Century Fox, Chase has extensive 
knowledge and experience of the 
international media and pay TV sectors. 
Chase is former President and Chief 
Executive Officer of DIRECTV, where he  
led the operations and strategic direction  
of DIRECTV. Prior to joining DIRECTV, he  
was Co-Chief Operating Officer of News 
Corporation (subsequently renamed  
21st Century Fox) and Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer of the Fox Television Group.
External appointments
In addition to his role at 21st Century Fox, 
Chase is a member of the Supervisory Board 
of Sky Deutschland A.G.
Key
■ Audit Committee
▲ Bigger Picture Committee
◆  Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee
● Remuneration Committee
† Committee Chairman  Annual Report 2014
47 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Board of Directors
5. Tracy Clarke (47) ▲ ● †
Independent Non-Executive Director
Tracy joined the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in June 2012. 
Experience
Tracy brings a wide range of operational 
experience and oversight for corporate 
affairs, brand and marketing, media 
relations, human resources, legal and 
compliance matters in her role at Standard 
Chartered Bank. Tracy has served as a 
Non-Executive Director of SC First Bank  
in Korea (2005-2007) and Non-Executive 
Director of Eaga plc (2007-2011), where  
she chaired the Remuneration Committee. 
External Appointments
Tracy is a member of the executive 
management group and is Director for 
Compliance, People and Communications at 
Standard Chartered Bank. Tracy is a trustee 
of WORKing for YOUth, a charity working  
with business to create job opportunities  
for young people. Tracy is a member of the 
Institute of Financial Services and a Fellow  
of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and 
Development.
6. David F. DeVoe (67)
Non-Executive Director
David joined the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director in December 1994.
Experience
David brings a wealth of executive and 
finance experience from the media sector. 
David served as Chief Financial Officer of 
News Corporation (subsequently renamed 
21st Century Fox) for over 20 years and 
during that time was appointed Senior 
Executive Vice President until he stepped 
down from both roles in June 2013. David  
is a former director of Gemstar-TV Guide 
(2001-2008) and DirecTV (2003-2008). 
External Appointments
David is Senior Advisor to the Board of  
21st Century Fox. 
7. Martin Gilbert (59) ■ †
Independent Non-Executive Director
Martin was appointed to the Board as a  
Non-Executive Director in November 2011. 
Experience
Martin has extensive investment, finance 
and executive leadership experience through 
his role as co-founder and Chief Executive 
Officer of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC. 
Martin has served as Chairman of Firstgroup 
plc, Chaucer PLC and was Non-Executive 
Director of Dynmark International Limited,  
a mobile messaging and data applications 
services provider. 
External Appointments
In addition to his role as Chief Executive 
Officer of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, 
Martin is a member of the Scottish 
Government’s Financial Services  
Advisory Board. 
8. Adine Grate (53) ■ ●
Independent Non-Executive Director
Adine was appointed to the Board as  
a Non-Executive Director in July 2013.
Experience
Adine brings a wealth of executive, finance 
and investment management and 
communications technology experience, 
having operated at the top tiers of Nordic 
based international business for the past 
two decades. Formerly Executive Vice 
President and Managing Director of Investor 
AB, owner of a number of Nordic based 
international companies. 
External Appointments
Chairperson of NASDAQ OMX Swedish 
Listing Committee and Vice Chairperson  
of AP7, a Swedish pension and savings asset 
management company. Adine is a Director  
of: Three (Scandinavia), a mobile 
telecommunications and broadband 
operator; SOBI AB, an international speciality 
healthcare company; Sampo OY, a leading 
financial and insurance institution and 
Swedavia AB, an airport operator. Adine is 
Chairperson of non-profit organisations; 
Friends of a Design museum and the  
Swedish Dance Museum.
9. Andy Higginson (57) ■ ◆ †
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director 
Andy was appointed to the Board as 
Non-Executive Director in September  
2004 and has been Senior Independent 
Director since April 2012.
Experience
Andy brings significant commercial, retail and 
leadership experience to the Board. Andy  
is a former Director of Tesco plc having spent 
15 years at the company, first as Finance  
and Strategy Director, and latterly as  
Chief Executive of their Retailing Services 
business. His early career was with  
Unilever, Guinness, Laura Ashley and  
the Burton Group.
External Appointments
Andy is Chairman of Poundland Group plc 
and N Brown plc and is a Non-Executive 
Director of Woolworth SA and the Rugby 
Football Union. He is a member of the  
100 Group of Finance Directors. 
10. Dave Lewis (49) ■ ▲ ◆
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dave was appointed to the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director in November 2012.
Experience
Dave is an experienced executive with strong 
operational expertise and has held a variety 
of leadership roles at Unilever in Europe, 
South America and Asia, including President 
for the Americas and Chairman of Unilever 
UK and Ireland.
External Appointments 
Dave is President, Personal Care for Unilever 
plc, where he also sits on the Unilever 
Leadership Executive. 
11. James Murdoch (41) ▲ †
Non-Executive Director
James was appointed to the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director in February 2003.  
He served as Chief Executive Officer and 
Executive Director (2003-2007) and as 
Chairman from 2007 until April 2012. 
Experience
James is Co-Chief Operating Officer,  
at 21st Century Fox and brings significant 
media sector knowledge and experience. 
Between 2000 and 2003, he was Chairman 
and CEO of Star Group Limited and held 
Non-Executive Director roles at 
GlaxoSmithKline plc (2009-2012)  
and Sotheby’s (2010-2012). 
External Appointments
As Co-Chief Operating Officer, James is  
a member of the Board of Directors and 
Executive Committee at 21st Century Fox.  
He also serves as a member of the Board  
of News Corporation and is a Non-Executive 
Director of Yankee Global Enterprises. 
12. Matthieu Pigasse (46) ■
Independent Non-Executive Director
Matthieu was appointed to the Board as 
Non-Executive Director in November 2011. 
Experience
Matthieu is Deputy CEO of Lazard in France 
and Vice Chairman of Lazard in Europe. He 
has also served as civilian administrator of 
the French Ministry of Economy and Finance. 
External Appointments
In addition to his role at Lazard, Matthieu  
has a number of interests in media and 
publishing, notably Le Monde and the 
Huffington Post (France). Matthieu is a 
Board member of Group Lucien Barrière SAS, 
an operator of luxury hotels and restaurants, 
Derichebourg, a recycling and maintenance 
services business and Relax News, a French 
news agency dedicated to leisure news.
13. Danny Rimer (43)
Independent Non-Executive Director
Danny was appointed to the Board as  
a Non-Executive Director in April 2008. 
Experience
Danny brings significant international 
investment, finance experience and 
knowledge of internet infrastructure 
software and services, technology, 
communications and e-commerce 
businesses through his role as General 
Partner of the venture capital firm Index 
Ventures Management LLP (Index Ventures). 
Prior to joining Index Ventures, he was a 
General Partner of The Barksdale Group.
External Appointments
Danny serves on a number of boards 
including Etsy, Inc., First Dibs, Inc., Flipboard, 
Inc., FON Wireless Limited, Nasty Gal, Inc., 
RightScale Inc. and Viagogo.
14. Arthur Siskind (75) ◆
Non-Executive Director
Arthur was appointed to the Board as a 
Non-Executive Director in November 1991. 
Experience 
Arthur brings over 30 years’ experience 
gained through executive and legal counsel 
roles at News Corporation (subsequently 
renamed 21st Century Fox). Arthur is a highly 
experienced legal practitioner and member 
of the Bar of the State of New York since 1962. 
External Appointments
Senior Advisor to the Chairman since January 
2005 and Director Emeritus since October 
2012 of 21st Century Fox.
15. Andy Sukawaty (59) ●
Independent Non-Executive Director
Andy was appointed to the Board as  
a Non-Executive Director in June 2013.
Experience
Andy is Executive Chairman of Inmarsat plc, 
global mobile satellite communications 
provider, and has previously held a number  
of senior management positions in the 
telecommunications industry including; 
Chief Executive and President of Sprint PCS 
and Chief Executive of NTL (UK) and roles at 
US West and AT&T. 
External Appointments
In addition to his role at Inmarsat plc, Andy is 
Non-Executive Chairman of the Supervisory 
Board of Ziggo N.V., a Dutch national media 
and communications company. Annual Report 2014
48 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Corporate governance report
Chairman’s overview
Corporate governance report
Leadership
Role of the Board and its Members
The Board has collective responsibility for the management, direction 
and performance of the Company and provides leadership within a 
framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be 
appropriately assessed and managed. The Board sets the strategic 
direction, ensuring that the necessary resources are in place for the 
Company to meet its objectives and deliver sustainable performance.
The Board takes a long-term outlook and sees itself as responsible to  
a wide range of stakeholders, whilst pursuing its objectives in a manner 
consistent with its statutory duties, for the benefit of the Company’s 
members as a whole.
The Directors of the Board are selected on the criteria of proven skill 
and ability in their particular field of endeavour, and a diversity of 
outlook and experience which directly benefits the operation of the 
Board as the custodian of the business. A full biography of each Board 
member is provided on pages 46 and 47.
Roles and responsibilities
The roles of the Chairman and CEO are separate and have been so 
since the Company’s shares were admitted to listing in 1994. The roles 
and expectations of each Director are clearly defined and recorded 
within their letters of appointment or service contracts. The roles  
and responsibilities of the Board members are explained below.
The Chairman
Nick Ferguson is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring  
its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.  
The Chairman is responsible for creating an environment for open, 
robust and effective debate This includes ensuring, via the Company 
Secretary, that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear 
information. 
The Chief Executive Officer
Jeremy Darroch is responsible and accountable to the Board for  
the management and operation of the Company, advancing long-term 
shareholder value, supported by the management team. He is also 
involved in the management of the social and environmental 
responsibilities of the Company. 
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director (SID)
The role of the SID, currently carried out by Andy Higginson, is 
responsible for providing support and counterbalance to the role  
of the Chairman and provides an additional point of contact  
for shareholders. 
Non-Executive Directors
Chase Carey, Tracy Clark, David DeVoe, Martin Gilbert, Adine Grate,  
Andy Higginson, Dave Lewis, James Murdoch, Matthieu Pigasse,  
Danny Rimer, Arthur Siskind and Andy Sukawaty, collectively, are 
responsible for constructively challenging the Executive Directors  
and overseeing the delivery of the Company’s strategy within the  
risk and control framework.
On behalf of the Board it gives me great pleasure to introduce this 
year’s corporate governance report. 
As a Board, we are the stewards of the Company. It is our responsibility 
to ensure that the Company’s strategy is aligned to the interests of 
our investors and takes account of the interests of all the Company’s 
stakeholders. As individuals, we believe that effective corporate 
governance is based on honesty, integrity and transparency, and  
can only be fully realised within an environment of open, robust  
and effective debate. This is the Board culture we foster at Sky,  
and it is my personal responsibility as Chairman to ensure that  
we continue to live this culture and promote it within our business.
Following last year’s external Board evaluation and in line with 
corporate governance best practice, during the year an internal  
Board evaluation was undertaken. The feedback from the evaluation 
confirmed that the Board and each of its Committees continue to 
operate effectively and that each Director continues to make an 
effective contribution and retains a strong commitment to their  
role. The resulting development themes that arose from the evaluation 
are discussed on page 57. 
The Board has established arrangements to evaluate whether the 
information in the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable. 
Further detail of these arrangements can be found on page 55. As a 
result of this, the Board considers the annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
During the year we have continued our work in promoting greater  
and more effective engagement with our shareholders. Andy 
Higginson, our Executive Directors and I, have met with institutional 
investors and analysts. Along with Tracy Clarke, Chairman of  
the Remuneration Committee, we will continue to engage with 
shareholders over the course of the coming financial year.
Nick Ferguson
Chairman
Compliance with the UK corporate governance code
The UK Corporate Governance Code as revised in September 2012  
(the “Code”) provides the standard for corporate governance in the UK. 
The Financial Conduct Authority requires listed companies to disclose 
whether they have complied with the provisions of the Code 
throughout the financial year.
The Board considers that the Company has fully complied with the 
provisions and applied the main principles of the Code for the whole  
of the year ended 30 June 2014. This section of the Annual Report 
along with the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 59 to 76, the 
Directors’ report and other statutory disclosures on pages 77 to 80 
provide details of how the Company has applied the main principles.  Annual Report 2014
49 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Corporate governance report
The Audit Committee has responsibility for oversight of corporate 
reporting, risk management and the Company’s relationship with  
its auditor. Significant risks to the business are kept under review  
and appropriate material controls are sanctioned and employed  
as appropriate. The Company’s principal risks and examples of how  
we mitigate those risks are detailed on pages 40 to 43. For further 
details, the Audit Committee Report can be found on pages 53 to 55.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the 
Remuneration policy for the Board and ensures that no Director is 
involved in decisions affecting their own remuneration. The Directors’ 
Remuneration Report can be found on pages 59 to 76.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee is responsible 
for oversight of the structure, size, composition and succession 
planning of the Board and its committees and overall compliance  
with corporate governance standards. The Report of the Corporate 
Governance & Nominations Committee can be found on pages  
56 and 57.
The Bigger Picture Committee has responsibility for oversight of the social, 
environmental and ethical impacts of the Company’s activities. The report 
of the Bigger Picture Committee can be found on pages 57 to 58.
The minutes of committee meetings are made available to all Board 
Directors on a timely basis. At each Board meeting the chairman  
of each committee provides the Board with a brief update of the  
work currently being carried out by the committee they chair. Other 
sub-committees and steering groups provide additional resource  
and support to the Board Committees or are formed for specific  
tasks. A committee of senior management generally meets on a  
weekly basis to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues.  
It is chaired by the CEO and comprises the CFO and other senior 
executives from within the Group.
Company Secretary
Chris Taylor has been Company Secretary since November 2012 and is 
responsible for the following in respect of effective Board operation:
• To ensure good information flows within the Board and its 
committees, between senior management and Non-Executive 
Directors;
• To facilitate Director induction and assisting with professional 
development; and
• To advise the Board through the Chairman of all corporate 
governance obligations and developments in best practice.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company 
Secretary who advises on corporate governance matters, Board 
procedures and other relevant rules and regulations. In addition, 
Directors have the right to seek independent professional advice  
at the Company’s expense.
Environment supportive of challenge
The effective operation of the Board is dependent on the inherent 
checks and balances within the various Board roles. As highly qualified 
and successful individuals in their respective fields of endeavour, all 
Non-Executive Directors influence, debate and contribute to decisions 
relating to the strategy of the Company, its performance and its 
impact on stakeholders. The Non-Executive Directors are evaluated 
and judged on the quality and content of their contributions to Board 
debate and are expected to offer alternative viewpoints and challenge 
perceptions and decisions as appropriate.
Board Agenda
In addition to its reserved and standing matters, the Board also 
considered and received a number of updates and presentations, 
giving Directors a further opportunity to explore and analyse  
topics such as: 
• The Company’s operations and five year financial plans
• The general market and economic outlook
• The competitive landscape, opportunities and market trends
• Growth of existing business activities
• Existing and new products, services and technological developments
To maintain an appropriate level of control over the day-to-day affairs 
of the Company, the Board has identified certain matters that only it 
can approve and these matters are contained within the Company’s 
“Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board” which can be found at  
sky.com/corporate. 
Board delegation
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board committees, 
notably the Audit, Remuneration, Corporate Governance & Nominations 
and the Bigger Picture committees. Each committee’s terms of 
reference can be found on the Company’s corporate website.
Bigger Picture
Committee
Corporate 
Governance & 
Nominations 
Committee
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Board and Committee framework
Board Annual Report 2014
50 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Corporate governance report
Board and Committee attendance 
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out in the table below. The table shows the number of meetings each Director 
was eligible to attend. 
Notes Board Audit Remuneration
Corporate 
Governance & 
Nominations Bigger Picture
Number of meetings held in year 7 6 5 3 2
Executive Directors
Jeremy Darroch, CEO 7/7
Andrew Griffith, CFO 7/7
Non-Executive Directors
Chase Carey 1 6/7
Tracy Clarke 7/7 5/5 2/2
David DeVoe 7/7
Nick Ferguson 7/7 5/5 3/3
Martin Gilbert 2 6/7 5/6 4/5
Adine Grate 3 7/7 5/5
Andy Higginson 4 7/7 5/6 2/3
Dave Lewis 7/7 6/6 3/3 2/2
James Murdoch 7/7 2/2
Matthieu Pigasse 5 6/7 4/6
Danny Rimer 6 6/7 2/2 1/1
Arthur Siskind 7/7 3/3
Andy Sukawaty 7/7 5/5
Notes
1 Chase Carey was unable to attend a Board meeting due to conflicting business arrangements.
2 Martin Gilbert was unable to attend Board and Committee meetings due to prior Aberdeen Asset Management engagements. 
3 Adine Grate was appointed to the Audit committee on 26 July 2013 and was not eligible to attend the meeting on the prior day.
4 Andy Higginson was unable to attend Committee meetings due to conflicting Rugby Football Union board meetings.
5 Matthieu Pigasse was unable to attend Board and Committee meetings and the Annual General Meeting due to overseas travel on Lazard business and personal reasons.
6  Danny Rimer was unable to attend a Board meeting due to prior Index Ventures engagements. Danny stepped down as Chairman and member of the Remuneration Committee 
and as member of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee following the Company’s AGM on 22 November 2013.
Corporate governance report
(continued)
Effectiveness
Board composition and independence
The Board currently comprises 15 Directors, made up of two Executive 
Directors and 13 Non-Executive Directors. At least half of the Board  
of Directors are determined to be independent by the Board  
in accordance with provision B.1.2 of the Code. On appointment,  
the Chairman met the independence criteria set out in provision  
B.1.1 of the Code. Biographies of each of the Directors are set out  
on pages 46 to 47.
Chase Carey, David DeVoe, James Murdoch and Arthur Siskind represent 
the Company’s largest shareholder, 21st Century Fox and as such are 
not considered to be independent within the meaning of the Code. 
Each of these Directors has extensive media and pay TV experience 
and makes significant contribution to Board discussion.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of 
experience and expertise to the Group’s affairs, and carry significant 
weight in the Board’s decisions. The Independent Non-Executive 
Directors are encouraged to challenge management and help  
develop proposals on strategy. Time is regularly put aside at  
Board meetings to discuss the strategic direction of the Company.
Prior to appointment, and on an annual basis, each Board member 
receives and completes a questionnaire to determine factors that  
may affect independence according to best practice statements 
contained within the Code. The responses to the questionnaire  
assist the Board in ascertaining whether a Director is independent  
in character and judgement, and whether there are relationships  
or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, 
the Director’s judgement.
Board Composition
Chairman
Executive Directors
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Other Non-Executive Directors Annual Report 2014
51 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Corporate governance report
Appointments to the Board, diversity and succession planning
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee keeps the 
Board’s balance of skills, knowledge, experience and the length of 
service of individuals under constant review. In respect of succession 
planning and supplementing the skill set of the Board, there is an 
established procedure for the appointment of Directors. In brief, the 
Committee identifies the set of skills and experience required and, 
with the assistance of external search agencies, selects individuals  
to take Board positions on review of their individual merits, regardless 
of gender, race, religion, age or disability. Further information on the 
work of the Committee during the year can be found on pages 56 to 57.
The Board has published a statement of its intention to increase 
female representation on the Board which can be found on the 
Company’s corporate website. As required by company legislation,  
a table on page 78 illustrates gender diversity amongst the Board.
Jeremy Darroch was appointed as an independent non-executive 
director of Burberry Group plc on 5 February 2014, and is a member  
of the audit, nominations and remuneration committees. 
Andrew Griffith was appointed as an independent non-executive 
director of Just Eat plc on 12 March 2014. Andrew serves as senior 
independent director, chairman of the audit committee and is a 
member of the remuneration and nominations committees. Details  
of pay in respect of these appointments can be found in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on page 66. 
Time commitment
All Non-Executive Directors are advised of the likely time commitments 
required on induction, and are expected to devote sufficient time  
for the effective discharge of their functions. The Company provides 
Non-Executive Directors with appropriate support and facilities  
for consideration of the Company’s strategy and performance, and  
a dialogue with the Chairman is strongly encouraged so that any  
issues regarding conflicting commitments and time pressures can  
be addressed appropriately.
Induction and training
All new Directors receive an induction tailored to their individual 
requirements. The induction process involves meeting with all of the 
Company’s Executive Directors and Senior Executives. This facilitates 
their understanding of the Group and the key drivers of the business’s 
performance. During the year, Directors have received presentations 
from a number of areas of the business including Customer Group,  
Sky Media, Sky Sports and Strategic Planning Group. The Chairman 
meets with the Directors throughout the year to review and agree 
their individual training and developmental needs.
During the year, the Company Secretary, in consultation with the 
Chairman and CEO, facilitated Adine Grate’s induction programme.  
The elements of the programme are detailed below: 
Diversity ratio of Directors appointed in last 2 years
2 3
Female  Male 
Length of time served on the Board (excluding Executive Directors)
0-5 years 54% 5+ years 46%
Industry/background experience
1
 Industry related 9
 International 11
 Finance/investment 7
Technology/Innovation 4
 Regulatory 5
 Executive  7
1 Directors may fall into one or more categories.
Directors’ reappointment
In respect of Code provision B.7.1, all Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors will retire and offer themselves for reappointment at the 
Company’s 2014 AGM, with the exception of Andy Higginson who  
will be retiring from the Board.
External directorships
Any external appointments for the Executive Directors are considered 
by the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee. Executive 
Directors are not allowed to take on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 
company, but are allowed to take up one external non-executive  
FTSE 100 appointment and retain any payments in respect of such 
appointments.
In addition to this, various presentations from prior Board meetings 
were made available to Adine in order to improve her understanding of 
the Company and the competitive and regulatory landscape in which it 
operates. In view of her position as a member of the Audit Committee, 
Adine met with the external auditors as part of her induction.
Board evaluation
In line with corporate governance best practice, and following the 
external Board evaluation carried out by Alice Perkins of JCA Group 
last year, an internal Board evaluation was undertaken during the year. 
The process was facilitated by Andy Higginson, our Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of the Corporate Governance & Nominations 
Committee. Further detail of the evaluation process can be found in the 
Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee report on page 57.
September 
2013:
Meetings  
with Senior 
Executives,  
Sky News and 
Sky Studio  
visits
November 
2013:
Customer 
contact  
centre visit
February  
2014:
Product 
demonstrations
April  
2014:
Accompanied  
a Sky engineer 
on customer 
visits Annual Report 2014
52 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Corporate governance report
Relations with shareholders
Shareholder communications
Presentations and webcasts on the development of the business  
are available to all shareholders on the Company’s corporate  
website. The Company also uses email alerts and actively promotes 
downloading of all reports enhancing speed and equality of 
shareholder communication. The Company has taken full advantage  
of the provisions within the Companies Act 2006 allowing the website 
to be used as the primary means of communication with shareholders 
where they have not requested hard copy documentation. The 
shareholder information section on page 141 contains further details 
on electronic shareholder communications together with more general 
information of interest to shareholders which is also included on the 
Company’s corporate website.
Shareholder engagement
The Company is committed to maintaining and improving dialogue with 
shareholders in order to ensure that the objectives of both the Group 
and the shareholders are understood. A programme of meetings with 
institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts takes place 
each year and the Chairman, CEO, CFO and Andy Higginson have 
attended meetings with investors, as appropriate. The Company also 
makes presentations to analysts and investors around the time of  
the half-year and full-year results announcement; conference calls  
are held with analysts and investors following the announcement  
of the first quarter and third quarter results, and presentations are 
made during the year to many existing or potential shareholders at 
investor conferences. The Company hosts an annual meeting for its 
major shareholders to discuss remuneration policy and this year,  
as a result of new remuneration regulations, the Company invited  
its major shareholders to comment on the proposed changes to its 
remuneration policy. 
The Annual General Meeting
The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with 
private investors and sets aside time at the meeting for shareholders 
to ask questions. At the AGM, the Chairman provides a brief summary 
of the Company’s activities for the previous year. All resolutions at  
the 2013 AGM were voted by way of a poll. This follows best practice 
and allows the Company to count all votes rather than just those of 
shareholders attending the meeting. As recommended by the Code,  
all resolutions were voted separately and the final voting results,  
which included all votes cast for, against and those withheld, together 
with all proxies lodged prior to the meeting, were released to the 
London Stock Exchange as soon as practicable after the meeting.  
The announcement was also made available on the Company’s 
corporate website. As in previous years, the proxy form and the 
announcement of the voting results made it clear that a “vote withheld” 
is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the 
proportion of the votes for or against the resolution.
Information provided to the Directors
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information 
flows within the Board and its committees and between senior 
management and Non-Executive Directors. For each Board and 
Committee meeting, Directors are provided with a tailored Board pack 
at least one week prior to the meeting. To improve the delivery and 
security of Board papers, the Company has adopted an electronic 
system allowing the Board to easily access information, irrespective of 
geographic location. Directors regularly receive additional information 
from the Company between Board meetings, including a daily press 
summary and a monthly Group performance update. Where a Director 
was unable to attend a meeting, they were provided with all the papers 
and information relating to that meeting and were able to discuss 
issues arising directly with the Chairman and CEO.
Conflicts of interest
Under UK company law, all Directors must seek authorisation before 
taking up any position with another company that conflicts, or may 
possibly conflict, with the Company’s interests. The Company’s Articles 
of Association contain provisions to allow the Directors to authorise 
situations of potential conflicts of interest so that a Director is not  
in breach of his duty under company law. 
All existing external appointments for each Director have been 
authorised by the Board and each authorisation is set out in a 
Conflicts Register. Directors are required to notify the Board of 
potential conflicts so that they can be considered, and if appropriate, 
authorised by the Board. In addition, the Corporate Governance  
& Nominations Committee conducts an annual review of Directors’ 
conflicts and reports its findings to the Board. The Corporate 
Governance & Nominations Committee reviewed the Board’s conflicts 
during the financial year and concluded that conflicts had been 
appropriately authorised and that the process for authorisation  
is operating effectively. The Corporate Governance & Nominations 
Committee and the Board will continue to monitor and review potential 
conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
Directors’ and Officers’ Insurance and Indemnity
The Company recognises that all Directors are equally and collectively 
accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the 
Company’s affairs. The Company maintains a Directors’ and Officers’ 
liability insurance policy. Additionally, the Company’s Articles of 
Association allow the Company to indemnify the Directors and deeds 
of indemnity have been issued to all Directors of the Company.
Corporate governance report
(continued) Annual Report 2014
53 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Corporate governance report
Attendance at Committee Meetings 
David DeVoe and Arthur Siskind have a standing invitation to attend 
meetings. However, their attendance at these meetings is as observers 
only and in a non-voting capacity. The CFO, other business and finance 
executives and representatives from the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, 
and the internal audit department attend meetings at the request  
of the Committee. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to  
the Committee. 
Audit Committee Agenda
Focus for the Committee this year has centred on the following items:
• Review and recommendation to the Board of the quarterly, interim 
and full-year financial statements
• The review and recommendation to the Board of the dividend policy 
and proposed payments
• Liquidity and going concern review
• Review and recommendation of the budget to the Board
• Annual reporting – due diligence procedures and corporate 
governance updates
• The external auditors, assessment of the effectiveness of the 
external audit process, terms of engagement and scope of audit 
• Auditor independence and the policy on the provision of non-audit 
services by the external auditor
• Audit plans and findings of external and internal audits
• Quarterly reports from the treasury function on the funding, 
liquidity, going concern and operational capabilities of the Group 
and compliance with treasury policies.
• Quarterly updates from internal audit on the status of Senior 
Accounting Officer (SAO) certification work to ensure SAO 
compliance;
• Post-acquisition review of the O2 consumer broadband and 
fixed-line telephone business
• Quarterly reports of all related party transactions during the year  
in excess of £100,000 in value 
• Review and oversight of the Group risk register, risk methodology 
and risk management systems and processes
• Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
audit function and controls;
• Taxation, security, fraud, whistleblowing, cyber security, health  
and safety, data protection and internal audit updates 
Report of the Audit Committee
Chairman’s overview 
We have had a busy year as  
we continued to focus on  
the financial performance  
of the Company, internal  
audit, external audit, risk 
management, compliance  
and financial governance. 
We were pleased to welcome Adine Grate as a member of the 
Committee in July 2013. Adine has extensive financial and investment 
management experience and we value her contribution at Committee 
meetings. We have continued to receive a number of presentations 
from the management of different business areas, which this year 
included Sky Bet, Product Design and Development and the Sales and 
Marketing Groups to improve our understanding of their operations, 
the risks they face and how those risks are managed.
We reviewed the integration approach of the O2 consumer broadband 
and fixed-line telephony business both at the start and following  
its completion, and received a range of presentations relating  
to data governance, health and safety, fraud and cyber security.  
We also received regular reports from the internal audit function  
and external auditor.
We have considered the processes underpinning the production  
and approval of this year’s annual report to enable the Board to 
confirm that the annual report taken as a whole is fair, balanced  
and understandable and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy and a description of how we approached this can  
be found below.
There were six meetings during the year and after each Committee 
meeting I gave an oral update to the Board on the key issues discussed 
during our meetings. The Committee also has private meetings with 
the Company’s external auditors throughout the year.
You can find additional information of how we have carried out  
our role and responsibilities within the remainder of this report.  
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on the Company’s 
corporate website. 
Martin Gilbert
Committee Chairman
Committee composition
Martin Gilbert (Chairman)
Adine Grate (appointed on 26 July 2013)
Andy Higginson
Dave Lewis 
Matthieu Pigasse
The Committee members have considerable financial and business 
experience and the Board considers that the membership as a whole 
has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge  
its responsibilities. In addition, the Board has determined that each 
member of the Committee has sufficient accounting or related 
financial management expertise in line with the Code. Annual Report 2014
54 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Corporate governance report
Corporate governance report
(continued)
Significant accounting issues
When considering the annual financial statements, the Committee 
reviewed the significant areas of judgement and the Group’s critical 
accounting policies as set out on pages 90 and 96 with particular  
focus on the following:
Retail subscription revenue: 
The majority of the Group’s revenues derive from retail subscription 
packages, including hardware, supplied to customers. The Group 
applies judgement in determining the accounting allocation of 
payments received from customers to different elements of the 
bundled package, taking into consideration the timing and relative 
value attributed to each element. During the year, the Committee 
received a performance report from the CFO at each committee 
meeting that included a review of revenues recognised in the period. 
In addition, the Committee received presentations on the Group’s 
sales and marketing operations and on new revenue streams  
including NOW TV. The Committee considered management’s  
policy and presentations, and considered the views of the external 
auditor and is satisfied that the policies have been applied 
consistently and appropriately. 
General entertainment programming inventory: 
The Committee reviews the policy for the recognition of content costs 
and seeks assurances from management and takes into account the 
views of the external auditor that the policy is appropriate and has 
been applied consistently. The method for recognising general 
entertainment programming expense requires estimation and 
judgement. In the year the Committee received a presentation from 
management that reviewed the accounting methodology for the 
different range of programme genres by comparing viewing profiles 
and industry benchmarks, to ensure that the expense recognised is 
consistent with the associated relative value received from broadcast. 
The Committee is satisfied that the policies have been applied 
consistently, are appropriate and are aligned to industry practice.
Capitalisation of intangible and tangible non-current assets:
The Committee considered the Group’s policies and sought assurances 
from management that the Group’s project accounting controls are 
operating as intended and that spend capitalised as Property, Plant 
and Equipment and Intangible assets meets the relevant accounting 
requirements. During the year the Committee also received 
presentations on the Group’s principal project functions including 
product design and development and technology. The Committee  
also considered the report from the external auditor. The Committee  
is satisfied that the Group has followed accounting standards 
regarding the capitalisation of project expenditure.
Internal control and risk management
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Group’s 
systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing 
their effectiveness. These systems are designed to manage, and  
where possible eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. There is an ongoing process  
for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced  
by the Group in accordance with the revised guidance on internal 
control issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005. 
During the period under review no significant failings or weaknesses 
were identified.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness  
of the operation of the Group’s systems of internal control and risk 
management during the year, and this review has been carried out for 
the year ended 30 June 2014 and up to the date on which the financial 
statements were approved. This review relates to the Company and  
its subsidiaries and does not extend to joint ventures. The Committee 
meets on at least a quarterly basis with the Group’s Director: Audit, 
Risk Management and Compliance and the external auditors.
There is a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting process, and the 
annual budget, which is regularly reviewed and updated, is approved  
by the Board. Performance is monitored against budget through 
weekly and monthly reporting cycles. During the financial year under 
review monthly reports on performance were provided to the Board 
and the Group reports to shareholders each quarter.
In respect of Group financial reporting, the Group Finance team is 
responsible for preparing the Group financial statements and there 
are well established controls over the financial reporting process. 
These are also documented in line with the requirements of the Senior 
Accounting Officer (SAO) legislation and the controls are reviewed and 
signed off to confirm their continuous operation by the control owners 
twice a year and are independently tested by the internal audit team. 
The results of the SAO testing are reported to the Committee on a 
quarterly basis.
Changes in internal controls
No change in the Group’s internal control over financial reporting  
has occurred during the year ended 30 June 2014 that has materially 
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Group’s  
internal control over financial reporting.
Risk registers
There are risk registers which identify the risks faced by the Group  
and these are consolidated into a Group Risk Register. The risk register 
framework is based on methodology to identify the risk based on 
impact and likelihood. The risk is assessed, quantified and measured 
which enables discussions on risk appetite. The registers detail the 
controls that manage the risks and, where necessary, the action plans 
to mitigate the risk exposure. 
The business develops the action plans and the internal audit team 
monitors their implementation. The Committee formally reviews the 
Group Risk Register twice a year and there is a rolling programme 
where senior executives from the business present their risk 
management plans. 
The internal audit team provides objective assurance as to the 
effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal control and risk 
management to the Group’s operating management.
The Group’s principal risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages  
40 to 43. Annual Report 2014
55 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Corporate governance report
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
To enable the Board to confirm that the Annual Report taken as a 
whole is fair, balanced and understandable, a process was approved  
by the Committee which involved establishing a steering committee 
consisting of stakeholders from Corporate Affairs, Investor Relations, 
Group Finance, the Bigger Picture, Company Secretariat and Legal, 
which had oversight of the production of the Annual Report. 
Comprehensive due diligence procedures and guidance were 
developed to assist with the review process and requirements of  
the Code. The Disclosure Committee maintained oversight of the 
review process and submitted certification to the Committee prior to 
approval that the necessary compliance requirements had been met.
Disclosure controls and procedures
The Company maintains disclosure controls, procedures and systems 
that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed 
as part of the Company’s UK listing obligations is accumulated and 
communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO, as 
appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
Auditor independence
For the year ended 30 June 2014, the Committee has reviewed audit 
independence and scope of non-audit services and independence 
safeguards with Deloitte LLP (“Deloitte”), the Group’s external auditor. 
As part of the review, the Audit Committee has received and reviewed 
confirmation in writing that, in Deloitte’s professional judgement, 
Deloitte is independent within the meaning of all UK regulatory  
and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit 
engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
The Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the objectivity 
and independence of Deloitte was not in any way impaired by either 
the nature of the non-audit related services undertaken during the 
year, the level of non-audit fees charged, or any other facts or 
circumstances. Audit and non-audit services provided during the year 
were approved by the Committee. An analysis of auditor remuneration 
is disclosed in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
Audit and non-audit services
The Group has a policy on the provision by the external auditor of audit 
and non-audit services, which categorises such services between:
• Those services which the auditor is not permitted to provide;
• Those services which are acceptable for the auditor to provide and 
the provision of which has been pre-approved by the Committee; 
and
• Those services for which the specific approval of the Committee  
is required before the auditor is permitted to provide the service.
The policy defines the types of services falling under each category 
and sets out the criteria which need to be met and the internal 
approval mechanisms required to be completed prior to any 
engagement. An analysis of all services provided by the external 
auditor is reviewed by the Committee on a quarterly basis.
During the year, the following examples were deemed to be  
pre-approved in accordance with the policy.
• Comfort procedures in relation to debt programme update
• Assurance of certain KPIs for the Bigger Picture Review
Effectiveness of external auditor process
During the year, the effectiveness of the audit process was assessed 
by the Committee, Group Finance team and other key internal 
stakeholders in the form of a questionnaire. The areas under  
review were:
• Quality, resources and scope of planning of the audit
• Objectivity, independence and transparency of the audit
• Identification of key accounting judgements, significant audit  
and accounting issues
• Level of technical knowledge and professional scepticism
• Understanding Sky as a business, its values and culture and 
challenges it faces
• Quality of reporting and communications to the Audit Committee
The responses to the assessment were discussed which confirmed 
that Deloitte are performing as expected. Deloitte continue to 
demonstrate strengths in the majority of these areas. 
There are no significant findings from the assessment and Deloitte 
continue to carry out an effective and robust external audit.
Audit partner rotation
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible 
for the engagement every five years. The current lead partner started 
his term of office in relation to the 2010/11 financial year. As the audit 
partner enters the fifth year of engagement with the Company,  
it has been agreed that a new audit partner be invited to Committee 
meetings to ensure a smooth and orderly transition. In terms of orderly 
succession and to safeguard challenge and objectivity, the current 
audit partner will rotate after the 2014/15 audit.
Tenure of external auditor
The regulatory regime relating to mandatory audit tendering has 
significantly changed in the UK and Europe. The Committee is closely 
monitoring these developments and taking into account that  
Deloitte has been the external auditor of the Company since June 
2002, it expects to conduct an audit tender before June 2020. The 
Committee is satisfied with the quality of challenge, scepticism  
and execution by the current auditors and takes into account the 
Committee’s annual assessment of the quality of the external audit 
process, the Company’s strategic plans and the implementation of  
the EU audit directive in the UK. Annual Report 2014
56 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Corporate governance report
Attendance at Committee Meetings
The CEO and General Counsel attend the meetings from time to time 
and the Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. 
Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee Agenda
Focus for the Committee this year has centred on the following items:
• Board and Committee composition
• Internal Board evaluation
• Review of Non-Executive Director independence
• Review of Directors’ conflicts of interest
• Succession planning
• Changes to the Listing Rules for companies with controlling 
shareholders
Activities during the year
Recruitment processes
During the year, the Committee has continued to review the 
composition of the Board and its committees. There is a formal 
recruitment process to identify candidates who meet the  
Board’s criteria. 
In the case of Adine Grate, the most recent appointment to the  
Board, the Committee engaged with Ridgeway Partners, an external 
recruitment consultancy to help identify possible candidates and run 
the recruitment process. Ridgeway Partners has no other connection 
with the Company. The timing and recruitment process of Adine’s 
appointment was started in the prior year and was completed in this 
financial year. The recruitment process includes:
• Briefing of external recruitment consultancy to ensure greater 
understanding of the Company’s requirements
• Review of a shortlist of potential candidates
• Review of candidate’s background, experience and skill set,  
and potential areas for strengthening the Board.
• Candidate interviews with members of the Committee and the CEO
Committee composition
During the year, the Committee reviewed the composition of all 
Committees and it was agreed that Adine Grate be appointed to the 
Audit Committee on 26 July 2013 and Danny Rimer would step down  
as Chairman and member of the Remuneration Committee and as  
a member of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee, 
following the Company’s AGM in November 2013. Tracy Clarke was 
identified as a suitable successor and she succeeded Danny Rimer  
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee after the Company’s 
AGM. On 24 July 2014, Martin Gilbert stepped down as a member  
of the Remuneration Committee and Adine Grate was appointed  
in his place with effect from 25 July 2014. 
Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee
Chairman’s overview
We have had an active  
year, continuing to grow  
and diversify our Board  
and Committees.
We were pleased to recommend Tracy Clarke as Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee, in place of Danny Rimer who stepped  
down as both Chairman and a member of the Remuneration 
Committee following the Company’s 2013 AGM. We further 
recommended Adine Grate to the Board of Directors and  
as a member of the Audit Committee. 
This year an internal Board evaluation process was undertaken 
following on from last year’s external evaluation. The results of  
the evaluation were encouraging and confirmed that the Board  
and its Committees continue to operate effectively with each  
of the Directors making valued and effective contributions. 
The Board as a whole welcomes the opportunity to adapt to 
innovations and change within the field, and continues to actively 
progress initiatives such as addressing gender balance on the Board, 
sourcing the right skills to complement our talented management 
team and creating robust succession plans to safeguard the 
Company’s future performance.
There were three meetings held during the year and after each 
Committee meeting, I reported to the Board on the key issues 
discussed during our meetings. You can find further information  
of how we have carried out our role and responsibilities within  
the remainder of this report. The Committee’s terms of reference  
are available on the Company’s corporate website. 
Andy Higginson
Committee Chairman 
Committee composition
Andy Higginson (Chairman)
Nick Ferguson
Dave Lewis
Arthur Siskind
Corporate governance report
(continued) Annual Report 2014
57 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Corporate governance report
Board evaluation
During the year, time was scheduled with each of the Directors  
to discuss the following:
• the effectiveness of the Board as a whole;
• the mix of skills and experience on the Board;
• the effectiveness of Board processes and procedures;
• development of the Company’s strategy; and
• the performance of Board committees. 
The Chairman of the Committee reported the findings of the evaluation 
to the Committee and the Board and noted a number of strengths:
• The quality and structure of the Directors’ induction programme 
was comprehensive
• The quality of information presented to the Board was of a high 
standard
• The most recently appointed members of the Board had embedded 
well and had strengthened the diversity of the Board
• Board strategy sessions, insight and prioritisation of projects had 
enriched Board discussion
Overall, it was concluded that the Board and its Committees continues 
to operate effectively.
Independence
During the year, all Non-Executive Directors were asked to complete 
questionnaires to enable the Committee to determine their 
independence. The Committee reviewed the questionnaires and 
recommended to the Board that there be no changes to the 
independent status of the current Independent Non-Executive 
Directors. The Non-Executive Directors who are considered by the 
Board to be independent are clearly identified on pages 46 to 47.
As noted on page 50, James Murdoch, Chase Carey, David DeVoe and 
Arthur Siskind are not considered to be independent within the meaning 
of the Code, however, following the evaluation the Committee considers 
and agrees that each of these directors continue to make a significant 
contribution to Board and Committee discussions.
The Committee’s review took into consideration the fact that  
Andy Higginson has served on the Board for more than nine years. 
Provision B.1.1 of the Code states that serving more than nine years 
could be relevant to the determination of a Non-Executive Director’s 
independence. The Committee concluded that Andy Higginson 
continues to demonstrate the essential characteristics of 
independence expected by the Board and that there are no 
relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could  
appear to affect, his judgement. In July 2013, the Board agreed that  
he should remain on the Board for an additional year in order to 
maintain a degree of certainty and smooth handover of Board and 
Committee experience and knowledge and help to integrate the 
recently appointed Independent Non-Executive Directors. Andy 
Higginson will step down at this year’s AGM.
Directors’ conflicts
The Committee reviewed the Board’s conflicts during the financial  
year and concluded that Directors’ conflicts had been appropriately 
authorised and that the process for authorisation was operating 
effectively. The Committee and the Board will continue to monitor  
and review potential conflicts of interest and take action to mitigate 
them as necessary.
Bigger Picture Committee
Chairman’s overview
During the year, the Committee 
has continued to provide 
strategic leadership in relation 
to Sky’s Bigger Picture 
initiatives.
There were two meetings during the year and after each Committee 
meeting I reported to the Board on the key issues discussed during  
the meeting. 
I am pleased to report that the Committee has seen significant 
progress across all areas of the programme, from the launch of  
Sky Academy in November 2013, to reducing environment impacts  
and working with suppliers to strengthen our approach to  
responsible sourcing.
In 2013, once again, we were identified as one of the leading companies 
in the Publishing Media sector of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. 
Progress against all of our Bigger Picture commitments and initiatives 
is detailed on pages 27 to 31 and at sky.com/biggerpicture 
The Committee believes that the focus and scale of the work being 
done continues to make a significant contribution to Sky’s ability  
to build a better business for the long term.
James Murdoch
Committee Chairman
Composition of the Committee
James Murdoch (Chairman)
Tracy Clarke
Dave Lewis
Attendance at Committee Meetings
The CEO, CFO, senior executives, representatives from Corporate 
Affairs and the Bigger Picture team attend meetings at the request  
of the Chairman. The Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary  
to the Committee. The Committee’s terms of reference are available  
on the Company’s corporate website. 
Bigger Picture Committee Agenda
Focus for the year has centred on the following items:
• A review of consumer tracker results 
• Responsible cycling and impact of our partnership with British Cycling
• Sky Rainforest Rescue
• Sky Arts Ignition
• Sky Academy
• Environmental performance Annual Report 2014
58 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Corporate governance report
Activities during the year
The Committee oversaw a number of key developments in relation  
to Sky’s Bigger Picture initiatives, notably the launch of Sky Academy 
with a target to help up to one million young people fulfil their 
potential by 2020. The development of Sky Academy as the hub  
for Sky’s commitment to enable young people has supported the 
recommendation of the Committee for greater focus on a clear set  
of initiatives with a common goal. The Committee noted the early 
progress of all strands of Sky Academy initiatives, including: reaching 
over 20,000 young people since its launch through Sky Academy  
Skills Studios and expanding into Scotland; extending our Sky Academy 
Scholarships offering with the launch of TV scholarships; reaching 
more than 95,000 young people through Sky Sports Living for Sports 
initiatives, expanding into Ireland; and making a strong start against 
our commitment to doubling the number of career opportunities 
available for young people within Sky.
The Committee also reviewed progress against Sky’s environment 
targets and accompanying commitments. The Committee noted  
that there has been a further reduction in carbon intensity by 2%  
over the last year and they discussed the potential carbon savings  
of the campus redevelopment plans and progress in implementing 
these plans. See page 79 for more information on our emissions.
Over the year, the Committee reviewed the positive progress  
made in raising consumer awareness and favourability through  
the Bigger Picture initiatives. The independent quarterly mass 
consumer survey shows further growth in awareness of Bigger  
Picture initiatives, increasing to almost 70% of customers and  
almost half of prospective customers.
The Committee expressed its support for the commencement of the 
next phase of the cycling partnership with British Cycling after a great 
year of strong pro-cycling and grassroots performance, and staff and 
stakeholder involvement. The Committee encouraged the business  
to take a stronger position in promoting safe cycling through Sky’s 
partnership with British Cycling, particularly around the use of helmets 
in marketing campaigns, and focus on mutual respect between cyclists 
and motorists.
The Committee oversaw the success of the Sky Rainforest Rescue 
partnership with WWF in reaching the overall campaign fundraising 
target of £8 million a year early. The partnership continues to drive 
efforts for the project area in Acre, Brazil, and activities to raise 
awareness in the UK of rainforest deforestation in the Amazon.
The Committee reviewed the achievements of the Sky Arts Ignition 
Memory Palace project with the V&A, along with the launch of a  
groundbreaking digital project and on-air programming in Ireland  
in partnership with Rough Magic and Opera Touring Company. 
The Committee continues to note the positive economic, social and 
environmental contribution of Sky in the UK and Ireland, through  
its approach to seeing the bigger picture. For more information  
go to sky.com/biggerpicture
Corporate governance report
(continued) Annual Report 2014
59 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ remuneration report
Annual statement from the Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our report on 
Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2014 which 
shareholders will be asked to approve at the 2014 AGM. The report 
takes account of the new regulations, how we have implemented  
our policy over the past 12 months and our proposed approach  
to executive remuneration for the next three years. Having been 
appointed to the role of Committee Chair in November, I was keen  
to gauge the views of our larger institutional shareholders on Sky’s 
approach to executive remuneration. Therefore, over the summer  
I wrote to our major shareholders outlining the changes we  
were proposing to make to our remuneration policy and met  
with the institutional voting bodies. This process of engagement  
was very constructive.
Our approach to remuneration has served Sky and its shareholders 
extremely well for many years. Our sustained focus on paying for 
performance with a high ratio of variable pay to fixed pay and the 
consistency in which we have applied our policy, has delivered 
outstanding business results. Our remuneration philosophy continues 
to motivate and retain our Executive Directors providing stability to 
the Company in an increasingly competitive and changing landscape.  
It also aligns the interests of the Executive Directors closely to those  
of our shareholders.
Executive pay at Sky remains firmly tied to the achievement of 
stretching performance goals which are linked to business strategy. 
The measures we use are based on specific areas that drive growth 
and returns to shareholders. We believe that the concept of a 
threshold, target and maximum formula to underpin annual bonus 
decisions would compromise our drive for growth so we set one clear 
and ambitious stretch target for each bonus measure every year.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan are determined annually. 
The normal award for both Executive Directors has remained the same 
for a number of years. This year the Committee decided to increase the 
level of award granted to the CFO in recognition of his broader role and 
increasing contribution. Awards vest every other year which is atypical, 
and this year there was no vesting of share awards relating to the 
current performance period. This means that if the business performs 
well next year total remuneration will spike when share awards are  
due to vest. It will then go down again the following year when there  
is no vesting.
The Committee reviews the design and effect of this plan regularly and 
continues to support the current approach as it provides consistency 
and a good balance between long and short-term thinking. Grants are 
made as a fixed number of shares rather than as a multiple of salary. 
This de-links the award from automatically increasing with salary and  
is key in driving growth and achieving strong alignment with returns  
to shareholders. 
Strong performance against key metrics has underpinned our bonus 
decisions again this year. Against a challenging backdrop, we have 
added 23% more products and 33% more customers, excluding the 
acquired O2 consumer and product base. Our investment to accelerate 
take up and usage of new connected TV services is delivering well, with 
three million Sky HD boxes connected over the year. As a consequence, 
adjusted revenue excluding ESPN is up 7% to £7.6 billion and adjusted 
basic earnings per share is flat at 60.0 pence, despite the investment 
in connected TV services and one-off step up in Premier League costs. 
The Committee therefore awarded the CEO and CFO a maximum  
bonus at 200% and 150% of salary respectively. Notwithstanding the 
outstanding performance of both Executive Directors, the Committee 
made modest base salary increases of 2.5% to the CEO and 2.96%  
to the CFO which recognises their contribution without compromising 
the philosophy of retaining a relatively low level of fixed pay versus  
our comparator group. 
The ratio of fixed pay to variable pay is 12%:88% for the CEO and 
13%:87% for the CFO, compared to the average of 23%:77% for our 
comparator group. 
The continued support of our shareholders is vital. In response  
to feedback we have received over the last 12 months and in the 
context of the new reporting regulations, we have made a number  
of changes to our remuneration policy. These changes seek  
to further protect and align shareholder interests and are set  
out in our remuneration policy on pages 60 to 66 and include:
• The introduction of a cap on annual awards under the Long Term 
Incentive Plan
• A minimum shareholding requirement for the Executive Directors
• A formal policy on malus
• More explanation and disclosure on performance outcomes
• More information on our recruitment policy
We will continue to refine and develop the structure of our report  
to provide clarity on our remuneration approach and welcome  
further feedback from our shareholders on its content.
Tracy Clarke
Remuneration Committee Chair
For further information on remuneration go to: 
Our Remuneration Policy Page 60 
Annual Remuneration Implementation Report Page 67 Annual Report 2014
60 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ remuneration report
Our Remuneration Policy
This section describes the Directors’ Remuneration Policy which shareholders will be asked to approve at the 2014 AGM. The Committee intends  
that this policy will take effect from that date and will be effective until the 2017 AGM. 
Remuneration Principles
There are five key principles which underpin the remuneration policy for our Executive Directors:
• Our approach to executive pay is aligned to the interests of our shareholders.
• We reward our people fairly and competitively to attract, motivate and retain the skills we need to deliver significant growth.
• The level of base pay is decided in the same way as for all employees, based on individual performance and experience, the size and scope  
of the role and taking account of total remuneration.
• The majority of executive pay is tied to the achievement of stretching performance goals linked to the strategic priorities for the business. 
Executive Directors will be well rewarded only if they meet or exceed the maximum performance standards set and achieve stretching levels  
of performance.
• We take care to ensure that remuneration does not inadvertently encourage inappropriate risk taking.
Our principles set the foundation for our remuneration policy and ensure that decisions made by the Committee are consistent and appropriate  
in the context of business priorities, shareholder interests and employee pay. 
Summary of the Executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The table below shows how our remuneration policy links to our business strategy and its terms of operation. Any contractual commitments  
entered into or awards made before the policy comes into effect or a person became a director will be honoured.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link
Base salary Attracts and retains 
Executive Directors  
taking account of  
personal contribution  
and size of role.
Reviewed annually, typically  
with effect from 1 July.
Salary is set relatively low versus 
the peer group of companies  
of similar market capitalisation 
to the Company.
The Committee looks at  
pay practices in selected 
international media companies.
Decisions on salary also take  
into account the performance 
and experience of the individual, 
changes in the size and scope of 
the role, and the level of salary 
awards across the business.
Any increase will be in line with 
those provided to employees 
within the Company.
Higher increases may be made  
as a result of a change in role  
or responsibility or other 
performance-based 
circumstance.
This is in line with our policy  
for all employees.
Individual and business 
performance is taken  
into account when  
reviewing salaries.
Pension Provides opportunity for 
longer-term saving and/or 
retirement provision.
Executive Directors may receive 
employer contributions into the 
BSkyB Pension Scheme, a cash 
supplement in lieu of pension,  
or a combination thereof.
All payments are made as a 
percentage of base salary.
Employer contributions to the 
pension scheme or an equivalent 
cash supplement are around 16% 
of base salary. 
N/A Annual Report 2014
61 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link
Other 
benefits
Provides Executive 
Directors with a range of 
core and fringe benefits as 
part of a competitive total 
remuneration package. 
Executive Directors are entitled  
to a range of benefits including,  
but not limited to, private medical 
insurance, life assurance, ill health 
income protection, paid holiday, 
sick pay, Sky subscription package, 
company car allowance and use  
of a company car generally for 
business travel purposes.
The Committee may make minor 
changes to benefits, or include 
other benefits that are deemed 
appropriate from time to time.
Relocation allowances and 
benefits may be provided  
where needed to assist with  
the relocation or international 
transfer of an Executive Director 
and their dependents.
Benefits provided to Executive 
Directors are broadly in line with 
those offered to all employees. 
Where exceptions are made,  
the Committee ensures that 
benefits offered are in line  
with market practice for similar 
roles in similar organisations.
N/A
Annual 
bonus
Drives and rewards the 
delivery of stretching 
annual performance goals 
aligned with the 
Company’s overall 
business strategy.
Performance measures and 
weightings are reviewed at  
the start of each year to take 
account of current business  
plans. Stretching performance 
targets are set annually.
Performance against targets  
is monitored quarterly and 
determined annually based  
on assessment of performance  
versus each target.
Payment is made only once annual 
results have been audited.
In exceptional circumstances the 
Committee will use its judgement 
to adjust bonus outcomes up  
or down to ensure alignment  
of pay with performance and  
with shareholder interests,  
within the policy maximum.
The maximum bonus 
opportunity is 200% of  
base salary, and is payable  
for the achievement of  
stretch objectives.
The minimum payment is zero. 
The Committee believes the 
concept of threshold, target and 
maximum compromises our drive 
for growth so we set one clear 
and ambitious stretch target  
for each performance measure 
every year. The achievement  
of stretch goals will result in  
a payout at maximum or 
near-maximum. The Committee 
exercises its judgement on  
the level of bonus payable for 
outcomes short of maximum.
Performance is assessed 
against a combination of 
operational and financial 
objectives which are 
determined at the start  
of the year.
The weighting of the 
measures is determined  
at the start of each year  
but each measure will have  
a maximum weighting of 40%. 
Further details are  
disclosed in the notes  
to the policy table and  
the Annual Remuneration 
Implementation Report  
on page 68.
Co-
Investment 
Plan (CIP)
Encourages personal 
investment and 
shareholder alignment; 
rewards long-term focus 
and performance 
achievement.
Executive Directors may invest  
up to half of their earned annual 
bonus in the Company’s shares.
These investment shares are 
matched on a gross basis and  
vest based on performance over  
a three-year period. Shares are 
matched by up to 1.5 shares for 
every 1 share invested in line  
with performance.
Once vested, participants  
may exercise the awards  
during a five-year period.
Participation in the plan  
is voluntary.
The maximum annual award  
is 150% of base salary.
No matching awards are capable 
of vesting if performance is 
below threshold; a 1 for 1 match 
may vest when the minimum  
of the range is met and all the 
shares vest (or 1.5 shares for 
every share invested) when the 
maximum of the range is met.
The performance measure to 
determine the vesting of the 
shares is chosen each year 
and is typically a financial 
measure such as EPS growth.
Further details on the 
performance criteria for 
threshold and maximum 
vesting are disclosed in  
the Annual Remuneration 
Implementation Report  
on pages 68 to 70. Annual Report 2014
62 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link
Long Term 
Incentive 
Plan (LTIP)
Rewards longer-term  
value creation and aligns 
Executive Directors’ 
interests with those  
of shareholders.
Awards are made annually, under 
the terms of the scheme rules, 
based on number of shares.  
This de-links the award from 
increasing automatically  
with salary adjustments. 
Vesting of awards is based on 
stretching performance over a 
three-year period. Awards are 
made in Year 1 and in Year 2 with 
vesting of both awards at the 
end of Year 3. This means that 
vesting of awards occurs every 
other year, with zero vesting  
in between.
Once vested, participants may 
exercise the awards during  
a five-year period.
In instances of gross misconduct 
all unvested LTIP awards lapse 
immediately. 
This year the Company has 
introduced a policy on malus.  
The Committee may use its 
discretion after having taken 
independent advice to withhold 
or vary downwards any unvested 
awards typically in the event of: 
• the material restatement  
of the Company’s audited 
results; or
• actions attributable to 
participants resulting in 
material reputational damage 
to the business
The Committee will determine 
how to apply this sanction  
on a case-by-case basis.
The Committee reviews the 
number of shares to be granted 
annually. A typical award for the 
CEO is 600,000 shares in any  
12-month period.
This year, the Company has 
introduced a maximum award 
level of 900,000 shares in any 
12-month period. Such awards 
will only be made in exceptional 
circumstances. 
100% of the shares vest when 
the performance criteria are  
met in full. If the minimum of  
the range is met each year  
for all measures, 26% of the 
shares vest.
Performance measures are 
typically a mix of operational 
measures and relative TSR.
Operational measures used  
in the past have included EPS, 
operating cash flow and 
revenue growth.
The weighting of the measures 
may vary but is typically 70% 
operational measures and  
30% relative TSR.
Around 650 employees are eligible for awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan. A smaller number of employees (around 130) are also invited to 
participate in the Co-Investment Plan. All employees are eligible to receive a comprehensive benefits package and the majority are eligible to receive 
either a monthly or quarterly cash incentive or an annual bonus. 
Directors’ remuneration report
Our Remuneration Policy
(continued) Annual Report 2014
63 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
Shareholder alignment
The Committee considers shareholders’ views as they are received 
during the year, at the AGM, through shareholder meetings and 
through correspondence. This year we wrote to our major shareholders 
outlining our approach to executive remuneration and the changes  
we propose to make.
We will continue to engage with our major shareholders and welcome 
feedback at any time. Should we propose to make any major changes 
to the remuneration structure we will seek the views of our major 
shareholders in advance.
The context for setting executive remuneration policy
The principles underlying our executive remuneration policy are 
aligned to those that underpin reward for our employees as a whole 
which aim to attract, motivate and retain people by offering a 
market-competitive total remuneration package. The Committee  
takes into consideration the pay and conditions of all employees  
when determining the remuneration for the Executive Directors.  
It does not consult with employees in this process.
Our performance measures and how they operate
Executive pay remains firmly tied to the achievement of stretching 
performance goals linked to business strategy. The measures we  
use are based on specific areas that drive growth and returns to 
shareholders. We believe the concept of a threshold, target and 
maximum formula would compromise our drive for growth so we  
set one clear and ambitious stretch target for each performance 
measure every year. 
Annual bonus
The performance measures for the annual bonus are determined by 
the committee based on the business priorities for the year. They are 
typically a mix of operational and financial performance measures.  
The measures are usually a combination of operating profit, operating 
cash flow, and a measure of product growth. They are all key indicators 
of the underlying performance of the business. Each year stretch 
objectives are set in the light of the Company’s annual business plan 
and the operating environment. 
Co-Investment Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan
Performance measures for the LTIP and CIP are reviewed annually  
to ensure alignment with the Company’s strategy and shareholders’ 
interests. The CIP measure is typically compound EPS growth in excess 
of RPI over the performance period, which ensures close alignment 
with our shareholders’ interests. Performance required for threshold 
and maximum vesting are described in the Annual Remuneration 
Implementation Report on page 68.
The LTIP measures are typically a mix of operational measures and 
relative TSR performance, with a 70/30 split. The operational measures 
are usually EPS growth, operating cash flow and revenue growth.  
As the conversion of profit to cash flow is a key indicator of the 
underlying performance of the business it is used as a measure  
in both the annual bonus and the LTIP.
Our LTIP vesting cycle is atypical and has served the business and 
shareholders well since it was introduced in 2005. Vesting occurs  
only every other year and as a consequence the amount of 
remuneration delivered to Executive Directors will spike every  
other year. This approach encourages focus on the longer term.  
The performance ranges for each measure are reviewed annually in the 
light of the Company’s three year plan, brokers’ forecasts and historical 
performance. Performance at the top end of the range is stretching.
Pay scenario analysis
The charts below provide an estimate of the awards that could be 
received by our Executive Directors under the remuneration policy  
for 2014 showing:
• Minimum: base salary as at 1 July 2014, plus pension and benefits  
as per the table on page 71 (fixed pay)
• Maximum: fixed pay plus maximum awards for annual bonus  
(200% of base salary for the CEO and 150% for the CFO),  
Co-Investment Plan (maximum deferral of 50% of the annual  
bonus into investment shares and full vesting of 1.5x matching 
shares) and Long Term Incentive Plan (600,000 shares for the  
CEO and 350,000 shares for the CFO)
The Committee sets one clear and ambitious stretch target for  
each performance measure. If stretch targets are met then 100%  
of maximum for the bonus is paid and the shares awarded under  
the LTIP and CIP will vest in full. There is no additional payment for 
achievement over the stretch goals. 
Awards under the LTIP are made annually but vesting occurs only every 
two years. The impact of this vesting cycle on actual realised pay is shown 
in the five year single figure remuneration table for the CEO on page 72.
Scenarios are modelled assuming a share price of £8.818 which  
is the average share price over the period 1 April to 30 June 2014  
with no allowance for share price appreciation.
Andrew Griffith, CFO
£m
0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 6.0 5.0
Long Term Incentive Plan
Co-Investment Plan
Annual Bonus
Fixed Pay
Maximum £5.4m
£0.7m
13%
Minimum 100%
17% 13% 57%
Jeremy Darroch, CEO
£m
0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 7.0 6.0 8.0 9.0 5.0 10.0
Long Term Incentive Plan
Co-Investment Plan
Annual Bonus
Fixed Pay
Maximum £9.9m
£1.1m
12%
Minimum 100%
20% 15% 53% Annual Report 2014
64 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
Other share schemes 
Management Long-Term Incentive Plan (MLTIP)
The Company also operates a MLTIP for selected employees excluding 
the Executive Directors and senior executives who participate in the 
LTIP. Awards under this scheme are made at the discretion of the CEO, 
within the parameters agreed by the Committee. The MLTIP mirrors  
the LTIP in design in order to ensure alignment between participants  
in either plan. 
Executive Share Option Schemes (Executive Schemes)
The Company has in place Approved and Unapproved Executive Share 
Option Schemes. No options have been granted since 2004 and we  
do not envisage making any future awards as part of these schemes. 
Sharesave Scheme
The Sharesave Scheme is open to UK and Irish employees and 
encourages them to make a long-term investment in the Company’s 
shares in a tax efficient way. The current legislation provides for 
employees to save up to £500 per month. Currently the limit for Sky 
employees is £250 per month although the Company may decide to 
adjust this amount in future. Options are normally exercisable after 
either three or five years from the date of grant. The price at which 
options are offered is not less than 80% of the middle-market price  
on the dealing day immediately preceding the date of invitation  
or the average of the three days preceding the date of invitation.  
It is the policy of the Company to invite employees to participate  
in the scheme following the announcement of the year end  
results. Currently, approximately 9,000 employees participate  
in these schemes.
Shareholding guidelines and share ownership
The Committee recognises the importance of aligning Executive 
Directors’ and shareholders interests through executives building up  
a significant shareholding in the Company. This year, new shareholding 
requirements have been introduced at 3x base salary for the CEO and 
2x base salary for the CFO. Executive Directors are required to build up 
their shareholding to the required levels within five years. There are no 
shareholding guidelines for Independent Non-Executive Directors but 
they are able to participate in a monthly share purchase plan. See page 
73 for further details on Directors’ interests.
How the Remuneration Committee exercises discretion 
The Committee retains discretion relating to annual bonus, LTIP and 
CIP in line with their rules and according to the remuneration policy.
These include but are not limited to:
• Timing of a grant of an award/payment
• Size of an award/bonus payment up to the maximums indicated  
in the policy table
• Determination of vesting and the application of malus for the LTIP
• Dealing with a change of control
• Determination of treatment of leavers based on the rules of the  
plan and the leaver policy
• Annual review of performance measures and weighting and targets 
of the plan from year to year
Any use of discretion within the policy framework will be explained  
in the Annual Remuneration Implementation Report. There may  
be exceptional circumstances under which the Committee may  
use discretion or judgement in the interests of the business and 
shareholders. These exceptional circumstances may be the subject  
of discussion with the Company’s major shareholders.
Remuneration on recruitment or appointment to the Board 
It is expected that the remuneration package for a new Executive 
Director will be agreed in line with the approved remuneration policy  
at the time of appointment. The Committee would seek approval from 
its major shareholders if it felt it necessary to pay more to attract the 
best candidate. The last time an executive appointment was made,  
the Committee approved a total remuneration package lower than  
the previous incumbent.
Typically base salary on appointment will take into account individual 
experience, the size and scope of the role, total remuneration and 
relevant market pay levels. Where the initial base salary is set below 
competitive levels, for example to account for someone who may be 
newly promoted to the Board, the Committee will realign salary in the 
years following appointment, assuming the required level of personal 
performance is met. The Committee will disclose its intention to do  
this at the time of appointment. 
Other elements of remuneration will be set in line with our policy 
unless specific circumstances dictate otherwise. For example,  
it may be necessary to use different performance measures initially  
for the annual bonus taking into account the time of joining in  
the financial year and responsibilities of the individual. 
The Committee may offer one-off cash and/or share-based elements 
in addition to the standard remuneration package. These will only be 
offered where it considers these to be imperative to attracting the 
best external candidate in order to compensate for elements of pay 
such as forfeited bonus entitlements and/or unvested long term 
incentive awards from an existing employer. Any buy-out of unvested 
share awards would aim to match as far as possible the vesting terms 
and the expected value of the awards being bought out. This provision 
may also include payment for any benefits in kind, pensions and other 
allowances previously provided to the individual. 
The Committee may also provide appropriate levels of relocation 
assistance and payments to external or internal appointees who are 
required to relocate either within, or to, the UK on taking up the role.
Where an internal candidate is promoted to the Board, any 
outstanding variable pay award or benefits provided in relation  
to the previous role may be paid or delivered according to the rules  
of the plan and may be adjusted to take into account the new role.  
The Committee may also make an LTIP award on appointment outside 
the annual cycle, under existing shareholder approved plans. The value 
of such an award will not exceed our normal policy maximum. 
The remuneration arrangements for any newly-appointed Executive 
Director will be disclosed in line with our regulatory obligations.
Directors’ remuneration report
Our Remuneration Policy
(continued) Annual Report 2014
65 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
Key terms of new and existing service contracts
The Committee’s policy for the Executive Directors’ service contracts  
is provided below. 
Notice period Up to one year’s notice for either party and a one year 
non-compete provision. The Company may require the 
individual to continue to fulfil current duties or may 
assign garden leave.
Payment in 
lieu of notice
One year’s salary plus an amount equal to the benefits 
and a pro-rata bonus for the period up to the 
termination date. No bonus is payable for the duration 
of the notice period unless that period is worked. 
Jeremy Darroch’s initial service contract on appointment as CFO 
commenced on 16 August 2004. The contract was revised on  
7 December 2007 when he became CEO. Andrew Griffith’s service 
contract was revised on 7 April 2008 when he was appointed CFO. 
Copies of the Executive Directors’ service contracts are available for 
inspection during normal business hours at the Company’s registered 
office on any business day and will be available at the place where the 
AGM is held from 15 minutes prior to, and during the meeting. 
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment in place for initial 
terms of three years, subject to annual reappointment at the AGM. 
These letters provide that no compensation is payable on termination 
other than accrued fees and expenses. The dates of these letters of 
appointment are detailed below:
Date of Letter of Appointment
Nick Ferguson 15 June 2004
Chase Carey 30 January 2013
Tracy Clarke 11 June 2012
David DeVoe 15 December 2004
Martin Gilbert 29 November 2011
Adine Grate 17 July 2013
Andy Higginson 1 September 2004
Dave Lewis 16 November 2012
James Murdoch 7 December 2007
Matthieu Pigasse 29 November 2011
Danny Rimer 7 April 2008
Arthur Siskind 19 November 1991
Andy Sukawaty 1 June 2013
Payments on termination and loss of office
The Company’s termination policy is shaped by the key principles that:
• contractual terms will be adhered to; and 
• the circumstances of the termination will be taken into account.
Executive Directors’ service contracts continue until the agreed 
retirement date or other date as the Company may agree and are 
terminable on no more than one year’s notice. 
The Company may terminate an Executive Director’s service contract 
by way of payment in lieu of notice, by continuing employment for the 
duration of the notice period, and/or by assigning a period of garden 
leave. The current Executive Directors’ service contracts also contain  
a non-compete provision of one year from the date of termination  
of the agreement.  Annual Report 2014
66 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
Termination ‘for cause’ and ‘without cause’: treatment of salary, bonus and benefits
In the event of termination ‘for cause’, salary and benefits would be payable only up to the date of termination. No bonus would be payable. In the 
event of termination ‘without cause’ the Executive Director would receive one year’s salary, an amount equal to the value of the benefits he would 
have been eligible to receive for one year, and a pro-rated bonus for the period from the start of the financial year up to the date of termination.  
No bonus would be payable for the year’s notice period.
Treatment of share plans on termination
Executive Directors’ entitlements to remuneration under the shareholder-approved share plans upon termination are summarised in the table below:
Plan Reasons such as death, redundancy, retirement, ill health, injury and 
disability, employing company ceasing to be part of the Group or any 
other reason at the discretion of the Committee*
Other leaver reasons such as resignation*
LTIP LTIP awards will not normally be exercisable until the normal 
vesting date, subject to the performance conditions being met. 
Award vesting will be prorated according to the portion of  
the performance period served unless the Committee  
determines otherwise.
Awards may be exercised early in certain circumstances for 
example, in the event of death or a takeover, or change in control.
All unvested shares will usually lapse on the date of leaving. 
However, the Committee has the discretion under the plan rules  
to determine whether a proportion of the shares may vest having 
taken into account any exceptional circumstances.
CIP Any investment shares held on behalf of the participant may  
be sold. Any matching awards held under the CIP will vest  
on the same terms as outlined above in relation to the LTIP.
Investment shares may be sold. Any matching award will be 
forfeited. However, the Committee has the discretion to determine 
whether a proportion of the matching award may vest having 
taken into account any exceptional circumstances.
Sharesave Options may become exercisable within 6 months, alternatively 
the participant may choose to withdraw savings. 
Options will lapse and the participant may only withdraw savings 
accrued under the savings contract.
* The share plan rules do not refer to ‘for cause’ or ‘without cause’. Termination ‘for cause’ would normally be dealt with under ‘Other leaver reasons’. Termination ‘without cause’ 
would be dealt with as any other reason at the discretion of the Committee. 
It is the Company’s policy to use its judgement when approving payments to departing Executive Directors within the provision of the plan rules.  
The Committee will take into account factors such as the circumstances and timing of the exit, the performance of the Executive Director while  
in office and the interests of shareholders. 
External appointments 
External appointments for Executive Directors are considered by the Company’s Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee to ensure they 
would not cause a conflict of interest and are then approved by the Chairman on behalf of the Board. It is the Company’s policy that remuneration 
earned from such appointments may be retained by the individual. 
Jeremy Darroch became a Non-Executive Director of Burberry Group plc in February 2014, and serves as a member of their audit, remuneration  
and nominations committees. As at 30 June 2014, Jeremy had earned £32,666. 
Andrew Griffith became a Non-Executive Director of Just Eat plc in March 2014, and serves as senior independent director, chairman of the audit 
committee and as a member of the remuneration and nominations committees. As at 30 June 2014, Andrew had earned £19,167.
Directors’ remuneration report
Our Remuneration Policy
(continued) Annual Report 2014
67 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
Remuneration of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
The table below summarises the key components of remuneration for our Chairman and Non-Executive Directors:
Element and purpose Operation
Fees Reflect individual responsibilities and 
membership of Board Committees. Attract 
Non-Executive Directors with the skills and 
experience required to oversee the 
implementation of strategy
Fees for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are reviewed 
annually having regard to independent advice and surveys.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee determines the  
fees paid to the Chairman, taking into account the complexity of the role 
and the time and commitment required. The Board of Directors determines 
the fees for the Non-Executive Directors.
Additional fees for membership of or chairmanship of a committee,  
or for other responsibilities, are payable in addition to the basic fees.  
Fee levels for 2014 are disclosed in the table on page 75.
Non-Executive Directors can elect to receive a portion of their fees in the 
Company’s shares, which are purchased on a monthly basis. Directors who 
are deemed to be affiliated with 21st Century Fox are not permitted to take 
part in this facility. Non-Executive Directors’ interests are disclosed in the 
table on page 73.
Benefits Additional benefits may be provided for business purposes, e.g. provision  
of a car to travel to/from meetings.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to join Sky’s pension plan.
Non-Executive Directors are eligible to receive a Sky subscription package.
Bonus and Share 
Plans
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any bonus or share 
scheme offered by the Company.
Notice and 
termination 
provisions
Each Non-Executive Director’s appointment is for an initial three year term. 
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors submit 
themselves for annual reappointment.
Non-Executive Directors each have a letter of appointment; these 
appointments may be terminated without notice. Any fees payable would 
be settled at the date of termination. No continuing payment of fees are 
due if a Non-Executive Director is not re-elected by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting.
Directors’ remuneration report
Annual Remuneration Implementation Report Annual Report 2014
68 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
This section sets out how our remuneration policy was implemented 
during the year ended 30 June 2014 and how it will be implemented  
for the coming year. It also sets out the link between Company 
performance and Executive Directors’ remuneration, the context  
in which our policy operates, details on our Executive Directors’ 
shareholdings and the general governance of Directors’ remuneration. 
Variable pay outcomes for the year ended  
30 June 2014
As shown on pages 36 to 38, the business has delivered another year 
of strong growth. As well as delivering a strong financial performance, 
the core businesses are growing well and new areas of business are 
accelerating. Against this background we set out below payments 
made for the annual bonus, CIP and LTIP for the performance year 
ended 30 June 2014. 
Annual bonus for 2014 performance
The annual bonus drives the achievement of annual financial and 
operational business goals. The plan for 2014 for Executive Directors 
and senior executives was based on three equally-weighted measures 
which were identified by the Committee as being key indicators  
of performance driving growth for our business and returns to  
our shareholders:
• Net Product Growth
• Adjusted Operating Profit
• Adjusted Operating Cash Flow
We believe the concept of threshold, target and maximum would 
compromise the drive for growth so one clear stretch target is set  
for each performance measure each year. 
This year we have provided more explanation on performance 
outcomes. The table in the next column sets out the Committee’s 
assessment of performance versus the three measures for the last 
performance period. The Committee sets stretching targets which 
must be delivered to achieve the business plan and for the Executive 
Directors to receive the maximum bonus. There are no payments 
above maximum for performance above these stretch targets.  
The Committee will use its judgement to assess the level of bonus if  
a stretch target is not met, taking into account personal performance, 
the performance of the other measures, the underlying performance 
of the business, and other factors which the Committee considers to 
be material to the results achieved.
Operational performance has been strong, with outperformance 
against each of our targets. Despite difficult economic market 
conditions, paid-for product growth has increased by 23% excluding 
the acquired O2 consumer and product base. Operating profit is  
also ahead of target at £1,260 million during a year of investment. 
Operating cash flow has seen another strong performance at  
£1,284 million.
Based on the excellent absolute and relative performance against  
the key bonus measures and the strong personal performance  
of both Executive Directors, the Committee has decided to award 
bonus payouts of 200% of base salary for the CEO and 150% for  
the CFO, respectively. 
Remuneration Committee’s assessment of performance outcomes 
versus targets set
Performance  
Measure Weighting Performance
Level of 
achievement
Paid-For Products Growth 33% +3.1m
Operating Profit 33% £1,260m
Operating Cash Flow 33% £1,284m
Overall Performance
Performance Key
Achievement against stretch goals (up to)
Below stretch goals
The Committee judges that disclosure of specific targets is 
commercially sensitive because we operate in a highly competitive 
market both in acquiring customers and bidding for key rights with  
a very small number of players. We therefore believe that early 
disclosure of our targets would offer an unfair competitive  
advantage and would be to the detriment of our shareholders. 
We will make retrospective disclosure when the targets are deemed  
to be no longer commercially sensitive. We anticipate this to be two 
years after the end of the performance period. 
Vesting of shares under the Co-Investment Plan 2011-2014
Under the terms of the CIP offered on 30 August 2011 for the 
performance period 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2014, Executive Directors 
voluntarily deferred 50% of their earned 2011 bonus into investment 
shares which were then matched by the company up to 1.5 times  
the gross equivalent of their investment. 
The table below shows the performance conditions for vesting of  
the matching shares: 
EPS growth performance
(annual average growth
over three-year term)
Match awarded
(number of matching shares  
awarded per investment share*)
Less than RPI +3% 0.0
RPI +3% 1.0
RPI +4% 1.17
RPI +5% 1.33
RPI +6% 1.5
More than RPI +6% 1.5
Straight line interpolation between points
* i.e. on equivalent gross basis.
The average adjusted basic EPS growth rate of 13% per year over  
the three-year period exceeds the threshold for maximum vesting.  
The Committee has agreed that the matching shares under the  
2011 CIP will vest in full on 30 August 2014.
Executive Long Term Incentive Plan 2012-2015
The next vesting of awards made under the terms of the LTIP  
will occur on 26 July 2015 for the three-year performance period  
1 July 2012 to 30 June 2015. This will include vesting of awards made  
in 2012 and 2013. Awards made in 2010 and 2011 vested in July 2013. 
Directors’ remuneration report
Annual Remuneration Implementation Report
(continued) Annual Report 2014
69 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
Long Term Incentive Plan and Co-Investment Plan Awards made in the Year (audited)
The table below sets out the LTIP and CIP awards made to Executive Directors during the year ended 30 June 2014:
No. of shares 
awarded Grant Date
Face Value on 
Date of Grant Performance Period Vesting Date
Minimum %  
of shares that 
can vest
Maximum %  
of shares that 
can vest
Long Term Incentive Plan
Jeremy Darroch 600,000 26.07.13 £4,932,000
1
01.07.12 – 30.06.15 26.07.15 0% 100%
Andrew Griffith 320,000 26.07.13 £2,630,400
1
01.07.12 – 30.06.15 26.07.15 0% 100%
Co-Investment Plan
Jeremy Darroch 162,794 28.08.13 £1,369,098
2
01.07.13 – 30.06.16 28.08.16 0% 100%
Andrew Griffith 74,249 28.08.13 £624,434
2
01.07.13 – 30.06.16 28.08.16 0% 100%
1 Market price at date of LTIP award was £8.220 on 26 July 2013.
2 Market price at date of CIP matching award was £8.410 on 28 August 2013.
Performance conditions for the Long Term Incentive Plan
Awards made in July 2013 were “Year 2” nil-cost option awards. That is, they refer back to the three year performance period beginning on 1 July 2012 
and ending on 30 June 2015, and are subject to the following performance conditions:
1. Operational targets – 70% of the award
There are three equally weighted operational performance measures, each of which is a key indicator of Sky’s continued success:
• EPS growth: a key measure of shareholder returns 
• Operating cash flow: measures our ability to generate and manage cash
• Revenue growth: core to our growth strategy 
The Committee believes that early disclosure of our targets would give an advantage to our competitors and would be to the detriment of our 
shareholders. We will make retrospective disclosure when the targets are deemed to be no longer commercially sensitive. We anticipate this  
to be two years after the end of the performance period. 
Points are awarded for performance on the three operational measures as follows:
• For EPS, two points are awarded for growth of RPI +3% per year, with the maximum ten points awarded for RPI +5% per year or more 
• For operating cash flow and revenue growth, one point is awarded for 75% achievement of ‘target’ on a sliding scale up to ten points  
for 105% or more
• One point equates to 10% of the award vesting, with maximum vesting for 21 points or more, vesting on a straight-line basis between these points. 
There is no additional award for achievement above 21 points. 
• If the minimum range is met each year for all measures, 26% of the shares vest
Annual performance measures are shown in further detail in the table below:
Average EPS Growth Operating Cash Flow Revenue Growth
Performance achieved Points awarded
Performance achieved 
(% of target) Points awarded
Performance achieved 
(% of target) Points awarded
RPI +5% p.a. 10 105% or more 10 105% or more 10
RPI + 4.5% p.a. 8 100% 8 100% 8
RPI + 4% p.a. 6 95% 6 95% 6
RPI + 3.5% p.a. 4 90% 4 90% 4
RPI + 3% p.a. 2 85% 2 85% 2
Less than RPI +3% p.a. 0 75% 1 75% 1
Less than 75% 0 Less than 75% 0
The top end of the EPS growth range was set for awards in 2012 and 2013 at RPI +5% p.a. This is equivalent to growth in earnings of 26% over three 
years if RPI is 3% a year. This level of growth in earnings was set at a level which exceeded consensus research analysts’ estimates.  Annual Report 2014
70 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
2. Relative TSR performance – 30% of the award
The Company’s TSR performance is measured relative to the TSR of  
the constituents of the FTSE 100. If the Company’s TSR performance  
is below median, the TSR element of the award lapses in full.  
For median performance, one-third of the shares subject to  
the TSR condition may vest, with all the shares vesting for upper  
quartile performance. Vesting is on a straight-line basis, between 
these points as shown below. 
TSR Vesting Schedule
Below
Median
50
30
10
55 60 65 70 75 80
Final TSR rank (%)
Payout
(% of grant)
Median
Upper Quartile
Payout
0%
10%
14%
18%
22%
26%
30%
30%
TSR
Performance
Below Median
50%
55%
60%
65%
70%
75%
100%
TSR calculations are conducted independently by Towers Watson, 
advisors to the Committee.
Performance conditions for the Co-Investment Plan
CIP awards made in 2013 are subject to the performance conditions 
set out in the table below.
EPS growth performance
(annual average growth  
over three-year term)
Match awarded
(number of matching shares  
awarded per investment share*)
Less than RPI +3% 0.0
RPI +3% 1.0
RPI +4% 1.25
RPI +5% 1.5
More than RPI +5% 1.5
Straight line interpolation between points
* i.e. on equivalent gross basis
Review of past performance
TSR performance
The graph below shows the Company’s TSR for the five years to  
30 June 2014, measured as the value of a £100 holding in ordinary 
shares at the start of the period. The performance is shown relative  
to the FTSE 100 and FTSE Media 350 indices, which represent the  
broad market indices within which the Company’s shares are traded. 
TSR is a measure of the returns that a company has provided for  
its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming 
reinvestment of dividends. Data is averaged over three months  
at the end of each financial year. 
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Value of a hypothetical £100 investment
£0
£50
£100
£150
£200
£250
£300
Sky
FTSE100
FTSE350 Media
£265
£230
£190
Directors’ remuneration report
Annual Remuneration Implementation Report
(continued) Annual Report 2014
71 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
Payments made to Executive Directors 
The table sets out total remuneration received by the Executive Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2014 and the prior year ended 30 June 2013.
The vesting pattern of awards under the LTIP is biennial; shares vest every other year over a three year performance period. This means that every 
other year no payment is due as there is no vesting of awards. The following year, assuming performance conditions are met, there will be a payment 
which covers the equivalent of two years vesting. 
The 2013 single figure for total remuneration includes vesting of a one-off additional LTIP award made in 2011 at the time of the News Corporation bid, 
as disclosed in the 2011 Report on Directors’ Remuneration. 2013 was also a vesting year for our LTIP.
Single Figure for Executive Directors’ Total Remuneration (audited)
Salary
1
 Taxable Benefits
2
Pension
3
Bonus
4
Long Term  
Incentive Plan
5
Co-Investment Plan
6
Total
£ 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014
Jeremy 
Darroch
935,000 960,700 17,122 17,907 158,564 149,491 1,823,250 1,921,400 12,525,000 n/a 1,568,046 1,831,754 17,026,982 4,881,252
Andrew 
Griffith
573,500 602,175 16,104 16,115 70,319 83,481 831,575 903,263 6,471,250 n/a 593,954 844,703 8,556,702 2,449,736
1 Executive Directors’ salaries were increased on 1 July 2013 by 2.75% for the CEO and 5.0% for the CFO reflecting their excellent performance. The increase for employees who  
were similarly categorised as outstanding performers ranged up to 10%. The average increase for employees at that time was 2.5%, rising to 3.5% for those earning less than 
£50,000 per year, with a range of 0% to 10% for performance, promotions and market adjustments.
2 Taxable benefits include company car or car allowance and healthcare.
3 Pension comprises a cash allowance in lieu of company contributions for Jeremy Darroch. Andrew Griffith became a deferred member of the pension scheme on 1 December 2013 
and received £16,667 in company contributions and £66,814 as a cash allowance.
4 Bonus shows the full amount earned shortly after year end in which the performance measures applied, including amounts deferred through the CIP. The payout for the 2013 
bonus was 195% of base salary for the CEO and 145% for the CFO. The figures for 2014 are 200% for the CEO and 150% for the CFO. The Executive Directors deferred 50% of their 
bonus into shares through the CIP in 2013 and it is anticipated they will do so for 2014.
5 Long Term Incentive Plan shows the market value of the awards vested immediately following the end of the relevant performance period. The figure for 2013 is for LTIP shares 
vested on 29 July 2013 with a share price of £8.35, and includes the vesting of the one-off additional award of 300,000 shares for the CEO and 135,000 for the CFO made in 2011 
at the time of the News Corporation bid. No LTIP shares vested for the performance period ended 30 June 2014.
6 Co-Investment Plan shows the market value of the matching shares that vested on 31 August 2013 with a share price of £8.525, and the estimated value of matching shares  
that are due to vest on 30 August 2014, using the average share price over the period 1 April to 30 June 2014 of £8.818. Annual Report 2014
72 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
CEO’s remuneration
The table below provides a summary of the total remuneration for the 
CEO over the past five years including bonus payout, LTIP and CIP vesting 
levels. The table highlights the unique structure of our remuneration 
policy, in which vesting of LTIP shares occurs every two years rather than 
the customary 12 month cycle. As our LTIP awards are made as a fixed 
number, the realised value is purely reflective of any share price growth 
over this period, keeping it aligned to shareholders’ interests. 
It should be noted that total remuneration for 2013 includes vesting  
of the one-off additional LTIP award of 300,000 shares made in 2011  
at the time of the News Corporation bid. The average annual total 
remuneration paid to the CEO over this five year period, excluding  
this one-off award is £7,553,114.
Year
Single  
figure  
of total 
remuneration
Annual  
Bonus  
payout  
against 
maximum 
opportunity 
%
LTIP 
vesting 
rates 
against 
maximum 
opportunity 
%
CIP 
vesting 
rates 
against 
maximum 
opportunity 
%
2014 4,881,252
1
100 n/a 100
2013 17,026,982
2
97.5 100 100
2012 4,550,037
3
100 n/a 100
2011 11,133,554 100 83 n/a
2010 2,678,744 100 n/a n/a
1 Includes valuation of CIP matching shares due to vest on 30 August 2014,  
using the average share price over the period 1 April to 30 June 2014 of £8.818.
2 Includes vesting of the one-off additional LTIP award of 300,000 shares  
made in 2011 at the time of the News Corporation bid. 
3 Includes first year of vesting of CIP introduced in 2010. 
Percentage change in CEO’s remuneration 
The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration 
from 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2014 compared to the average change for 
all employees. 
CEO % change All employees % change
Base Salary 2.75% 3.75% employees earning less than 
£50,000, 2.5% above £50,000
Taxable Benefits 5.8% 0%
Annual Bonus -5.3% 13.0%
Relative importance of pay spend 
The table below shows total employee costs and dividend payments  
to shareholders for 2013 and 2014.
2013 
(£m)
2014 
(£m)
Total employee costs 989 1,044
Dividend payments 441 485
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for the 
coming year to 30 June 2015
The Committee has determined that the remuneration policy will  
be implemented as set out below for the year ending 30 June 2015.
Base salary
The average salary increase for our employees, effective 1 July 2014, 
was 3.5% for those earning less than £30,000, and 2.5% for all other 
employees, with increases up to 10% for outstanding performance, 
promotions and market adjustments. Notwithstanding the 
outstanding performance of the CEO and CFO, the Committee has 
decided to make modest base salary adjustments of 2.5% for the  
CEO and the 2.96% for the CFO, effective 1 July 2014, to recognise  
their contribution without compromising the long held intent to 
maintain a well-leveraged package with a relatively low level of  
fixed pay versus our pay comparator group.
Taxable benefits and pension
No changes.
Annual Bonus and Co-Investment Plan
No changes. We expect that both of the Executive Directors will 
participate in the CIP for this year. The performance conditions  
for the vesting of shares are as per the details set out on page 70.
Long Term Incentive Plan award
The normal annual awards for the Executive Directors have remained 
unchanged for some years at 600,000 for the CEO and 320,000 for 
the CFO. The Committee agreed that Jeremy Darroch would be granted 
an award of 600,000 shares and Andrew Griffith would be granted an 
award of 350,000 shares on 25 July 2014. The adjustment for Andrew 
Griffith reflects the consolidation of his broader role and his increasing 
contribution to the business. This is the Year 1 award of the 2014-2017 
Plan. These awards will normally vest on 25 July 2017 subject to the 
performance measures being achieved. 
The performance conditions for this award remain the same as for 
those made in 2012 and 2013, and operate using the same methodology 
as set out on pages 69 and 70.
EPS growth target is as per page 69 and the TSR vesting schedule  
is as per page 70.
Directors’ remuneration report
Annual Remuneration Implementation Report
(continued) Annual Report 2014
73 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
Directors’ Share Interests
As at the end of the financial year, the CEO had beneficial ownership of 411,695 shares equivalent to 3.82 x base salary and the CFO had beneficial 
ownership of 117,903 shares, equivalent to 1.75 x base salary, using the year end closing share price of £8.93. The CEO currently exceeds the new 
shareholding guidelines. It is expected that the CFO will meet the new guidelines during the next financial year.
Interests in British Sky Broadcasting Group plc shares (audited) 
Notes
As at 30 
June 2013
Shares 
acquired 
during the 
year
As at 30 
June 2014
Executive Directors
Jeremy Darroch 1 354,575 57,120 411,695
Andrew Griffith 1, 2 114,452 26,052 117,903
Non-Executive Directors
Nick Ferguson 22,128 7,911 30,039
Chase Carey 3 – – –
Tracy Clarke 895 842 1,737
David DeVoe 3 –
Dave Lewis 705 2,049 2,754
Martin Gilbert 2,281 1,392 3,673
Adine Grate 4 – 9,194 9,194
Andy Higginson 5 6,571 949 7,520
James Murdoch 3 – – –
Matthieu Pigasse 2,477 1,287 3,764
Danny Rimer 21,122 4,580 25,702
Arthur Siskind 3 – – –
Andy Sukawaty 95 1,069 1,164
1 Interests in shares include shares purchased under the Co-Investment Plan on 28 August 2013 at a price of £8.3998
2 Andrew Griffith disposed of 22,601 ordinary shares at a price of £8.495 on 2 September 2013. These were acquired in 2010 as investment shares under the CIP and were released 
on 31 August 2013 when the matching award vested
3 The Directors associated with 21st Century Fox are not permitted to participate in the monthly share purchase plan
4 Adine Grate purchased 9,194 shares at £8.615 on 18 September 2013
5 Andy Higginson participates in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan
All interests at the date shown are beneficial and there have been no changes between 1 July and 25 July 2014.  Annual Report 2014
74 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
Outstanding share awards: Jeremy Darroch (audited)
Date of award Notes
At 30 June 
2013
Vested 
during year
Exercised 
during year
Lapsed 
during year
At 30 June 
2014
Share price 
at date of 
award
Market 
price on 
exercise
Date from 
which 
exercisable Expiry date
LTIP
29.07.10 1,2 600,000 600,000 600,000 – – £7.110 £8.35 29.07.13 29.07.18
29.07.11 1,2 900,000 900,000 900,000 – – £7.120 £8.35 29.07.13 29.07.18
26.07.12 600,000 – – – 600,000 £7.065 n/a 26.07.15 26.07.20
CIP Matching 3
27.08.09 204,425 – – – 204,425 £5.405 n/a 27.08.12 27.08.17
31.08.10 183,935 183,935 – – 183,935 £7.075 n/a 31.08.13 31.08.18
30.08.11 207,729 – – – 207,729 £6.460 n/a 30.08.14 30.08.19
28.08.12 184,149 – – – 184,149 £7.640 n/a 28.08.15 28.08.20
Sharesave
25.09.09 3,591 – – – 3,591 £4.33 n/a 01.02.15 01.08.15
Outstanding share awards: Andrew Griffith (audited)
Date of award Notes
At 30 June 
2013
Vested 
during year
Exercised 
during year
Lapsed 
during year
At 30 June 
2014
Share price 
at date of 
award
Market 
price on 
exercise
Date from 
which 
exercisable Expiry date
LTIP
29.07.10 1,2,3 320,000 320,000 320,000 – – £7.110 £8.35 29.07.13 29.07.18
29.07.11 1,2,3 455,000 455,000 455,000 – – £7.120 £8.35 29.07.13 29.07.18
26.07.12 320,000 – – – 320,000 £7.065 n/a 26.07.15 26.07.20
CIP Matching 4,5
31.08.10 69,672 69,672 69,672 – – £7.075 £8.49 31.08.13 31.08.18
30.08.11 95,793 – – – 95,793 £6.460 n/a 30.08.14 30.08.19
28.08.12 84,713 – – – 84,713 £7.640 n/a 28.08.15 28.08.20
Executive Options
01.09.03 6 44,184 – 44,184 – – £6.62 £8.35 01.09.07 01.09.13
06.08.04 6 19,819 – 19,819 – – £5.03 £8.35 06.08.08 06.08.14
Sharesave
16.09.11 1,771 – – – 1,771 £5.08 n/a 01.02.15 01.08.15
1 The shares were exercised and subsequently sold on 29 July 2013, the aggregate value received by the Executive Directors on exercise of their 2010 and 2011 LTIP awards before 
tax was £18,996,250 (2013:£4,095,588). 
2 Following the vesting of awards, participants continuing to be employed by the Company have five years to exercise their award.
3 Performance conditions relating to LTIP awards made in 2010 and 2011 were disclosed in the 2013 Annual Report. 
4 Dividends are payable on shares purchased through the CIP. During the year the Executive Directors received £134,560 (2013: £101,590).
5 Performance conditions relating to CIP matching awards can be found on page 68. 
6 The Company has not made any Executive Share Option awards since 2004.
Directors’ remuneration report
Annual Remuneration Implementation Report
(continued) Annual Report 2014
75 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
Single Figure for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors 
The following table sets out the single figure for total remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for the financial year ended 
30 June 2014 and the prior year ended 30 June 2013.
2014 Total
 Fees
1
2013 Total 
Fees
Nick Ferguson 462,375 450,000
Chase Carey 60,000 24,162
Tracy Clarke
2
95,160 78,000
David DeVoe 60,000 58,000
Dave Lewis 90,000 45,312
Martin Gilbert 105,000 94,666
Adine Grate
3
66,987 n/a
Andy Higginson 145,000 151,333
James Murdoch 95,000 93,000
Matthieu Pigasse 70,000 68,000
Danny Rimer
2
77,769 103,833
Arthur Siskind 70,000 68,000
Andy Sukawaty 70,000 5,666
1 Basic fees were increased by 2.75% with effect from 1 July 2013.
2 Tracy Clarke replaced Danny Rimer as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 21 November 2013. Danny Rimer stepped down as Chairman and member of the 
Remuneration Committee and as a member of the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee on 22 November 2013. 
3 Adine Grate was appointed Non-Executive Director on 17 July 2013 and joined the Audit Committee on 26 July 2013. 
Fees for the Chairman and base Non-Executive Director fees were increased by 2.5% effective 1 July 2014, as detailed in the table below: 
1 July 
2014 
£
1 July  
2013 
£
Chairman (all inclusive fee) 473,934 462,375
Deputy Chairman
1
30,000 30,000
Board member 61,500 60,000
Additional responsibilities
Senior Independent Director 40,000 40,000
Chairman of Committee 25,000 25,000
Member of Committee 10,000 10,000
1 The role of Deputy Chairman is not required to be filled at this present time.
Payments to past Directors and loss of office 
There were no payments made to past directors and no payments made for loss of office during the financial year. 
Shareholder voting outcomes
The Company is committed to engaging with shareholders and every year holds a meeting to talk about remuneration with major shareholders and 
institutional investor groups. This enables the Company to take shareholders’ views fully into account when making decisions about remuneration.  
At the AGM held on 22 November 2013, 77.4% of shareholders voted in favour of the Directors’ report on remuneration. 
Resolution Votes For % For Votes Against % Against Total Votes Cast Votes Withheld
Approval of the remuneration report 1,020,278,744 77.4% 297,928,375 22.6% 1,318,207,119 7,495,148
The Committee has sought the views of major shareholders since then and has made a number of important changes to the Company’s policy in 
response to this as set out in the Chairman’s statement on page 59.
Membership of the Committee
During the year ended 30 June 2014, the Committee chaired by Tracy Clarke met five times. Nick Ferguson, Martin Gilbert, and Andy Sukawaty are 
members of the Committee. Danny Rimer stepped down as Chairman and member of the Committee on 22 November 2013. Martin Gilbert stepped 
down as a member of the Committee on 24 July 2014 and Adine Grate was appointed in his place with effect from 25 July 2014. Attendance during  
the year is shown on page 50.  Annual Report 2014
76 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Directors’ remuneration report
Role of the Committee
The role of the Committee is to oversee the remuneration policy so that the Company is able to recruit, retain and motivate its Executives and  
reward their individual contributions in a fair and responsible manner. The Committee reviews the design and structure of employee incentives  
and is responsible for approving the key terms of employment for the Executive Directors or any senior executive who reports directly to the CEO.  
The full terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Company’s corporate website.
Committee activities during the year 
The table below shows a summary of the key areas discussed by the Committee during the financial year.
July 2013 November 2013 February 2014 April 2014 June 2014
Performance outcomes for 
bonus, LTIP and CIP
Target setting for 2013/14
Review draft Directors’ 
Remuneration Report
Performance update – 
bonus, LTIP and CIP
Update on 2013 reporting 
season
Shareholder feedback and 
proxy voting guidance
2014 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report 
requirements
Performance update – 
bonus, LTIP and CIP
2014 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report 
requirements
Performance update – 
bonus, LTIP and CIP
New reporting and 
implications for Sky
Policy review on 2014 
Directors’ Remuneration 
Report
Approach to Shareholder 
engagement 
Benchmarking for 
Executive Directors
Advisors to the Committee
Towers Watson acted as independent advisors to the Committee throughout the year. The Committee is satisfied that the advice it receives on 
Executive Directors’ remuneration is independent and objective. Terms of reference are monitored throughout the appointment. Towers Watson 
subscribes to the Remuneration Consultants Group’s Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration. The Code clarifies the scope and 
conduct of the role of remuneration consultants when advising UK listed companies. The fees paid to Towers Watson for their services in relation  
to directors’ pay totalled £193,612.
The CEO and the Director for People provide information and advice and attend meetings as required. The Committee is also supported by the 
Company Secretary, Finance and Human Resources functions. No individuals are involved in the decision in relation to their own remuneration.
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 25 July 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Tracy Clarke
Chairman of Remuneration Committee
Directors’ remuneration report
Annual Remuneration Implementation Report
(continued) Annual Report 2014
77 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Directors’ report and statutory disclosures
Directors’ report and statutory disclosures
of its Class B Common Stock, although, as stated above, Rupert 
Murdoch disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares of 21st Century 
Fox beneficially owned by the Murdoch Family Trust and the GCM Trust.
The Employee Share Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) was established to 
satisfy awards made to participants of the Company’s employee  
share plans. The trustees of the ESOP have waived the right to 
dividends payable in respect of the shares held by it, except to the 
extent of 0.0001% of the dividend payable on each share. At 30 June 
2014, the ESOP had an interest in 17,308,999 of the Company’s ordinary 
shares. The Trustees, who are independent of the Company, have full 
discretion on how they vote the ordinary shares held by the ESOP.
Voting rights
The Company’s Articles of Association provide that subject to any 
rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands every 
member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote, and on a 
poll every member shall have one vote for every share of which he is  
a holder. On a poll, votes may be given either personally or by proxy or  
(in the case of a corporate member) by a duly authorised representative.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting  
may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead of him.  
If a member appoints more than one proxy he must specify the 
number of shares which each proxy is entitled to exercise rights over.  
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company. Holders of the 
Company’s ordinary shares do not have cumulative voting rights.  
A voting agreement dated 21 September 2005 was entered into 
between the Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc, 21st Century Fox and 21st 
Century Fox UK Nominees Limited which became unconditional on  
4 November 2005 and caps 21st Century Fox UK Nominees Limited’s 
voting rights at any general meeting at 37.19%. The provisions of the 
voting agreement cease to apply on the first to occur of a number of 
circumstances which include the date on which a general offer is made 
by an independent person (as defined in the voting agreement) for the 
ordinary share capital of the Company. 
Restrictions on transfer of securities
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities in  
the Company, which is governed by the Articles of Association and 
prevailing legislation, nor is the Company aware of any agreements 
between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the 
transfer of securities or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Variation of rights
Subject to the Companies Act 2006, rights attached to any class  
of shares may be varied with the consent in writing of the holders  
of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class  
or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate 
general meeting of the shareholders.
Directors’ powers in relation to the Company issuing and buying  
back its own shares
At the Company’s AGM on 22 November 2013, the Company was 
granted the authority to return £500 million of capital to shareholders 
via a share buy-back programme. This authority will apply until the 
conclusion of this year’s AGM and is subject to an agreement between 
the Company and 21st Century Fox (and others) dated 25 July 2013 
whereby following any market purchases of shares by the Company, 
21st Century Fox would sell to the Company sufficient shares to 
maintain its percentage shareholding at the same level prior to those 
market purchases. 
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Corporate governance 
report on pages 48 to 58 and information contained in the Strategic 
report forms part of this Directors’ report and are incorporated  
by reference: 
The Directors present their report together with the audited 
consolidated and parent company financial statements for the  
year ended 30 June 2014.
Dividends
The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 30 June 
2014 of 20.0 pence per ordinary share which, together with the  
interim dividend of 12.0 pence paid to shareholders on 22 April 2014, 
will make a total dividend for the year of 32.0 pence (2013: 30.0 pence). 
Subject to approval at the 2014 AGM, the final dividend will be paid  
on 5 December 2014 to shareholders appearing on the register at  
the close of business on 14 November 2014.
Share capital
The Company’s issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2014 
comprised one class of ordinary shares. All of the issued ordinary 
shares are fully paid and rank equally in all respects. Further details  
of the Company’s share capital is disclosed in note 23 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Interests in voting rights
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the UK Listing 
Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTRs) is published  
on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Company’s website.  
As at 30 June 2014, the Company had been notified under DTR5  
of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
Identity of person or group
Amount 
owned
Percent of 
class
21st Century Fox UK Nominees Limited
1
611,676,643 39.14
BlackRock, Inc.
2
88,682,765 5.06
1 Direct holding which is subject to restrictions on its voting rights 
(please see “Voting rights” below).
2 Indirect holding.
There have been no changes to the above significant holdings between 
1 July and 25 July 2014.
At 25 July 2014, 39.14% of the Company’s shares are held by 21st 
Century Fox UK Nominees Limited, a company incorporated under  
the laws of England and Wales which is an indirect wholly-owned 
subsidiary of 21st Century Fox. The Murdoch Family Trust beneficially 
owns less than 1% of 21st Century Fox Class A Common Stock and 
38.4% of its Class B Common Stock. As a result of Rupert Murdoch’s 
ability to appoint certain members of the Board of Directors of the 
corporate trustee of the Murdoch Family Trust, Rupert Murdoch may 
be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the shares beneficially owned 
by the Murdoch Family Trust. Rupert Murdoch, however, disclaims any 
beneficial ownership of those shares. Also, Rupert Murdoch reports 
beneficial ownership of an additional 1% of 21st Century Fox Class B 
Common Stock. Rupert Murdoch’s reported beneficial ownership of 
21st Century Fox also includes 8,729,432 shares of Class A Common 
Stock held by the GCM Trust that is administered by independent 
trustees for the benefit of Rupert Murdoch’s minor children; however, 
Rupert Murdoch disclaims beneficial ownership of such shares. Thus, 
Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate 
less than 1% of 21st Century Fox Class A Common Stock and 39.74%   Annual Report 2014
78 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Directors’ report and statutory disclosures
Directors’ report and statutory disclosures
(continued)
Equal opportunities
The Company is an equal opportunities employer and believes that 
everyone should have full and fair consideration for all vacancies, 
promotions, training and development. Should an employee become 
disabled during their employment at Sky, where possible, the Company 
will actively retrain and adjust the environment to allow them to 
maximise the employee’s potential. Over the course of the year, the 
Company has partnered with various not-for-profit organisations with 
the aim of providing more opportunities for people with disabilities. 
Further information can be found on page 35 and at sky.com/workforsky
Diversity
The Company treats all people equally, fairly, with respect and without 
prejudice. Decisions about people’s employment with the Company  
are based on ability, performance and qualifications. This principle  
also applies when the Company makes decisions about development, 
promotion, pay and benefits.
The Company delivers some of the most diverse content and services 
available to a wide range of consumers and it values the same diversity 
within the business and promotes a culture of opportunity for all, 
regardless of background. The Company does not tolerate unfair 
treatment or discrimination at work based on ethnicity, gender, age, 
religion, disability or sexual orientation. 
As at 30 June 2014, the table below demonstrates diversity 
throughout the Group:
Male Female
Board of Directors
1
13 87% 2 13%
Senior managers
1
105 74% 36 26%
Executive direct reports to the CEO
1
7 70% 3 30%
All employees
2
14,740 66% 7,508 34%
1 As defined in the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) 
Regulations 2013.
2 Based on full-time equivalent employees from continuing operations and 
excluding people who work for our joint ventures.
2013/14 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at 
sky.com/biggerpicture
Employee involvement
Further detail on employee engagement together with the information 
on diversity and talent development can be found on pages 32 to 35.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions became mandatory 
under the Companies Act 2006 in the current financial year. 
Since 2008/09 we’ve reduced our emissions relative to revenue 
(tCO
2
e/£m) by 40%. This means we are on track to meet our target of 
halving our emissions relative to revenue (t/£m) by 2020. Our absolute 
carbon emissions have decreased by over 10% since 2008/09 as a 
result of our continued long-term investments in improving the 
efficiency of our buildings, fleet and travel despite growing significantly 
as a business. 
This year, across all of the sites that we have a degree of influence over, 
we have decreased our emissions for electricity and gas. For example, 
across our Scottish sites the new Building Management System (BMS), 
commissioned in July 2013 has allowed for better control and 
monitoring and led to reduced gas and electrical usage. Overall, 
electricity use in Scotland has decreased by almost a third. The two 
At the Company’s AGM on 1 November 2012, the Company was granted 
the authority to return £500 million of capital to shareholders via  
a share buy-back programme. This authority was subject to an 
agreement between the Company and 21st Century Fox (and others) 
dated 28 July 2012 on substantially the same terms as the 2011 Share 
Buy-Back Agreement.
At the Company’s AGM on 22 November 2011, the Company was 
granted the authority to return £750 million of capital to shareholders 
via a share buy-back programme. This authority was subject to an 
agreement between the Company and 21st Century Fox (and others) 
dated 28 July 2011 whereby following any market purchases of shares 
by the Company, 21st Century Fox would sell to the Company sufficient 
shares to maintain its percentage shareholding at the same level as 
applied prior to those market purchases. (the “2011 Share Buy-back 
Agreement”). The price payable to 21st Century Fox would be the price 
payable by the Company in respect of the relevant market purchases.
Articles of association
The Company’s Articles of Association may only be amended by special 
resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Board of Directors and their interests
The Directors who served during the year were: Nick Ferguson,  
Jeremy Darroch, Andrew Griffith, Chase Carey, Tracy Clarke, David 
DeVoe, Matthieu Pigasse, Martin Gilbert, Adine Grate, Andy Higginson, 
Dave Lewis, James Murdoch, Danny Rimer, Arthur Siskind and Andy 
Sukawaty. The biographical details of the Directors of the Company  
are given on pages 46 and 47.
The Directors’ interests in the ordinary shares and options of the 
Company are disclosed within the Directors’ remuneration report  
on pages 73 to 75.
Appointment and retirement of Directors
The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more Directors. 
Any such Director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall 
then be eligible for reappointment by the Company’s shareholders.  
At the Company’s 2014 AGM all current Executive and Non-Executive 
Directors will retire and offer themselves for reappointment in 
compliance with the Code, with the exception of Andy Higginson  
who will retire from the Board at the 2014 AGM. 
Alternate Directors
A Director may appoint any other Director or any other person to act as 
his Alternate. An Alternate Director shall be entitled to receive notice  
of and attend meetings of the Directors and committees of Directors  
of which his appointer is a member and not able to attend. The Alternate 
Director shall be entitled to vote at such meetings and generally perform 
all the functions of his appointer as a Director in his absence.
On the resignation of the appointer for any reason the Alternate 
Director shall cease to be an Alternate Director. The appointer may 
also remove his Alternate Director by notice to the Company Secretary 
signed by the appointer revoking the appointment. 
An Alternate Director shall not be entitled to fees for his service  
as an Alternate Director. 
Chase Carey, David DeVoe, Arthur Siskind and James Murdoch have 
appointed each of the others to act as their Alternate Director. Annual Report 2014
79 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Governance – Directors’ report and statutory disclosures
Significant agreements
The following significant agreements which were in force at 30 June 2014 
take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company.
Premier League
In 2012, British Sky Broadcasting Limited (a Group subsidiary) entered 
into an agreement (the “PL Licence”) with The Football Association 
Premier League Limited (the “PL ”), pursuant to which the Group was 
awarded five of seven available packages of live audio-visual rights  
for Premier League football (the seven packages are together the  
“Live Packages”) together consisting of 116 live matches per season.  
The PL will not award Live Packages containing in the aggregate more 
than 116 live matches per season to a single licensee (either on its  
own or as part of a consortium or through one or more of its related 
parties) (the “Single Buyer Rule”). Pursuant to the PL Licence, the PL  
can suspend and/or terminate all of the rights which are included in,  
or exercisable as part of, Live Packages containing in the aggregate up 
to 38 live matches per season in the event that a change of control of 
the Company occurs at any time prior to the expiry of the PL Licence 
which, if it had occurred prior to the award of the Live Packages to  
the Group, would have resulted in a breach of the Single Buyer Rule.
Revolving Credit Facility 
The Group has a £743 million syndicated revolving credit facility (“RCF”) 
with a maturity date of 31 October 2018. In the event of a change of 
control of the Company, as a result of which both S&P and Moody’s 
downgrade the Company’s credit rating below investment grade within 
90 days, the lenders can require any amounts outstanding under the 
RCF to be repaid (other than in the event that 21st Century Fox or any 
subsidiary or holding company thereof (or a subsidiary of such holding 
company) acquires such control).
21st Century Fox voting agreement
On 21 September 2005, the Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc., 21st Century 
Fox UK Nominees Limited and 21st Century Fox entered into a voting 
agreement, pursuant to which 21st Century Fox UK Nominees Limited’s 
voting rights at any general meeting are capped at 37.19% (the “Voting 
Agreement”). The provisions of the Voting Agreement cease to apply 
inter alia, on a change of control of the Company.
EMTN bond issue 
On 3 April 2007, the Group established a euro medium term note 
programme (the “EMTN Programme”) which provides the Group with  
a standardised documentation platform to allow for senior debt 
issuance in the Eurobond markets. On 7 February 2014, the programme 
was updated and expanded to become a global medium term note 
programme (the “GMTN Programme”). The maximum potential 
issuance under the GMTN Programme is £2.5 billion. On 14 May 2007, 
under the EMTN Programme, the Company issued Eurobonds 
consisting of £300 million guaranteed notes paying 6.000% interest 
and maturing on 14 May 2027 (the “Notes”). Pursuant to the final terms 
attaching to the Notes, the Company will be required to make an offer 
to redeem or purchase its Notes at its principal amount plus interest 
up to the date of redemption or repurchase if there is a change of 
control of the Company (i) which, if the Notes carry an investment 
grade credit rating, results in a downgrade to a non-investment grade 
rating or a withdrawal of that rating; or (ii) where, if the Notes carry a 
non-investment grade rating, results in a downgrade by one or more 
notches or a withdrawal of that non-investment grade rating; or (iii) 
where, if the Notes do not carry a credit rating, the Company does not 
seek such a rating or is unable to achieve such a rating, provided that 
in each case the decision to downgrade, withdraw or not to award a 
credit rating occurs within a certain period of time after the change  
of control and the relevant rating agency cites that such decision(s) 
resulted from the change of control.
biomass boilers installed this year have further decreased the gas 
usage at these sites by about 70%. Not just this but as the buildings 
are working more efficiently, the need for the heat from the biomass 
has subsequently reduced.
We measure our CO
2
e emissions in line with the greenhouse gas 
protocol. Our total gross CO
2
e emissions includes all direct Greenhouse 
Gas emissions. Our net emissions take into account the renewable 
energy procured from a renewable energy tariff with Scottish and 
Southern Energy Group. Scottish and Southern retain, on our behalf, 
the Levy Exemption Certificates and Renewable Energy Guarantee of 
Origin (REGOs). In addition, we offset our total gross emissions through 
the purchase of Voluntary Carbon Standard offsets. Historical data is 
recalculated each year in line with the latest guidelines to Defra/DECC’s 
Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and 
restated accordingly. Our CO
2
e emissions data is independently 
assured by Deloitte LLP.
More information about our environmental targets and performance 
can be found at sky.com/biggerpicture
A table detailing the emissions during the year is below.
Total CO
2
e emissions (tCO
2
e)
1
Baseline 
2008/09 2012/13 2013/14
Scope 1
2  
 20,274  20,860  20,808 
Fuel combustion (natural 
gas, diesel and vehicles) 18,453  20,580  20,350 
Operation of facilities 
(refrigerants) 1,821  280  458 
Scope 2
3  
 85,250  72,029 74,140 
Purchased electricity net 15,347  4,191  960 
Purchased electricity gross 85,250  72,008 74,138
Purchased steam – 21 2
Total (Scope 1 and 2) net 
CO
2
e emissions (tCO
2
e) 35,621  25,051  21,768 
Total (Scope 1 and 2) gross 
CO
2
e emissions (tCO
2
e) 105,524  92,889  94,948
Carbon intensity (tCO
2
e/£m revenue)
1
Baseline 
(2008/09) 2012/13 2013/14 Target 
Carbon intensity 
(tCO
2
e)/£m
20.6 12.8 12.4
Reduction in gross 
CO
2
e emissions 
relative to revenue (%)
-38 -40 -50
Notes:
1  2013/14 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at 
sky.com/biggerpicture
2  Direct greenhouse gas emissions.
3  Indirect Greenhouse Gas emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, 
heat or steam. Annual Report 2014
80 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Governance – Corporate Governance report
Directors’ report and statutory disclosures
(continued)
Branches
The Group, through various subsidiaries, has established branches  
in a number of different jurisdictions in which the business operates.
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to 
affect its future development, performance and position are set out  
in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 45. The financial position of  
the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the 
financial review on pages 36 to 38. In addition, notes 20 to 22 to the 
consolidated financial statements include details of the Group’s 
treasury activities, long-term funding arrangements, financial 
instruments and hedging activities and exposure to financial risk.
As set out above, the Group has sufficient financial resources which, 
together with internally generated cash flows, will continue to provide 
sufficient sources of liquidity to fund its current operations, including 
its contractual and commercial commitments as set out on pages 123 
to 124, its approved capital expenditure and any proposed dividends, 
and the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, 
despite the current economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed the judgement,  
at the time of approving the consolidated financial statements, that 
there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going 
concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditors
In accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 
2006, each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the 
date of approval of this report confirms that:
• so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information 
(as defined in the Companies Act 2006) of which the Company’s 
auditor is unaware; and
• the Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken 
as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit 
information (as defined) and to establish that the Company’s 
auditor is aware of that information.
Auditors
Deloitte LLP, the auditors of the Company, have expressed their 
willingness to continue in office. A resolution to reappoint them  
as the Company’s auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine 
their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Annual General Meeting
The venue and timing of the Company’s 2014 AGM is detailed in the 
notice convening the AGM which will be available for download from 
the Company’s corporate website at sky.com/corporate
By order of the Board,
Chris Taylor
Company Secretary
25 July 2014
February 2008, November 2008 and November 2012 bond issues
In February 2008, the Group entered into an indenture in respect of 
US$750 million 6.100% senior unsecured notes due 2018. In November 
2008, the Group entered into an indenture in respect of US$600 
million 9.500% senior unsecured notes due 2018. In November 2012, 
the Group updated the November 2008 indenture in respect of a 
further issuance of US$800 million 3.125% senior unsecured notes  
due November 2022. Pursuant to the final terms attaching to the 
securities, the Company will be required to make an offer to redeem  
or purchase its securities at a price equal to 101% of their principal 
amount plus accrued and unpaid interest up to the date of 
redemption or repurchase, if there is a change of control of the 
Company (i) which, if the securities carry an investment grade credit 
rating, results in a downgrade to a non-investment grade rating or  
a withdrawal of that rating; or (ii) which, if the securities carry a 
non-investment grade rating, results in a downgrade by one or more 
notches or a withdrawal of that non-investment grade rating; or (iii) 
where, if the securities do not carry a credit rating, the Company does 
not seek such a rating or is unable to achieve such a rating, provided 
that in each case the decision to downgrade, withdraw or not to award 
a credit rating occurs within a certain period of time after the change 
of control and the relevant rating agency cites that such decision(s) 
resulted from the change of control.
UK broadcasting licences
The Group is party to a number of Ofcom broadcasting licences  
for the broadcast of the Sky Channels. The Broadcasting Act 1990  
(as amended by the Broadcasting Act 1996 and the Communications 
Act) lays down a number of restrictions on those parties permitted  
to hold Ofcom broadcasting licences. Among those restricted from 
holding Ofcom broadcasting licences or from controlling a licensed 
company are (a) local authorities, (b) political bodies, (c) religious 
bodies, (d) any company controlled by any of the previous categories or 
by their officers or associates, (e) advertising agencies or any company 
controlled by such an agency or in which it holds more than a 5% 
interest. Licensees have an ongoing obligation to comply with these 
ownership restrictions. Failure by a licensee to do so (either by the 
licensee becoming a “disqualified person” or any change affecting the 
nature, characteristics or control of the licensee which would have 
precluded the original grant of the licence) may constitute a breach of 
the licence and, if not rectified, could result in revocation of the licence.
Ofcom also has a duty under the Broadcasting Acts to be satisfied 
that any person holding a broadcasting licence is fit and proper to  
hold those licences and may revoke those licences if it ceases to be  
so satisfied.
Financial instruments
Details of the Group’s use of financial instruments, together with 
information on our financial risk management objectives and policies, 
and our exposure to financial risks can be found in note 22 to the 
consolidated financial statements.
Political contributions
Political contributions of the Group in the UK during 2014 amounted  
to nil (2013: nil). Annual Report 2014
81 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Financial statements – Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report  
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law  
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors are required  
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by  
the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also 
chosen to prepare the parent Company financial statements under 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU. Under Company law, the Directors must 
not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give  
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of  
the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing these 
financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires 
that Directors:
•  properly select and apply accounting policies;
• present information, including accounting policies, in a manner  
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
•  make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue  
as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time  
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure  
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. 
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of  
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge:
1. The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs,  
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included  
in the consolidation taken as a whole;
2. The strategic report includes a fair review of the development  
and performance of the business and the position of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face; and
3. The Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole,  
are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
By order of the Board
Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
25 July 2014 25 July 2014
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities Annual Report 2014
82 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Independent Auditor’s report
Independent auditor’s report to the members  
of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Opinion on the financial statements of British Sky Broadcasting 
Group plc 
In our opinion the consolidated and Parent Company financial 
statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc:
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and Parent 
Company’s affairs as at 30 June 2014 and of their profit for the  
year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the  
European Union; and
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation as regards 
the consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements comprise the consolidated  
and company income statements, the consolidated and company 
statements of comprehensive income, the consolidated and company 
balance sheets, the consolidated and company cash flow statements, 
the consolidated and company statements of changes in equity,  
and the related notes 1 to 31. The financial reporting framework  
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and  
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Our assessment of risks significant to our audit
There has been no significant change in the Group’s operations nor in our assessment of materiality, therefore the assessed risks of material 
misstatement described below, which are those that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit,  
and directing the efforts of the engagement team, are the same risks as in the prior year: 
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
Revenue recognition
The allocation of retail subscription revenue to each element of a bundled 
transaction requires judgement, as described in the Group’s critical 
accounting policies and the use of judgement on page 95.
The risk is that inappropriate allocations could lead to non-compliance  
with accounting standards and inappropriate acceleration or deferral  
of revenue principally for new customers. 
We evaluated management’s revenue recognition policy and 
assessment in respect of accounting for bundled transactions  
against relevant accounting standards and guidance, and tested  
the implementation of the policy.
Our procedures included understanding and testing the operating 
effectiveness of controls in respect of the Group’s billing, viewing and 
customer relationship management systems and the reconciliation 
processes between these systems and with the general ledger 
accounting system. We also performed substantive analytical 
procedures over retail subscription revenue streams.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB 
As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements,  
in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied IFRSs  
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with  
IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Going Concern
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors’ 
statement on page 80 that the Group is a going concern.  
We confirm that
• we have not identified material uncertainties related to events  
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s  
ability to continue as a going concern; and
• we have concluded the Director’s use of the going concern basis  
of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements to  
be appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, 
this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
Independent Auditor’s report Annual Report 2014
83 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Financial statements – Independent Auditor’s report
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk 
General entertainment programming
Determining the timing and amount of the recognition of general 
entertainment programming expense requires judgement as set out in the 
Group’s critical accounting policies and the use of judgement on page 96.
The risk identified is that the policy selected and applied by management 
to expense general entertainment programming does not recognise the 
cost of inventory in line with the expected value from each broadcast.
We examined the amortisation method for general entertainment 
programming inventory, taking into account the differing genres  
of programmes, viewing profiles and industry benchmarks.  
Our procedures included;
• Benchmarking management’s policy against industry practice 
• Testing the design and implementation of controls over the  
addition and amortisation of general entertainment programming 
• Comparing amortisation profiles against viewing trends from 
independent source data
• Performing sensitivity analyses to understand the impact  
of selecting alternative amortisation profiles 
• Considering the impact the impact of entertainment programming 
on brand value, customer acquisition and churn; and
• Evaluating the results of our analysis on both a programme genre 
and channel basis
Capital expenditure
The assessment and timing of whether assets meet the capitalisation 
criteria set out in IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 
Intangible Assets requires judgement, as well as the selection of 
appropriate useful economic lives, as set out in the Group’s critical 
accounting policies and the use of judgement on page 95. In addition, 
determining whether there is any indication of impairment of the  
carrying value of assets also requires judgement.
As capital expenditure represents a material cost for the group, there  
is a risk that expenditure on intangible and tangible non-current assets  
is inappropriately capitalised against relevant accounting guidance  
and that assets are not recoverable at their carrying value.
We tested operating effectiveness of controls in respect of the 
capitalisation of assets and examined carrying values for impairment.
We tested all material and a sample of other capital expenditure 
projects and examined management’s assessment as to whether the 
project spend met the recognition criteria set forth in IAS 16 Property, 
Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets. Our procedures 
included understanding the business case for each project, challenging 
any core assumptions or estimates, verifying capital project 
authorisation, tracing project costs to third-party evidence and 
assessing the useful economic life attributed to the asset.
In addition, we considered whether any indicators of impairment were 
present by understanding the business rationale for each project and 
performing independent reviews for indicators of impairment, as well 
as testing management’s controls to identify impairment of assets.
We reported to the Audit Committee that our audit work on these risks was concluded satisfactorily and their own consideration of these risks  
is set out on page 54.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, within the context 
of our assessment of materiality as described below, and not to express an opinion on individual audit risks, individual items or disclosures in the 
financial statements. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the key risks described above, and we do not 
express an opinion on these individual matters. Annual Report 2014
84 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Independent Auditor’s report
Independent Auditor’s report
(continued)
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion
• we have not received all the information and explanations we  
require for our audit; or
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 
from branches not visited by us; or
• the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement  
with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if, in our 
opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration have not been 
made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited 
is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have 
nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of  
the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance  
Code. We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report 
Under the International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland),  
we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in  
the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the audited  
financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified 
any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit 
and the Directors’ statement that they consider the annual report  
is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report 
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to  
the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed. 
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or 
misleading statements.
Our assessment of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes  
it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable 
person, relying on the financial statements, would be changed or 
influenced. We use materiality in both planning the scope of our  
audit work and in evaluating the results of our work. 
We determined materiality for the Group to be £50 million (2013:  
£50 million), which is approximately 4% (2013: 4%) of adjusted pre-tax 
profit, 5% (2013: 5%) of equity and 5% (2013: 4%) of statutory profit 
before taxation.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to  
the Committee all audit differences in excess of £2.5 million (2013:  
£2.5 million), as well as differences below that threshold that in our 
view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report  
to the Audit Committee any significant disclosure matters that we 
identify when assessing the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. We confirmed to the Audit Committee that we had  
no significant disclosure matters to report. 
An overview of the scope of our audit
Our audit scope focused on the Group’s UK and Ireland operations, 
which were subject to a full scope audit for the year ended 30 June 
2014. Our audit scope encompasses all principal business units  
of the Group and substantially all of the Group’s assets, revenue  
and operating profit. All audit work was performed by the group  
audit team.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
• the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements  
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited  
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies  
Act 2006. Annual Report 2014
85 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Financial statements – Independent Auditor’s report
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor
Responsibility of Directors for the financial statements
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 
set out on page 81 the Directors are responsible for the adequacy of 
the accounting records, the preparation of the financial statements 
from those records and for being satisfied that the financial 
statements give a true and fair view.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require  
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards  
for Auditors. We confirm that, in our professional judgement,  
we are independent within the meaning of those standards and  
our objectivity is not compromised. We also comply with International 
Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit methodology 
and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are 
effective, understood and applied. Our quality controls and  
systems include our dedicated professional standards review  
team, strategically focused second partner reviews and  
independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body,  
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone 
other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body,  
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to  
the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of  
the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify 
any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on,  
or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
William Touche
(Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of  
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London
United Kingdom
25 July 2014 Annual Report 2014
86 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 30 June 2014
 Notes 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Revenue 2 7,632 7,235 
Operating expense 3 (6,471) (5,944)
Operating profit 1,161 1,291 
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 13 35 46 
Investment income 4 26 28 
Finance costs 4 (140) (108)
Profit before tax 5 1,082 1,257 
Taxation 7 (217) (278)
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 865 979 
Earnings per share from profit for the year (in pence) 
Basic 8 55.4p 60.7p
Diluted 8 54.9p 59.7p
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated income statement.
All results relate to continuing operations.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 30 June 2014
 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 865 979 
Other comprehensive income
Amounts recognised directly in equity that may subsequently be recycled to the income statement
Gain on revaluation of available-for-sale investments 104 186 
Loss on cash flow hedges (176) (27)
Tax on cash flow hedges 39 7 
 (33) 166 
Amounts reclassified and reported in the income statement
Gain (loss) on cash flow hedges 137 (48)
Tax on cash flow hedges (31) 11 
 106 (37)
Other comprehensive income for the year (net of tax) 73 129 
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 938 1,108 
All results relate to continuing operations. Annual Report 2014
87 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Financial statements – Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 30 June 2014
 Notes 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Non-current assets 
Goodwill 10 1,019 999 
Intangible assets 11 810 718 
Property, plant and equipment 12 1,088 1,041 
Investments in joint ventures and associates 13 173 164 
Available-for-sale investments 14 533 422 
Deferred tax assets 15 31 38 
Programme distribution rights 16 20 17 
Trade and other receivables 17 7 17 
Derivative financial assets 21 195 360 
  3,876 3,776 
Current assets 
Inventories 16 546 548 
Trade and other receivables 17 635 591 
Short-term deposits 21 295 595 
Cash and cash equivalents 21 1,082 815 
Derivative financial assets 21 15 20 
  2,573 2,569 
Total assets 6,449 6,345 
Current liabilities 
Borrowings 20 11 11 
Trade and other payables 18 2,286 2,023 
Current tax liabilities 128 176 
Provisions 19 48 94 
Derivative financial liabilities 21 46 13 
  2,519 2,317 
Non-current liabilities 
Borrowings 20 2,658 2,909 
Trade and other payables 18 56 63 
Provisions 19 14 14 
Derivative financial liabilities 21 129 29 
Deferred tax liabilities 15 1 1 
  2,858 3,016 
Total liabilities 5,377 5,333 
Share capital 23 781 797 
Share premium 24 1,437 1,437 
Reserves 24 (1,146) (1,222) 
Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 24 1,072 1,012 
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 6,449 6,345 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated balance sheet.
These consolidated financial statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, registered number 02247735, have been approved and authorised  
for issue by the Board of Directors on 25 July 2014 and were signed on its behalf by:
Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Annual Report 2014
88 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated financial statements
(continued)
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 30 June 2014
 Notes 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Cash flows from operating activities 
Cash generated from operations 25 1,769 1,877 
Interest received and dividends from available-for-sale investments 27 29 
Taxation paid (240) (300) 
Net cash from operating activities 1,556 1,606 
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 32 43 
Net funding to joint ventures and associates (6) (4) 
Proceeds on disposal of an investment – 4 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (241) (203) 
Purchase of intangible assets (302) (251) 
Purchase of subsidiaries (net of cash and cash equivalents purchased) (20) (197) 
Purchase of available-for-sale investments (7) (9) 
Decrease in short-term deposits 300 115 
Net cash used in investing activities (244) (502) 
Cash flows from financing activities
Net proceeds from borrowings – 498 
Repayment of obligations under finance leases (4) (1) 
Proceeds from disposal of shares in Employee Share Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) 11 15 
Purchase of own shares for ESOP (164) (69) 
Purchase of own shares for cancellation (266) (627) 
Interest paid (137) (128) 
Dividends paid to shareholders (485) (441) 
Net cash used in financing activities (1,045) (753) 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 267 351 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 815 464 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1,082 815 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated cash flow statement. Annual Report 2014
89 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Financial statements – Consolidated financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 30 June 2014
Share 
capital 
£m
Share
premium
£m
ESOP 
reserve 
£m
Hedging 
reserve 
£m
Available-
for-sale
reserve
£m
Other
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings  
£m 
Total  
share- 
holders’  
equity  
£m 
At 1 July 2012 837 1,437 (112) 68 165 399 (1,850) 944 
Profit for the year – – – – – – 979 979 
Revaluation of available-for-sale investments – – – – 186 – – 186 
Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges – – – (75) – – – (75) 
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – – 18 – – – 18 
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (57) 186 – 979 1,108 
Share-based payment – – (35) – – – 61 26 
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – – – – – 8 8 
Share buy-back programme (see note 24):   
– Purchase of own shares for cancellation (40) – – – – 40 (617) (617) 
– Financial liability for close period purchases – – – – – – (16) (16)
Dividends – – – – – – (441) (441) 
At 30 June 2013 797 1,437 (147) 11 351 439 (1,876) 1,012 
Profit for the year – – – – – – 865 865 
Revaluation of available-for-sale investments – – – – 104 – – 104 
Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges – – – (39) – – – (39) 
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – – 8 – – – 8 
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (31) 104 – 865 938
Share-based payment – – 2 – – – (95) (93) 
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – – – – – 9 9 
Share buy-back programme (see note 24):   
– Purchase of own shares for cancellation (16) – – – – 16 (250) (250) 
– Financial liability for close period purchases – – – – – – (59) (59)
Dividends – – – – – – (485) (485) 
At 30 June 2014 781 1,437 (145) (20) 455 455 (1,891) 1,072 
For a description of the nature and purpose of each equity reserve, see note 24.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this consolidated statement of changes in equity. Annual Report 2014
90 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
1. Accounting policies
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc (the “Company”) is a public limited 
company incorporated in the United Kingdom (“UK”) and registered in 
England and Wales. The consolidated financial statements include the 
Company and its subsidiaries (together, the “Group”) and its interests 
in associates and jointly-controlled entities.
a) Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards  
(“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union (“EU”), the Companies  
Act 2006 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard  
(“IAS”) Regulations. In addition, the Group also complied with IFRS  
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”).
b) Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going 
concern basis (as set out in the Directors’ Report) and on an historical 
cost basis, except for the remeasurement to fair value of certain 
financial assets and liabilities as described in the accounting policies 
below. The Group has adopted the new accounting pronouncements 
which became effective this year, none of which had any significant 
impact on the Group’s results or financial position. This includes the 
adoption of IFRS 10, “Consolidated Financial Statements”, IFRS 11,  
“Joint Arrangements”, IFRS 12, “Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities”, 
amendments to IAS 28, “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures” 
and IFRS 13, “Fair Value Measurement” where adoption on 1 July 2013  
is considered to be early adoption for the purposes of complying with 
IFRS as endorsed by the European Union.
The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday 
nearest to 30 June in each year. In fiscal year 2014, this date was 29 
June 2014, this being a 52 week year (fiscal year 2013: 30 June 2013,  
52 week year). For convenience purposes, the Group continues to date 
its consolidated financial statements as at 30 June and to refer to the 
accounting period as a “year” for reporting purposes. The Group has 
classified assets and liabilities as current when they are expected  
to be realised in, or intended for sale or consumption in, the normal 
operating cycle of the Group.
c) Basis of consolidation 
i. Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control is 
achieved where the Company has existing rights that give it the 
current ability to direct the activities that affect the Company’s 
returns and exposure or rights to variable returns from the entity. 
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements  
of the Company from the date control of the subsidiary commences 
until the date that control ceases. Intra-group balances, and  
any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising  
from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the 
consolidated financial statements. 
ii. Associates and joint ventures
Associates are entities where the Group has significant influence,  
but not control or joint control, over the relevant activities of the  
entity. Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby the parties  
that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net 
assets of the arrangement.
These consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of 
the total recognised gains and losses of associates and joint ventures 
using the equity method, from the date that significant influence or 
joint control commences to the date that it ceases, based on present 
ownership interests and excluding the possible exercise of potential 
voting rights, less any impairment losses (see accounting policy i). 
When the Group’s interest in an associate or joint venture has been 
reduced to nil because the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest 
in the associate or joint venture, the Group only provides for additional 
losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations 
to fund such losses, or where the Group has made payments on behalf 
of the associate or joint venture. Where the disposal of an investment 
in an associate or joint venture is considered to be highly probable, the 
investment ceases to be equity accounted and, instead, is classified  
as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell.
d) Goodwill
Business combinations that have occurred since 1 July 2004, the  
date of transition to IFRS (the “Transition Date”), are accounted for by 
applying the acquisition method of accounting. Following this method, 
goodwill is initially recognised on consolidation, representing the 
difference between the fair value cost of the business combination 
and the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent 
assets and liabilities assumed.
In respect of business combinations that occurred prior to the Transition 
Date, goodwill has been included at the amounts recognised under  
the Group’s UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“UK GAAP”) 
accounting policies on the Transition Date. On disposal of a subsidiary, 
associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is 
included in the determination of profit or loss on disposal, except for 
goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to the Transition 
Date, which is not reinstated and is not included in determining  
any subsequent gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses and is tested,  
at least annually, for impairment, based on the recoverable amounts  
of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated.  
Any impairment identified is recognised immediately in the income 
statement and is not subsequently reversed. The carrying amount of 
goodwill in respect of associates and joint ventures is included in the 
carrying amount of the investment in the associate or joint venture. 
Goodwill is tested for impairment in line with accounting policy i below.
e) Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (“PPE”) 
i. Intangible assets
Research expenditure is recognised in operating expense in the 
income statement as the expenditure is incurred. Development 
expenditure (relating to the application of research knowledge to  
plan or design new or substantially improved products for sale or  
use within the business) is recognised as an intangible asset from  
the point at which the Group has the intention and ability to generate 
probable future economic benefits from the development expenditure, 
that the development is technically feasible and that the subsequent 
expenditure can be measured reliably. Any other development 
expenditure is recognised in operating expense as incurred.
Other intangible assets, which are acquired by the Group separately  
or through a business combination, are initially stated at cost or fair 
value, respectively, less accumulated amortisation and impairment 
losses, other than those that are classified as held for sale, which are 
stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements Annual Report 2014
91 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Financial statements – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements
Amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is available 
for use, and is charged to the income statement through operating 
expense on a straight-line basis over the intangible asset’s estimated 
useful life, principally being a period between 1 and 25 years, unless  
the asset life is judged to be indefinite. During the year the Group 
revised the estimated useful life of certain intangible assets. The 
revisions were accounted for prospectively as a change in accounting 
estimate and as a result the amortisation charge in the current year 
has decreased by £24 million. If the useful life is indefinite or the  
asset is not yet available for use, no amortisation is charged and  
an impairment test is carried out at least annually. Other intangible 
assets are tested for impairment in line with accounting policy i below. 
ii. Property, plant and equipment
Owned PPE is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and  
any impairment losses, (see accounting policy i), other than those 
items that are classified as held for sale, which are stated at the lower 
of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. When an item of  
PPE comprises major components having different useful economic 
lives, the components are accounted for as separate items of PPE.
Assets held under finance leases, which confer rights and obligations 
similar to those attached to owned assets, are treated as PPE  
(see accounting policy n).
The cost of PPE, less estimated residual value, is depreciated in 
operating expense on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful 
life. Land and assets that are not yet available for use are not 
depreciated. Principal useful economic lives used for this purpose are: 
• Freehold buildings  25 to 40 years 
• Equipment, furniture and fixtures  3 to 20 years 
• Assets under finance leases and  Lesser of lease term and the 
leasehold improvements useful economic life of the asset 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction 
or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily 
take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use  
or sale, are added to the cost of those assets until such time as the 
assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
To the extent that the financing for a qualifying asset is part of  
the Group’s general borrowings, the interest cost to be capitalised  
is calculated based upon the weighted average cost of borrowing  
to the Group (excluding the interest on any borrowings specific  
to any qualifying assets). This is then applied to the expenditures  
on the asset.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the  
period to which they relate.
f) Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its  
exposure to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates. 
Derivatives are held at fair value from the date on which a derivative 
contract is entered into. Fair value is defined as the price that would  
be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the measurement  
date under IFRS 13 “Fair Value Measurement”. The Group calculates  
a separate credit valuation adjustment (“CVA”) or debit valuation 
adjustment (“DVA”) for each derivative based upon the net position  
for each counterparty relationship. The Group calculates the CVA 
where it has a net asset position using a quoted credit default swap 
curve for the counterparty and calculates the DVA where it has a  
net liability position using an industry proxy credit default swap  
curve for the Group. The fair value of derivative financial instruments  
is calculated by discounting future cash flows with reference to the 
benchmark Libor curve, adjusted by the relevant credit default swap 
curve. Certain derivatives held by the Group which relate to highly 
probable forecast transactions (“hedged items”), which meet 
qualifying criteria under IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition  
and Measurement” (“IAS 39”), are designated as cash flow hedges  
or fair value hedges, and are subject to cash flow hedge accounting  
or fair value hedge accounting respectively. Certain other derivatives  
held by the Group do not meet the qualifying criteria for recognition 
for accounting purposes as hedges, despite this being their economic 
function. Changes in the fair values of these derivatives are recognised 
immediately in the income statement. The Group does not hold or 
issue derivatives for speculative purposes. 
i. Derivatives that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting
Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash 
flow hedges (“cash flow hedging instruments”) are initially recognised 
in the hedging reserve. In circumstances in which the derivative used  
is a currency option, only changes in the intrinsic value of the option 
are designated under the cash flow hedging relationship, with all other 
movements being recorded immediately in the income statement. 
Amounts accumulated in the hedging reserve are subsequently 
recognised in the income statement in the periods in which the  
related hedged items are recognised in the income statement. 
At inception, the effectiveness of the Group’s cash flow hedges is 
assessed through a comparison of the principal terms of the hedging 
instrument and the underlying hedged item. The ongoing effectiveness 
of the Group’s cash flow hedges is assessed using the dollar-offset 
approach, with the expected cash flows of hedging instruments being 
compared to the expected cash flows of the hedged items. This 
assessment is used to demonstrate that each hedge relationship is 
expected to be highly effective on inception, has been highly effective 
in the period and is expected to continue to be highly effective in 
future periods. The measurement of hedge ineffectiveness for the 
Group’s hedging instruments is calculated using the hypothetical 
derivative method, with the fair values of the hedging instruments 
being compared to those of the hypothetical derivative that would 
result in the designated cash flow hedge achieving perfect hedge 
effectiveness. The excess of the cumulative change in the fair value of 
the actual hedging instrument compared to that of the hypothetical 
derivative is deemed to be hedge ineffectiveness, which is recognised 
in the income statement.
The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness,  
in accordance with IAS 39, and any relationship which has effectiveness 
outside this range is deemed to be ineffective and hedge accounting  
is suspended.
When a cash flow hedging instrument expires, is terminated or is 
exercised, or if a hedge no longer meets the qualifying criteria for 
hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in the hedging 
reserve at that time remains in the hedging reserve and is recognised 
when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income 
statement, provided that the underlying transaction is still expected 
to occur. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, 
the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in the hedging reserve  
is immediately recognised in the income statement and all future 
changes in the fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments  
are immediately recognised in the income statement.  Annual Report 2014
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
92 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued)
ii. Derivatives  that qualify for fair value hedge accounting
The Group has designated certain derivatives as fair value hedges  
as defined under IAS 39. Any changes in the fair value of the derivatives 
are recognised immediately in the income statement. The carrying 
values of the underlying hedged items are adjusted for the change in 
the fair value of the hedged risks, with the gains or losses recognised 
immediately in the income statement, offsetting the fair value 
movement on the derivative.
Prospective effectiveness is assessed quarterly, through a comparison 
of the principal terms of the hedging instrument and the underlying 
hedged item, including the likelihood of default by the derivative 
counterparty. The retrospective effectiveness of the Group’s fair  
value hedges is calculated quarterly using the cumulative dollar-offset 
approach, with movements in the fair value of the hedged item being 
compared to movements in the fair value of the hedging instrument. 
The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness and 
any relationship which has effectiveness outside this range is deemed 
to be ineffective and hedge accounting is suspended. 
iii. Embedded derivatives
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host 
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and 
characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts 
and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with unrealised 
gains or losses reported in the income statement. Embedded 
derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value from the 
inception of the host contract. Changes in fair value are recognised 
within the income statement during the period in which they arise.
g) Inventories 
i. Acquired and commissioned television programme inventories  
for broadcast
Programme inventories for broadcast are stated at the lower of cost 
and net realisable value (“NRV”), including, where applicable, estimated 
subscriber escalation payments, and net of the accumulated expense 
charged to the income statement to date. 
Such programming rights are included as inventories when the legally 
enforceable licence period commences and all of the following conditions 
have been met: (a) the cost of each programme is known or reasonably 
determinable; (b) the programme material has been accepted by the 
Group in accordance with the conditions of the rights, and (c) the 
programme is available for its first showing. Prior to being included  
in inventories, the programming rights are classified as television 
programme rights not yet available for transmission and not recorded 
as inventories on the Group’s balance sheet and are instead disclosed 
as contractual commitments (see note 26). Payments made upon 
receipt of commissioned and acquired programming, but in advance  
of the legal right to broadcast the programmes, are treated  
as prepayments. 
The cost of television programme inventories is recognised  
in the operating expense line of the income statement, primarily  
as described below: 
• Sports – 100% of the cost is recognised in the income statement  
on the first broadcast or, where the rights are for multiple seasons 
or competitions, such rights are principally recognised on  
a straight-line basis across the seasons or competitions.
• News – 100% of the cost is recognised in the income statement  
on first broadcast.
• Movies – The cost is recognised in the income statement  
on a straight-line basis over the period of broadcast rights. 
• General entertainment – The cost is recognised in the income 
statement based on the expected value of each planned broadcast.
Where programme broadcast rights are surplus to the Group’s 
requirements, and no gain is anticipated through a disposal of  
the rights, or where the programming will not be broadcast for  
any other reason, a write-down to the income statement is made.  
Any reversals of inventory write-downs are recognised as reductions  
in operating expense.
ii. Programme distribution rights
Programme distribution rights are valued at the lower of cost  
and NRV, net of the accumulated expense charged to the income 
statement to date. 
The cost of the programme distribution rights is recognised in  
the operating expense line of the income statement on an ultimate 
revenue forecast basis. 
iii. Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment
Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment are valued at the  
lower of cost and NRV, the latter of which reflects the value that  
the business expects to realise from the set-top boxes and related 
equipment in the hands of the customer, and are recognised through 
the operating expense line of the income statement. Any subsidy  
is expensed on enablement, which is the process of activating  
the viewing card during installation, so as to enable a viewer to  
view encrypted broadcast services, and effectively represents  
the completion of the installation process for new customers.  
The amount recognised in the income statement is determined on  
a weighted average cost basis, in accordance with IAS 2 “Inventory”. 
iv. Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale
Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale are valued  
at the lower of cost and NRV. The cost of raw materials, consumables 
and goods held for resale is recognised through the operating expense 
line of the income statement on a first-in-first-out basis.
h) Financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised at fair value  
plus any directly attributable transaction costs. At each balance  
sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any objective 
evidence that any financial asset is impaired. Financial assets and 
liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group 
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the financial asset  
or liability. Financial assets are derecognised from the balance sheet 
when the Group’s contractual rights to the cash flows expire or the 
Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of the financial 
asset. Financial liabilities are derecognised from the Group’s balance 
sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, 
cancelled or expires. 
1. Accounting policies (continued) Annual Report 2014
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
93 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
i. Available-for-sale investments
Equity investments intended to be held for an indefinite period  
are classified as available-for-sale investments. They are carried  
at fair value, where this can be reliably measured, with movements  
in fair value recognised directly in the available-for-sale reserve.  
Where the fair value cannot be reliably measured, the investment  
is carried at cost.
Any impairment losses in equity investments classified as available-
for-sale investments are recognised in the income statement and are 
not reversible through the income statement, and are determined with 
reference to the closing market share price at the balance sheet date. 
Any subsequent increase in the fair value of the available-for-sale 
investment above the impaired value will be recognised within the 
available-for-sale reserve.
Available-for-sale investments are included within non-current assets 
unless the carrying value is expected to be recovered principally 
through sale rather than continuing use, in which case they are 
included within current assets. On disposal, the difference between 
the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and 
any cumulative gain or loss that had previously been recognised 
directly in reserves is recognised in the income statement. 
ii. Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with 
fixed or determinable payments and, where no stated interest rate  
is applicable, are measured at the original invoice amount, if the effect  
of discounting is immaterial. Where discounting is material, trade and 
other receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. An allowance account is maintained to reduce the 
carrying value of trade and other receivables for impairment losses 
identified from objective evidence, with movements in the allowance 
account, either from increased impairment losses or reversals of 
impairment losses, being recognised in the income statement. 
iii. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank accounts, 
deposits receivable on demand and deposits with maturity dates  
of three months or less from the date of inception. Bank overdrafts 
that are repayable on demand and which form an integral part of  
the Group’s cash management are also included as a component  
of cash and cash equivalents where offset conditions are met. 
iv. Short-term deposits
This includes short-term deposits which have maturity dates of  
more than three months from inception. These deposits are initially 
recognised at fair value, and then carried at amortised cost through 
the income statement less any allowance for impairment losses. 
v. Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are non-derivative financial liabilities and  
are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Trade and other payables with no stated interest rate are measured  
at the original invoice amount if the effect of discounting is immaterial. 
vi. Borrowings
Borrowings are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue 
costs. Finance charges, including any premium payable on settlement 
or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals 
basis in the income statement using the effective interest method  
and are added to the carrying amount of the underlying instrument  
to which they relate, to the extent that they are not settled in the 
period in which they arise.
i) Impairment
At each balance sheet date, in accordance with IAS 36 “Impairment  
of Assets”, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of all its assets 
excluding inventories (see accounting policy g), non-current assets 
classified as held for sale, financial assets (see accounting policy h)  
and deferred taxation (see accounting policy o) to determine whether 
there is any indication that any of those assets have suffered an 
impairment loss.
An impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the 
carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its 
recoverable amount. An impairment of an investment in a joint venture 
or associate is recognised within the share of profit from joint ventures 
and associates. The recoverable amount is the greater of net selling 
price, defined as the fair value less costs to sell, and value in use.  
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and 
risks specific to the asset. Where it is not possible to estimate the 
recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the 
recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset 
belongs. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating 
units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to those units, and then to reduce the carrying amount of 
other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
An impairment loss for an individual asset or cash generating unit will 
be reversed if there has been a change in estimates used to determine 
the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised 
and is only reversed to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount 
does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 
determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment  
loss had been recognised. Impairment of goodwill is not reversed.
j) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a probable, present 
legal or constructive obligation to make a transfer of economic 
benefits as a result of past events where a reliable estimate is 
available. The amounts recognised represent the Group’s best 
estimate of the transfer of benefits that will be required to settle  
the obligation as of the balance sheet date. Provisions are discounted 
if the effect of the time value of money is material using a pre-tax 
market rate adjusted for risks specific to the liability.
k) ESOP reserve
Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Company’s own 
equity shares, the cost of those shares, including any attributable 
transaction costs, is presented within the ESOP reserve as a deduction 
in shareholders’ equity in the consolidated financial statements. Annual Report 2014
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
94 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued)
l) Revenue recognition
Revenue, which excludes value added tax and transactions between 
Group companies, represents the gross inflow of economic benefit 
from Sky’s operating activities. The Group’s main sources of revenue 
are recognised as follows: 
• Retail subscription revenue, including subscriptions for TV and 
over-the-top services, Sky Broadband and Sky Talk services,  
is recognised as the goods or services are provided, net of  
any discount given. Pay-per-view and transactional revenue  
is recognised when the event or movie is viewed.
• Wholesale revenue is recognised as the services are provided to 
cable and other retailers and is based on the number of subscribers 
taking the Sky channels, as reported to the Group by the cable  
and other retailers, and the applicable rate card or contract.
• Advertising sales revenue is recognised when the advertising  
is broadcast. Revenue generated from airtime sales, where Sky  
acts as an agent on behalf of third parties, is recognised on a  
net commission basis.
• Installation, hardware and service revenue is recognised in the 
income statement when the goods and services are activated. 
• Other revenue principally includes income from Sky Bet, technical 
platform services, third party set-top box sales, public access WiFi 
services and programme distribution fees. With the exception of Sky 
Bet revenue, other revenue is recognised, net of any discount given, 
when the relevant goods or service are provided. Sky Bet revenue is 
recognised in accordance with IAS 39 and represents income in the 
period for betting and gaming activities, defined as amounts staked 
by customers less winnings paid out.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received  
or receivable. When the Group sells a set-top box, installation or 
service and a subscription in one bundled transaction, the total 
consideration from the arrangement is allocated to each element 
based on their relative fair values. The fair value of each individual 
element is determined using vendor specific or third party evidence. 
The amount of revenue the Group recognises for delivered elements  
is limited to the cash received.
m) Employee benefits
Wages, salaries, social security contributions, bonuses payable and 
non-monetary benefits for current employees are recognised in  
the income statement as the employees’ services are rendered.
The Group provides pensions to eligible employees through defined 
contribution schemes. The amount charged to the income statement 
in the year represents the cost of contributions payable by the Group 
to the schemes in exchange for employee services rendered in that 
year. The assets of the schemes are held independently of the Group. 
Termination benefits are recognised as a liability at the earlier of when 
the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of the termination benefit 
and when the Group recognises any related restructuring costs, such 
termination being before the normal retirement date or as the result  
of an offer to encourage voluntary redundancy.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain 
employees which must be measured at fair value and recognised as  
an expense in the income statement, with a corresponding increase  
in equity. The fair values of these payments are measured at the  
dates of grant using option-pricing models, taking into account the 
terms and conditions upon which the awards are granted. The fair 
value is recognised over the period during which employees become 
unconditionally entitled to the awards, subject to the Group’s estimate 
of the number of awards which will be forfeited, either due to 
employees leaving the Group prior to vesting or due to non-market 
based performance conditions not being met. Where an award has 
market-based performance conditions, the fair value of the award is 
adjusted for the probability of achieving these via the option pricing 
model. The total amount recognised in the income statement as an 
expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards that vest, 
except where forfeiture is due to the failure to meet market-based 
performance measures. In the event of a cancellation, whether by  
the Group or by a participating employee, the compensation expense 
that would have been recognised over the remainder of the vesting 
period is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
n) Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the  
lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to 
ownership of the asset to the lessee. All other leases are classified  
as operating leases.
When the Group is a lessor, sub-lease income from operating leases  
is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
When the Group is a lessee, assets held under finance leases are 
recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value on the date  
of acquisition, or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease 
payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in  
the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and 
reductions of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate  
of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
The lease expense arising from operating leases is charged to the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Benefits received and receivable as incentives to enter into operating 
leases are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
o) Taxation, including deferred taxation
The Group’s liability for current tax is based on taxable profit for  
the year, and is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted  
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised using the balance 
sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet  
and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable 
profit. Temporary differences arising from goodwill and the initial 
recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting profit 
nor taxable profit are not provided for. Deferred tax liabilities are 
recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments  
in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except 
where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary 
difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided 
is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the 
carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
1. Accounting policies (continued) Annual Report 2014
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
95 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect an amount that is probable 
to be realised based on the weight of all available evidence. Deferred 
tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply in the period 
when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are not discounted. Deferred tax is charged or credited  
in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged  
or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also 
included within equity. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset 
when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes 
levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to  
settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
p) Distributions to equity shareholders
Dividends are recognised in the retained earnings reserve in the year  
in which they are declared.
The cost of repurchasing the Group’s own equity shares for 
cancellation (“share buy-backs”) is recorded in retained earnings.  
In addition, the nominal cost of shares repurchased is deducted  
from share capital and a matching credit is recorded in the capital 
redemption reserve.
q) Earnings per share
Basic earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for  
the year, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares  
in issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number  
of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held in the Group’s  
ESOP during the year to satisfy employee share awards.
Diluted earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for  
the year, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares  
in issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held in the Group’s ESOP 
during the year to satisfy employee share awards, plus the weighted 
average number of dilutive shares resulting from share options where 
the inclusion of these would not be antidilutive.
r) Foreign currency translation
The Group’s presentational currency is pounds sterling. Trading 
activities denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in pounds 
sterling at the applicable monthly exchange rates. Monetary assets, 
liabilities and commitments denominated in foreign currencies at the 
balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange at that date. 
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are translated to pounds sterling at the exchange rate prevailing at the 
date of the initial transaction. Gains and losses from the retranslation 
of assets and liabilities are included net in profit for the year, except  
for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities 
where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
The assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are 
translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. 
Income and expense items are translated at the applicable monthly 
average exchange rates. Any exchange differences arising are classified 
as equity and transferred to other reserves.
s) Reportable segments
IFRS 8 “Operating Segments” requires the segment information 
presented in the financial statements to be that which is used 
internally by the chief operating decision maker to evaluate the 
performance of the business and decide how to allocate resources. 
The Group has identified the Board of Directors as its chief operating 
decision maker and as the internal reporting reviewed by the Board 
focuses on the operations of the Group as a whole and does not 
identify individual operating segments, the Group has only one 
reportable segment.
t) Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments to 
existing standards that are not yet effective
The Group has not yet adopted certain new standards, amendments 
and interpretations to existing standards, which have been published 
but are only effective for our accounting periods beginning on or  
after 1 July 2014 or later periods. These new pronouncements are  
listed below: 
• Amendments to IAS 36 “Impairment of Assets”  
(effective 1 January 2014) 
• Amendments to IAS 32 “Financial Instruments: Presentation  
— Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities”  
(effective 1 January 2014) 
• Amendments to IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition  
and Measurement – Novation of Derivatives and Continuation  
of Hedge Accounting” (effective 1 January 2014) 
• Annual Improvements 2010-2012 cycle (effective 1 July 2014)*
• Annual Improvements 2011-2013 cycle (effective 1 July 2014)*
• Amendments to IFRS 11 “Accounting for Acquisitions of  
Interests in Joint Operations” (effective 1 January 2016)*
• Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 “Clarification of  
Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation”  
(effective 1 January 2016)*
• IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers”  
(effective 1 January 2017)*
• IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” (effective 1 January 2018)*
* not yet endorsed for use in the EU
The Directors are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of 
these standards, amendments and interpretations in future periods.
u) Critical accounting policies and the use of judgement
Certain accounting policies are considered to be critical to the Group. 
An accounting policy is considered to be critical if, in the Directors’ 
judgement, its selection or application materially affects the Group’s 
financial position or results. Below is a summary of the Group’s critical 
accounting policies and details of the key areas of judgement that  
are exercised in their application.  Annual Report 2014
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
96 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued)
i. Revenue (see note 2)
Selecting the appropriate timing for, and amount of, revenue to be 
recognised requires judgement. This may involve estimating the fair 
value of consideration before it is received. When the Group sells a 
set-top box, installation or service and a subscription in one bundled 
transaction, the total consideration from the arrangement is allocated 
to each element based on its relative fair value. The fair value of each 
individual element is determined using vendor specific or third party 
evidence. The amount of revenue the Group recognises for delivered 
elements is limited to the cash received. 
ii. Taxation, including deferred taxation (see notes 7 and 15)
The Group’s tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred  
tax charges. The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge necessarily 
involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain 
items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until 
resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or,  
as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
Provisions for tax contingencies require management to make 
judgements and estimates in relation to tax audit issues and exposures. 
Amounts provided are based on management’s interpretation of 
country-specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement. Tax benefits 
are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions will be 
sustained. Once considered to be probable, management reviews each 
material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken 
against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of the likely resolution 
of the issue through negotiation and/or litigation.
The amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements  
in respect of each matter are derived from the Group’s best estimation 
and judgement, as described above. However, the inherent uncertainty 
regarding the outcome of these items means the eventual resolution 
could differ from the provision and in such event the Group would  
be required to make an adjustment in a subsequent period which 
could have a material impact on the Group’s profit and loss and/or 
cash position.
The key area of judgement in respect of deferred tax accounting is  
the assessment of the expected timing and manner of realisation  
or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities held  
at the balance sheet date. In particular, assessment is required  
of whether it is probable that there will be suitable future taxable  
profits against which any deferred tax assets can be utilised. 
iii. Acquisition accounting and goodwill (see note 10)
Judgement is required in determining the fair value of identifiable 
assets, liabilities and contingent assets and liabilities assumed in a 
business combination and the fair value of the consideration payable. 
Calculating the fair values involves the use of significant estimates and 
assumptions, including expectations about future cash flows, discount 
rates and the lives of assets following purchase.
Judgement is also required in identifying the cash generating units  
to which the goodwill is associated for the purposes of goodwill 
impairment testing. Identification of cash generating units involves  
an assessment of whether assets or groups of assets generate cash 
flows that are largely independent of other assets or groups of assets. 
Goodwill is then allocated to each identified cash generating unit  
that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the business 
combinations from which goodwill has arisen. 
iv. Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment  
(see notes 11 and 12)
The assessment of the useful economic lives of these assets  
requires judgement. Depreciation and amortisation is charged to  
the income statement based on the useful economic life selected.  
This assessment requires estimation of the period over which the 
Group will benefit from the assets.
Determining whether the carrying amount of these assets has any 
indication of impairment also requires judgement. If an indication  
of impairment is identified, further judgement is required to assess 
whether the carrying amount can be supported by the net present 
value of future cash flows forecast to be derived from the asset.  
This forecast involves cash flow projections and selecting the 
appropriate discount rate.
Assessing whether assets meet the required criteria for initial 
capitalisation requires judgement. This requires a determination  
of whether the assets will result in future benefits to the Group.  
In particular, internally generated intangible assets must be assessed 
during the development phase to identify whether the Group has  
the ability and intention to complete the development successfully. 
v. Programming inventory for broadcast (see note 16)
The key area of accounting for programming inventory for broadcast 
that requires judgement is the assessment of the appropriate  
profile over which to amortise general entertainment programming. 
This assessment requires the Group to form an expectation of the 
number of times a programme will be broadcast, and the relative value 
associated with each broadcast. In order to perform this assessment, 
the Group considers the following factors: 
• The period over which the programme is expected to be shown  
on the Group’s channels. This is usually based on a combination  
of the actual period specified in the contract for the programme 
rights, and the initial expectation of when repeat broadcasts  
will be scheduled.
• The alternative programming available to the Group for scheduling 
within this period. This consideration provides the most appropriate 
information in order to estimate how frequently individual 
programmes will be shown during the period in which the Group 
holds their broadcast rights.
• The potential benefits associated with scheduling programming. 
Certain high-profile or high-quality programming titles have 
additional value to the Group as they attract new TV customers  
and encourage retention of existing TV customers. As such, these 
programmes are able to retain more value throughout their 
broadcast runs than would be indicated when considering the 
expected viewing numbers alone.
• Expectations as to the number of viewers a programme is likely  
to achieve for each individual broadcast over the contractual 
broadcast period. The number of viewers per broadcast directly 
influences advertising revenue for channels, although this 
consideration is partly influenced by the Group’s assessment  
of the potential impact of the publicly available information on its 
competitors’ scheduling intentions against planned broadcasts.
1. Accounting policies (continued) Annual Report 2014
97 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
2. Revenue
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Retail subscription 6,255 5,951
Wholesale subscription 422 396
Advertising 472 440
Installation, hardware and service 85 87
Other 398 361
7,632 7,235
Revenue arises from goods and services provided to the UK, with the exception of £478 million (2013: £461 million) which arises from services provided  
to other countries. Included within wholesale subscription revenue for the year ended 30 June 2014 is £15 million credit received following the termination 
of an escrow agreement with a current wholesale operator. 
3. Operating expense
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Programming 2,662 2,487
Direct networks 850 686
Marketing 1,215 1,117
Subscriber management and supply chain 694 673
Transmission, technology and fixed networks 460 405
Administration 590 576
6,471 5,944
Included within operating expenses for the year ended 30 June 2014 are:
• Costs of £72 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business, including amortisation of £27 million in relation  
to associated intangible assets. The costs have been recognised as follows: 
– £31 million within direct networks 
– £24 million within administration
 – £13 million within transmission, technology and fixed networks
 – £3 million within subscriber management and supply chain
 – £1 million within marketing.
• Costs of £40 million relating to a corporate restructuring and efficiency programme in the current year including an impairment of £2 million in relation to associated intangible  
and tangible assets. These costs have been recognised as follows:
 – £22 million within administration
 – £15 million within marketing
 – £3 million within subscriber management and supply chain.
• Costs of £2 million as a result of the termination of an escrow agreement with a current wholesale operator. This cost has been recognised within administration.
Included within operating expenses for the year ended 30 June 2013 are:
• Credit of £32 million relating to a credit note received following an Ofcom determination. This credit has been recognised within direct networks.
• Credit of £33 million relating to the final settlement of disputes with a former manufacturer of set-top boxes, net of associated costs and including an impairment of £6 million  
in relation to associated intangible assets. This credit has been recognised within subscriber management and supply chain.
• Costs of £31 million relating to the one-off upgrade of set-top boxes. The costs have been recognised within subscriber management and supply chain.
• Costs of £25 million relating to a programme to offer wireless connectors to selected Sky Movies customers. The costs have been recognised within subscriber management  
and supply chain.
• Costs of £15 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business, including amortisation of £4 million in relation  
to associated intangible assets. The costs have been recognised as follows: 
– £7 million within administration 
– £3 million within direct networks
 – £3 million within transmission, technology and fixed networks
 – £2 million within subscriber management and supply chain.
• Costs of £33 million relating to a corporate efficiency programme in the prior year including an impairment of £6 million in relation to associated intangible and tangible assets.  
The costs have been recognised as follows: 
– £29 million within administration 
– £1 million within programming
 – £1 million within marketing
 – £1 million within subscriber management and supply chain
 – £1 million within transmission, technology and fixed networks. Annual Report 2014
98 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
4. Investment income and finance costs
 
2014
£m
2013
£m 
Investment income
Interest on cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits 4 9 
Dividends received from available-for-sale investments 22 19 
26 28 
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Finance costs
– Interest payable and similar charges
£743 million Revolving Credit Facility (“RCF”) (2) (2) 
Guaranteed Notes (see note 20) (126) (122) 
Finance lease interest (7) (7) 
 (135) (131) 
– Other finance income (expense)
Remeasurement of borrowings and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments (not qualifying for hedge accounting) (2) 22 
Remeasurement of other derivative financial instruments (not qualifying for hedge accounting) (4) (1)
Loss arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship (31) (34) 
Gain arising on adjustment for hedged item in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 32 36 
(5) 23 
(140) (108)
Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year arose on the general borrowing pool and are calculated by  
applying a capitalisation rate of 4.9% (2013: 5.2%) to expenditure on such assets. The amount capitalised in the current year amounted  
to £4 million (2013: £2 million).
5. Profit before taxation
Profit before taxation is stated after charging:
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 2,208 1,992
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 208 176
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 228 202
Rentals on operating leases and similar arrangements 49 51
Consolidated non-current assets outside the UK were £3 million (2013: £8 million).
Foreign exchange
Foreign exchange losses recognised in the income statement during the year amounted to £2 million (2013: losses of £1 million).
Audit fees
An analysis of auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Total audit fees 1.6 1.3
Total non-audit fees 1.4 1.1
Total auditor remuneration 3.0 2.4
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company‘s annual accounts were £1.3 million (2013: £1.2 million) and fees payable  
to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation were £0.3 million (2013: £0.1 million).
Amounts paid to the auditor for non-audit fees include audit related services of £0.2 million (2013: £0.3 million), taxation services of £0.5 million  
(2013: £0.3 million), other assurance services of £0.1 million (2013: £0.3 million), other advisory services of nil (2013: nil) and transaction services  
of £0.6 million (2013: £0.2 million).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued) Annual Report 2014
99 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
6. Employee benefits and key management compensation
a) Group employee benefits
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Wages and salaries 844 781
Social security costs 101 101
Costs of employee share option schemes
(i)
60 80
Contributions to the Group’s pension schemes
(ii)
39 27
1,044 989
(i) £60 million charge relates to equity-settled share-based payments (2013: £80 million charge).
(ii) The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes. The pension charge for the year represents the cost of contributions payable by the Group to the schemes  
during the year. The amount payable to the schemes by the Group at 30 June 2014 was £5 million (2013: £2 million).
The average monthly number of full-time equivalent persons (including temporary employees) employed by the Group during the year was as follows:
 
2014 
Number
2013
Number 
Channels and services 3,477 2,701
Customer service, sales and marketing 13,035 11,943
Transmission and technology 3,257 3,651
Management and administration 1,072 1,118
20,841 19,413
There are approximately 497 (2013: 523) temporary staff included within the average number of full-time equivalent persons employed by the Group.
b) Key management compensation (see note 28d)
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Short-term employee benefits 6 6
Share-based payments 7 10
13 16
Post-employment benefits were less than £1 million (2013: less than £1 million). The amounts disclosed for key management compensation are included 
within the disclosures in note 6(a). Annual Report 2014
100 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
7. Taxation
a) Taxation recognised in the income statement
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Current tax expense
Current year 232 332 
Adjustment in respect of prior years (31) (44) 
Total current tax charge 201 288 
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 5 (20) 
Adjustment in respect of prior years 11 10 
Total deferred tax charge (credit) 16 (10) 
Taxation 217 278 
Taxation relates to a £215 million UK corporation tax charge (2013: £275 million) and £2 million overseas corporation tax charge (2013: £3 million).
b) Taxation recognised directly in equity
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Current tax credit relating to share-based payments (9) (2) 
Deferred tax credit relating to share-based payments – (6) 
Deferred tax credit relating to cash flow hedges (8) (18) 
(17) (26) 
c) Reconciliation of effective tax rate
The tax expense for the year is lower (2013: lower) than the expense that would have been charged using the blended rate of corporation tax  
in the UK (22.5%) applied to profit before tax. The applicable enacted or substantively enacted effective rate of UK corporation tax for the year  
was 22.5% (2013: 23.75%). The differences are explained below:
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Profit before tax: 1,082 1,257 
Profit before tax multiplied by blended rate of corporation tax in the UK of 22.5% (2013: 23.75%) 243 299 
Effects of:
Net effect of non-taxable/non-deductible items (8) 13 
Deferred tax write-off following tax rate change 2 – 
Adjustments in respect of prior years (20) (34) 
Taxation 217 278 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued) Annual Report 2014
101 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
8. Earnings per share
The weighted average number of shares for the year was:
 
2014 
Millions of 
shares
2013 
Millions of 
shares 
Ordinary shares 1,581 1,633 
ESOP trust ordinary shares (19) (19) 
Basic shares 1,562 1,614 
Dilutive ordinary shares from share options 14 26 
Diluted shares 1,576 1,640 
There are no share options (2013: none) which could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future, but which have been excluded from  
the calculation of diluted earnings per share as they are anti-dilutive in the year. 
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the year into the weighted average number of shares for the year.  
In order to provide a measure of underlying performance, management have chosen to present an adjusted profit for the year which excludes  
items that may distort comparability. Such items arise from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group but which 
management believes should be separately identified to help explain underlying performance.
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Reconciliation from profit for the year to adjusted profit for the year
Profit for the year 865 979 
Costs relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business 
(see note 3) 72 15
Costs relating to corporate restructuring and efficiency programmes (see note 3) 40 33 
Net credit received following termination of an escrow agreement with a current wholesale operator (see notes 2 and 3) (13) – 
Credit received following an Ofcom determination (see note 3) – (32) 
Costs relating to programme to offer wireless connectors to selected Sky Movies customers (see note 3) – 25 
Net credit received following final settlement of disputes with a former manufacturer of set-top boxes and costs 
relating to one-off upgrade of set-top boxes (see note 3) – (2) 
Remeasurement of all derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting and hedge
ineffectiveness (see note 4) 5 (23) 
Profit on disposal of joint venture (see note 13) – (9) 
Tax adjusting items and the tax effect of above items (32) (17) 
Adjusted profit for the year 937 969 
 
2014
pence
2013
pence 
Earnings per share from profit for the year
Basic 55.4p 60.7p 
Diluted 54.9p 59.7p 
Adjusted earnings per share from adjusted profit for the year
Basic 60.0p 60.0p 
Diluted 59.5p 59.1p  Annual Report 2014
102 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
9. Dividends
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Dividends declared and paid during the year  
2012 Final dividend paid: 16.20p per ordinary share – 265
2013 Interim dividend paid: 11.00p per ordinary share – 176
2013 Final dividend paid: 19.00p per ordinary share 298 –
2014 Interim dividend paid: 12.00p per ordinary share 187 –
485 441
The 2014 final dividend proposed is 20.0 pence per ordinary share being £309 million. The dividend was not declared at the balance sheet date  
and is therefore not recognised as a liability as at 30 June 2014.
Dividends are paid between Group companies out of profits available for distribution subject to, inter alia, the provisions of the companies’  
articles of association and the Companies Act 2006. The ESOP has waived its rights to dividends.
10. Goodwill
 £m 
Carrying value
At 1 July 2012 956 
Purchase of O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business 49 
Other (6)
At 30 June 2013 999 
Other 20
At 30 June 2014 1,019
Goodwill has principally arisen from the Group’s purchases of the Sports Internet Group (“SIG”), British Interactive Broadcasting (“BiB”), Easynet’s  
UK broadband network assets and residential activities, 365 Media, Amstrad, Living TV, The Cloud and the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line  
telephony business.
Goodwill, allocated by cash generating unit, is analysed as follows:
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Broadcast
(i)
870 850
Betting and gaming
(ii)
149 149
1,019 999
Impairment reviews were performed on these goodwill balances at 30 June 2014, which did not indicate impairment. 
The Broadcast unit includes intangibles with indefinite lives of £25 million (2013: £25 million).
Recoverable amounts for the cash generating units were calculated on the basis of value in use or fair value less costs to sell as appropriate,  
using cash flows calculated for the next five years as forecast by management. A long-term growth rate of 3% was applied in order to extrapolate  
cash flow projections beyond this period (2013: 3%). The cash flows of the Broadcast unit were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 8%  
(2013: 8%) and the cash flows of the Betting and gaming unit were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 10% (2013: 10%).
In determining the applicable discount rate, management applied judgement in respect of several factors, which included, inter alia: assessing  
the risk attached to future cash flows and making reference to the capital asset pricing model (the “CAPM”). Management gave consideration  
to the selection of appropriate inputs to the CAPM, which included the risk free rate, the equity risk premium and a measure of systematic risk. 
Management also considers capital structure and an appropriate cost of debt in arriving at the discount rate. 
i) Broadcast
The Broadcast unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of BiB, Easynet’s UK broadband network assets and residential activities, 365 Media’s 
content activities, Amstrad, Living TV, The Cloud and the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business. The key assumptions, on which 
forecast five-year cash flows of the Broadcast unit were based include the number of gross customer additions, the rate of churn, the average revenue  
per user, levels of programming spend, acquisition costs per customer and anticipated changes in the product mix and marketing mix of the broadcast 
activities. The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on the extrapolation of historical trends within the Group, and 
external information on expected future trends in the UK and Ireland entertainment and communications industry. 
ii) Betting and gaming
The Betting and gaming unit includes goodwill arising from the purchase of SIG and 365 Media’s betting activities. The key assumptions on  
which forecast five-year cash flows were based include the number of weekly unique users, the number of bets placed per user per week,  
the average stake per user per week and the average spend per active user per week. The values assigned to each of these assumptions  
were determined based on an extrapolation of historical trends within the unit, and external information on expected future trends in  
betting and gaming.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued) Annual Report 2014
103 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
11. Intangible assets
Internally 
generated 
intangible 
assets 
£m 
Software 
development 
(external) 
and software 
licences 
£m 
Customer
contracts
and related
customer
relationships 
£m
Other 
intangible 
assets 
£m
Internally 
generated 
intangible 
assets 
not yet 
available 
for use 
£m
Acquired 
intangible 
assets 
not yet 
available 
for use  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Cost 
At 1 July 2012 252 427 60 224 54 103 1,120 
Additions from business combinations – – 137 2 – – 139 
Additions 102 45 – 66 25 20 258 
Disposals (15) (6) – – (2) (7) (30) 
Transfers 47 59 – – (47) (59) – 
At 30 June 2013 386 525 197 292 30 57 1,487 
Additions from business combinations – – 6 2 – – 8
Additions 87 36 – 64 84 41 312 
Disposals (18) (14) – (3) – – (35) 
Transfers 43 11 – 1 (43) (12) – 
At 30 June 2014 498 558 203 356 71 86 1,772 
Amortisation 
At 1 July 2012 122 308 9 158 – – 597
Amortisation 72 55 7 57 – – 191 
Disposals (15) (6) – – (2) (7) (30) 
Impairments 2 – – – 2 7 11 
At 30 June 2013 181 357 16 215 – – 769 
Amortisation 76 53 26 71 – – 226 
Disposals (18) (14) – (3) – – (35) 
Impairments – 1 – 1 – – 2 
At 30 June 2014 239 397 42 284 – – 962 
Carrying amounts 
At 1 July 2012 130 119 51 66 54 103 523 
At 30 June 2013 205 168 181 77 30 57 718 
At 30 June 2014 259 161 161 72 71 86 810 
The Group’s internally generated intangible assets relate principally to software development associated with our customer management systems  
and set-top boxes. The Group’s other intangible assets mainly include copyright licences, connection fees and patents and brands acquired in business 
combinations.
The estimated future amortisation charge on intangible assets with finite lives for each of the next five years is set out below. It is likely that future 
amortisation will vary from the figures below as the estimate does not include the impact of any future investments, disposals or capital expenditure.
2015 
£m
2016 
£m
2017 
£m
2018  
£m 
2019  
£m 
Estimated amortisation charge 230 183 151 105 55
For intangible assets acquired in business combinations in the year, the average amortisation period is 8 years (2013: 6 years).
Other intangible assets include certain assets with indefinite useful lives. The carrying value of these assets is £25 million (2013: £25 million).  
An impairment review of the assets is performed annually as part of the Group’s review of the Broadcast CGU (note 10). Annual Report 2014
104 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
12. Property, plant and equipment
 
Freehold
land and
buildings
(i)(ii)
£m
Leasehold 
improvements 
£m 
Equipment, 
furniture 
and 
fixtures 
£m 
Assets 
not yet 
available 
for use 
£m 
Total 
£m 
Cost
At 1 July 2012 333 59 1,210 27 1,629 
Additions from business combinations – – 25 – 25 
Additions 1 1 194 48 244 
Disposals – (2) (64) – (66) 
Transfers – – 22 (22) – 
At 30 June 2013 334 58 1,387 53 1,832 
Additions 4 – 131 119 254 
Disposals – (1) (74) – (75) 
Transfers 31 – 34 (65) – 
At 30 June 2014 369 57 1,478 107 2,011
Depreciation
At 1 July 2012 40 27 614 – 681 
Depreciation 6 8 160 – 174 
Disposals – (2) (64) – (66) 
Impairments – 1 1 – 2 
At 30 June 2013 46 34 711 – 791 
Foreign exchange movements – – (1) – (1) 
Depreciation 8 7 193 – 208 
Disposals – (1) (74) – (75) 
At 30 June 2014 54 40 829 – 923 
Carrying amounts
At 1 July 2012 293 32 596 27 948 
At 30 June 2013 288 24 676 53 1,041 
At 30 June 2014 315 17 649 107 1,088 
(i) The amounts shown include assets held under finance leases with a net book value of £14 million (2013: £13 million). The cost of these assets was £23 million (2013: £20 million)  
and the accumulated depreciation was £9 million (2013: £7 million). Depreciation charged during the year on such assets was £2 million (2013: £1 million).
(ii) Depreciation was not charged on £88 million of land (2013: £88 million).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued) Annual Report 2014
105 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
13. Investments in joint ventures and associates
A list of the Group’s significant investments in joint ventures and associates, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion  
of ownership interest is given in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
The movement in joint ventures and associates during the year was as follows:
2014  
£m 
2013  
£m 
Share of net assets:
At 1 July 164 156 
Movement in net assets
– Funding, net of repayments 6 4 
– Dividends received
(i)
(32) (43) 
– Share of profits
(i)
35 46 
– Disposal of joint venture
(i)
– (1) 
– Exchange differences on translation of foreign joint ventures and associates – 2 
At 30 June 173 164 
(i) During the prior year, the Group disposed of its interest in MUTV Limited. Included in share of profits for the year is a profit on disposal of £9 million.  
Consideration received on the sale of £10 million is included within dividends received.
The Group’s share of any capital commitments and contingent liabilities of associates and joint ventures is shown in note 26.
a) Investments in associates
Representing a 100% share of two material associates, NGC Network International LLC and NGC Network Latin America LLC, in aggregate:
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Non-current assets 83 67 
Current assets 236 241 
Current liabilities (73) (86) 
Shareholders’ equity 246 222 
Group’s share of shareholders’ equity 52 47 
Consolidation and other adjustments 80 82 
Investment in associates 132 129 
Revenue 323 325 
Profit from continuing operations 106 107 
b) Investments in joint ventures
Representing the Group’s share of each joint venture:
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Non-current assets 26 19 
Current assets 66 71 
Current liabilities (74) (32) 
Non-current liabilities (1) (40) 
Shareholders’ equity 17 18 
Revenue 93 90 
Expense (77) (70) 
Taxation (3) (5) 
Share of profit from joint ventures 13 15 
The aggregate carrying amount of the investments in joint ventures and associates that are not individually material for the Group  
is £41 million as at 30 June 2014 (2013: £35 million). Annual Report 2014
106 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
14. Available-for-sale investments
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Investment in ITV at cost 946 946 
Impairment of ITV investment (807) (807) 
Realised gain on ITV investment 115 115 
Part disposal of ITV investment (196) (196) 
Unrealised gain on ITV investment 456 351 
ITV investment 514 409 
Other investments 19 13 
533 422 
On 17 November 2006, the Group acquired 696 million shares in ITV, at a price of 135 pence per share, representing 17.9% of the issued capital of ITV,  
for a total consideration of £946 million including fees and taxes. The Group’s investment in ITV is carried at fair value.
The fair value is determined with reference to its equity share price at the balance sheet date. In accordance with IFRS, the Group has recognised 
impairment losses in the years ended 30 June 2008 and 30 June 2009, the first of which was recorded at 31 December 2007 due to the significant  
and prolonged decline in the equity share price. The latest impairment loss was determined with reference to ITV’s closing equity share price  
of 20.0 pence at 27 March 2009 bringing the cumulative impairment loss to £807 million. In line with IFRS, all subsequent increases in the fair  
value of the ITV investment above this impaired value have been recorded in the available-for-sale reserve.
On 8 February 2010, the Group placed a shareholding of 10.4% in ITV in accordance with the final undertakings given by the Group to the Secretary  
of State for Business, Innovation and Skills relating to the Group’s investment in ITV. The placing by the Group of 404,362,095 ITV shares at 48.5 pence  
per share resulted in aggregate consideration of £196 million. A profit of £115 million was realised on disposal being the excess of the consideration  
above the impaired value of the shares. The disposal was exempt from tax under the provisions of the Substantial Shareholding Exemption (“SSE”)  
and as such the SSE provisions prevented any capital loss arising for tax purposes. 
At 30 June 2014 the Group held 7.23% of the shares in ITV. On 17 July 2014, the Group sold a shareholding of approximately 6.4% in ITV, consisting  
of 259,820,065 ITV shares. For further details refer to note 29. The disposal of these shares in ITV will not be eligible for SSE but the gain on disposal  
of the shares will be covered by capital losses.
15. Deferred tax
i) Recognised deferred tax assets (liabilities)
 
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation 
£m 
Tax losses 
£m 
Short-term 
temporary 
differences 
£m 
Share-based 
payments 
temporary 
differences 
£m 
Financial 
instruments 
temporary 
differences 
£m 
Total 
£m 
At 1 July 2012 12 1 6 26 (30) 15 
(Charge) credit to income (2) (1) – 18 (5) 10 
Credit to equity – – – 6 18 24 
Acquisition of subsidiaries (12) – – – – (12) 
Effect of change in tax rate
– Income 1 – (1) (1) 1 – 
At 30 June 2013 (1) – 5 49 (16) 37 
Credit (charge) to income 4 – (1) (18) 1 (14) 
Credit to equity – – – 1 9 10 
Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 – – – – 1 
Effect of change in tax rate
– Income – – – (3) 1 (2) 
– Equity – – – (1) (1) (2) 
At 30 June 2014 4 – 4 28 (6) 30 
Deferred tax assets have been recognised at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 on the basis that, from management’s current forecast of the Group’s 
entities, it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits against which these assets can be utilised. Tax losses are treated as unrecognised 
deferred tax assets if it is not considered probable that suitable future taxable profits will arise. During the year, any tax losses suffered by UK  
entities have been relieved against taxable profits in other UK entities in the Group.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which they reverse. The rate enacted  
or substantively enacted for the relevant periods of reversal is 20% as at 30 June 2014 (2013: 23%).
The rate is due to come into effect on 1 April 2015. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued) Annual Report 2014
107 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial  
reporting purposes:
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Deferred tax assets 52 70 
Deferred tax liabilities (22) (33) 
30 37
ii) Unrecognised deferred tax assets
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Tax losses arising from trading 245 271
Tax losses arising from capital disposals and provisions against investments 283 323
528 594
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the items above because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available  
against which the Group can utilise the losses. 
At 30 June 2014, a deferred tax asset of £9 million (2013: £15 million) principally arising from UK trading losses in the Group, has not been recognised. 
These losses can only be offset against taxable profits generated in the entities concerned. There is currently insufficient evidence to support the 
recognition of a deferred tax asset relating to these losses. The UK trading losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
At 30 June 2014, a deferred tax asset of £236 million (2013: £256 million) has not been recognised in respect of overseas trading losses on the  
basis that it is not probable that these temporary differences will be utilised. These losses include £233 million (2013: £250 million) with respect  
to the Group’s German holding company’s former investment in KirchPayTV and £3 million (2013: £6 million) with respect to other subsidiaries. 
At 30 June 2014, a deferred tax asset of £274 million (2013: £312 million) has not been recognised in respect of capital losses related to the Group’s  
former investment in KirchPayTV, on the basis that utilisation of these temporary differences is not probable. At 30 June 2014, the Group also has  
capital losses with a tax value estimated to be £9 million (2013: £11 million) including impairment of a football club and other investments, which  
have not been recognised as a deferred tax asset, on the basis that it is not probable that they will be utilised. The capital losses can be carried  
forward indefinitely.
16. Inventories
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Television programme rights 488 470
Set-top boxes and related equipment 50 70
Other inventories 8 8
Current inventory 546 548
Non-current programme distribution rights 20 17
Total inventory 566 565
At 30 June 2014, 81% (2013: 89%) of the television programme rights and 100% (2013: 100%) of set-top boxes and related equipment and other  
inventories is expected to be recognised in the income statement within 12 months. Annual Report 2014
108 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued)
17. Trade and other receivables
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Gross trade receivables 235 163 
Less: provision for impairment of receivables (95) (89) 
Net trade receivables 140 74 
Amounts receivable from joint ventures and associates 7 8 
Amounts receivable from other related parties 5 7 
Prepayments 279 309 
Accrued income 179 162 
VAT 2 1 
Other 23 30 
Current trade and other receivables 635 591 
Prepayments 4 6 
Other receivables 3 11 
Non-current trade and other receivables 7 17 
Total trade and other receivables 642 608 
Included within current trade and other receivables is nil (2013: nil) which is due in more than one year.
The ageing of the Group’s net trade receivables which are past due but not impaired is as follows:
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Up to 30 days past due date 107 52
30 to 60 days past due date 4 5
60 to 120 days past due date 2 2
113 59
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair values. The Group is exposed to  
credit risk on its trade and other receivables, however the Group does not have any significant concentrations of credit risk, with exposure  
spread over a large number of counterparties and customers. Trade receivables principally comprise amounts outstanding from subscribers,  
advertisers and other customers.
Provisions for doubtful debts
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Balance at beginning of year 89 89 
Amounts utilised (27) (36) 
Provided during the year 33 36 
Balance at end of year 95 89 Annual Report 2014
109 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
18. Trade and other payables
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Trade payables
(i)
802 712
Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates 11 9
Amounts owed to other related parties 124 102
VAT 169 143
Accruals 747 685
Deferred income 318 295
Other 115 77
Current trade and other payables 2,286 2,023
Trade payables 23 18
Amounts owed to other related parties 10 –
Deferred income 5 9
Other 18 36
Non-current trade and other payables 56 63
Total trade and other payables 2,342 2,086
(i) Included within trade payables are £213 million (2013: £225 million) of US dollar-denominated payables.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair values. Trade payables principally  
comprise amounts outstanding for programming purchases and ongoing costs.
19. Provisions
 
At
1 July
2012
£m
Reclassified 
during 
the year 
£m 
Provided
(released)
during
the year
£m 
Utilised 
during 
the year 
£m 
At
1 July
2013
£m
Provided 
during 
the year 
£m 
Utilised 
during 
the year 
£m
At
30 June
2014 
Current liabilities   
Restructuring provision
(i)
6 – 13 (3) 16 14 (8) 22
Acquired and acquisition-related provisions
(ii)
15 (1) (14) – – – – –
Customer-related provisions
(iii)
– – 47 (6) 41 – (39) 2
Other provisions
(iv)
22 17 17 (19) 37 6 (19) 24
 43 16 63 (28) 94 20 (66) 48
Non-current liabilities  
Other provisions
(v)
12 2 6 (6) 14 10 (10) 14
(i) These provisions significantly relate to costs incurred as part of corporate efficiency programmes.
(ii) These provisions arose on the acquisition of Amstrad which took place during the year ended 30 June 2008.
(iii) These provisions are for those costs incurred in the one-off upgrade of set-top boxes and the programme to offer wireless connectors to selected Sky Movies customers. 
(iv)  Included in other provisions are amounts provided for legal disputes and warranty liabilities.
(v) Included within non-current other provisions are amounts provided for onerous contracts for property leases and maintenance. The timing of the cash flows are dependent  
on the terms of the leases, but are expected to continue up to August 2016.  Annual Report 2014
110 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
20. Borrowings
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Current borrowings  
Obligations under finance leases
(ii)
11 11
Non-current borrowings  
US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015
(i)
434 496
£400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017
(i)
400 404
US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018
(i)
442 498
US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018
(i)
353 404
US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022
(i)
466 520
£300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027
(i)
296 296
US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035
(i)
201 225
Loan Notes repayable in December 2016 1 –
Obligations under finance leases
(ii)
65 66
2,658 2,909
(i) Guaranteed Notes
At 30 June 2014, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by the Company:
Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates
 
Hedged
Value*
£m
Fixed
£m
Floating
£m Fixed Floating
US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR + 1.892%
US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 260 129 7.091% 6m LIBOR + 5.542%
US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 503 503 – 3.226% N/A
£300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 300 300 – 6.000% N/A
1,579 1,353 226
At 30 June 2014, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc:
Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates
 
Hedged
Value*
£m
Fixed
£m
Floating
£m Fixed Floating
US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 428 171 257 5.427% 6m LIBOR + 0.698%
£400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 350 50 5.750% 6m LIBOR – 0.229%
US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 200 200 – 5.826% N/A
1,028 721 307
At 30 June 2013, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by the Company:
Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates
 
Hedged
Value*
£m
Fixed
£m
Floating
£m Fixed Floating
US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 387 290 97 6.829% 6m LIBOR + 1.892%
US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 389 260 129 7.091% 6m LIBOR + 5.542%
US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 503 503 – 3.226% N/A
£300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 300 300 – 6.000% N/A
1,579 1,353 226
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued) Annual Report 2014
111 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
At 30 June 2013, the Group had in issue the following Guaranteed Notes, which were issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc:
Interest Rate Hedging Hedged Interest Rates
 
Hedged
Value*
£m
Fixed
£m
Floating
£m Fixed Floating
US$750 million of 5.625% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2015 428 171 257 5.427% 6m LIBOR + 0.698%
£400 million of 5.750% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2017 400 350 50 5.750% 6m LIBOR – 0.229%
US$350 million of 6.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in October 2035 200 200 – 5.826% N/A
1,028 721 307
* Note: Hedged value is the final redemption value including any hedging.
The Group has a Global Medium Term Note Programme (the “Programme”), which provides the Group with a standardised documentation  
platform for senior debt issuance of up to £2.5 billion in the major global bond markets. The £300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes  
maturing in May 2027 have been issued under the “predecessor EMTN” Programme.
(ii) Finance leases
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows:
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Within one year 11 11 
Between one and two years 12 11 
Between two and three years 9 11 
Between three and four years 9 8 
Between four and five years 9 8 
After five years 136 144 
 186 193 
Future finance charges on finance lease liabilities (110) (116) 
Present value of finance lease liabilities 76 77 
The main obligations under finance leases are in relation to:
(a) finance arrangements in connection with the broadband network infrastructure. During the year, repayments of £7 million (2013: £7 million)  
were made against the lease. A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital outstanding. The lease bears interest  
at a rate of 11.1% and expires in November 2039.
(b) finance arrangements in connection with the contact centre in Dunfermline. During the year, repayments of £1 million (2013: £1 million)  
were made against the lease. A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital amount outstanding. The lease  
bears interest at a rate of 8.5% and expires in September 2020.
(c)  finance arrangements in connection with datacentre equipment. During the year repayments of £3 million (2013: less than £1 million)  
were made against the lease. A proportion of these payments have been allocated against the capital amount outstanding. The lease  
bears interest at a rate of 3.6% and expires in June 2016.
(iii) Revolving Credit Facility
The Group has a £743 million RCF with a maturity date of 31 October 2018, syndicated across 10 counterparty banks, each with a minimum  
credit rating of “Baa1” or equivalent from Standard & Poor’s. At 30 June 2014, the RCF was undrawn (2013: undrawn).
The Group is subject to two financial covenants under the RCF, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest cover ratio, which are tested  
at the end of each six monthly period. The key financial covenants are the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA (as defined in the loan agreements)  
and EBITDA to Net Interest Payable (as defined in the loan agreements). Net Debt to EBITDA must be no more than 3.00:1 and EBITDA  
to Net Interest Payable must be at least 3.50:1. The Group was in compliance with these covenants for all periods presented.
(iv) Guarantees
The following guarantees are in place relating to the Group’s borrowings: (a) British Sky Broadcasting Limited, Sky Subscribers Services Limited,  
BSkyB Finance UK plc and Sky In-Home Service Limited have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the Company’s £743 million RCF  
and the outstanding Guaranteed Notes issued by the Company; and (b) the Company, British Sky Broadcasting Limited, Sky Subscribers  
Services Limited and Sky In-Home Service Limited have given joint and several guarantees in relation to the outstanding Guaranteed Notes  
issued by BSkyB Finance UK plc. Annual Report 2014
112 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
21. Derivatives and other financial instruments
Set out below are the derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
2014 2013
Asset Liability Asset Liability
 
Fair Value
£m
Notional
£m
Fair Value 
£m 
Notional
£m
Fair Value
£m
Notional
£m
Fair Value 
£m 
Notional
£m
Fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps 77 767 – – 108 851 – –
Cash flow hedges   
Cross-currency swaps 72 661 (36) 503 166 1,117 – 47
Forward foreign exchange contracts 33 764 (76) 1,464 37 1,146 (26) 973
Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship   
Cross-currency swaps 21 353 (59) 390 67 353 (15) 390
Forward foreign exchange contracts 2 217 (4) 262 1 114 (1) 49
Interest rate swaps 5 260 – – 1 260 – –
Total 210 3,022 (175) 2,619 380 3,841 (42) 1,459
The maturity of the derivative financial instruments is as follows:
2014 2013
 
Asset
£m
Liability
£m
Asset
£m
Liability
£m
In one year or less 15 (39) 15 (13) 
Between one and two years 43 (25) 15 (6) 
Between two and five years 132 (75) 251 (8) 
In more than five years 20 (36) 99 (15) 
Total 210 (175) 380 (42) 
The fair value of the Group’s debt-related derivative portfolio at 30 June 2014 was a £80 million net asset (2013: net asset of £327 million) with net 
notional principal amounts totalling £1,957 million (2013: £1,957 million). This comprised: net assets of £36 million designated as cash flow hedges  
(2013: net assets of £166 million), net assets of £77 million designated as fair value hedges (2013: net assets of £108 million) and net liabilities of  
£33 million not designated in a formal hedge relationship (2013: net assets of £53 million).
At 30 June 2014, the carrying value of financial assets that were, upon initial recognition, designated as financial assets at fair value through profit  
or loss was nil (2013: nil).
The Group has entered into a collar arrangement to manage its exposure to movements in the value of certain available-for-sale investments over  
a period of up to 18 months and with a notional value of £22 million. The collar instrument has not been designated for hedge accounting purposes,  
with movements in the fair value of the collar being taken to the income statement.
Hedge accounting classification and impact
The Group has designated certain interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of interest rate risk, representing 30% (2013: 30%) of the Group’s debt 
portfolio. Movements in the fair value of the hedged items are taken to the income statement and are offset by movements in the fair value of the 
hedging instruments, to the extent that hedge accounting is achieved.
The Group has designated certain fixed rate cross-currency swaps as cash flow hedges of 45% (2013: 47%) of the Group’s debt portfolio. As such, the 
effective portion of the gain or loss on these contracts is reported as a separate component of the hedging reserve, and is then reclassified to the income 
statement in the same periods that the forecast transactions affect the income statement. Cash flows on the swaps occur semi-annually up to and 
inclusive of the relevant bond maturity disclosed in note 20. During the current year, losses of £140 million were removed from the hedging reserve and 
charged to finance costs in the income statement to offset the currency translation movements in the underlying hedged debt (2013: gains of £40 million).
The Group designates certain forward foreign exchange contracts and the intrinsic element of options (collars) as cash flow hedges of forecast foreign 
currency sales and purchases. Gains or losses are released from the hedging reserve and recycled to the income statement in the same period as the 
hedged item is recognised. If forecast transactions are no longer expected to occur, any amounts included in the hedging reserve related to that forecast 
transaction would be recognised directly in the income statement. During the current year, gains of £7 million were removed from the hedging reserve  
and credited to operating expense in the income statement (2013: gains of £2 million). Losses of £2 million were removed from the hedging reserve  
and debited to revenue in the income statement (2013: gains of £8 million).
Hedge effectiveness testing is performed quarterly using the dollar-offset approach. The actual movement in the hedging items is compared with  
the movement in the valuation of the hypothetically perfect hedge of the underlying risk at inception, and any ineffectiveness is recognised directly  
in the income statement. Ineffectiveness of £1 million was recognised in the income statement during the current year (2013: £2 million).
A hedge relationship is deemed to be effective if the ratio of changes in valuation of the underlying hedged item and the hedging instrument is within  
the range of 80% to 125%. Any relationship which has a ratio outside this range is deemed to be ineffective, at which point hedge accounting is suspended. 
During the year ended 30 June 2014, there were no instances in which the hedge relationship was not highly effective (2013: no instances).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued) Annual Report 2014
113 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Financial instruments
(a) Carrying value and fair value
The accounting classification of each class of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities, together with their fair values, is as follows:
 
Held to
maturity
investments
£m
Available-
for-sale
£m
Derivatives
deemed held
for trading
£m
Derivatives in
hedging
relationships
£m
Loans and
receivables
£m
Other 
liabilities 
£m 
Total 
carrying 
value 
£m 
Total fair 
value 
£m 
At 30 June 2014     
Quoted bond debt – – – – – (2,592) (2,592) (2,896)
Derivative financial instruments – – (35) 70 – – 35 35
Trade and other payables – – – – – (1,788) (1,788) (1,788)
Provisions – – – – – (45) (45) (45)
Obligations under finance leases
and other borrowings – – – – – (77) (77) (77)
Available-for-sale investments – 533 – – – – 533 533
Trade and other receivables – – – – 349 – 349 349
Short-term deposits 295 – – – – – 295 295
Cash and cash equivalents 300 – – – 782 – 1,082 1,082
At 30 June 2013     
Quoted bond debt – – – – – (2,843) (2,843) (3,185) 
Derivative financial instruments – – 53 285 – – 338 338 
Trade and other payables – – – – – (1,567) (1,567) (1,567) 
Provisions – – – – – (74) (74) (74) 
Obligations under finance leases     
and other borrowings – – – – – (77) (77) (77) 
Available-for-sale investments – 422 – – – – 422 422 
Trade and other receivables – – – – 278 – 278 278 
Short-term deposits 595 – – – – – 595 595 
Cash and cash equivalents 65 – – – 750 – 815 815 
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows:
• The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and which are traded on active liquid markets  
is determined with reference to quoted market prices; 
• The fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding derivative instruments) is determined in accordance with generally  
accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes  
for similar instruments; 
• Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates  
matching maturities of the contracts; 
• Interest rate and cross-currency swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the  
applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates; and 
• The fair value of obligations under finance leases and other borrowings is estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present value.  
The fair value of short-term deposits and cash and cash equivalents is equivalent to carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
The differences between carrying values and fair values reflect unrealised gains or losses inherent in the financial instruments, based on valuations  
as at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013. The volatile nature of the markets means that values at any subsequent date could be significantly different  
from the values reported above.
Cash and cash equivalents classified as held to maturity investments comprise money market deposits which have maturity dates of less than  
three months from inception. Money market deposits, enhanced return investments and tri-party repurchase agreements which have maturity  
greater than three months from inception are classified as short-term deposits.
Cash and cash equivalents classified as loans and receivables mainly comprise investments in AAAm rated money market funds which can  
be withdrawn without notice. Annual Report 2014
114 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
21. Derivatives and other financial instruments (continued)
(b) Fair value hierarchy
The following table categorises the Group’s financial instruments which are held at fair value into one of three levels to reflect the degree to which 
observable inputs are used in determining their fair values:
 
Fair value 
£m 
Level 1
£m
Level 2 
£m 
Level 3 
£m 
At 30 June 2014  
Financial assets  
Available-for-sale financial instruments  
ITV investment 514 514 – –
Other investments 19 4 – 15 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Interest rate swaps 82 – 82 – 
Cross-currency swaps 93 – 94 – 
Forward foreign exchange contracts 35 – 34 – 
Total 743 518 210 15 
Financial liabilities  
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss  
Cross-currency swaps (95) – (95) –
Forward foreign exchange contracts (80) – (80) –
Total (175) – (175) –
At 30 June 2013  
Financial assets  
Available-for-sale financial instruments  
ITV investment 409 409 – –
Other investments 13 – – 13
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss  
Interest rate swaps 109 – 109 –
Cross-currency swaps 233 – 233 –
Forward foreign exchange contracts 38 – 38 –
Total 802 409 380 13
Financial liabilities  
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss  
Cross-currency swaps (15) – (15) –
Forward foreign exchange contracts (27) – (27) –
Total (42) – (42) –
Level 1
Fair values measured using quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2
Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability either  
directly or indirectly. Derivative financial instrument fair values are present values determined from future cash flows discounted  
at rates derived from market source data.
Level 3
Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. Certain of the Group’s  
available-for-sale financial assets are held at fair value and are categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued) Annual Report 2014
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
115 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
22. Financial risk management
Group Treasury activity
The Group’s Treasury function is responsible for raising finance for the 
Group’s operations, together with associated liquidity management 
and management of foreign exchange, interest rate and credit risks. 
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of policies  
and guidelines authorised and reviewed annually by both the Audit 
Committee and the Board, which receive regular updates of Treasury 
activity. Derivative instruments are transacted for risk management 
purposes only. It is the Group’s policy that all hedging is to cover  
known risks and no speculative trading is undertaken. Regular and 
frequent reporting to management is required for all transactions  
and exposures, and the internal control environment is subject to 
periodic review by the Group’s internal audit team.
The Group’s principal market risks are exposures to changes in interest 
rates and foreign exchange rates, which arise both from the Group’s 
sources of finance and its operations. Following evaluation of those 
market risks, the Group selectively enters into derivative financial 
instruments to manage these exposures. The principal instruments 
currently used are interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate risks,  
and cross-currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts  
to hedge transactional and translational currency exposures.
Interest rate risk
The Group has financial exposures to both UK and US interest  
rates, arising primarily from the Group’s long-term bonds and other 
borrowings. The Group’s hedging policy requires that between 50% 
and 85% of borrowings are held at fixed rates. This is achieved by 
issuing fixed rate bonds and then using interest rate swaps to adjust 
the balance between fixed and floating rate debt. The Group’s bank 
debt is at floating rates, and, when drawn, means that the mix of fixed 
and floating rate debt fluctuates and is therefore managed to ensure 
compliance with the Group’s hedging policy. At 30 June 2014, 80%  
of borrowings were held at fixed rates after hedging (2013: 80%).
The Group uses derivatives to convert all of its US dollar-denominated 
debt and associated interest rate obligations to pounds sterling  
(see section on foreign exchange risk for further detail). At 30 June 
2014, the Group had no net US dollar denominated interest rate 
exposure on its borrowings.
The Group designates its interest rate swaps as fair value hedges  
of interest rate risk. Movements in the fair value of the hedged 
exposure are taken to the income statement and are offset by 
movements in the fair value of the hedging instruments, which  
are also taken to the income statement. Any hedge ineffectiveness  
is recognised directly in the income statement. In the year ended  
30 June 2014, this amounted to £1 million (2013: £2 million).
At 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013, the Group’s annual finance  
costs would be unaffected by any change to the Group’s credit  
rating in either direction.
Interest rate sensitivity
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the 
exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative 
financial instruments at the balance sheet date. For floating rate 
liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability 
outstanding at the balance sheet date is outstanding for the  
whole year.
For each one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates  
at 30 June 2014, and if all other variables were held constant: 
• The Group’s profit for the year ended 30 June 2014 would increase  
or decrease by £8 million (2013: profit for the year would increase  
or decrease by £9 million). The year-on-year movement is driven  
by a decrease in the cash balance held.
• Other equity reserves would decrease or increase by £6 million 
(2013: decrease or increase by £15 million), arising from movements 
in cash flow hedges.
A one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates represents  
a large but realistic movement which can easily be multiplied to  
give sensitivities at different interest rates.
The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should  
be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily 
indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because 
the Group’s actual exposure to market rates changes as the Group’s 
portfolio of debt, cash and foreign currency contracts changes.  
In addition, the effect of a change in a particular market variable  
on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering 
interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating 
actions that would be taken by the Group. The changes in valuations 
are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are  
not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
Foreign exchange risk
A combination of cross-currency and interest rate swap arrangements  
is used to convert the Group’s US dollar denominated debt and 
associated interest rate obligations to pounds sterling, at fixed 
exchange rates. At 30 June 2014, the split of the Group’s aggregate 
borrowings into their core currencies was US dollar 71% and pounds 
sterling 29% (2013: US dollar 73% and pounds sterling 27%). At 30 June 
2014, 100% of the Group’s long-term borrowings, after the impact of 
derivatives, are denominated in pounds sterling. 
The Group’s revenues and operating expenses are substantially 
denominated in pounds sterling. A small proportion of operating 
expenses is denominated in US dollars, while a small proportion of 
revenues is denominated in euros. In the current year, approximately 
16% of operating expenses (£1,043 million) was denominated in US 
dollars (2013: approximately 10% (£614 million)) and 5% of revenues 
(£393 million) was denominated in euros (2013: 5% (£392 million)). 
The US dollar expense relates mainly to the Group’s programming 
contracts with US suppliers, together with US dollar-denominated 
set-top box costs. The euro revenues primarily relate to subscribers 
located in Ireland. The Group’s exposure to euro-denominated revenue 
is offset to a certain extent by euro-denominated costs, related mainly 
to certain transponder costs; the net position being a euro surplus 
(2013: surplus).
The Group hedges currency exposures on US dollar and euro-
denominated highly probable cash flows by using forward foreign 
exchange contracts purchased up to five years ahead of the cash flow. Annual Report 2014
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
116 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued)
22. Financial risk management (continued)
It is the Group’s policy that all anticipated foreign currency exposures 
are substantially hedged in advance of the year in which they occur. 
At 30 June 2014, the Group had purchased forward foreign exchange 
contracts representing up to: 
• Approximately 95% of US dollar-denominated costs falling  
due within one year (2013: 90%), and approximately 80%  
of US dollar-denominated costs falling due within five years  
(2013: approximately 80%) which are hedged via: 
• Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, 
US$2,358 million (2013: US$1,926 million) at an average  
rate of US$1.60 to £1.00 (2013: US$1.56 to £1.00).
• Approximately 95% of net euro-denominated revenues falling  
due within one year (2013: approximately 95%), and approximately 
80% of net euro-denominated revenues falling due within four  
years (2013: approximately 80%) which are hedged via: 
• Outstanding commitments to sell, in aggregate, €1,078 million  
(2013: €1,039 million) at an average rate of €1.18 to £1.00  
(2013: €1.19 to £1.00).
• Outstanding commitments to purchase, in aggregate, €111 million 
(2013: €119 million) at an average rate of €1.18 to £1.00 (2013:€1.16 
to £1.00).
Two forward foreign exchange contracts fall due beyond five years 
(2013: none).
The Group designates the following as cash flow hedges for hedge 
accounting purposes: 
• Forward foreign exchange contracts.
• Cross-currency swaps where interest on both legs is at a fixed 
interest rate.
As such, the effective portion of the gain or loss on these contracts  
is reported as a component of the hedging reserve, outside the  
income statement, and is then reclassified to the income statement  
in the same periods that the forecast transactions affect the income 
statement. Ineffectiveness of less than £1 million was recognised  
in the income statement during the year (2013: £1 million).
A combination of US dollar denominated interest rate and US dollar/
pound sterling cross-currency swaps is used to convert fixed dollar 
denominated debt to floating sterling denominated debt. The interest 
rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges. The associated 
cross-currency swaps are not designated as hedging instruments  
for hedge accounting purposes and, as such, movements in their  
value are recorded directly in the income statement.
Foreign exchange sensitivity
The following analyses details the Group’s sensitivity to movements  
in pounds sterling against those currencies in which it has significant 
transactions. The sensitivity analysis includes foreign currency 
denominated assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and 
outstanding foreign currency denominated financial instruments  
and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 25% change  
in foreign currency rates.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would 
have the effect of reducing profit by £15 million (2013: reducing profit 
by £21 million), of which losses of £16 million relate to non-cash 
movements in the valuation of derivatives (2013: losses of £23 million). 
The same strengthening would have an adverse impact on other 
equity of £288 million (2013: adverse impact of £237 million). 
A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would  
have the effect of increasing profit by £25 million (2013: increasing 
profit by £34 million) of which gains of £27 million relate to non-cash 
movements in the valuation of derivatives (2013: gains of £38 million). 
The same weakening would have a beneficial impact on other equity  
of £479 million (2013: beneficial impact of £395 million).
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the euro would have 
the effect of increasing profit by £2 million (2013: decreasing profit  
by £1 million). None of this amount relates to non-cash movements  
in the valuation of derivatives. The same strengthening would have  
a beneficial impact on other equity of £155 million (2013: beneficial 
impact of £157 million).
A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the euro would have  
the effect of decreasing profit by £3 million (2013: increasing profit  
by £1 million). None of this amount relates to non-cash movements  
in the valuation of derivatives. The same weakening would have  
an adverse impact on other equity of £259 million (2013: adverse 
impact of £262 million).
The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should  
be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily 
indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced because 
the Group’s actual exposure to market rates is constantly changing  
as the Group’s portfolio of debt, cash and foreign currency contracts 
changes. In addition, the effect of a change in a particular market 
variable on fair values or cash flows is calculated without considering 
interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating 
actions that would be taken by the Group. The changes in valuations 
are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and  
are not a prediction of future events or anticipated gains or losses.
Hedge accounting
The interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk sections above  
outline the Group’s policies regarding use of derivative products. 
Further detail on valuations and the impact of hedge accounting 
during the year are provided in note 21.
Credit risk
The Group is exposed to counterparty default risk amounting  
to invested cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits,  
and the positive fair value of derivative financial assets held.
This risk is deemed to be low. Counterparty risk forms a central part  
of the Group’s Treasury policy, which is monitored and reported on 
regularly. The Group manages credit risk by diversifying its exposures 
across a wide number of counterparties, such that the maximum 
exposure to any individual counterparty was 7% of the total asset 
value of instruments at the end of the year. Treasury policies ensure 
that all derivative transactions are only effected with strong 
relationship banks and, at the date of signing, each carried a minimum 
credit rating of “Baa1” or equivalent from Standard & Poor’s. To mitigate 
remaining risks, counterparty credit and sovereign ratings are closely 
monitored, and no more than 10% of cash deposits are held with a 
single bank counterparty (with the exception of overnight deposits 
which are invested in a spread of AAAf rated liquidity funds).
The amount recognised in the income statement in respect of  
credit risk for derivatives deemed held for trading is nil (2013: nil).
Credit risk in our residential customer base is mitigated by billing  
and collecting in advance for digital television subscriptions for  
over 99% of our residential customer base. The Group’s maximum 
exposure to credit risk on trade receivables is the carrying amounts  
as disclosed in note 17. Annual Report 2014
117 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Liquidity risk
Our principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operations, combined with access to a £743 million RCF, which expires in October 2018.  
At 30 June 2014, this facility was undrawn (30 June 2013: undrawn). 
To ensure continuity of funding, the Group’s policy is to ensure that available funding matures over a period of years. At 30 June 2014, 29%  
(2013: 40%) of the Group’s total available funding (including available undrawn amounts on our RCF) was due to mature in more than five years.
Full details of the Group’s borrowings and undrawn facilities are shown in note 20, other than trade and other payables, shown in note 18,  
and provisions, shown in note 19.
The following table analyses the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities, net settled derivative financial instruments and gross settled financial 
instruments into relevant maturity groupings, based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts 
disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows and may therefore not reconcile to the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet  
for borrowings, derivative financial instruments, provisions and trade and other payables.
 
Less than 
12 months 
£m 
Between 
one and 
two years 
£m 
Between 
two and 
five years 
£m 
More than 
five years 
£m 
At 30 June 2014
Non derivative financial liabilities
Bonds – USD 112 541 1,002 947
Bonds – GBP 41 41 500 444
Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 11 12 27 139 
Trade and other payables 1,686 99 3 – 
Provisions 35 8 – 2 
Net settled derivatives
Financial assets (30) (24) (41) –
Gross settled derivatives
Outflow 1,356 1,129 1,867 960
Inflow (1,327) (1,121) (1,865) (955)
 
Less than 
12 months 
£m 
Between 
one and 
two years 
£m 
Between 
two and 
five years 
£m 
More than 
five years 
£m 
At 30 June 2013
Non derivative financial liabilities
Bonds – USD 125 125 1,291 1,490 
Bonds – GBP 41 41 500 462 
Obligations under finance leases and other borrowings 11 11 27 144 
Trade and other payables 1,457 107 3 – 
Provisions 66 4 1 3 
Net settled derivatives
Financial assets (32) (32) (65) (6) 
Gross settled derivatives
Outflow 1,020 760 1,687 1,381 
Inflow (1,028) (775) (1,876) (1,417) 
Capital Risk Management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to endeavour to ensure that the Group has the ability to access capital markets when necessary and  
to optimise liquidity and operating flexibility through the arrangement of new debt, while seeking to minimise the cost of capital. The Group monitors  
its liquidity requirements regularly and is satisfied that it has access to sufficient liquidity and operating flexibility to meet its capital requirements.
The Group manages its short and long-term capital structure by seeking to maintain leverage ratios consistent with a long-term investment grade  
credit rating (BBB- or better from Standard & Poor’s and Baa3 or better from Moody’s). The Group’s current ratings are BBB+ (Standard & Poor’s)  
and Baa1 (Moody’s). The leverage ratios assessed by these rating agencies are those of Net Debt: EBITDA and Gross Debt: EBITDA. Net Debt is defined  
as total borrowings, including the cash flows arising under operating leases and transponder prepayments, less cash and cash equivalents, excluding 
derivatives. Gross Debt does not reduce total borrowings by the inclusion of cash and cash equivalents.
The Group is also required to maintain a Net Debt: EBITDA ratio below 3.00:1 and an EBITDA to Net Interest Payable ratio at above 3.50:1 under the  
terms of its RCF. The RCF definition of Net Debt does not require the inclusion of future operating lease or transponder cash flows.
At 30 June 2014, the Net Debt: EBITDA ratio as defined by the terms of the RCF was 0.7:1 (2013: 0.7:1), and the EBITDA to Net Interest Payable ratio  
was 13.3:1 (2013: 13.4:1). Annual Report 2014
118 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
23. Share capital
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Allotted, called-up and fully paid shares of 50p 1,562,885,017 (2013: 1,593,905,182) 781 797
 
2014 
Number of 
ordinary 
shares 
2013 
Number of 
ordinary 
shares 
Allotted and fully paid during the year
Beginning of year 1,593,905,182 1,674,454,881 
Shares repurchased and subsequently cancelled (31,020,165) (80,549,699) 
End of year 1,562,885,017 1,593,905,182 
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry equal voting rights and no contractual right to receive payment. Full details of the  
Company’s share buy-back programme are provided in note 24.
Share option and contingent share award schemes
The Company operates various equity-settled share option schemes (the “Schemes”) for certain employees.
The number of newly issued shares which may be allocated under the Schemes on any day shall not, when aggregated with the number of  
newly issued shares which have been allocated in the previous ten years under the Schemes and any other employee share scheme adopted  
by the Company, exceed such number as represents five per cent of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately prior to  
that day. In determining this limit no account shall be taken of any newly issued shares where the right to acquire the newly issued shares was  
released, lapsed, cancelled or otherwise became incapable of exercise. Options and awards which will be satisfied by ESOP shares do not fall  
within these headroom limits. 
The share awards outstanding can be summarised as follows:
 
2014
Number of
ordinary
shares
2013
Number of
ordinary
shares 
Executive Share Option Scheme options
(i)
147,020 931,247
Sharesave Scheme options
(ii)
7,976,924 7,159,954
Management LTIP awards
(iii)
16,056,961 24,365,112
LTIP awards
(iv)
5,575,000 8,844,132
Management Co-Investment LTIP awards
(v)
2,065,719 1,975,705
Co-Investment LTIP awards
(vi)
2,235,172 2,068,175
34,056,796 45,344,325
(i) Executive Share Option Scheme options
All Executive Share Option Scheme options outstanding at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 have vested. No options have been granted under  
the scheme since 2004.
Grants under the Executive Share Option Scheme were made on an annual basis to selected employees, with the exercise price of options being  
equal to the Company’s share price on the date of grant. For those options with performance conditions, growth in EPS had to exceed growth  
in the Retail Prices Index plus 3% per annum in order for awards to vest. Options vested on an accelerated basis over a period of up to four years  
from the date of grant. The contractual life of all Executive Share Option Scheme options is ten years.
(ii) Sharesave Scheme options
All Sharesave Scheme options outstanding at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement  
that the employee remains in employment with the Group. Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme must be exercised within six months  
of the relevant award vesting date. 
The Sharesave Scheme is open to all employees. Options are normally exercisable after either three or five years from the date of grant. The price  
at which options are offered is not less than 80% of the middle-market price on the dealing day immediately preceding the date of invitation.  
It is the policy of the Group to make an invitation to employees to participate in the scheme following the announcement of the end of year results.
(iii) Management LTIP awards
All Management LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 vest only if performance conditions are met. Awards granted under  
the Management LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company grants awards to selected employees under the Management LTIP. Awards under this scheme mirror the LTIP, with the same  
performance conditions. Awards exercised under the Management LTIP can only be satisfied by the issue of market-purchased shares.
(iv) LTIP awards
All LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 vest only if performance conditions are met. Awards granted under the LTIP must  
be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued) Annual Report 2014
119 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
The Company operates the LTIP for Executive Directors and Senior Executives. Awards under the scheme are granted in the form of a nil-priced  
option, and are satisfied using market-purchased shares. The awards vest in full or in part dependent on the satisfaction of specified performance 
targets. For awards made in 2008 and 2009 (i.e. awards that vested in 2011), 30% of the award vested dependent on TSR performance over  
a three year performance period, relative to the constituents of the FTSE 100 at the time of grant, and the remaining 70% vested dependent  
on performance against operational targets. The TSR performance targets were not applicable to awards made between July 2010 and  
March 2012 but have been re-introduced for awards granted from July 2012 onwards.
(v) Management Co-Investment LTIP awards
All Management Co-Investment LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 vest only if performance conditions are met.  
Awards granted under the Management Co-Investment LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date. 
The Company grants awards to selected employees under the Management Co-Investment LTIP. Awards under this scheme mirror the  
Co-Investment LTIP, with the same performance conditions.
(vi) Co-Investment LTIP awards
All Co-Investment LTIP awards outstanding at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 vest only if performance conditions are met. Awards granted  
under the Co-Investment LTIP must be exercised within five years of the relevant award vesting date.
The Company operates the Co-Investment LTIP award for Executive Directors and Senior Executives. Employees who participate in the plan  
are granted a conditional award of shares based on the amount they have invested in the Company’s shares. The investment will be matched  
up to a maximum of 1.5 shares for every share invested, subject to a three-year EPS performance condition.
For the purposes of the disclosure below, the Management LTIP, LTIP, Management Co-Investment LTIP and Co-Investment LTIP awards  
(“Senior Management Schemes”) have been aggregated.
The movement in share awards outstanding is summarised in the following table:
Executive Scheme Sharesave Scheme
Senior management
Schemes Total
 Number 
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£ Number 
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£ Number 
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£ Number 
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£
Outstanding at 1 July 2012 2,630,435 5.84 7,238,348 4.94 25,303,300 0.00 35,172,083 1.45
Granted during the year – – 2,059,022 6.08 15,012,591 0.00 17,071,613 0.73
Exercised during the year (1,599,820) 5.88 (1,341,667) 4.40 (1,824,435) 0.00 (4,765,922) 3.21
Forfeited during the year (64,334) 6.04 (795,749) 5.19 (1,238,332) 0.00 (2,098,415) 2.15
Expired during the year (35,034) 5.30 – – – – (35,034) 5.30
Outstanding at 30 June 2013 931,247 5.79 7,159,954 5.34 37,253,124 0.00 45,344,325 0.96
Granted during the year – – 3,022,211 6.82 10,068,805 0.00 13,091,016 1.57
Exercised during the year (771,806) 5.95 (1,217,391) 4.96 (20,763,738) 0.00 (22,752,935) 0.47
Forfeited during the year (10,516) 5.03 (961,166) 5.89 (625,339) 0.00 (1,597,021) 3.58
Expired during the year (1,905) 6.62 (26,684) 4.47 – – (28,589) 4.61
Outstanding at 30 June 2014 147,020 5.03 7,976,924 5.90 25,932,852 0.00 34,056,796 1.40
The weighted average market price of the Group’s shares at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was £8.42 (2013: £7.83).  
For those exercised under the Executive Scheme it was £8.48 (2013: £7.79), for those exercised under the Sharesave Scheme it was £8.82 (2013: £8.19), 
and for those exercised under the Senior Management Schemes it was £8.40 (2013: £7.60).
The middle-market closing price of the Company’s shares at 27 June 2014 was £8.93 (28 June 2013: £7.92). 
The following table summarises information about share awards outstanding at 30 June 2014:
Executive Scheme Sharesave Scheme
Senior management
Schemes Total
Range of exercise prices Number 
Weighted
average
remaining
contractual
life
Years Number 
Weighted
average
remaining
contractual
life
Years Number 
Weighted
average
remaining
contractual
life
Years Number 
Weighted
average
remaining
contractual
life
Years
£0.00 – £1.00 – – – – 25,932,852 6.0 25,932,852 6.0
£3.00 – £4.00 – – 28,381 0.1 – – 28,381 0.1
£4.00 – £5.00 – – 339,644 1.1 – – 339,644 1.1
£5.00 – £6.00 147,020 0.1 3,239,353 2.0 – – 3,386,373 1.9
£6.00 – £7.00 – – 4,369,546 3.1 – – 4,369,546 3.1
147,020 0.1 7,976,924 2.5 25,932,852 6.0 34,056,796 5.2 Annual Report 2014
120 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
23. Share capital (continued)
The following table summarises information about share awards outstanding at 30 June 2013:
Executive Scheme Sharesave Scheme
Senior management
Schemes Total
Range of exercise prices Number 
Weighted
average
remaining
contractual
life
Years Number 
Weighted
average
remaining
contractual
life
Years Number 
Weighted
average
remaining
contractual
life
Years Number 
Weighted
average
remaining
contractual
life
Years
£0.00 – £1.00 – – – – 37,253,124 5.9 37,253,124 5.9
£3.00 – £4.00 – – 410,643 1.1 – – 410,643 1.1
£4.00 – £5.00 – – 440,134 1.7 – – 440,134 1.7
£5.00 – £6.00 485,586 1.1 4,387,409 2.6 – – 4,872,995 2.5
£6.00 – £7.00 444,163 0.2 1,921,768 3.5 – – 2,365,931 2.9
£7.00 – £8.00 1,498 0.7 – – – – 1,498 0.7
931,247 0.7 7,159,954 2.7 37,253,124 5.9 45,344,325 5.3
The range of exercise prices of the awards outstanding at 30 June 2014 was between nil and £6.82 (2013: nil and £7.16). For those awards outstanding 
under the Executive Scheme it was between £5.03 and £5.39 (2013: £5.03 and £7.16); for those outstanding under the Sharesave Scheme it was between 
£3.72 and £6.82 (2013: £3.72 and £6.08) and for all awards outstanding under the Senior Management Schemes the exercise price was nil (2013: nil).
The following table summarises additional information about the awards exercisable at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013:
2014 2013
 
Options
exercisable
at 30 June
Average
remaining
contractual
life of
exercisable
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£
Options
exercisable
at 30 June
Average
remaining
contractual
life of
exercisable
options
Weighted
average
exercise
price
£
Executive Scheme 147,020 0.1 5.03 931,247 0.7 5.79
Sharesave Scheme 78,668 0.1 4.95 97,457 0.1 4.49
Senior Management Schemes 872,229 3.5 0.00 663,972 3.7 0.00
1,097,917 2.8 1.03 1,692,676 1.8 3.45
Information for awards granted during the year
The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share options granted during the year, as estimated at the date of grant, was £5.53 (2013: £5.16).  
This was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model except for awards which have market-based performance conditions,  
where a Monte-Carlo simulation model was used, and for grants of nil-priced options, which were treated as the award of a free share. The fair  
value of nil-priced options granted during the year was measured on the basis of the market-price of the Company’s shares on the date of grant, 
discounted for expected dividends which would not be received over the vesting period of the options.
The Monte-Carlo simulation model reflected the historical volatilities of the Company’s share price and those of all other companies to which  
the Company’s performance would be compared, over a period equal to the vesting period of the awards.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company’s share price, over a period equal to the expected life  
of the options. Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the  
effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
(i) Sharesave Scheme
The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share awards granted during the year under the Sharesave Scheme, as estimated at the  
date of grant, was £1.89 (2013: £1.51). This was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating these fair values:
 2014 2013
Share price £8.70 £7.51 
Exercise price £6.82 £6.08 
Expected volatility 22% 24.0% 
Expected life 4.0 years 4.0 years 
Expected dividends 3.3% 3.4% 
Risk-free interest rate 1.2% 0.4% 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued) Annual Report 2014
121 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
(ii) Senior management Schemes
The weighted average fair value of equity-settled share awards granted during the year under the Senior Management Schemes, as estimated  
at the date of grant, was £6.62 (2013: £5.66). The fair value of awards with market-based performance conditions was calculated using  
a Monte-Carlo simulation model. Awards granted as nil-priced options were treated as the award of a free share. For all other awards,  
fair value was calculated using the Black-Scholes share option pricing model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in calculating these fair values:
 2014 2013
Share price £8.28 £7.16 
Exercise price £0.00 £0.00 
Expected volatility 19.1% 6.3% 
Expected life 2.1 years 3.0 years 
Expected dividends 3.3% 3.6% 
Risk-free interest rate 0.4% 0.0% 
24. Shareholders’ equity
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Share capital 781 797 
Share premium 1,437 1,437 
ESOP reserve (145) (147)
Hedging reserve (20) 11 
Available-for-sale reserve 455 351 
Other reserves 455 439 
Retained earnings (1,891) (1,876) 
1,072 1,012 
Purchase of own equity shares for cancellation
On 1 November 2012, at the Company’s AGM, the Company was granted the authority to return £500 million of capital to shareholders via a share 
buy-back programme (the “November 2012 Authority”). This authority was subject to an agreement between the Company and Twenty-First  
Century Fox, Inc. (formerly known as News Corporation) (and others) dated 28 July 2012 whereby following any market purchases of shares by  
the Company, Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. would sell to the Company sufficient shares to maintain its percentage shareholding at the same  
level as applied prior to those market purchases. The price payable to Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. would be the price payable by the Company  
in respect of the relevant market purchases (the “2012 Share Buy-back Agreement”).
At the Company’s AGM on 22 November 2013, the Company was granted the authority to return a further £500 million of capital to shareholders  
via a share buy-back programme (the “November 2013 Authority”). This authority was subject to an agreement between the Company and  
Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. (and others) dated 25 July 2013 on substantially the same terms as the 2012 Share Buy-back Agreement.
During the year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 31,020,165 ordinary shares at an average price of £8.53 per share, with a  
nominal value of £16 million, for a consideration of £266 million. Consideration included stamp duty and commission of £1 million. This represents  
2% of called-up share capital at the beginning of the period. Of these purchases, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 12,140,586  
ordinary shares from Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc at an average price of £8.53 per share, with a nominal value of £6 million, for a consideration  
of £104 million. Consideration included stamp duty of £1 million.
During the prior year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 80,549,699 ordinary shares at an average price of £7.75 per share,  
with a nominal value of £40 million, for a consideration of £627 million. Consideration included stamp duty and commission of £3 million.  
This represents 5% of called-up share capital at the beginning of the period. Of these purchases, the Company purchased, and subsequently  
cancelled, 31,525,314 ordinary shares from Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. at an average price of £7.75 per share, with a nominal value of £16 million,  
for a consideration of £245 million. Consideration included stamp duty of £1 million. Annual Report 2014
122 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
24. Shareholders’ equity (continued)
The following table provides information about purchases of equity shares by the company, including purchases by the Group’s ESOP,  
during the fiscal year.
 
Total  
number of 
shares
purchased
(i)
Average  
price paid  
per share  
£
Total capital 
returned 
under the 
November 
2012  
Authority
£m
(i)
Total capital 
returned 
under the 
November 
2013 
Authority
£m
(i)
Capital 
authorised to 
be returned 
under the 
November 
2012 
Authority
£m 
Capital 
authorised to 
be returned 
under the 
November 
2013 
Authority 
£m
(i)
 
July – – – – 61 –
August 20,824,829 8.38 17 – 44 –
September 815,530 8.54 – – 44 –
October – – – – 44 –
November 5,464,285 8.31 33 12 – 488
December 6,458,989 8.03 – 52 – 436
January 196,152 8.25 – 2 – 434
February 4,250,710 8.80 – 37 – 397
March 1,694,462 9.17 – 16 – 381
April 3,560,001 8.93 – 32 – 349
May 5,482,357 8.72 – 48 – 301
June 1,807,361 8.71 – 16 – 285
Total for the year ended 30 June 2014 50,554,676 8.48 50 215 – 285
(i) All share purchases are included in the month of settlement. 
(ii) The November 2012 Authority expired on 22 November 2013. Accordingly, no more repurchases can take place under this authority.
Share premium and special reserve
On 10 December 2003, the High Court approved a reduction in the Company’s share premium account of £1,120 million, as approved by the  
Company’s shareholders at the AGM held on 14 November 2003. This amount was equal to the Company-only profit and loss account reserve  
deficit at 30 June 2003. As part of the application, the Company’s balance sheet at 30 September 2003 was required to be presented. At that date,  
the deficit on the Company-only profit and loss account reserve had reduced by £14 million since 30 June 2003, to £1,106 million. As a condition of  
the reduction, the reduction in the share premium account of £1,120 million was permitted to be offset against the profit and loss account reserve  
by the amount of the deficit at 30 September 2003. The excess of £14 million was credited to a special reserve, which is included in other reserves,  
and, under the terms of the reduction, will remain undistributable until all the creditors of the Company and its guarantors (as at 10 December 2003)  
are paid.
ESOP reserve
The cost of the Company’s ordinary shares held by the Group’s ESOP is treated as a deduction in arriving at total shareholders’ equity. The movement  
in the ESOP reserve was as follows:
 
Number of 
ordinary 
shares
Average
price paid
per share £m 
At 1 July 2012 16,293,345 £6.85 112 
Share options exercised during the year (4,765,922) £7.14 (34) 
Shares purchased by the ESOP during the year 9,000,000 £7.69 69 
At 30 June 2013 20,527,423 £7.15 147 
Share options exercised during the year (22,752,935) £7.27 (166) 
Shares purchased by the ESOP during the year 19,534,511 £8.40 164 
At 30 June 2014 17,308,999 £8.40 145 
Hedging reserve
Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges are initially recognised in the hedging reserve, and subsequently 
recognised in the income statement when the related hedged items are recognised in the income statement. In addition, deferred taxation relating  
to these derivatives is also initially recognised in the hedging reserve prior to transfer to the income statement.
Available-for-sale reserve
Available-for-sale investments are carried at fair value where this can be reliably measured, with movements in the fair value recognised directly  
in the available-for-sale reserve. At 30 June 2014, the Group’s available-for-sale reserve was £455 million (2013: £351 million). 
(i) (ii)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued) Annual Report 2014
123 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Other reserves
The Group’s other reserves include a capital redemption reserve, a merger reserve, a foreign currency translation reserve and a special reserve.  
The capital redemption reserve was £190 million as at 30 June 2014 (2013: £174 million). The merger reserve was £222 million as at 30 June 2014  
(2013: £222 million). The special reserve was £14 million as at 30 June 2014 (2013: £14 million). The foreign currency translation reserve was  
£29 million as at 30 June 2014 (2013: £29 million).
Merger reserve
The merger reserve was created in accordance with the merger relief provisions under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 (as amended)  
and section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the accounting for business combinations involving the issue of shares at a premium.  
Merger relief provided relief from the requirement to create a share premium account in a parent company’s balance sheet. In preparing  
consolidated financial statements, the amount by which the fair value of the shares issued exceeded their nominal value was recorded  
within a merger reserve on consolidation, rather than in a share premium account. This merger reserve was retained upon transition to  
IFRS, as allowed under UK law. 
The merger reserve, which is included in other reserves, was created as a result of the purchase by the Group of interests in two entities.  
SIG was purchased on 12 July 2000, where consideration was paid by the issue of equity shares in the Company. BiB was purchased between  
28 June 2001 and 11 November 2002, where consideration was paid by the issue of equity shares in the Company. At 30 June 2014, the Group’s  
merger reserve was £222 million (2013: £222 million).
25. Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement
Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Profit before tax 1,082 1,257 
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 208 176 
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 228 202 
Share-based payment expense 60 80 
Net finance costs 114 80 
Share of results of joint ventures and associates (35) (46) 
 1,657 1,749 
(Increase) decrease in trade and other receivables (28) 35 
Increase in inventories – (93) 
Increase in trade and other payables 183 136 
(Decrease) increase in provisions (47) 52 
Increase (decrease) in derivative financial instruments 4 (2) 
Cash generated from operations 1,769 1,877 
26. Contracted commitments, contingencies and guarantees
a) Future minimum expenditure contracted for but not recognised in the financial statements
 
Year
ending
30 June
2015
£m
Year
ending
30 June
2016
£m
Year
ending
30 June
2017
£m
Year
ending
30 June
2018
£m
Year
ending
30 June
2019
£m
After 5 
years 
£m
Total at
30 June
2014
£m
Total at
30 June
2013
£m
Television programme rights 1,482 1,374 569 410 197 369 4,401 4,763
Set-top boxes and related equipment 180 – – – – – 180 202
Third party payments
(i)
65 58 28 4 – – 155 189
Transponder capacity
(ii)
78 75 71 64 64 167 519 634
Property, plant and equipment 36 – – – – – 36 17
Intangible assets
(iii)
31 26 24 18 5 – 104 112
Smartcards
(iii)
41 42 42 43 10 – 178 232
Other 236 121 99 53 5 7 521 574
2,149 1,696 833 592 281 543 6,094 6,723
Foreign currency commitments are translated to pounds sterling at the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
(i) The third party payment commitments are in respect of distribution agreements for the television channels owned and broadcast by third parties, retailed by the  
Group to retail and commercial subscribers (“Sky Distributed Channels”).
(ii) Transponder capacity commitments are in respect of the SES satellites that the Group uses for digital transmissions to both retail subscribers and cable operators. 
(iii) Commitments in relation to the provision of smartcards. Smartcards under development are included within intangible assets. The amounts included above are the  
expected ongoing smartcard costs based on forecast customer levels. Annual Report 2014
124 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued)
b) Contingencies and guarantees
Certain subsidiaries of the Company have agreed to provide additional funding to several of their investments in limited and unlimited companies  
and partnerships, in accordance with funding agreements. Payment of this additional funding would be required if requested by the investees in 
accordance with the funding agreements. The maximum potential amount of future payments which may be required to be made by the subsidiaries  
of the Company to their investments, in both limited and unlimited companies and partnerships under the undertakings and additional funding 
agreements, is £17 million (2013: £25 million).
The Group has guarantees in place relating to the Group’s borrowings, see note 20. 
Ofcom determination 
Included within direct networks costs for the year ended 30 June 2013 is a credit of £32 million in relation to a credit note received from BT  
following an Ofcom determination in 2012, which required BT to repay monies to Sky for overcharged-for Ethernet services (backhaul) between  
2006/07 and 2009/10 (2013: £32 million). Sky, BT and others have appealed Ofcom’s determination in the CAT.
27. Operating lease commitments
The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable operating leases at 30 June are as follows:
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Within one year 47 49
Between one and two years 41 42
Between two and three years 41 35
Between three and four years 21 37
Between four and five years 14 18
After five years 33 45
197 226
The majority of operating leases relate to property. The rents payable under these leases are subject to renegotiation at the various intervals  
specified in the leases.
The minimum sub-lease rentals to be received under non-cancellable operating sub-leases at 30 June are as follows:
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Within one year 1 2
Between one and two years – 2
Between two and three years – 2
Between three and four years – 2
Between four and five years – 1
After five years – 5
1 14
Sub-lease rentals primarily relate to property leases.
28. Transactions with related parties and major shareholders
a) Entities with joint control or significant influence
During the year the Group conducted business transactions with companies that form part of the Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. group, a major 
shareholder in the Company.
Transactions with related parties and amounts outstanding in relation to those transactions and with related parties at 30 June are as follows:
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Supply of goods or services by the Group 82 89 
Purchases of goods or services by the Group (127) (156) 
Amounts owed to the Group 5 7 
Amounts owed by the Group (134) (102) 
At 30 June 2014 the Group had expenditure commitments of £99 million in relation to transactions with related parties (2013: £97 million)  
all of which related to minimum television programming rights commitments.
Goods and services supplied
During the year, the Group supplied set-top boxes, programming, airtime, transmission, marketing, consultancy services, customer relationship 
management services and a licence to use the Sky brand to Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. companies. Annual Report 2014
125 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
28. Transactions with related parties and major shareholders (continued)
Purchases of goods and services and certain other relationships
During the year, the Group purchased programming and technical and marketing services from Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. companies.
There is an agreement between Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. and the Group, pursuant to which it was agreed that, for so long as Twenty-First  
Century Fox, Inc. directly or indirectly holds an interest of 30% or more in the Group, Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. will not engage in the business  
of satellite broadcasting in the UK or Ireland.
Share buy-back programme
During the year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 12,140,586 ordinary shares held by Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. as part  
of its share buy-back programme. For further details, see note 24. 
b) Joint ventures and associates
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed  
in this note. Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are disclosed below.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are disclosed in the Company’s separate financial statements.
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Supply of services by the Group 19 22 
Purchases of goods or services by the Group (66) (66) 
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates to the Group 8 9 
Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates by the Group (11) (9) 
Services supplied are primarily the provision of transponder capacity, marketing, airtime sales and support services. Purchases represent fees payable  
for channel carriage. Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates include £1 million (2013: £1 million) relating to loan funding. 
These loans bear interest at a rate of one month LIBOR plus 1%. The maximum amount of loan funding outstanding in total from joint ventures and 
associates during the year was £1 million (2013: £7 million). 
The Group took out a number of forward exchange contracts with counterparty banks during the year on behalf of the joint venture AETN UK.  
On the same dates as these forward contracts were entered into, the Group entered into equal and opposite contracts with AETN UK in respect  
of these forward contracts.
Consequently, the Group was not exposed to any of the net gains or losses on these forward contracts. The face value of forward exchange contracts  
with AETN UK that had not matured as at 30 June 2014 was £4 million (2013: £8 million).
During the year, US$4 million (2013: US$4 million) was paid to the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts and less than  
US$1 million (2013: US$nil) was received from the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
During the year, £3 million (2013: £2 million) was received from the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts, and £5 million  
(2013: £3 million) was paid to the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
During the year, €5 million (2013: €4 million) was received from the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts and less than  
€1 million (2013: €nil) was paid to the joint venture upon maturity of forward exchange contracts.
At 30 June 2014 the Group had minimum expenditure commitments of £3 million (2013: £4 million) with its joint ventures and associates. 
c) Other transactions with related parties
A close family member of one Director of the Company runs Freud Communications Limited (“Freud”), which has provided external support  
to the press and publicity activities of the Group. During the year the Group incurred expenditure amounting to £1 million (2013: £1 million)  
with Freud. At 30 June 2014 there was £1 million (2013: less than £1 million) due to Freud.
In addition to the foregoing, the Group has engaged in a number of transactions with companies of which some of the Company’s Directors  
are also directors. These do not meet the definition of related party transactions. 
d) Key management
The Group has a related party relationship with the Directors of the Company. At 30 June 2014, there were 15 (2013: 14) members of key  
management all of whom were Directors of the Company. Key management compensation is disclosed in note 6b. Annual Report 2014
126 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued)
29. Events after the reporting period
On 17 July 2014, the Group sold a shareholding of approximately 6.4% in ITV plc, consisting of 259,820,065 ITV shares for an aggregate consideration  
of approximately £481 million.
The Company announced on 25 July 2014 that it has conditionally entered into share purchase agreements (the “Acquisition Agreements”)  
with Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. (and its relevant subsidiaries) to acquire its 100% stake in Sky Italia Srl and its 57.4% stake in Sky Deutschland A.G.  
The Company further announced its intention to make a voluntary cash offer (the “Offer”) to the minority shareholders of Sky Deutschland A.G.  
The Acquisition Agreements and the Offer (together the “Transactions”) are conditional on, amongst other things, their approval by the Company’s 
independent shareholders and regulatory clearances.
The total consideration for the acquisition of Sky Italia is £2.45 billion with approximately £2.07 billion to be paid in cash and the balance to be  
satisfied through the transfer of the Group’s 21% stake in National Geographic Channel to Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. (“21CF”). The acquisition  
of 21CF’s shareholding in Sky Deutschland A.G. is for a consideration of £2.9 billion in cash, valuing Sky Deutschland at €6.75 a share. Subject to  
the number of Sky Deutschland A.G. minority shareholders that accept the Offer, the total consideration for the transaction will range from  
£2.9 billion to £5 billion.
The total consideration payable for the Transactions will be funded in part by the proceeds of a placing of 156,132,213 new Ordinary Shares,  
representing approximately 9.99% of the existing issued share capital of the Company, to both existing and new institutional investors, which  
was also announced on 25 July 2014. 21CF, which has a 39.14% shareholding in the Company, has undertaken to subscribe for 61,106,496 of the  
shares being placed so as to maintain its existing percentage shareholding in the Company following completion of the placing. The remaining 
consideration will come from a combination of new debt facilities (as described below) and cash resources.
On 25 July 2014, the Company entered into a facilities agreement (the “Facilities Agreement”) documenting a committed bridge loan facility  
€4.00 billion (“Term Loan A”), a term loan facility of £450 million and €2.5 billion (“Term Loan B”) and a revolving loan facility of £1 billion  
(the “RCF”). The Facilities Agreement is unsecured but is guaranteed by various of the Company’s subsidiaries. 
Term Loan A matures 12 months after the date of the Facilities Agreement subject to an option, at the Company’s discretion, to extend for a  
further one-year period. Term Loan B matures 36 months after the date of the Facilities Agreement with a one-year extension period available  
at the discretion of the lenders. The RCF matures on 30 November 2019, subject to two one-year extension options at the discretion of the lenders. 
The Group is subject to two financial covenants under the Facilities Agreement, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest cover ratio  
which are tested at the end of each six monthly period beginning on 30 June 2015. The key financial covenants are the ratio of Net Debt to  
EBITDA (each as defined in the Facilities Agreement) and EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Charges (as defined in the Facilities Agreement).  
Net Debt to EBITDA must be no more than 4.00:1 until 30 June 2016 and thereafter no more than 3.50:1. EBITDA to Consolidated Interest  
Charges must be at least 3.50:1.
Term Loan A and Term Loan B are available to be used to fund, among other things, the consideration payable under the Acquisition Agreements  
and the consideration payable to the minority shareholders of Sky Deutschland A.G. pursuant to the Offer. Annual Report 2014
127 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
30. Group investments
The significant investments of the Company which principally affect the consolidated results and total assets of the Group are as follows:
Name 
Country of
incorporation
Description and proportion  
of shares held (%) Principal activity
Subsidiaries:   
Direct holdings of the Company   
British Sky Broadcasting Limited United Kingdom 10,002,002 ordinary shares of £1 each (100%) Operation of pay television broadcasting  
and home communications services in the  
UK and Ireland
BSkyB Finance UK plc United Kingdom 50,000 ordinary shares of £1 each (100%) Finance company
Subsidiaries:   
Indirect holdings of the Company   
Sky Subscribers Services Limited United Kingdom 3 ordinary shares of £1 each (100%) Provision of ancillary functions supporting  
the pay television broadcasting, residential 
broadband and telephone operations of  
the Group
Sky Holdings Limited United Kingdom 600 ordinary shares of £1 each (100%) Holding company
Sky In-Home Service Limited United Kingdom 1,576,000 ordinary shares of £1 each (100%) Supply, installation and maintenance of satellite 
television receiving equipment, broadband and 
wireless connector equipment
BSkyB Telecommunications  
Services Limited
United Kingdom 5,821,764 ordinary shares of £1 each (100%) Management of the network assets in the UK
Sky Ventures Limited United Kingdom 912 ordinary shares of £1 each (100%) Holding company
The Cloud Networks Limited United Kingdom 30,583,988 shares of £0.00025 per share (100%) Provision of telecommunications
Hestview Limited United Kingdom 108 ordinary shares of £1 each (100%) Provision of sports betting activities
Bonne Terre Limited Alderney 2,504 ordinary shares of £1 each (100%) Provision of gaming activities
Sky Home Communications Limited United Kingdom 9,528,124 ordinary shares of £1 each (100%) Provision of residential broadband and telephone 
operations
Joint ventures and associates:
Nickelodeon UK Limited
(ii)
United Kingdom 104 B Shares of £0.01 each (40%) Transmission of children’s television channels
AETN UK United Kingdom 50,000 A Shares of £1 each (50%) Transmission of history, crime and investigation 
television programming and the Lifetime Channel   
Paramount UK Partnership
(ii)(iii)
United Kingdom Partnership interest (25%) Transmission of general entertainment comedy 
channels
Australian News Channel Pty Australia 1 ordinary share of AUD$1 (33.33%) Transmission of news and business channels
Limited   
NGC Network International LLC United States of Partnership interest (21%) Transmission of natural history and adventure
America channels
NGC Network Latin America LLC United States of Partnership interest (21%) Transmission of natural history and adventure
America channels
Attheraces Holdings Limited
(i)
United Kingdom 1,502 ordinary shares of £1 each (45.9%), Transmission of a horse racing channel and
 20 Recoupment Shares of £0.55 each related online activities
Sky News Arabia FZ-LLC United Arab Emirates 26,666,666 shares of US$1 each (50%) Transmission of Arabic News in the MENA region 
(Middle East and North Africa)
Investments:   
ITV plc
(iv)
United Kingdom 291,684,730 ordinary shares of £0.10 each (7.23%) Transmission of free-to-air channels
(i) These entities have an accounting reference date of 31 December.  
(ii) These entities have an accounting reference date of 30 September.
(iii) The registered address of Paramount UK Partnership is 180 Oxford Street, London W1D 1DS. The Paramount UK Partnership is a joint venture of the Group and  
is included within the consolidated accounts in accordance with Note 1(c)(ii). Consequently, the Paramount UK Partnership has taken advantage of the exemption  
within the Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008 (regulation 7) from filing annual financial statements.
(iv) On 17 July 2014, the Group sold a shareholding of approximately 6.4% in ITV, consisting of 259,820,065 ITV shares. For further details refer to note 29.
(v) This note sets out an abbreviated list of the subsidiaries of the Company. A full list will be filed with Companies House in accordance with section 410  
of the Companies Act 2006.
The following companies are exempt from the requirements relating to the audit of individual accounts for the year/period ended 30 June 2014 by virtue of section  
479A of the Companies Act 2006: BSkyB Finance Limited (02906994), Kidsprog Limited (02767224), Parthenon Media Group Limited (06944197), SATV Publishing  
Limited (01085975), Sky IP International Limited (07245844) and Sky Television Limited (01518707). Annual Report 2014
128 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued)
31. British Sky Broadcasting Group plc company only financial statements
Company Income Statement
for the year ended 30 June 2014
 Notes 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Revenue 225 214 
Operating expense (44) (40) 
Operating profit 181 174 
Dividend income from subsidiaries O 622 947 
Investment income B 64 58 
Finance costs B (81) (61) 
Profit before tax C 786 1,118 
Taxation D (36) (30) 
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 750 1,088 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this income statement.
Company Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 30 June 2014
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 750 1,088 
Other comprehensive income
Amounts recognised directly in equity that may subsequently be recycled to the income statement
(Loss) gain on cash flow hedges (79) 3 
Tax on cash flow hedges 18 (1) 
 (61) 2 
Amounts reclassified and reported in the income statement
Gain (loss) on cash flow hedges 97 (28) 
Tax on cash flow hedges (22) 7 
 75 (21) 
Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year (net of tax) 14 (19) 
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity shareholders 764 1,069 
All results relate to continuing operations. Annual Report 2014
129 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Company Balance Sheet
as at 30 June 2014
 Notes 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Non-current assets   
Investments in subsidiaries E 8,146 8,143
Other receivables G 2 3
Derivative financial assets J 175 341
  8,323 8,487
Current assets   
Other receivables G 3,008 2,967
Cash and cash equivalents 1 –
  3,009 2,967
Total assets 11,332 11,454
Current liabilities  
Other payables I 3,613 3,434
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings H 1,557 1,718
Derivative financial liabilities J 156 176
Deferred tax liabilities F 4 1
  1,717 1,895
Total liabilities 5,330 5,329
Share capital L 781 797
Share premium L 1,437 1,437
Reserves 3,784 3,891
Total equity attributable to equity shareholders 6,002 6,125
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 11,332 11,454
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this balance sheet.
These financial statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, registered number 02247735, have been approved by the Board of Directors  
on 25 July 2014 and were signed on its behalf by:
Jeremy Darroch Andrew Griffith
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
Company Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 30 June 2014
 Notes 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Cash flows from operating activities 
Cash generated from operations M – – 
Net cash from operating activities – – 
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from the exercise of share options 11 15 
Loan to subsidiaries (10) (16) 
Net cash from (used in) financing activities 1 (1) 
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1 (1) 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year – 1 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1 – 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this cash flow statement. Annual Report 2014
130 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
31. British Sky Broadcasting Group plc company only financial statements (continued)
Company Statement of Changes in Equity 
for the year ended 30 June 2014
 
Share 
capital 
£m 
Share
premium
£m
Special
reserve
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Capital
reserve
£m
ESOP 
reserve 
£m 
Hedging 
reserve 
£m 
Retained 
earnings 
£m 
Total 
Shareholders’ 
equity 
£m 
At 1 July 2012 837 1,437 14 134 844 (112) 6 2,944 6,104 
Profit for the year – – – – – – – 1,088 1,088 
Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges – – – – – – (25) – (25) 
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – – – – – 6 – 6 
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – – – (19) 1,088 1,069 
Share-based payment – – – – – (35) – 61 26 
Share buy-back programme (see note 24):
– Purchase of own shares for cancellation (40) – – 40 – – – (617) (617) 
– Financial liability for close period
purchases – – – – – – – (16) (16) 
Dividends – – – – – – – (441) (441) 
At 30 June 2013 797 1,437 14 174 844 (147) (13) 3,019 6,125 
Profit for the year – – – – – – – 750 750
Recognition and transfer of cash flow hedges – – – – – – 18 – 18
Tax on items taken directly to equity – – – – – – (4) – (4) 
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – – – 14 750 764 
Share-based payment – – – – – 2 – (95) (93)
Share buy-back programme (see note 24):
– Purchase of own shares for cancellation (16) – – 16 – – – (250) (250)
– Financial liability for close period
purchases – – – – – – – (59) (59)
Dividends – – – – – – – (485) (485)
At 30 June 2014 781 1,437 14 190 844 (145) 1 2,880 6,002 
For a description of the nature and purpose of each equity reserve, see note L. 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement of changes in equity.
A. Accounting policies
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc (the “Company”) is a public limited company incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered  
in England and Wales. 
i) Basis of preparation
The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, consistent with the accounting policies set out  
in note 1 of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. 
ii) Revenue
Revenue, which excludes value added tax, represents the gross inflow of economic benefit from the Company’s operating activities.  
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable. The Company’s main source of revenue is from licensing  
the Company’s brand name asset to subsidiaries. This revenue is recognised on an accruals basis under the terms of relevant licensing agreements. 
iii) Investment in subsidiaries
An investment in a subsidiary is recognised at cost less any provision for impairment. As permitted by section 133 of the Companies Act 2006,  
where the relief afforded under section 131 of the Companies Act 2006 applies, cost is the aggregate of the nominal value of the relevant number  
of the Company’s shares and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the share capital of the subsidiary undertakings.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued) Annual Report 2014
131 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
B. Investment income and finance costs
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Investment income
Investment income from subsidiaries 64 58
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Finance costs
– Interest payable and similar charges
Revolving Credit Facility (“RCF”) (2) (2) 
Guaranteed Notes (see note H) (80) (76) 
 (82) (78) 
– Other finance income (expense)
Remeasurement of borrowings and borrowings-related derivative financial instruments (not qualifying for hedge accounting) – 16
Loss arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship (14) (22)
Gain arising on adjustment for hedged item in a designated fair value hedge accounting relationship 15 23 
1 17 
(81) (61) 
C. Profit before taxation
Employee benefits
The Company had nil employees (2013: nil) during the year.
Key management compensation
Amounts paid to the Directors of the Company are disclosed in the Report on Directors’ remuneration on pages 59 to 76.
D. Taxation 
i) Taxation recognised in the income statement
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Current tax expense
Current year 37 37 
Adjustment in respect of prior years – (11) 
Total current tax charge 37 26 
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (1) 4 
Total deferred tax (credit) charge (1) 4 
Taxation 36 30 
ii) Deferred tax recognised directly in equity
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Deferred tax charge (credit) on hedging activities 4 (6)
iii) Reconciliation of effective tax rate
The tax expense for the year is lower (2013: lower) than the expense that would have been charged using the blended rate of corporation  
tax in the UK (22.5%) applied to profit before tax. The applicable enacted or substantively enacted effective rate of UK corporation tax  
for the year was 22.5% (2013: 23.75%). The differences are explained below:
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Profit before tax 786 1,118 
Profit before tax multiplied by blended rate of corporation tax in the UK of 22.5% (2013: 23.75%) 177 266
Effects of: 
Non-taxable income (140) (225)
Tax rate change (1) –
Over provision in respect of prior years – (11)
Taxation 36 30 
All taxation relates to UK corporation tax. Annual Report 2014
132 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
31. British Sky Broadcasting Group plc company only financial statements (continued) 
E. Investments in subsidiaries
 £m 
Cost
At 1 July 2012 9,277 
Additions 573 
Disposal (702) 
At 30 June 2013 9,148 
Additions 3 
At 30 June 2014 9,151
Provision
At 1 July 2012, 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2014 1,005 
Carrying amounts
At 1 July 2012 8,272 
At 30 June 2013 8,143 
At 30 June 2014 8,146 
During the prior year, the Company purchased 100% of the share capital of BSkyB LLU Assets Limited from its direct subsidiary BSkyB Finance UK plc.  
The Company subsequently transferred its investment in BSkyB LLU Assets Limited to its direct subsidiary British Sky Broadcasting Limited.
See note 30 for a list of significant investments of the Company.
F. Deferred tax
Recognised deferred tax liabilities
 
Financial 
instruments 
temporary 
differences 
£m 
At 1 July 2012 (3) 
Charge to income (4)
Credit to equity 6 
At 30 June 2013 (1) 
Credit to income 1 
Charge to equity (4) 
At 30 June 2014 (4) 
At 30 June 2014, a deferred tax asset of £244 million (2013: £278 million) has not been recognised in respect of capital losses related to the  
Group’s holding in KirchPayTV, on the basis that utilisation of these temporary differences is not probable. At 30 June 2014, the Company  
has also not recognised a deferred tax asset of £5 million (2013: £7 million) relating to capital losses and provisions in respect of football  
club investments, on the basis that it is not probable that they will be utilised.
G. Other receivables
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Amounts receivable from subsidiaries 3,008 2,966
Prepayments and other receivables – 1
Current other receivables 3,008 2,967
Non-current prepayment 2 3
Total other receivables 3,010 2,970
On 26 November 2012, the Company issued US$800 million Guaranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 3.125% and loaned proceeds to  
British Sky Broadcasting Limited. British Sky Broadcasting Limited pays the same annual effective interest rate to the Company.
On 5 March 2009, the Company made a loan of £694 million to British Sky Broadcasting Limited which is repayable on demand and bears  
interest at a rate of 6 month LIBOR plus 0.75%. In October 2009, the Company assigned £604 million of this loan to settle payables  
with BSkyB Finance Limited.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued) Annual Report 2014
133 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
On 13 January 2009, the Company made a loan of £252 million to British Sky Broadcasting Limited. This loan bears interest at a rate  
of 6 month LIBOR plus 1.00% and is repayable on demand.
On 13 January 2009, the Company made a loan of £91 million to Sky In-Home Service Limited. This loan is repayable on demand and  
bears interest at a rate of 6 month LIBOR plus 1.00%.
On 24 November 2008, the Company issued US$600 million Guaranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 9.5% and loaned the proceeds  
to BSkyB Finance Limited. BSkyB Finance Limited pays the same annual effective interest rate to the Company.
On 29 June 2008, the Company entered into loan agreements with British Sky Broadcasting Limited for £143 million and £109 million,  
both bearing interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75%. These loans are repayable on demand.
On 29 June 2008, Sky Ventures Limited transferred its £11 million loan receivable from BSkyB Finance Limited to the Company.  
This loan bears interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75% and is repayable on demand.
On 29 June 2008, the Company entered into a RCF with BSkyB Finance Limited worth £40 million. Amounts loaned under this facility  
bear interest at a rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 0.75% and are repayable on demand.
On 15 February 2008, the Company issued US$750 million Guaranteed Notes with a coupon rate of 6.100% and loaned the proceeds  
to British Sky Broadcasting Limited. British Sky Broadcasting Limited pays the same annual effective interest rate to the Company.
All other amounts receivable from subsidiaries are non-interest bearing and are also repayable on demand.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other receivables approximates their fair values.
The Company’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its other receivables. The majority of its other receivables balance is due from  
British Sky Broadcasting Limited. The risk of this entity defaulting on amounts owed is considered low due to its successful operation  
of pay television broadcasting and home communications services in the UK and Ireland.
H. Borrowings
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Non-current borrowings 
US$750 million of 6.100% Guaranteed Notes repayable in February 2018 442 498
US$582.8 million of 9.500% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2018 353 404
US$800 million of 3.125% Guaranteed Notes repayable in November 2022 466 520
£300 million of 6.000% Guaranteed Notes repayable in May 2027 296 296
1,557 1,718
See note 20 for details of the Company’s Guaranteed Notes and RCF and note 22 for details of Capital Risk Management.
I. Other payables
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Other payables 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 3,536 3,398
Amounts owed to other related parties 23 6 
Other 36 10
Accruals 18 20
3,613 3,434
Amounts payable to subsidiaries are non-interest bearing and repayable on demand. The balance comprises £2,164 million of non-interest bearing  
loans (2013: £1,898 million) and £1,372 million of other payables (2013: £1,500 million). The Directors consider that the carrying amount of other payables 
approximates their fair values. Annual Report 2014
134 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued)
31. British Sky Broadcasting Group plc company only financial statements (continued) 
J. Derivatives and other financial instruments
Fair values
Set out below is a comparison of the carrying values and the estimated fair values of the Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities  
at 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013:
 
2014 
Carrying 
value 
£m 
2014 
Fair 
value 
£m 
2013 
Carrying 
value 
£m 
2013 
Fair 
value 
£m
Financial assets and liabilities held or issued to finance the Company’s operations
Quoted bond debt (1,557) (1,740) (1,718) (1,915) 
Derivative financial instruments 19 19 165 165 
Other payables and receivables (605) (605) (467) (467) 
The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as detailed in note 21 and all items held at fair value are classified  
as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
Set out below are the derivative financial instruments entered into by the Company to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
2014 2013
Asset Liability Asset Liability
 
Fair Value
£m
Notional
£m
Fair Value 
£m 
Notional
£m
Fair Value
£m
Notional
£m
Fair Value 
£m 
Notional
£m
Fair value hedges
Interest rate swaps 51 452 – – 65 505 – –
Cash flow hedges   
Cross-currency swaps 45 290 (36) 503 86 746 – 47
Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship   
Interest rate swaps 31 574 (26) 314 43 605 (42) 345
Cross-currency swaps 48 725 (94) 1,018 147 725 (134) 1,018
Total 175 2,041 (156) 1,835 341 2,581 (176) 1,410
Note 21 provides further details of the Group’s derivative and other financial instruments. 
The maturity of the derivative financial instruments is shown below:
2014 2013
 
Asset
£m
Liability
£m
Asset
£m
Liability
£m
Between one and two years 33 (33) – –
Between two and five years 122 (67) 242 (112) 
In more than five years 20 (56) 99 (64) 
Total 175 (156) 341 (176) 
K. Financial risk management
Interest rate and foreign exchange risk management
The Company manages its exposure to interest rates and foreign exchange movements, which arise from the Company’s sources of finance  
by selectively entering into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure. The Company has also entered into derivative contracts  
on behalf of its subsidiary BSkyB Finance UK plc, and has back-to-back intercompany contracts.
Foreign exchange risk
The following analysis details the Company’s sensitivity to movements in pounds sterling against all currencies in which it has significant  
transactions. The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated financial instruments and adjusts their  
translation at the period end for a 25% change in foreign currency rates.
A 25% strengthening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have an adverse impact on profit of £16 million (2013: adverse impact  
of £22 million), relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives. The same strengthening would have an adverse impact  
on other equity of £21 million (2013: adverse impact of £25 million).
A 25% weakening in pounds sterling against the US dollar would have a beneficial impact on profit of £26 million (2013: beneficial impact  
of £36 million), relating to non-cash movements in the valuation of derivatives. The same weakening would have a beneficial impact  
on other equity of £36 million (2013: beneficial impact of £42 million). Annual Report 2014
135 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Interest rate risk
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative financial 
instruments at the balance sheet date. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the  
balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
For each one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates at 30 June 2014, and if all other variables were held constant, the Company’s profit  
for the year ended 30 June 2014 would decrease or increase by £3 million (2013: decrease or increase by £3 million) and other equity reserves  
would decrease or increase by £1 million (2013: decrease or increase by £4 million).
A one hundred basis point rise or fall in interest rates represents a large but realistic movement which can easily be multiplied to give sensitivities  
at different interest rates.
The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical only and should be used with caution as the impacts provided are not necessarily indicative  
of the actual impacts that would be experienced because the effect of a change in a particular market variable on fair values or cash flows is  
calculated without considering interrelationships between the various market rates or mitigating actions that would be taken by the Company.  
In addition, the Company’s actual exposure to market rates changes as the Company’s portfolio of debt changes.
The changes in valuations are estimates of the impact of changes in market variables and are not a prediction of future events or anticipated  
gains or losses.
Liquidity risk
See note 22 for the Company’s policy on liquidity management.
The following table analyses the Company’s non-derivative financial liabilities, net settled interest rate swaps and gross settled currency  
swaps and collars into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. 
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows and may therefore not reconcile to the amounts disclosed  
on the balance sheet for borrowings, derivative financial instruments and other payables.
 
Less than 
12 months 
£m 
Between 
one and 
two years 
£m 
Between 
two and 
five years 
£m 
More than 
five years 
£m 
At 30 June 2014
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Bonds – USD 74 74 962 521 
Bonds – GBP 18 18 54 444 
Other payables 3,613 – – –
Net settled derivatives
Financial assets (15) (15) (36) – 
Gross settled derivatives
Outflow 63 62 930 560 
Inflow (56) (56) (920) (521) 
 
Less than 
12 months 
£m 
Between 
one and 
two years 
£m 
Between 
two and 
five years 
£m 
More than 
five years 
£m 
At 30 June 2013
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Bonds – USD 83 83 740 999 
Bonds – GBP 18 18 54 462 
Other payables 3,434 – – – 
Net settled derivatives
Financial assets (17) (17) (51) (6) 
Gross settled derivatives
Outflow 62 62 574 978 
Inflow (63) (63) (682) (926) 
At 30 June 2014, the Company had an undrawn £743 million RCF with a maturity date of 31 October 2018. See note 20 for further information. Annual Report 2014
136 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
(continued)
31. British Sky Broadcasting Group plc company only financial statements (continued) 
L. Notes to the Company statement of changes in equity
For details of share capital, share premium, the special reserve, the capital redemption reserve and the hedging reserve, see notes 23 and 24. 
For details of the Company’s share buy-back programmes, see note 24.
For details of dividends, see note 9.
Capital reserve
This reserve arose from the surplus on the transfer of trade and assets to a subsidiary undertaking.
M. Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Profit before tax 786 1,118 
Dividend income (622) (947) 
Net finance costs 17 3 
Increase in other receivables (181) (174) 
Cash generated from operations – – 
N. Contingent liabilities and guarantees
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have undertaken, in the normal course of business, to provide support to several of the Group’s  
investments in both limited and unlimited companies and partnerships, to meet their liabilities as they fall due. Several of these undertakings  
contain maximum financial limits. These undertakings have been given for at least one year from the date of the signing of the UK statutory  
accounts of the related entity. A payment under these undertakings would be required in the event of an investment being unable to pay its liabilities.
The Company has provided parent company guarantees in respect of the various contracts entered into with the Premier League by British Sky 
Broadcasting Limited covering the 2013/14 to 2015/16 football seasons. In each case the guarantee covers all payment obligations now or in the  
future due, owing or incurred by British Sky Broadcasting Limited under the contracts and all liabilities now or in the future arising or incurred  
under the indemnity given to the Premier League by British Sky Broadcasting Limited under the contracts.
The Company has provided a parent company guarantee in respect of the contract entered into with British Sky Broadcasting Limited and  
Stanhope plc in relation to the construction of a new corporate headquarters at the Osterley Campus. The guarantee covers all performance  
obligations and payment obligations imposed on British Sky Broadcasting Limited under that contract.
The Company has guarantees in place relating to the Group’s borrowings, see note 20, and in relation to audit exemptions, see note 30.
O. Transactions with related parties and major shareholders
 
2014 
£m
2013
£m 
Supply of services to subsidiaries 225 214 
Interest received from funding to subsidiaries 64 58 
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 3,008 2,966 
Amounts owed to subsidiaries (3,536) (3,398) 
Amounts owed to other related parties (23) (6) 
The Company has related party transactions with its subsidiaries by virtue of its status as parent company of the Group. In particular, it is normal  
treasury practice for the Company to lend and borrow cash to and from its subsidiaries as required. Under this policy, British Sky Broadcasting  
Limited settled liabilities of £83 million (2013: £74 million) on behalf of the Company during the year. Interest is earned on certain loans to subsidiaries.
The Company recognised £225 million (2013: £214 million) for licensing the Sky brand name to subsidiaries. 
The Company recognised dividends during the year from subsidiaries totalling £622 million (2013: £947 million).
Share buy-back programme
During the year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 12,140,586 ordinary shares held by Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. as part  
of its share buy-back programme. For further details, see note 24.
The Group’s related party transactions are disclosed in note 28.
P. Events after the reporting period
For details, see note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.  Annual Report 2014
137 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Financial statements – Group financial record
Group financial record
Unaudited supplemental information
Consolidated results
Below is selected financial information for the Group under IFRS as at and for each of the five years ended 30 June 2014.
Consolidated Income Statement 
Year 
ended 
30 June 
2014 
£m 
Year 
ended 
30 June 
2013 
£m 
Year 
ended 
30 June 
2012 
£m 
Year 
ended 
30 June 
2011 
£m 
Year 
ended 
30 June 
2010 
£m 
Continuing operations
Retail subscription 6,255 5,951 5,593 5,471 4,778
Wholesale subscription 422 396 351 323 238
Advertising 472 440 440 458 340
Installation, hardware and service 85 87 98 112 174
Other 398 361 309 233 179
Revenue
(i)
7,632 7,235 6,791 6,597 5,709
Operating expense
(ii)
(6,471) (5,944) (5,548) (5,524) (4,865) 
Litigation settlement income – – – – 269 
Operating profit 1,161 1,291 1,243 1,073 1,113 
Share of results of joint ventures and associates 35 46 39 34 32 
Investment income on litigation settlement – – – – 49 
Investment income 26 28 18 9 3 
Finance costs (140) (108) (111) (111) (122) 
Profit on disposal of available-for-sale investment – – – 9 115 
Profit before tax 1,082 1,257 1,189 1,014 1,190 
Taxation (217) (278) (283) (256) (294) 
Profit for the year from continuing operations 865 979 906 758 896 
Discontinued operations
Profit (loss) for the year from discontinued operations – – – 52 (18) 
Profit for the year 865 979 906 810 878 
Net profit (loss) recognised directly in equity 73 129 64 (8) 61 
Total comprehensive income for the year 938 1,108 970 802 939 
Earnings per share from profit for the year (in pence)
Basic 55.4p 60.7p 52.6p 46.5p 50.4p 
Diluted 54.9p 59.7p 52.2p 45.9p 50.1p 
Dividends per share (in pence) 32.0p 30.0p 25.4p 23.3p 19.4p 
Consolidated Balance Sheet 
30 June 
2014 
£m 
30 June 
2013 
£m 
30 June 
2012 
£m 
30 June 
2011 
£m 
30 June 
2010 
£m 
Non-current assets 3,876 3,776 3,234 3,025 2,818 
Current assets 2,573 2,569 2,275 2,329 1,986 
Total assets 6,449 6,345 5,509 5,354 4,804 
Current liabilities (2,519) (2,317) (2,098) (1,912) (1,707) 
Non-current liabilities (2,858) (3,016) (2,467) (2,407) (2,537) 
Net assets 1,072 1,012 944 1,035 560 
Number of shares in issue (in millions) 1,563 1,594 1,674 1,753 1,753  Annual Report 2014
138 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Group financial record
Consolidated results
Statistics
Year 
ended 
30 June 
2014 
(’000) 
Year 
ended 
30 June 
2013 
(’000) 
Year 
ended 
30 June 
2012 
(’000) 
Year 
ended 
30 June 
2011 
(’000) 
Year 
ended 
30 June 
2010 
(’000) 
Products
TV 10,686 10,422 10,288 10,187 9,860 
Sky
+
HD 5,242 4,786 4,343 3,822 2,939 
Multiroom 2,559 2,489 2,402 2,250 2,121 
Sky Go Extra 1,177 166 – – – 
Broadband 5,247 4,906 4,001 3,335 2,624 
Telephony 4,982 4,501 3,768 3,101 2,367 
Line rental 4,882 4,364 3,563 2,680 1,686 
Total paid-for subscription products 34,775 31,634 28,365 25,375 21,597 
Customers
Retail customers 11,495 11,153 10,606 10,294 9,868 
Wholesale customers
(iii)
4,041 3,677 3,672 3,522 3,271 
Total customers 15,536 14,830 14,278 13,816 13,139 
Average number of full-time equivalent employees 20,841 19,413 17,937 16,006 16,439 
(i)  Included within wholesale subscription revenue for the year ended 30 June 2014 is a £15 million credit received following the termination of an escrow agreement with  
a current wholesale operator.
(ii)  Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2014 are costs of £72 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and  
fixed-line telephony business, costs of £40 million relating to a corporate restructuring and efficiency programme and £2 million as a result of the termination of an escrow 
agreement with a current wholesale operator. 
 Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2013 is a credit of £32 million in relation to a credit note received following an Ofcom determination, a credit of £33 
million relating to the final settlement of disputes with a former manufacturer of set-top boxes (net of associated costs), costs of £31 million relating to one-off upgrade of set-top 
boxes, costs of £33 million relating to a corporate efficiency programme and costs of £15 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line 
telephony business. Also included are costs of £25 million relating to the programme to offer wireless connectors to selected Sky Movies customers.
 Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2012 is a credit of £31 million in relation to the News Corporation (subsequently renamed Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc.) 
proposal in 2011 consisting of costs incurred offset by the receipt of the break fee. Also included are restructuring costs of £11 million which comprise severance payments in relation 
to approximately 35 senior roles as part of a restructuring initiative to improve operating efficiency.
 Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2011 is £26 million of restructuring costs arising on the acquisition of Living TV, which comprise principally redundancy 
payments and the early termination of a pre-acquisition contract, £15 million of costs in relation to the News Corporation (subsequently renamed Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc.) 
proposal and a credit of £41 million in relation to the refund of import duty on set-top boxes paid out in prior years. This duty was recovered due to the judgment given by the ECJ  
on 14 April 2011. 
 Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2010 is £32 million of expense relating to a restructuring exercise of which £22 million related to the impairment  
of assets associated with Picnic (the potential launch of a subscription television service on DTT) and £10 million related to reorganisation costs and redundancy payments.  
Also included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2010 is £1 million of expense relating to legal costs incurred on the Group’s claim against EDS which provided 
services to the Group as part of the Group’s investment in customer management systems software and infrastructure, and a £5 million credit related to the cancellation of 
accounts payable on settlement of the claim against EDS.
(iii)  Wholesale customers are customers who take a package, from one of Sky’s Wholesale Partners, in which they receive at least one paid for Sky channel.
Factors which materially affect the comparability of the selected financial data 
Discontinued operations
During fiscal 2011, the Group sold its business-to-business telecommunications operation, Easynet, to LDC. 
EDS Litigation settlement
During fiscal 2010, EDS and the Group fully and finally settled the litigation between them and all related claims (including for damages, costs and interest) 
for a total amount of £318 million.
Available-for-sale investment
During fiscal 2011, the Group disposed of its equity investment in Shine and recognised a profit of £9 million. 
During fiscal 2010, the Group disposed of part of its equity investment in ITV and recognised a profit on disposal of £115 million. For further details see 
note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.
Business combinations
During fiscal 2013, the Group completed the acquisition of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business from Telefónica UK, comprising 
100% of the share capital of Be Un Limited. The results of this acquisition were consolidated from the date on which control passed to the Group  
(30 April 2013).
During fiscal 2011, the Group completed the acquisitions of Living TV and The Cloud. The results of these acquisitions were consolidated from the date  
on which control passed to the Group (12 July 2010 and 23 February 2011, respectively).
Exchange rates
A significant portion of the Group’s liabilities and expenses associated with the cost of programming acquired from US film licensors together with  
set-top box costs are denominated in US dollars. For a discussion of the impact of exchange rate movements on the Group’s financial condition  
and results of operations, see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
Group financial record (continued)
Unaudited supplemental information Annual Report 2014
139 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Financial statements – Non-GAAP measures
Non-GAAP measures
Unaudited supplemental information
Consolidated Income Statement – reconciliation of statutory and adjusted numbers 
2014 2013
Notes
Statutory 
£m
Adjusting 
Items 
£m
Adjusted
£m
Statutory 
£m
Adjusting 
Items 
£m
Adjusted 
£m
Revenue
Retail subscription 6,255 – 6,255 5,951 – 5,951
Wholesale subscription A 422 (15) 407 396 – 396
Advertising 472 – 472 440 – 440
Installation, hardware and service 85 – 85 87 – 87
Other 398 – 398 361 – 361
7,632 (15) 7,617 7,235 – 7,235
Operating expense
Programming B (2,662) – (2,662) (2,487) 1 (2,486)
Direct networks C (850) 31 (819) (686) (29) (715)
Marketing D (1,215) 16 (1,199) (1,117) 1 (1,116)
Subscriber management and supply chain E (694) 6 (688) (673) 26 (647)
Transmission, technology and fixed networks F (460) 13 (447) (405) 4 (401)
Administration G (590) 48 (542) (576) 36 (540)
(6,471) 114 (6,357) (5,944) 39 (5,905)
EBITDA 1,597 70 1,667 1,669 23 1,692
Operating profit 1,161 99 1,260 1,291 39 1,330
Share of results of joint ventures
and associates H 35 – 35 46 (9) 37
Investment income 26 – 26 28 – 28
Finance costs I (140) 5 (135) (108) (23) (131)
Profit before tax 1,082 104 1,186 1,257 7 1,264
Taxation J (217) (32) (249) (278) (17) (295)
Profit for the year 865 72 937 979 (10) 969
Earnings per share (basic) 55.4p 4.6p 60.0p 60.7p (0.7)p 60.0p
Notes: explanation of adjusting items for the year ended 30 June 2014
A. Revenue of £15 million relating to credit received following termination of an escrow agreement with a current wholesale operator.
C. Costs of £31 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business.
D. Costs of £15 million in relation to a corporate restructuring and efficiency programme and costs of £1 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the  
O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business.
E. Costs of £3 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business and costs of £3 million in relation  
to a corporate restructuring and efficiency programme (principally an impairment of £2 million in relation to associated intangible and tangible assets).
F. Costs of £13 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business (including amortisation of £4 million  
in relation to associated intangible assets).
G. Costs of £24 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business (including amortisation of £23 million  
in relation to associated intangible assets), costs of £22 million relating to a corporate restructuring and efficiency programme and costs of £2 million relating to an  
expense as a result of the termination of an escrow agreement with a current wholesale operator.
I. Remeasurement of all derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting and hedge ineffectiveness.
J. Tax adjusting items and the tax effect of above items.
Notes: explanation of adjusting items for the year ended 30 June 2013
B. Costs of £1 million relating to a corporate efficiency programme.
C. Credit of £32 million relating to a credit note received following an Ofcom determination and costs of £3 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the  
O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business.
D. Costs of £1 million relating to a corporate efficiency programme.
E. Credit of £33 million relating to the final settlement of disputes with a former manufacturer of set-top boxes (net of associated costs and including an impairment  
of £6 million in relation to associated intangible assets), costs of £31 million relating to one-off upgrade of set-top boxes, costs of £25 million relating to a programme  
to offer wireless connectors to selected Sky Movies customers, costs of £2 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and  
fixed-line telephony business and costs of £1 million relating to a corporate efficiency programme.
F. Costs of £1 million relating to a corporate efficiency programme, significantly an impairment of associated intangible and tangible assets, and £3 million relating  
to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business.
G. Costs of £29 million relating to a corporate efficiency programme, primarily redundancy costs and including an impairment of £5 million in relation to associated  
intangible and tangible assets, and £7 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business,  
including amortisation of £4 million in relation to associated intangible assets.
H. Profit on disposal of the Group’s interest in MUTV Limited.
I. Remeasurement of all derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting and hedge ineffectiveness.
J. Tax adjusting items and the tax effect of above items.  Annual Report 2014
140 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Financial statements – Non-GAAP measures
Reconciliation of cash generated from operations to adjusted free cash flow
for the year ended 30 June 2014 
 Note
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Cash generated from operations 25 1,769 1,877 
Interest received 27 29 
Taxation paid (240) (300) 
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 32 43 
Net funding to joint ventures and associates (6) (4) 
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (241) (203) 
Purchase of intangible assets (302) (251) 
Interest paid (137) (128) 
Free cash flow 902 1,063 
Receipt following termination of an escrow agreement with a current wholesale operator (19) –
Receipt following final settlement of disputes with a former manufacturer of set-top boxes
(i)
(9) (10) 
Cash paid relating to a corporate efficiency programme
(i)
12 4 
Cash paid (receipt) following an Ofcom determination
(i)
4 (28) 
Cash paid relating to one-off upgrade of set-top boxes
(i)
16 7 
Cash paid relating to programme to offer wireless connectors to selected Sky Movies customers
(i)
16 1 
Cash paid relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line
telephony business
(i)
22 4 
Receipt on disposal of joint venture
(i)
– (13) 
Adjusted free cash flow 944 1,028 
(i) Net of applicable corporation tax.
Non-GAAP measures (continued)
Unaudited supplemental information Annual Report 2014
141 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Shareholder information
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Annual General Meeting
The venue and timing of the Company’s 2014 AGM is detailed in the 
notice convening the AGM which will be available for download from 
the Company’s corporate website at sky.com/corporate
Financial calendar
Results for the financial year ending 30 June 2015 will be published in: 
October 2014*
February 2015*
May 2015*
August 2015*
* Provisional dates
The Sky website
Shareholders are encouraged to visit the Sky website sky.com which 
has a wealth of information about the Company. There is a section 
designed specifically for investors at sky.com/corporate where investor 
and media information can be accessed. This year’s Annual Report and 
Notice of AGM, together with prior year documents, can be viewed 
there along with information on dividends, share price and avoiding 
shareholder fraud.
Managing your shares and shareholder 
communications
The Company’s shareholder register is maintained by its Registrar, 
Equiniti. Information on how to manage your shareholdings can be 
found at help.shareview.co.uk
Shareholders can contact Equiniti in relation to all administrative 
enquiries relating to their shares, such as a change of personal details, 
the loss of a share certificate, out-of-date dividend cheques, change  
of dividend payment methods and how to apply for the Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan.
Shareholders who have not yet elected to receive shareholder 
documentation in electronic form can sign up by registering at 
shareview.co.uk. Should Shareholders who have elected for electronic 
communications require a paper copy of any of the Company’s 
shareholder documentation, or wish to change their instructions,  
they should contact Equiniti.
Shareholder Contact Centre
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA
Telephone: 0871 384 2091*
Telephone number from outside the UK: +44 121 415 7567
*  Lines are open Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm; excluding UK Bank Holidays. 
Calls to 0871 numbers cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Dividend tax vouchers
A consolidated tax voucher service is available for shareholders who 
have chosen to receive dividends directly into their bank account.  
A single consolidated tax voucher will be mailed by the end of 
November each year, to coincide with the final dividend payment. 
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”) which 
enables shareholders to buy the Company’s shares on the London 
stock market with their cash dividend. Further information about  
the DRIP is available from Equiniti. 
ShareGift
Shareholders who only have a small number of shares whose value 
makes it uneconomic to sell them may wish to consider donating them 
to charity through ShareGift, the independent charity share donation 
scheme (registered charity no. 1052686). Further information may  
be obtained from ShareGift on 020 7930 3737 or at sharegift.org 
Shareholder fraud
Fraud is on the increase and many shareholders are targeted every 
year. If you have any reason to believe that you may have been the 
target of a fraud, or attempted fraud in relation to your shareholding, 
please contact Equiniti immediately.
American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”)
The Company’s ADR programme trades on the over-the-counter  
(“OTC”) market in the US. More information can be obtained from  
the Company’s corporate website at sky.com/corporate 
All enquiries relating to the Company’s ADRs should be addressed to: 
BNY Mellon 
PO Box 43006, Providence, RI 02940-3006, U.S.A.
US residents: (888) 269 2377
If resident outside the US: +1 201 680 6825 
email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com
Company’s registered office
Grant Way 
Isleworth 
Middlesex 
TW7 5QD
Telephone 0333 100 0333 
Overseas +44 333 100 0333
Company registration number
2247735
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square 
London 
EC4A 3BZ
Shareholder information Annual Report 2014
142 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Glossary of terms
Glossary of terms
Useful Definitions Description
Churn The number of total customers over a given period that terminate their subscription in its entirety, net of former customers 
who reinstated their subscription in that period (where such reinstatement is within a 12-month period of the termination  
of their original subscription), expressed as an annualised percentage of total average customers for the period
DTH Direct-to-Home: the transmission of satellite services and functionality with reception through a satellite dish.  
“DTH customer” means a subscriber to one or more of our retailed packages of television channels made available via DTH
DTT Digital Terrestrial Television: digital signals delivered to homes through a conventional aerial, converted through a set-top  
box or integrated digital television set
EPG Electronic Programme Guide
IP Internet Protocol: a mechanism by which data packets may be routed between computers on a network
IPTV Internet Protocol Television
Multiscreen Installation of an additional set-top box in the household of an existing DTH customer. Sky Go Extra is included at no extra 
cost for Multiscreen customers on an opt-in basis
NOW TV The Group’s over the top streaming service available on a variety of devices including NOW TV Box, offering monthly 
subscriptions for Sky Movies or Entertainment and transactional Sky Sports Day Passes
On Demand Sky’s On Demand service offering a selection of content from across the Sky platform available for customers to watch 
whenever they want. The full On Demand service is available to customers that have an active broadband connection
PVR Personal Video Recorder: satellite decoder which utilises a built-in hard disk drive to enable viewers to record without 
videotapes, pause live television and record one programme while watching another
Set-top box Digital satellite equipment, responsible for receiving, converting and sending the picture and sound of a broadcast  
to the associated television set
Sky
+
Sky’s fully-integrated PVR and satellite decoder
Sky
+
HD High Definition set-top box with PVR functionality
Sky Bet Sky’s betting services, provided through set-top boxes, the internet and via phone
Sky Broadband Home broadband service 
Sky Go Sky’s retailed packages of television channels and on demand content made available via a broadband connection,  
including the version made available to mobile devices via a wireless or 3G connection
Sky Go Extra Selected content included within Sky’s retailed packages of television channels and on demand content made available  
to download, enabling customers to watch the content when and wherever they want, without the need for a broadband, 
wireless or 3G/4G connection
Sky Store Our pay-per-view, on demand movies rental service available via Sky On Demand and Sky Go
Sky Talk Home telephony service 
Sky WiFi Sky’s seamless wireless internet access provided at over 20,000 The Cloud hotspots in the UK
Standalone home 
communications
Sky’s retailed packages of broadband, talk and line rental when taken without a television subscription package 143 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Annual Report 2014
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014
144 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Accessibility
If you would like advice regarding accessibility of this document,  
please contact the Accessible Customer Service team on 03442 410333  
or Textphone on 0844 241 0535.
Customers in ROI should use telephone number 0818 71 98 09 and 
Textphone number 0818 71 98 49.
We can also be contacted by email accessiblecustomerservice@bskyb.com
CR INDEX
2014 Printed on Heaven 42 which is an 
FSC/ISO 14001 certified paper.
Designed and produced by  
SALTERBAXTER MSLGROUP.
Printed by Pureprint. 
Pureprint are ISO 14001 certified,  
Carbon Neutral, Alcohol Free, FSC and  
PEFC chain of custody certified. British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 
Grant Way 
Isleworth 
Middlesex 
TW7 5QD 
Telephone 0333 100 0333 
Facsimile 0333 100 0444 
sky.com 
Registered in England No. 2247735
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014
