 annual report 2013 overview
01  Performance at a glance
02  Britvic at a glance
04  Our people
04  Strategy for growth
business review
06   Chairman’s statement
08   Chief Executive Officer’s strategic review
10  Chief Financial Officer’s review
17  Business resources
19   Risks and uncertainties
governance
25   Corporate governance report
26  Board of Directors and Company Secretary
33  Audit Committee report
35  Nomination Committee report
36   Directors’ remuneration report
56  Directors’ report
59   Statement of directors’ responsibilities
financial statements
63   Independent auditor’s report to the members of Britvic plc
65 Consolidated income statement
66 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
67 Consolidated balance sheet
68 Consolidated statement of cash flows
69 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
111 Independent auditor’s report to the members of Britvic plc
112 Company balance sheet
113 Notes to the company financial statements
shareholder information
120  Shareholder inf ormation
122 Cautionary statement
contents overview
overview  
1 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
performance at a glance* continued
business review financial statements shareholder information governance overview
Britvic is one of the leading soft drinks companies in Europe, with operations in Great Britain 
(GB), Ireland and France. Across these three markets, the company has developed a strong portfolio 
of its own iconic brands, including Robinsons, Tango, J
2
O, drench, MiWadi, Ballygowan, Teisseire and 
Fruité. In addition, in GB and Ireland, the company produces and sells a number of PepsiCo’s famous soft 
drinks brands, including Pepsi, 7UP and Mountain Dew Energy, under exclusive agreements with 
PepsiCo. Britvic is the largest supplier of branded still soft drinks and the number two supplier of branded 
carbonated soft drinks in GB, and it is an industry leader in Ireland and France. Through franchising, 
export and licensing, Britvic has also been growing its reach into other territories, particularly the United 
States. Britvic’s management team has successfully developed the business through a clear strategy of 
organic growth and international expansion based on creating and building scalable brands. Britvic is 
listed on the London Stock Exchange under the code BVIC.
Its market capitalisation at 27 September 2013 was £1,398 million. 
*  All numbers, other than where stated or included within the financial statements, are disclosed before exceptional and other items and are 
expressed on a constant currency basis. A list of definitions can be found on page 122 of the annual report.
group revenue group ebita group ebita margin
£1,321.9m £137 .9m 10.4%
2012 £1,256.4m 2012 £1 15.6m 2012 9.2%
+4.4% + 18.4% + 120bps
underlying roic* adjusted earnings  
per share
dividend per share
20.7% 35.2p 18.4p
2012 16.4% 2012 27 .2p 2012 17 .7p
+430bps +27 .7% +4.0%
performance at a glance*
Reconciliation from actual exchange rate to constant exchange rate
2012 actual  
 exchange rate £m
Change  
£m
2012 constant  
exchange rate £m
Group Revenue 1,256.4 9.4 1,265.8
Group EBIT 112.7 0.9 113.6
Group EBITA 
(3)
115.6 1.0 116.6
Adjusted Earnings Per Share 
(4)
27 .2p 0.4p 27 .6p  overview
Britvic at a glance
2 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 Britvic GB
Britvic Ireland
Britvic France
Distribution via Britvic International
Britvic-owned brand agreements
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information
overview continued
3 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance 4 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
overview  
our people
Our people are critical to Britvic’s success and we are fully 
committed to making Britvic a great place to work, with our vision 
to be a top 5 Great Place to Work. Our emphasis is increasingly  
on developing our own talent, combined with proactive external 
recruitment when we need to introduce new skills or create 
positions that support our growth plans. To maximise the potential 
of our employees we continue to strengthen our focus on 
performance management, talent management and providing 
learning and development programmes across all our geographies. 
We have embarked on inspiring all our employees across our entire 
business in our new Britvic plc purpose, vision and values and we 
expect this to further drive engagement and motivation.
strategy for growth
Our vision for Britvic is to become one of 
the most admired soft drinks businesses  
in the world. 
Our new strategy is designed to realise that ambition and capitalise 
on the many opportunities available to our business. 
•  Becoming the benchmark branded soft drinks business  
for both PepsiCo and our own brands in GB & Ireland 
In our core markets, we will continue to build a company that is 
acknowledged for commercial excellence, efficient operations 
and the strength and breadth of our brand portfolio, both our own 
brands and PepsiCo’s. We will maintain a dedicated commercial 
focus in both countries, but will combine support functions to 
maximise efficiencies.
•  Fully exploiting global category opportunities in the kids, 
family and adult categories 
We will build on the strength of our own brands in these categories, 
in particular Fruit Shoot, Robinsons and Teisseire, and leverage 
them internationally. We will launch them in countries where we 
believe they have real potential to succeed and a dedicated 
International business unit will work with local partners, through 
franchise, distribution or licensing agreements, to ensure an 
asset-light and low risk approach to growth.
•   Creating a simple focused operating model, empowering our 
people and matching resource and capability to the growth 
opportunities 
 Delivery of the strategy requires a simpler, more focused and 
accountable organisational structure. Resources will be aligned 
against the growth opportunities and we will create a lower cost 
and more efficient business.
•  Being a trusted and respected member of the communities 
in which we operate 
 We will deliver a strong performance with integrity, 
acknowledging the responsibility we have to contribute to our 
local economies and society more broadly. Corporate social 
responsibility and sustainability will be fully embedded in our 
business. 5 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information
overview  our people continued
06   Chairman ’ s statement
08   Chief Executive Officer’s strategic review
10  Chief Financial Officer’s review
17  Business resources
19   Risks and uncertainties
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information
business  
review Dear Shareholder
The last twelve months have been the most 
eventful in Britvic’s time as a public company. 
We began the year having agreed an all-share 
equity merger with AG Barr plc. We ended 
the year remaining independent, with a new 
Chief Executive Officer, Simon Litherland,  
at the helm, with a new strategy and a 
significant turnaround in our share price 
performance. Group EBIT grew by 18.8% on 
a constant currency basis to £135m and 
adjusted earnings per share rebounded by 
27 .5% to 35.2p per share.
The merger with AG Barr plc was conceived against the backdrop 
of the Fruit Shoot recall of July last year, which cost the company 
£25m. The combination of Britvic and AG Barr plc and the associated 
synergies was welcomed by our shareholders, who overwhelming 
voted in favour of the merger.
However, the proposed deal lapsed in February of this year, when 
the Office of Fair Trading referred the deal to the Competition 
Commission. With the OFT referral, Paul Moody, our Chief Executive 
at the time, retired from Britvic. Paul had spent some 16 years with 
the business, including seven years on the board, during which 
time the company grew substantially and overall delivered 
significant shareholder value. On behalf of the board, I would like 
to thank Paul for the dedication and professionalism he showed 
during his tenure and wish him all the best for the future. 
Simultaneously to Paul’s departure, the board appointed Simon 
Litherland as our new Chief Executive Officer. Simon had joined us 
the previous year, as part of our succession planning, from Diageo 
plc and had spent a busy year heading up our GB business. With 
the outcome of the merger unknown whilst the Competition 
Commission carried out their investigation, Simon set about 
defining a new strategy and organisational model for Britvic, with  
a net investment of £40m underpinning annual costs saving of 
£30m by 2016.
The response to this new strategy, which was shared at our interim 
results in May, has been overwhelmingly positive. With a new 
strategy and leadership team in place, we have seen a turnaround 
in the fortunes of the business. Fruit Shoot has enjoyed a strong 
recovery since the recall, avoiding long-term damage to the brand. 
Our international growth opportunities gained momentum with new 
agreements in Spain and India for Fruit Shoot and a step-change  
for the brand in the USA, with distribution into 32 states. Our 
businesses in France and Ireland also significantly improved their 
performance and the whole company benefited from the warm 
summer, as well as a number of the programmes Simon had initiated.
In July, we finally received clearance from the Competition 
Commission for the merger with AG Barr plc to take place. However, 
by then our fortunes had changed so substantially that we were 
unable to agree new mutually acceptable terms. The board decided 
that a future independent of AG Barr plc, implementing the new 
team’s plans, was preferable to merging on the terms that were 
available.
We have seen the progress we have made reflected in strong 
share price growth, with the share price recovering from a low of 
249p at the time of the Fruit Shoot recall to end the year at 575p. 
Britvic has undergone significant change in the past year and the 
board and I have been hugely impressed by the commitment of 
the Britvic team, at what has been a challenging time for our 
employees. We have every confidence in the future prospects of 
the business and believe that, under Simon’s leadership, we will 
see sustainable profit growth and the creation of meaningful 
shareholder value in the coming years.
Reflecting this confidence and the continued strong cash generation, 
we are proposing a final dividend of 13.0p pence per share, an 
increase on the previous year of 4.8%, making the full year increase 
in the dividend 4%.
As part of the board’s on-going development and desire to support 
the company in executing the new strategy, I can report that the 
board is seeking to make further changes to its composition. During 
the next 12 to 18 months two of our Non-Executive Directors, Bob 
Ivell and Michael Shallow, move closer to a nine year tenure from 
the date of their first election by shareholders in 2007 and therefore 
the end of their term of office. More details in relation to the board’s 
succession plans are set out in the Corporate Governance Report 
on page 35. As in previous years, all of our directors will retire at 
the AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
The AGM will be held at 11am on Wednesday, 29 January 2014  
at Nomura, 1 Angel Lane, London EC4R 3AB and I look forward  
to seeing you there.
Gerald Corbett 
Chairman
6 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
 business review
chairman’s  
statement 7 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information  business review
chief executive  
officer’s  
strategic review
We have reported a strong set of results for 
our financial year ending 29 September 2013. 
As well as an improvement in the underlying 
performance of the business, we have made 
good progress on both the strategic initiatives 
we announced in May and on the international 
growth opportunities of our brands. 
Performance highlights
Although market conditions remained difficult in each of our 
business units, we saw some notable successes across the 
business and benefitted from the warm weather, with an 
exceptionally hot July.
•  In GB stills, Fruit Shoot has recovered from the impact of the recall 
in July 2012 with its take-home market share at the end of the 
financial year back to pre-recall levels. Brand perception measures, 
such as “brand you love” and “happy to give to your child” , 
recovered from the low point of 2012.
•  In GB carbonates, in a particularly competitive environment, we 
protected our volume whilst growing both price and revenue. Pepsi 
gained market value share, building on its share gains in 2012.
•  Our International business unit and our franchising model  
gained further momentum. Earlier in the year we announced that 
distribution would be expanded to 32 states in the USA in time 
for the summer. In addition we saw Fruit Shoot roll-out nationally 
in Spain with Pepsi South West Europe. In India we remain 
on-track to produce Fruit Shoot in-market by mid-2014 through 
the distribution agreement with the Narang Group.
•  In France, our syrups brands continued to perform well and 
gained further market share. Fruit Shoot successfully returned to 
the market and is performing ahead of where it was pre-recall.
•  In Ireland, our own brands increased market share, despite  
the difficult trading conditions in that market.
Towards the end of the financial year market performance was 
more subdued across all business units, for example, in GB in 
September take-home market volumes were down 1 .2%.
A new strategy for the business
In May I communicated that Britvic has the potential to become 
one of the most admired soft drinks businesses in the world by:
•  Becoming the benchmark integrated branded soft drinks 
business for both PepsiCo and our own brands in GB & Ireland.
•  Fully exploiting global category opportunities in kids, family  
and adult.
•  Creating a simple focused operating model, empowering our 
people and matching resource and capability to the opportunities 
and:
•  Being a trusted and respected member of the communities in 
which we operate.
To achieve this vision we set out a new strategy to drive market 
leading profit growth underpinned by margin enhancing revenue 
growth. The strategy has two parts, firstly our full portfolio markets 
of GB and Ireland and secondly the International and France 
business where we will leverage our category leadership of kids, 
family and adult categories. Further details of the strategy can be 
found on page 4 of the annual report.
Delivery of the strategy requires a new streamlined organisation 
structure based on three clear principles: simplicity to reduce 
complexity, enabling faster decision making and a lower cost 
operating model; focus against fewer strategic priorities matching 
resources and capability to execute better and; accountability 
ensuring we have clear ownership to deliver the performance.  
We have announced our new operating model and appointed  
our senior leadership and management teams. 
The restructuring of our GB and Ireland teams is due to be largely 
completed by quarter two 2014. We are now working hard to 
simplify our internal ways of working across all functions and  
will continue to fully support all employees impacted by change, 
including those in the supply chain who will leave the business 
between February and May 2014, or relocate between sites 
following the closure of Chelmsford & Huddersfield.
We also announced that we would deliver £30m of annualised  
cost savings by 2016, of which £25m would be realised by 2015.  
Of these savings we intend to reinvest a net £10m into the 
International business. We are on track to achieve these savings 
and the phasing that we outlined at the interims with the 
announcement of the new strategy.
8 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic initiatives update
1.   Increase operational leverage through fewer manufacturing 
sites by redistributing capacity, reducing the cost base and 
improving our asset utilisation
  -  Production to end in Huddersfield and Chelmsford by March 2014
  -  Ballygowan becomes the single water brand for GB and Ireland 
in spring 2014
  -  Achieved a 7% reduction in the number of production lines
2.   Fundamentally change the Irish operating model
  -  Combined senior leadership team for GB and Ireland appointed
  -  Belfast warehouse closed November 2013
  -  Licensed wholesale separated from the core business
3.    T ransform our procurement and product optimisation 
initiatives 
  -  Increased investment in people, systems and insight
  -  Implemented a strategic sourcing programme for key raw 
materials, such as juice
  -  Consolidated the indirect supplier base in GB by 16% and 
Ireland by 29%
4.   Implement a commercial change programme in GB  
to ensure our brands deliver strong and profitable  
revenue growth
  -  Developing a stronger partnership with intermediaries and 
direct customers to deliver a more efficient and profitable 
route to market solution
  -  Moved from three to two sales channels
  -  Improving our end-outlet contact model
International update
Our International business progressed well this year with a number 
of significant developments:
•  In the USA we saw distribution for Fruit Shoot grow to 32 states 
following further expansion with PepsiCo Americas Beverages 
(PAB) and a new agreement with the independent bottler,  
Pepsi Cola Bottling Company of Pittsburgh.
•  An agreement with PepsiCo South West Europe for the national 
distribution of Fruit Shoot in Spain.
•  A distribution agreement for Fruit Shoot with the Narang Group 
will see the brand available to consumers in India mid-2014.
•  The establishment of a management team and fully resourced 
business unit to drive our international expansion.
•  We have announced further material developments in  
the USA with the signing of a long term exclusive bottling 
agreement with PAB, for both expanded distribution and 
additional manufacturing capacity. This will see Fruit Shoot 
available in 41 states next year.
Being trusted and respected in our communities
Acknowledging the need to further incorporate the principles of 
corporate responsibility into the core of our business, in 2012 our 
Executive Team approved a new sustainable business strategy. This 
ensures that Britvic is well placed to address the key social and 
environmental risks facing us, including public health and responsible 
resource use, and acts on the opportunities that give us a business 
advantage. Finally, we aim to positively contribute to the communities 
on which we impact – whether that’s our employees, our consumers 
or the local geographies where we have a physical presence. In 
addition we recognise our impact on global communities, particularly 
those from which we source ingredients and all our direct suppliers 
are required to adhere to our ethical trading policy.
Full details of our sustainable business programme and the progress 
we have made can be found in the annual Sustainable Business 
Report. This can be downloaded from the results and presentation 
section of the website (www.britvic.com) or a hard copy can be 
requested by writing to: 
The Director of Corporate Affairs 
Britvic plc 
Breakspear Park 
Hemel Hempstead 
HP2 4TZ
We recognise that the diversity of our workforce is important to 
the success of the business and the board will be taking steps to 
address this. In 2013, women comprised 15% of our board and 
Executive Team membership, 27% of senior managers and 31%  
of total employees. There is currently one female on the Britvic plc 
board and a female General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The organisation has faced a year of uncertainty, firstly with the 
aborted merger and then with the focus on implementing the new 
strategy. The commitment and the passion shown by the Britvic 
team has been outstanding. In 2014 we will continue to implement 
our new strategy and we have comprehensive plans across the 
group to drive growth, including new innovation for Robinsons with 
“Squash’d” , Fruit Shoot partnering with Angry Birds, Teisseire 
sponsoring the Tour De France and Pepsi will bring football to life in 
its unique way. We recognise that there is a further period of change 
for our people, as we continue to implement our new operating 
model and change the way we work and that the external consumer 
environment will continue to be challenging. 
However, I am confident that with the team we have, our portfolio 
of great brands and our strong plans, we will continue to prosper 
and realise our ambition to be one of the world’s most admired soft 
drinks businesses.
Simon Litherland 
Chief Executive Officer
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information
chief executive officer’s strategic review continued
9
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 10 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
The following is based on Britvic’s results for the 52 weeks ended 
29 September 2013
 *
Key performance indicators 
The principal key performance indicators that management use to 
assess the performance of the group are as follows:
•  V olume gro wth – increase in number of litres sold by the group 
relative to prior period, excluding factored brands.
•  Average Realised Price (ARP) – average revenue per litre sold, 
excluding factored brands.
•  Revenue growth – increase in sales achieved by the group 
relative to prior period.
•  Brand contribution margin – revenue less material costs and all 
other marginal costs that management considers to be directly 
attributable to the sale of a given product, divided by revenue. 
Such costs include brand specific advertising and promotion 
costs, raw materials, and marginal production and distribution 
costs. Management uses the brand contribution margin to 
analyse Britvic’s financial performance, because it provides a 
measure of contribution at brand level.
•  EBI TD A – is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, 
amortisation, profit or loss on disposal of tangible and intangible 
assets, and exceptional and other items.
•  Operating profit margin – the group focuses on EBITA (earnings 
before interest, tax and acquisition related amortisation) before 
exceptional and other items as the key operating profit measure. 
Margin is calculated by dividing EBITA by revenue. Each business 
unit’s performance is reported down to the brand contribution 
level.
•  Underlying free cash flow – is defined as net cash flow excluding 
movements in borrowings, dividend payments, exceptional and 
other items.
•  Return on invested capital (ROIC) – is defined as operating profit 
after applying the tax rate for the period, stated before exceptional 
and other items, as a percentage of invested capital. Invested 
capital is defined as non-current assets plus current assets less 
current liabilities, excluding all balances relating to interest bearing 
liabilities and all other assets or liabilities associated with the 
financing and capital structure of the group and excluding any 
deferred tax balances and effective hedges relating to interest-
bearing liabilities. 
Overview 
In the period, total group volumes (excluding factored products in 
Ireland) were 2,066.9m litres, down 0.4% on 2012, as a result of 
the reduced supply of Fruit Shoot at the start of the financial year. 
Average realised price grew by 5.4% and revenue of £1,321 .9m 
was ahead of last year by 4.4% on a constant currency basis. 
The group focused on building sustainable profit and margin 
improvement. Significant progress was achieved against this 
objective with all business units delivering pricing and brand 
contribution margin growth. As a result, group EBITA was up 
18.4% to £137 .9m and EBITA margin increased by 120bps to 
10.4%. This includes the remaining £8m cost of the Fruit Shoot 
recall that occurred in July 2012 which was accounted for as an 
operating cost.
We have maintained a disciplined approach to improving free cash 
flow generation and this has led to a strong improvement in free 
cash flow of 66.7% (£103.5m inflow) versus the prior year, leading 
to a further reduction in adjusted net debt of 9.9% to £402.3m. As 
a result, the business saw a significant deleverage with the adjusted 
net debt to EBITDA ratio falling to 2.2X from 2.8X last year, thereby 
already achieving the target we set for 2014.
 business review
chief financial officer’ s  
review
* Refer to definitions 1 and 2 on page 122 overview  our people continued chief financial officer’s review continued
11 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information GB stills
52 weeks ended  
29 September 2013
£m
52 weeks ended  
30 September 2012
£m
% change
actual exchange rate
Volume (millions litres) 398.7 402.9 (1 .0)
ARP per litre 85.3p 79.8p 6.9
Revenue 340.1 321 .7 5.7
Brand contribution 154.5 141 .2 9.4
Brand contribution margin 45.4% 43.9% 150bps
Full year volume was down 1 .0%, reflecting the limited availability 
of Fruit Shoot earlier in the year. Supply returned to historical levels 
in January 2013 with a phased return of promotional activity in 
quarter two. Fruit Shoot has now returned its take-home market 
share to pre-recall levels and its brand perception measures are 
strong. Robinson’s double concentrate continued to grow with the 
introduction of the 500ml pack this year. J
2
O also grew this year, in 
part helped by the warm weather this summer which had a positive 
impact on both at-home social occasions and casual dining in the 
pub and club channel.
Brand contribution margin was up by 150 basis points in the year. 
The growth in margin was due to a combination of effective 
promotional management and positive product mix which drove the 
strong ARP growth, as well as lower raw material cost inflation.
GB carbonates
52 weeks ended  
29 September 2013
£m
52 weeks ended  
30 September 2012
£m
% change
actual exchange rate
Volume (millions litres) 1,153.9 1,154.1 0.0
ARP per litre 46.5p 44.9p 3.6
Revenue 536.4 517 .9 3.6
Brand contribution 200.1 188.7 6.0
Brand contribution margin 37 .3% 36.4% 90bps
In what was a competitive environment, we maintained our volume 
position and grew ARP , leading to revenue growth of 3.6%. Following 
our 2012 Olympic year share gains in carbonates, and especially on 
Pepsi, we are delighted that we have successfully held take-home 
market volume share and gained market value share. 
Brand contribution was up 6.0%, with a 90bps margin improvement. 
This was as a result of both the focus on revenue and promotional 
management as well as the strong performance of the Impulse 
channel which benefited our overall mix.
International
52 weeks ended 
29 September 2013
£m
52 weeks ended  
30 September 2012
£m
% change
actual exchange rate
Volume (millions litres) 37 .7 38.2 (1 .3)
ARP per litre 99.5p 76.8p 29.6
Revenue 37 .5 29.3 28.0
Brand contribution 14.1 8.3 69.9
Brand contribution margin 37 .6% 28.3% 930bps
Note: Concentrate sales revenues are included in both revenue and ARP but do not have any associated volume
International delivered strong growth in both ARP and revenue, with 
volumes declining by 1 .3%. The volume decline reflected the switch 
to a concentrate model for the US Fruit Shoot business that impacted 
the first half of the year. In addition, we saw some volume loss as 
a result of price increases on some low margin export volumes. This 
volume loss was offset by the growth of more profitable Fruit Shoot 
volume into Belgium and the Netherlands. Fruit Shoot has returned 
successfully in these markets and is performing ahead of where it 
was pre-recall.
The ARP growth of 29.6% in part reflects the growth of Fruit Shoot 
concentrate sales in the U.S. where we saw distribution in 32 states 
ahead of the summer period. Today we are also announcing a new 
agreement with PepsiCo Americas Beverages for a long-term 
exclusive bottling agreement that will see Fruit Shoot distribution 
expand to 41 states during 2014.
12 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
chief financial officer’s review continued Ireland
52 weeks ended 
29 September 2013
£m
52 weeks ended
30 September 2012
£m
% change
actual exchange rate
% change 
constant exchange rate
Volume (millions litres) 199.0 201 .3 (1 .1) (1 .1)
ARP per litre 56.8p 54.3p 4.6 2.3
Revenue 136.9 138.7 (1 .3) (3.5)
Brand contribution 49.0 44.6 9.9 7.2
Brand contribution margin 35.8% 32.2% 360bps 360bps
Note: Volumes and ARP include own-brand soft drinks sales and do not include factored product sales included within total revenue and brand contribution. 
The underlying market conditions remained difficult in Ireland 
throughout 2013. In the second half of the year we saw a tangible 
benefit from the warm weather in July and August whilst the 
market in September was much more subdued. Over the year, we 
grew take-home market value share with a minimal loss of volume 
share, reflecting our focus on revenue management. The decline in 
the licensed wholesale business was the driver of the 3.5% 
revenue decline and more than offset the revenue growth in the 
core branded business. The licensed wholesale business margin is 
materially lower than the core branded business which, as a result, 
had a positive mix impact on brand contribution and margin.
France
52 weeks ended 
29 September 2013
£m
52 weeks ended 
30 September 2012
£m
% change
actual exchange rate
% change 
constant exchange rate
Volume (millions litres) 277 .6 278.3 (0.3) (0.3)
ARP per litre 97 .6p 89.4p 9.2 6.4
Revenue 271.0 248.8 8.9 6.2
Brand contribution 67 .9 59.2 14.7 11.5
Brand contribution margin 25.1% 23.8% 130bps 120bps
In France, we saw a marginal volume decline of 0.3%, reflecting 
the limited availability of Fruit Shoot earlier in the year. The syrups 
portfolio continued to perform well, gaining market share and 
benefiting from the warm weather in quarter four. Fruit Shoot is 
ahead of where it was pre-recall and continued to grow throughout 
the year, out-performing the kid’s category. As a result overall 
revenue grew by 6.2% outperforming the total soft drinks market 
which, as measured by IRI, grew value by 0.9%.
Fixed costs
52 weeks ended 
29 September 2013
£m
52 weeks ended 
30 September 2012
£m
% change
actual exchange rate 
Non-brand A&P (7 .3) (7 .8) 6.4
Fixed supply chain (100.7) (100.3) (0.4)
Selling costs (124.5) (118.0) (5.5)
Overheads and other (118.1) (103.2) (14.4)
Total (350.6) (329.3) (6.5)
Total A&P investment (70.3) (62.5) (12.5)
A&P as a % of revenue* 5.4% 5.1% (30)bps
* excludes 3rd party revenue
Fixed costs were up by 6.5% this year and included the £8m 
remaining costs associated with the recall of Fruit Shoot and the 
cost of the expanded in-market team supporting our USA Fruit 
Shoot business communicated last year. In addition “ overheads 
and other” included a provision for employee incentives triggered 
by the relevant performance measure, compared to a zero 
incentive payment in 2012.
A&P increased in both absolute terms, by £7 .8m, and by 30bps as 
a % of net revenue which is in line with the guidance we provided 
at the interim results and is core to our strategy of reinvesting part 
of our growth in margin to build stronger brand equity in the 
medium term.
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information
13 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information
chief financial officer’s review continued 14 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
chief financial officer’s review continued Exceptional and other items 
In the period, we accounted for a net charge of £25.5m of pre-tax 
(£20.7m post tax) exceptional and other costs. These include:
•  Corporate exceptional items of £9.6m costs, relating to advisory 
fees regarding the aborted merger with AG Barr plc, in line with 
previous disclosures.
•  Corporate exceptional items of £23.5m, relating to the 
implementation of the strategic cost initiatives announced at 
interims in May. Cash related items totalled £10.6m with 
non-cash, primarily factory closure write-off costs, of £12.9m
•  Other fair value movements gain of £7 .6m. Within exceptional 
and other items we include the fair value movement of financial 
instruments where hedge accounting could not be applied. This 
was made up of two items, a number of share swaps to satisfy 
our employee incentive share schemes and interest-rate swaps. 
The cash costs of exceptional items in the period were £16.1m 
made up of £1 .5m from the previous year and £14.6m from the 
current year.
Interest 
The net finance charge before exceptional and other items for the 
52 week period for the group was £26.9m compared with £28.3m 
in the same period in the prior year, reflecting the lower debt 
profile of the group. 
T axation 
The tax charge before exceptional items was £25.5m which 
equates to an effective tax rate of 23.6% (52 weeks ending 30 
September 2012: 25.5%). The reduction in the effective tax rate 
reflects the fall in the UK corporation tax rate, the revaluation of 
deferred tax liabilities related to the pension funding partnership 
and the impact of the mix of profits by business unit.
Earnings per share
Adjusted basic EPS for the period, excluding exceptional and other 
items and acquisition related amortisation, was 35.2p, up 29.4% 
on the same period last year of 27 .2p. 
Basic EPS (after exceptional and other items charges post-tax) for 
the period was 25.5p compared with 23.8p for the same period 
last year.
Dividends
The board is recommending a final dividend of 13.0p per share, an 
increase of 4.8% on the dividend declared last year, with a total 
value of £31 .7m. The final dividend will be paid on 7 February 2014 
to shareholders on record as at 6 December 2013. The ex-dividend 
date is 4 December 2013.
Cash flow and net debt
Underlying free cash flow was a £103.5m inflow, a 66.7% 
improvement compared to a £62.1m inflow the previous year. 
Working capital saw a small outflow of £6m primarily as a result of 
the stock build ahead of the closure of our two factories in GB and 
the year-end being one day earlier than the end of the month, 
whilst in other costs we saw a reduction in cash outflow during the 
period as there was no requirement to purchase shares to satisfy 
bonus schemes given the nil pay-out from December 2012. 
Furthermore in other costs there was a cash inflow from the 
exercise of options given the share price growth that the business 
saw. Capital expenditure was lower than our previous guidance of 
£40m to £50m, largely due to re-phasing into 2014. The pension 
contributions increase was due to the planned £2.5m increase in 
the GB defined benefits deficit contribution and the remainder of 
the full impact of the Northern Ireland deficit payments which 
started part way through the previous year. Overall adjusted net 
debt came down by over £44m and took our leverage to 2.2X 
EBITDA from 2.8X last year. The adjusted net debt (taking into 
account the foreign exchange movements on the derivatives 
hedging our US Private Placement debt) at 29 September 2013 
was £402.3m, compared to 2012 of £446.7m.
Strategic cost savings 
A dedicated project management office (PMO) has been 
established to oversee both the delivery and tracking of the cost 
and benefit analysis of the strategic initiatives that contribute to the 
£30m cost savings and operating model design. The Programme 
Change Director reports to both the Executive Team and the board 
on a regular basis to update them on the associated revenue costs, 
capital, exceptional items and risk.
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information
15 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information
chief financial officer’s review continued T reasury management
The financial risks faced by the group are identified and managed 
by a central treasury department, whose activities are carried out 
in accordance with board approved policies and subject to regular 
Audit and Treasury Committee reviews. The department does not 
operate as a profit centre and no transaction is entered into for 
trading or speculative purposes.
Key financial risks managed by the treasury department include 
exposures to movements in interest rates and foreign exchange 
whilst managing the group’s debt and liquidity, currency risk, 
interest rate risk and cash management. The group uses financial 
instruments to hedge against interest rate and foreign currency 
exposures.
The group has £891m of committed debt facilities consisting of a 
£400m bank facility which matures in 2016 and a series of private 
placement notes with maturities between 2014 and 2022, providing 
the business with a secure funding platform. At 29 September 
2013, the group’s unadjusted net debt of £458.4m (excluding 
derivative hedges) consisted of £1 .0m drawn under the group’s 
committed bank facilities, £547 .3m of private placement notes, 
£3.9m of accrued interest and £0.5m of finance leases, offset by 
net cash and cash equivalents of £91 .5m and unamortised loan 
issue costs of £2.8m. After taking into account the element of the 
fair value of interest rate currency swaps hedging the balance 
sheet value of the private placement notes, the group’s adjusted 
net debt was £402.3m which compares to £446.7m in 2012. 
In November 2013, the group reached agreement with a number of 
investors in the USA private placement market to raise an additional 
$170.4m equivalent of funding for terms of between 7 and 12 
years. This funding is subject to documentation and due diligence 
which is scheduled to be completed in December 2013. Where  
this funding is dollar-denominated this has been hedged using 
cross-currency interest-rate swaps to meet the group’s desired 
funding profile and to manage the associated foreign currency risk 
to the profit and loss account. Further detail of the group’s financial 
risk management objectives and policies can be found in note 24 
of the consolidated financial statements.
Pensions
At 29 September 2013, the IAS19 pension deficit in respect of the 
group defined benefit pension schemes was £19.3m (2012: net 
deficit of £3.7m). This increase is predominately driven by changes 
to the underlying market conditions on which the valuation 
assumptions are based for the GB plan including a decrease in the 
discount rate from 4.85% at 30 September 2012 to 4.55% at the 
29 September 2013. The group principal pension scheme is the 
Britvic Pension Plan which has both a defined benefit and defined 
contribution section. The defined benefit section was closed to 
new members on 1 August 2002, and closed to future accrual for 
active members from 10 April 2011, with new members being 
invited to join the defined contribution scheme. The actuarial 
valuation as at 31 March 2013 is currently underway, and will be 
completed by 30 June 2014. Paul Moody took early retirement on 
26 February 2013. In accordance with agreed policy he chose to 
receive the portion of his pension provided by the Britvic Executive 
Top-up Scheme (BETUS) as a cash sum in April 2013. As a result of 
this, a £0.5m gain has been recognised in exceptional and other 
items in the income statement for the period. The amount 
recognised during the year as an expense in relation to the group 
defined contribution schemes was £11 .4m (2012: £10.8m). For 
further disclosure, please see note 22 to the financial statements.
John Gibney 
Chief Financial Officer
16 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
chief financial officer’s review continued The main resources the group uses to achieve its results are:
•  An extensive portfolio of stills and carbonates brands, including 
Robinsons, Pepsi, 7UP , Tango, J
2
O and Fruit Shoot. The breadth 
and depth of Britvic’s portfolio enables it to target consumer 
demand across a wide range of consumption occasions, in all the 
major soft drinks categories and across all relevant routes to 
market. Britvic Ireland owns a number of leading brands in the 
Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, including Club, 
Ballygowan and MiWadi as well as the rights to the Pepsi, 7UP 
and Mountain Dew brands. In France the portfolio includes the 
leading syrup brand Teisseire as well as Moulin de Valdonne, 
Pressade and Fruit Shoot.
•  A successful long-standing relationship with PepsiCo that 
resulted in the exclusive bottling agreement (EBA) being 
renewed in GB in 2003 for a further 15 years, with an extension 
to 2023 on admission to the London Stock Exchange. The EBA 
for Ireland lasts until 2015. This relationship gives Britvic the 
exclusive right to distribute the Pepsi and 7UP brands in GB and 
Ireland, access to all new carbonated drinks developed by 
PepsiCo for distribution in GB and Ireland and, to support the 
development of its carbonates offering, access to PepsiCo’s 
consumer insight, marketing best practice, brand and product 
development expertise and technological know-how. Britvic has 
added to its portfolio with Mountain Dew Energy in GB and 
Ireland and has also been appointed in recent years as the 
exclusive GB bottler of Gatorade, Lipton Ice Tea and SoBe.
•  A strong customer base. For example, in the GB take-home 
market, Britvic’s customers include the “Big 4” supermarkets 
(Tesco, J Sainsbury’s, Asda and Wm Morrisons) together with a 
number of other important grocery retailers. The group has 
significant supply arrangements with a number of key players in 
the GB pubs and clubs sector and leisure and catering channels. 
Through Britvic International, the group has built on the success 
of the Robinsons and Fruit Shoot brands by introducing these 
products into markets outside GB.
•  Britvic also has a well-invested and flexible group production 
capability and distribution network that enables its soft drinks to 
be made available to consumers across all of its operating 
territories.
17 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information
business review
business resources   18 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 business review governance fi nancial statements overview shareholder information
Risk identifi cation Risk analysis
Risk mitigation
planning
Risk review Risk monitoring
19 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review governance fi nancial statements overview shareholder information
Risk management process
Britvic operates a robust risk management process that has been further strengthened over recent years.
There are fi ve stages to this process: 
Principal risks 
The principal risks that could potentially have a signifi cant impact 
on our business in the future are set out below, together with the 
actions we are taking to mitigate these.
Soft drinks market
The economic environment could reduce consumer spending 
on our brands
Risk: Whilst our products are relatively low value goods, they are 
non-essential items. Pressure on consumer spending could reduce 
spend on our products, or they may switch to cheaper non-branded 
alternatives. 
Mitigation: The soft drinks category has proven to be reasonably 
resilient and we offer a range of everyday value products to meet 
the consumer need for reduced spending. We understand what 
the consumer wants and develop products designed to meet their 
spending requirements. 
A change in consumer preferences could reduce sales of our 
brands 
Risk: Consumer preferences evolve over time and in the FMCG 
environment it is necessary to keep up with consumer requirements 
and tastes and develop our products to meet these. Failure to do 
this could result in consumers switching away from Britvic products. 
Mitigation: We offer a range from everyday value to premium 
products across a range of sub-categories and operate in a number 
of different markets, therefore we are not reliant on the preferences 
of one set of consumers. We closely monitor consumer trends in 
order to anticipate changes in preferences and match our offerings 
to these trends across our diversifi ed portfolio and markets. We 
regularly develop our current products and aim to offer innovative 
new products to create new sub-categories and generate 
consumer needs.
Increased competition could reduce our profi tability through 
reducing the average realised price of our products or reducing 
sales
Risk: We operate in a highly competitive market with relatively low 
barriers to entry and high levels of promotional activity. There is a 
risk that our competitors increase their activity or new products 
enter the market and take market share from our products. 
Mitigation: We have strong brands that show resilience even 
when under pressure from competitor promotional activity. In 
established markets, we operate a strong promotional programme 
ourselves and develop strategies for growth that are aligned to 
consumer preferences. We also continuously monitor the market and 
are able to develop tactics to respond to changes in the competitive 
environment where appropriate; however in many cases we are 
confi dent that our brand strength and understanding of the category 
ensure that the strategy we are following is robust. The diversifi cation 
of our geographical profi le also helps to reduce the risk.
Health and obesity debate could reduce sales of our products
Risk: There is currently a high level of media and government 
scrutiny on health and obesity in our core markets; GB, Ireland 
and France. ‘Sugary drinks’ are often cited as one of the issues 
affecting national obesity levels in media reports. Despite the fact 
that many of our products are low calorie, negative reporting and 
lack of understanding could result in consumers switching away 
from our products or spending less on soft drinks. 
Mitigation: We offer a range of soft drinks, many of which are low 
calorie products containing no sugar. Nutritional information is 
shown on all of our products and, in GB, we have signed up to the 
government’s front of pack labelling scheme. We actively consider 
the consumer health debate as part of our strategy development 
and ensure that our product development provides a range of 
lower calorie choices. 
 business review
risks and uncertainties 
Risk identifi cation, analysis and mitigation planning is undertaken at 
all levels of the business through functional and operational teams. 
Each risk is assigned an owner at management level who has 
responsibility for ensuring that appropriate actions are taken to 
manage the risk. A dedicated Risk and Insurance Manager manages 
and supports this process and owns the group-wide risk register.
Risks are regularly reviewed and monitored 
by Business Unit or functional management 
teams. The Executive Team review the major 
risks across the group on a quarterly basis 
to ensure that the management of these 
risks has appropriate focus. The board 
review these at least twice a year.  20 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
risks and uncertainties continued
A termination or variation of the bottling and distribution 
arrangements with PepsiCo could significantly reduce our 
business in GB and Ireland
Risk: We bottle a number of PepsiCo products in GB and Ireland, 
including Pepsi and 7UP and this makes up a significant proportion 
of our carbonated drinks portfolio in these markets. At the end of 
the bottling agreements (or earlier in specific circumstances) 
PepsiCo can terminate our right to sell their brands.
Mitigation: We place significant emphasis on developing our 
relationship with PepsiCo, which includes maintaining an appropriate 
level of communication between the two businesses to deal with 
on-going operational issues. This is further strengthening through 
the development of the Fruit Shoot franchise in the US with 
PepsiCo and the independent Pepsi bottlers. The addition of more 
PepsiCo products to the Britvic portfolio in recent years 
demonstrates the strength of this relationship.
Supply risks
Increasing commodity demand and pricing could impact our 
profitability
Risk: We utilise a wide variety of commodities in our products, 
many of which are subject to crop availability and increasing 
demand from around the world. As a result of this, there is a risk 
that we are not able to source the products that we require when 
we would like to, or we have to pay more than we planned to for 
them. In addition, the market commodity prices could fluctuate 
significantly which could impact on the profitability of our products 
going forward.
Mitigation: We manage the risk associated with availability of 
supply through a robust programme of understanding future 
requirements, developing new sources and strategic partnerships 
through our Procurement Transformation programme. In addition, 
we ensure that sustainability of prime materials is a key 
consideration in our product development process. We aim to 
manage the impact of market price fluctuations through sourcing 
much of our planned requirements through forward contracts and 
hedging arrangements.
A product quality issue leads to a recall and significant cost
Risk: Our products are generally of very high quality and are not 
high risk products for causing any significant harm, however there 
is a risk that a faulty or contaminated product is supplied to the 
market. This could result in a costly product recall and claims 
against the company if injury or damage is caused.
Mitigation: We have robust quality control measures and 
processes in place to maintain the high quality of our products 
supplied at all times. These have been further strengthened in 
response to the Fruit Shoot recall required during 2012. 
Loss of a key operational site could reduce product availability 
and therefore sales
Risk: A severe event could lead to the loss of use of a key site of 
production or distribution.
Mitigation: We seek to maintain multiple sources of supply for our 
products wherever possible. In addition, we review and manage 
the resilience of our sites to significant events and put protection in 
place where practical and beneficial to the business to do so. 
Regulatory risks
Increase in the group’s funding needs or obligations in respect 
of our pension scheme
Risk: The required revaluations of the pension schemes may 
highlight a worsening deficit position that requires the company to 
provide additional cash contributions to meet future needs. The 
triennial pension valuation for the largest of our defined benefit 
schemes, for GB employees, will be completed during the current 
financial year.
Mitigation: The group pensions function works closely with the 
pension Trustees to ensure an appropriate portfolio is in place to 
fund pension requirements and spread risk in the most appropriate 
way. New employees of the company are enrolled into a defined 
contribution scheme thereby limiting future liabilities. The largest of 
Britvic’s defined benefit schemes was closed to future accrual in 
April 2011 (closed to new members in 2002). This scheme is now 
partially funded by a Pension Funding Partnership and funding 
requirements have been agreed to 2017 .  Future regulations that affect the sale of soft drinks may 
impact our profitability 
Risk: There is a wide range of regulations that we are required to 
comply with, ranging from controlling the content, labelling and 
packaging of our products to the marketing of them. Changes in 
these regulations in the markets in which we operate could result 
in direct additional taxation on our products, increased cost to 
produce our brands or changes to the nature of the product such 
that is not as desirable to the consumer, therefore reducing sales. 
In addition, regulations may impact our ability to market or sell 
certain products or engage with specific consumers.
Mitigation: We proactively engage with the relevant authorities 
both directly and through a number of trade organisations to 
ensure we can fully participate in the future development of 
legislation. We also continuously develop our product portfolio and 
develop new products in anticipation of likely regulatory 
requirements. 
Changes in tax legislation could impact our shareholder returns
Risk: We operate in a number of tax jurisdictions with complicated 
and different tax requirements and legislation regularly changes. 
Any changes in tax legislation or rates could potentially impact the 
distributable profits of the organisation. In addition, the subjective 
nature of some tax treatments could lead to challenge from the 
relevant tax authorities which could result in disputes.
At the current time, there is a risk that any potential ‘sugar tax’ in 
GB or Ireland could impact some of our products. 
Mitigation: We have a dedicated tax team, supported by external 
advisors, who ensure that we comply with all tax regulations and 
requirements. We monitor likely changes in these and consider the 
impact that these could have on our business, taking action to 
mitigate this impact where possible. We have a broad portfolio of 
low sugar products that should not be affected by any ‘sugar tax’, 
and would look to minimise the impact on the profitability of our 
other products to the extent that it is possible through consumer 
pricing.
Macro economic environment
Macro-economic factors could adversely impact the business
Risk: We have a number of exposures as a result of changes in the 
macro-economic environment, particularly counterparty credit risk 
through our banking relationships and currency fluctuations. Whilst 
we are not directly exposed to any high risk areas in the Eurozone, 
we would be indirectly affected through the impact on those that 
we deal with and the on the wider economy. 
Mitigation: We closely monitor and manage our exposure to wider 
economic factors to the extent that it is possible or beneficial to do 
so, in particular, hedging our currency requirements.
IT risks
A systems issue could result in significant disruption to the 
business over a prolonged period or permanent loss of records 
and data if the IT disaster recovery plans are not adequate
Risk: As Britvic has grown, both through acquisition and organically, 
so has its reliance on IT systems to function, a failure of which 
could halt production or the ability to deliver goods. There are 
disaster recovery plans in place should a catastrophic failure occur, 
however should these prove to be inadequate this would result in 
permanent loss of records and data that would have a significant 
impact on our ability to operate.
Mitigation: The management of our data centre has been 
outsourced to a professional provider with both robust disaster 
recovery and business continuity plans capable of meeting both 
our current and future needs.
Inadequate security over the IT network could result in data 
loss or corruption
Risk: All IT networks are at risk of unwanted access which can 
have adverse consequences in terms of data leakage or loss, or 
systems failures.
Mitigation: Much of system is now hosted by a professional 
provider who is well set up to maintain robust cyber security.  
We review our security processes at least annually and conduct 
penetration tests to identify weaknesses and take corrective action.
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information
21 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information
risks and uncertainties continued 22 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 governance
25   Corporate governance report
26  Board of directors
33  Audit Committee report
35  Nomination Committee report
36   Directors’ remuneration report
56  Directors’ report
59   Statement of directors’ responsibilities
business review financial statements overview shareholder information
governance
business review financial statements overview shareholder information
23 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 24 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 Dear Shareholder
We believe that good governance reduces 
risk and adds value to our business. As such, 
the board is committed to high standards of 
corporate governance and supports the 
principles laid down in the revised UK 
Corporate Governance Code published in 
September 2012 by the Financial Reporting 
Council (‘the Code’). 
I am pleased to introduce our Corporate Governance Report which 
includes individual reports from the Chairmen of the Audit Committee, 
the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee (as 
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report) on pages 33 to 54. 
Together, these describe how we conduct our operations in line 
with the Code’s provisions and other accepted principles of good 
corporate governance.
Board composition
Y our board is also committed to remaining effective and recognises 
that to do so it must ensure that it has the right balance of skills, 
independence and knowledge of the company to enable it to 
discharge its duties and responsibilities. This is particularly important 
to ensure that the board is best placed to support our new strategy.
With the exception of the appointment of Simon Litherland, our 
new Chief Executive Officer, resulting in a change to the executive 
membership this year, no changes have been made to the board’s 
composition for some time. However, as part of our ongoing 
succession planning, we are seeking to recruit two new Non-
Executive Directors to add to and to refresh the board’s skills and 
experience during the course of the next 12-18 months. My 
medium term ambitions for the composition of the board are to 
bring in further manufacturing/FMCG and international expertise, 
and, without disregarding the desire to give consideration to all 
candidates based on merit and their overall suitability for the role, 
to seek to achieve a greater diversity of board members. The 
board’s succession planning activities and the steps it is taking to 
develop its policy on diversity, are discussed in my Nomination 
Committee Report on page 35.
For further details of the directors’ biographies please see pages 
26 and 27 .
Board evaluation
In the spirit of continuous improvement and in seeking a regular 
evaluation of the board’s own effectiveness, we invited Ffion Hague 
of Independent Board Evaluation to interview the directors and 
senior executives as part of a comprehensive review of the board 
and its committees’ performance during the year. Ms Hague’s 
findings are summarised on page 31 .
Gerald Corbett 
Chairman
25 November 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
25 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
 governance
corporate governance  
report   Background and experience
Over a long business career, 
Gerald has been a director of 12 
public companies, five of which 
he has chaired. His most recent 
role was as Chairman of SSL 
International plc between 
2005-2010. His executive career 
included Group Finance Director 
roles with Redland plc and 
Grand Metropolitan plc, and he 
was Chief Executive of Railtrack 
between 1997-2000.
Simon Litherland joined Britvic in 
September 2011 to perform the 
newly created role of Managing 
Director, Britvic GB, bringing with 
him valuable experience he 
obtained from Diageo, where he 
was the Managing Director of 
the GB business. Prior to this, 
Simon was the Managing Director 
in South Africa which led to his 
appointment as Managing 
Director of Brandhouse, a joint 
venture involving Diageo, 
Heineken and Namibia Breweries.
John Gibney joined Britvic as 
Finance Director in 1999. His 
responsibilities include Finance, 
Legal, Estates, Risk Management 
and Procurement. He is also 
Chairman of Counterpoint, the 
Britvic licenced wholesale 
business for Ireland. Prior to 
joining Britvic, John was Senior 
Corporate Finance & Planning 
Manager for Bass PLC, and prior 
to that he was Finance Director 
and subsequently Deputy 
Managing Director of Gala Clubs.
During the 1980s, Bob Ivell 
was the Managing Director of 
Beefeater and was also on the 
board of Scottish & Newcastle 
plc as Chairman of the Retail 
Division between 1999 and 
2004. He was the Executive 
Chairman of Regent Inns PLC 
between 2004 and 2008.
Date of appointment
Gerald was appointed to the 
board as Non-Executive 
Chairman in November 2005.
Simon was appointed to the 
board as Chief Executive 
Officer in February 2013.
John was appointed to the 
board as Chief Financial Officer 
in November 2005.
Bob was appointed to the 
board as a Non-Executive 
Director in November 2005. 
External appointments
Gerald is Chairman of Betfair 
Group plc, Moneysupermarket.
com Group plc and Towry 
Holdings Limited and a 
Non-Executive Director of 
Numis Corporation Plc.
Simon is a Director of The 
British Soft Drinks Association.
None. Bob is Chairman of David Lloyd 
Leisure and Executive Chairman 
of Mitchells and Butlers plc.
Committee membership
Gerald is Chairman of 
Nomination Committee and is a 
member of the Remuneration 
Committee.
As Chief Executive Officer, 
Simon regularly attends Audit 
Committee, Remuneration 
Committee and Nomination 
Committee meetings by 
invitation. He is Chairman  
of the Executive Team.
As Chief Financial Officer,  
John regularly attends Audit 
Committee meetings by 
invitation. He also attends 
Remuneration Committee 
meetings for certain items 
of business.
Bob is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and 
is a member of the Audit and 
Nomination Committees.
Gerald Corbett
Chairman of the board and 
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee
Simon Litherland
Chief Executive Officer
John Gibney
Chief Financial Officer
Bob Ivell
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director  
and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
26 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
 governance
board of directors and 
company secretary Background and Experience
Joanne Averiss has been a 
member of the Pepsi Group 
legal department since 1990, 
holding a series of positions in 
the UK and the US and is 
currently Senior Vice President 
Law, General Counsel, Europe 
with legal responsibility for all 
of the Pepsi Group’s business 
within its Europe sector. 
Michael was a Non-Executive 
Director of Spice plc from 2006 
until its acquisition by Cinven in 
December 2010. He was the 
Finance Director of Greene King 
plc from 1991 to 2005 and, prior 
to that, he was an associate 
partner with Accenture.
Ben Gordon was the Chief 
Executive of Mothercare plc 
and former Senior Vice 
President and Managing 
Director of Disney Store, 
Europe and Asia Pacific. He has 
also held senior management 
positions with WHSmith group 
in the UK and the USA and 
L ’Oreal S.A. in France and in the 
UK and has an MBA from 
INSEAD.
Clare Thomas initially joined the 
group as interim Company 
Secretary and General Counsel 
in September 2012, a position 
which she took up permanently 
in September 2013. Clare has a 
corporate and commercial legal 
background and prior to joining 
Britvic was a Partner at law 
firm Addleshaw Goddard LLP . 
Date of appointment
Joanne was appointed to the 
board as a Non-Executive 
Director in November 2005 and 
is the Pepsi Group Nominee 
Director. 
Michael was appointed to the 
board as a Non-Executive 
Director in November 2005.
Ben was appointed to the board 
as a Non-Executive Director in 
April 2008.
Clare was appointed Company 
Secretary in September 2012.
External appointments
Joanne is a Trustee and Chair of 
the Mesen Educational Trust.
Michael is a Non-Executive 
Director of Domino’s Pizza 
Group plc.
Ben is a Non-Executive Director 
of St. Ives plc.
Not applicable.
Committee membership
None. Michael is Chairman of the 
Audit Committee and is a 
member of the Nomination 
Committee and the 
Remuneration Committee.
Ben is a member of the Audit 
Committee, Nomination 
Committee and Remuneration 
Committee.
In addition to her attendance  
at board meetings, Clare 
attends the meetings of the 
Audit Committee, Nomination 
Committee and Remuneration 
Committee. Clare also attends 
meetings of the Executive T eam.
Joanne Averiss
Non-Executive Director
Michael Shallow
Independent Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of the 
Audit Committee
Ben Gordon
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Clare Thomas
Company Secretary 
and General Counsel
27 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
corporate governance report continued
 governance
corporate governance report 28 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
corporate governance report continued
Compliance with the UK corporate governance code
The board supports the principles laid down in The UK Corporate 
Governance Code as issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 
September 2012, which applies to financial years beginning on or 
after 1 October 2012 (‘the Code’) and is available at www.frc.org.uk 
This report describes how the principles of the Code are applied 
and reports on the company’ s compliance with the Code’ s provisions.
The board considers that it has been in compliance with the 
provisions of the Code throughout the 52 weeks ended  
29 September 2013. 
2013 Board programme
The board met ten times during the year in accordance with its 
scheduled meeting calendar and an additional four times in 
connection with the merger with AG Barr plc. The attendance  
by each board member at scheduled meetings is shown on page 32. 
The board agenda included standing items as well as ‘deep dive’ 
reviews of key issues for the business, including the major projects 
the company initiated to implement the strategic initiatives and the 
company’s international franchise model as set out in the Chief 
Executive Officer’s Review on page 9. The board also attended an 
off-site two day strategy meeting with members of the Executive 
Team during the financial year.
The board
The board of directors currently has seven members, comprising 
the Non-Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer, three independent Non-Executive Directors and 
the PepsiCo nominated Non-Executive Director. At all times there 
has been a majority of non-executive independent directors on the 
board, in compliance with the Code.
The directors
The biographical details of the board members are set out on 
pages 26 and 27 . All of the directors bring strong judgement to the 
board’s deliberations. They have all occupied, or occupy, senior 
positions in UK and/or non-UK listed companies and have 
substantial experience in business. Other than their fees, which are 
disclosed on page 51, the Non-Executive Directors received no 
remuneration from the company during the year. They also do not 
participate in any of the group’s pension schemes or in any of the 
group’s bonus, share option or other incentive schemes. 
Re-election of directors
The company’s articles of association provide that all directors will 
stand for re-election at least every three years but in order to 
comply with the Code, all of the directors submit themselves for 
re-election at each annual general meeting (‘ AGM’).
 
Executive Management Level Committees
Executive 
Team
Sustainable 
Business 
Committee
Health & 
Safety 
Committee
Treasury 
Committee
Pensions 
Committee
Share 
Allotment 
Committee*
Architecture 
Group*
Incident 
Management 
Committee*
*Meets as and when required
Nomination Committee
Non-Executive Chairman,  
3 Non-Executive Directors
Primary responsibility for succession 
planning, board/director selection and 
board composition
Committee Report page 35
Remuneration Committee
3 Non-Executive Directors
Agrees remuneration policy and sets 
individual compensation levels for 
directors and senior management 
Committee Report pages 36 to 54
Audit Committee
Board
Shareholders
3 Non-Executive Directors
Provides oversight and governance over 
the group’s annual reporting, internal 
controls , risk management and 
relationship with external auditors
Committee Report pages 33 and 34
Non-Executive Chairman, 
2 Executive Directors and 
4 Non-Executive Directors
2,648 shareholders  
as at 29 September 2013
Governance framework 29 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
corporate governance report continued
The role of the board
The board is responsible for the long term success of the company, 
corporate governance, strategy, risk management and financial 
performance. The board normally meets ten times each financial 
year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for 
decision making, including responsibility for the overall management 
and performance of the group and the approval of its long term 
objectives and commercial strategy, approval of annual and interim 
results, annual budgets, material acquisitions and disposals, 
material agreements and major capital commitments, approval of 
treasury policies, and assessment of its going concern position. 
Board members are given appropriate documentation in advance 
of each board or committee meeting. This includes a detailed 
report on current trading and comprehensive briefing papers on 
matters where the board will be required to reach a decision. 
Senior executives below board level attend board meetings where 
appropriate to present business updates. 
There is an established procedure for the preparation and review 
by the board, at least annually, of medium-term plans and the 
annual budget. The business reports monthly on its performance 
against its agreed budget. The board receives a monthly update  
on performance and reviews any significant variances at each of  
its meetings. Major investment decisions are usually subject to 
post-completion reviews. At least one of the board’s regular 
meetings every year is devoted to reviewing and agreeing the 
company’s long-term strategy.
Board committees 
The board is assisted by three board committees (as shown in  
the above governance framework diagram) to which it delegates 
specific responsibilities. Each committee has full terms of reference 
that have been approved by the board and which can be found on 
our website at britvic.com/corporate-governance.aspx 
Company secretary
The Company Secretary maintains a record of attendance at board 
meetings and committee meetings, further details of which are set 
out on page 32. The Company Secretary’s other responsibilities 
include ensuring good information flows to the board and its 
committees and between senior management and the Non-
Executive Directors, advising the board on all legal and corporate 
governance matters and assisting the directors with their 
professional development. 
The role of the chairman and chief executive officer
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of the 
board; to ensure that its strategic and supervisory role is achieved 
and for ensuring effective communication with our shareholders. 
The Chairman works closely with the Chief Executive Officer to 
ensure that the strategies and actions agreed by the board are 
implemented and provides support and appropriate advice to the 
Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible 
for the day to day management of the business, developing the 
group’s strategic direction for consideration and approval by the 
board and implementing agreed strategy. He is supported by the 
other members of the Executive Team.
The different roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are 
acknowledged. A responsibility statement for each of those roles 
has been agreed with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, 
respectively, and adopted by the board. 
During the year the Chairman met with the Non-Executive 
Directors without the Executive Directors present and the 
Non-Executive Directors met without the Chairman present, to 
evaluate his performance. 
Executive team
The board has delegated appropriate responsibilities to the 
Executive Team (which comprises in addition to the two Executive 
Directors, the International Managing Director, the HR, IT & 
Change Director, the GB General Manager, the Managing Director, 
Britvic France, and the Commercial Director, Britvic Ireland. The 
Executive Team meets 12 times a year and is responsible for the 
day-to-day running of the business, carrying out agreed strategy 
and implementing specific board decisions relating to the operation 
of the group.
In addition to the Executive Team, there are a number of 
committees which meet to consider various issues involved in the 
day-to-day management of Britvic and matters for recommendation 
to the board and its committees. Details of these committees are 
set out within the governance framework diagram above.
Senior independent director
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they 
have concerns which are not resolved through the normal channels 
of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer; or 
for which such contact is inappropriate.  30 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
corporate governance report continued
T enure of Non-Executive Directors
The Code provides that the length of tenure is a factor to consider 
when determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors. 
The table below shows the tenure and independence of each of 
our Non-Executive Directors since the date of their first election by 
shareholders.
Date first elected 
by shareholders
Years from first
election to 2014 AGM
Considered to be 
independent by the board
Gerald Corbett January 2007 7 Note (1)
Joanne Averiss January 2007 7 Note (2)
Ben Gordon January 2009 5 Yes (2)
Bob Ivell January 2007 7 Yes (2)
Michael Shallow January 2007 7 Yes (2)
Notes:
1 .   The company considers that, on appointment, the Chairman was independent for the purposes of provision A.3.1 of the Code. 
2.  With the exception of the PepsiCo nominated Non-Executive Director, Joanne Averiss, the Non-Executive Directors are all independent of management and free 
from any business or other relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred to in provision B.1 .1 of the Code that could materially interfere with 
the exercise of independent and objective judgement. In addition to her fiduciary obligations to act in the best interests of the company, Joanne Averiss is required 
under her letter of appointment to discharge her duties in the interests of the company notwithstanding her connection with PepsiCo. 
Service contracts and letters of appointment
Details of the Executive Directors’ service contracts and the 
Chairman’s and the Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment 
are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 48. 
These documents are available for inspection at the registered 
office of the company during normal business hours and at the 
place of the AGM from at least 15 minutes before and until the end 
of the meeting.
Conflicts of interest 
The company’s articles of association allow the board to authorise 
potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose limits or 
conditions, as appropriate. Any decision of the board to authorise a 
conflict of interest, whether matter-specific or situational, is only 
effective if it is agreed without the participation of the conflicted 
director(s), and in making such a decision, as always, the directors 
must act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to 
promote the success of the company. The company has established 
a procedure whereby actual or potential conflicts of interest are 
reviewed annually and for the appropriate authorisation to be sought 
prior to the appointment of any new director or if a new conflict 
arises. No conflicts of interest have been identified during the year. 
Education and development
The Company Secretary is responsible for preparing and co-
ordinating an induction programme for newly appointed directors, 
including presentations from senior management on different 
aspects of the business, as well as guidance on their duties, 
responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a listed company. 
Business familiarisation involves directors visiting sites in the UK, 
Ireland and France. The Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to 
visit group manufacturing sites to enable them to gain a greater 
understanding of the group’s activities and to meet senior 
managers throughout the business. Every director has access to 
appropriate training as required subsequent to his appointment and 
is encouraged to develop his understanding of the company.
Independent advice
The board has approved a procedure for directors to take 
independent professional advice at the company’s expense if 
necessary. No such advice was sought by any director during the 
year. In addition, the directors have direct access to the advice and 
services of the Company Secretary.
Board performance evaluation
Each year the performance of the board, its committees and 
directors is evaluated. As required by the Code, every third year  
the evaluation should be conducted by an external adviser. This 
year the evaluation was conducted by Ffion Hague of Independent 
Board Evaluation. Ms Hague is an independent advisor and has no 
other connection with the company.
The evaluation process began with the evaluation team being given 
a comprehensive brief by the Chairman and the Company 
Secretary. The evaluation team observed a main board meeting 
and a Remuneration Committee meeting and was provided with 
support materials by the company for briefing purposes. Detailed 
interviews were then conducted with the Chairman, each board 
member, the Company Secretary, senior management who 
frequently interact with the board or its committees, and an 
external adviser. All views and comments contained within the 
board evaluation report were made by the participants during 
interviews and all recommendations were based on best practice 
as described in the Code and other current corporate governance 
guidelines.
Draft conclusions were discussed with the Chairman and 
subsequently with the whole board at its subsequent board 
meeting, at which Ffion Hague was present. The conclusions of 
that discussion were recorded in the minutes of the meeting. The 
evaluation team also gave feedback to the board committee 
chairmen on the performance of each committee. Bob Ivell, as 
Senior Independent Director, received the report on the Chairman 
and the Chairman received the report on the individual board 
directors. The board and committees considered the reports of 
their effectiveness at their respective meetings. 31 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
corporate governance report continued
The report produced by Independent Board Evaluation indicated 
that the board is working well and that there are no significant 
concerns among the directors about its effectiveness. In particular 
the report noted that the board had been truly tested during the 
year as a consequence of the Fruit Shoot recall and the merger 
negotiations. The report also highlighted the importance of 
succession planning and the board is conscious that changes will 
be needed to its composition in the future and to support the new 
Chief Executive and strategy.
In light of the review by Independent Board Evaluation, the board 
considers the performance of each director to be effective and has 
concluded that the board and its committees provide the 
leadership and control required.
As a result of recommendations made in this year’s board 
performance evaluation, the board has agreed:
•  To increase focus on non-executive succession planning and also 
executive talent management; 
•  To revisit the board skills matrix and to match candidate 
specifications to the new strategy;
•  To agree specific board roles and to ensure development plans 
and a detailed induction process for new directors are put in place;
•  To create more opportunities for the Non-Executive Directors, 
who have a long standing relationship with the senior 
management, to interact more frequently with senior 
management outside of board meetings; 
•  To create more opportunities for the board to discuss significant 
risks at board meetings, particularly in relation to the operational 
side of the business; and
•  To improve the content and timeliness of circulating board papers 
in advance of board and committee meetings.
The board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and 
development in the financial year ahead, particularly in relation to 
succession planning and in considering afresh the balance of skills 
and expertise needed by the board to support the company’s new 
strategy, giving due consideration to all aspects of diversity, 
including gender. Further information in these areas can be found 
in the Nomination Committee Report on page 35.
Indemnification of directors
In addition to the indemnity granted by the company to directors in 
respect of their liabilities incurred as a result of their office in 
accordance with our articles of association, we maintain a directors’ 
and officers’ liability insurance policy throughout the year. Neither 
our indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that a 
director has proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently. 
Internal control
The board has overall responsibility for the group’s system of 
internal control and risk management and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. In discharging that responsibility, the board confirms 
that it has established the procedures necessary to apply the 
Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility 
and delegated authority. These procedures have been in place 
since the company listed and are regularly reviewed by the board. 
Business performance is managed closely and the board and the 
Executive Team have established processes, as part of the normal 
good management of the business, to monitor:
•  Strategic plan achievement, through a regular review of progress 
towards strategic objectives;
•  Financial performance, within a comprehensive financial planning 
and accounting framework, including budgeting and forecasting, 
financial reporting, analysing variances against plan and taking 
appropriate management action;
•  Capital investment and asset management performance, with 
detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews; 
and
•  Principal risks and risk management processes, which accords 
with the Turnbull guidance published by the FRC in October 2005 
and is supported by reports from the Head of Internal Audit and 
Risk that the significant risks faced by the group are being 
identified, evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard to 
the balance of risk, cost and opportunity. The board has 
delegated the management of risk to the Executive Team, 
chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, which reviews the risk 
register on a quarterly basis, and reports to the Audit Committee.
Management, with the assistance of the finance function, is 
responsible for the appropriate maintenance of financial records 
and processes that ensure all financial information is relevant, 
reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, 
and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner. A 
review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed 
by management to ensure that the financial position and results of 
the group are appropriately recorded, circulated to members of the 
board and published where appropriate. All financial information 
published by the group is subject to the approval of the board, on 
the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Risk management process
Britvic operates a robust risk management process that has been 
further strengthened over recent years. Further details can be 
found within the Risks and Uncertainties section on page 19. 
Through its monitoring processes, the board has conducted a 
review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control during 
the year. The system of internal control is designed to manage, 
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. In that context, the review, in the opinion of 
the board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or 
unsatisfactory and the board is not aware of any change to this 
status up to the date of approval of this report.  32 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
corporate governance report continued
Attendance at scheduled meetings of the board and its committees 
The attendance of directors at board and committee meetings during the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013 was as follows: 
Board
Nomination
Committee
1
Remuneration 
Committee Audit Committee
1
Gerald Corbett 10 2 3 1
Simon Litherland
2
7 - 2 1
Paul Moody
3
4 - 1 1
Joanne Averiss 10 - - -
John Gibney 10 - 2 2
Bob Ivell 10 2 3 2
Michael Shallow 9 2 3 2
Ben Gordon 10 2 3 2
T otal number of meetings 10 2 3 2
Notes:
1 .  Committee meetings scheduled to take place in September 2013 were moved to October 2013.
2.  Meetings attended by Simon Litherland subsequent to his appointment on 13 February 2013.
3.  Meetings attended by Paul Moody up until his retirement on 26 February 2013.
The board scheduled ten meetings during the year and additional 
meetings were convened to deal with specific matters which 
required the board’s attention between scheduled meetings. 
Excluding ad hoc conference calls and committee meetings to 
approve the financial results, in total, the board met 14 times, 
including attendance at a dedicated two day strategy meeting with 
the Executive T eam.
Shareholder engagement
Investor Relations
The board is committed to maintaining good communications with 
shareholders. Senior executives, including the Chairman, Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have regular dialogue 
with individual institutional shareholders in order to develop an 
understanding of their views which is then discussed with the 
board. All directors are offered the opportunity to meet with major 
shareholders to listen to their views and, in addition to a monthly 
report prepared by the Chief Financial Officer, receive regular 
reports prepared by an independent capital markets advisory firm 
which provides comprehensive information relating to the 
company’s major shareholders.
Presentations are made to analysts, investors and prospective 
investors covering the annual and interim results and the company 
seeks to maintain a dialogue with the various bodies which monitor 
the company’s governance policies and procedures. The Business 
Review set out on pages 6 to 21 details the financial performance 
of the company as well as setting out the risks it faces. 
Private investors
We are keen to hear the views of our private shareholders and we 
encourage them to use our shareholder mailbox (investors@britvic.
co.uk) for detailed enquiries and to access our website for our 
company reports and business information. The website also 
provides direct access to Shareview (www.Shareview.co.uk) which 
enables shareholders to manage their shareholding account online. 
Specific enquiries to the Company Secretary may be sent to the 
Secretariat mailbox (company.secretariat@britvic.co.uk) or sent to 
the registered office.
At the AGM, the Chief Executive Officer gives a regular update on 
the positioning and outlook for the business. Shareholders are 
invited to ask questions formally during the meeting and to follow 
up these discussions with directors on a one to one basis 
afterwards. The chairmen of the board committees and the Senior 
Independent Director are present and available to respond to 
questions at the AGM. 
We look forward to welcoming all our shareholders to our 2014 
AGM in January and to updating them on our business 
developments. 33 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
Objective
To provide oversight and governance over the group’s financial 
reporting, the internal control environment and processes in place 
to monitor this, risk management and the external auditors.
Responsibilities
•  Reviewing the financial results announcements and financial 
statements and any significant financial reporting issues and 
judgements which they may contain;
•  Advising the board on whether the annual report and accounts, 
taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and 
provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
company’s performance, business model and strategy;
•  Ensuring compliance with applicable accounting standards and 
reviewing the appropriateness of accounting policies and 
practices in place;
•  Assessing the adequacy of the internal control environment and 
the processes in place to monitor this, including reviewing the 
performance of the internal audit team;
•  Reviewing risk management processes and considering the 
adequacy of the actions being taken to reduce the risk exposure 
of the group in relation to the key risks;
•  Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, reviewing 
their performance and advising the board on their appointment 
and remuneration;
•  Ensuring appropriate safeguards are in place for individuals  
to raise issues with the board where a breach of conduct or 
compliance, including any financial reporting irregularity, is 
suspected.
Membership
The Committee comprises Independent Non-Executive Directors, 
Ben Gordon, Bob Ivell and myself as Chairman. The board is 
satisfied that I have recent and relevant financial experience as 
required by the Code.
Meetings
The Committee meets three times a year; in November and May 
to provide an appropriate time to review the annual report and 
accounts and interim report, respectively, and to consider the 
external audit findings, and in September to review the activities of 
the previous year and the plan for the year ahead. This year the 
Committee meeting scheduled for September was held in October. 
At each meeting the performance and findings of the internal audit 
team are reviewed and the most recent key risks are considered. 
Attendees at each of the meetings are the Committee’s members 
as well as, by invitation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief 
Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the General 
Counsel, the Head of Audit and Risk and the external auditor, Ernst 
and Y oung LLP . A record of the meeting attendance by Committee 
members is set out on page 32.
Each meeting allows time for the Committee to speak with key 
people without the presence of the others; in particular the 
external auditor, the internal management team and the Head of 
Audit and Risk.
Main activities during the year: 
The Committee supports the board in carrying out its 
responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, risk management 
and assessing internal controls. It also reviews the effectiveness of 
the company’s internal audit function and manages the relationship 
with the external auditor.
Committee meetings usually take place just prior to a board 
meeting, where I report to the board on the activity of the 
Committee and matters of particular relevance to the board.
Following the revision to the Code, which applies to financial years 
commencing on or after 1 October 2012, the board asked the 
Committee to advise them on whether the annual report and 
accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess 
the company’s performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee’s terms of reference have been amended to reflect 
this and can be found on our website at britvic.com/corporate-
governance.aspx 
The Committee undertook the following activities during the 
course of the year to discharge its responsibilities:
Financial reporting 
The role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting is to 
review that the half year and annual financial statements are 
appropriate. The review is carried out with both management and 
the external auditor, and focus areas include evaluating whether:
•  The annual report and financial accounts represent a fair, balanced 
and understandable view of information for shareholders;
•  Material areas of significant judgement have been given due 
consideration by management and reviewed with external auditors; 
•  The application of acceptable accounting policies and practices is 
consistent across the group; 
•  Clarity of disclosures and whether compliance to financial 
reporting standards is acceptable;
•  Any correspondence from regulators has been received in 
relation to our financial reporting.
The review is based on reporting by the Group Financial Controller, 
as well as reports from the external auditor based on the outcomes 
of their half year review and annual audit. 
Primary areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation 
to the 2013 accounts, and how these were addressed were:
Valuation of goodwill and indefinite lived assets
The review of goodwill and intangible assets is based on a 
calculation of value in use, using cash flow projections based on 
financial budgets prepared by senior management and approved by 
the board of directors. The challenging economic conditions in the 
UK and Europe increase the risk of impairment and the Committee 
addresses this by receiving reports from management outlining the 
basis for assumptions used for cash generating units. Business 
plans are signed off by the board and assessment models are 
reviewed as part of the audit, for which the external auditor, Ernst 
& Y oung LLP provide reporting to the Committee. 
governance
audit committee  
report  
Michael Shallow 
Chairman 
Audit Committee 34 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
the audit committee report continued
Derivative and hedging activities
The group has derivative instruments to which hedge accounting  
is applied and which swap principal and interest of US Private 
Placement notes. The Committee reviews reporting on comparisons 
of valuations to external confirmations, assessment of hedge 
effectiveness and the quality of financial statement disclosures.
Revenue recognition
The group recognises revenue when goods are delivered and 
accepted by customers. The Committee reviews the testing and 
controls of the revenue cycle, including long term discounts, 
promotional discounts and account development funds to ensure 
that an IFRS compliant policy is in place and it is complied with.
Taxation
Any uncertain tax positions within the group are reviewed to 
ensure that the group effective tax rate is calculated at an 
acceptable level.
Defined benefit pension scheme valuation
The Committee reviews benchmarks and assumptions that are 
provided by the group’s actuaries and used to value the pension 
liabilities for the three defined benefit schemes. The underlying 
assumptions based on market conditions and the characteristics  
of the schemes are reviewed by management and the external 
auditors and reported on to the Committee.
Internal audit and control
The Committee agreed the audit plan to be undertaken by the 
internal audit team prior to the start of the year and, during each  
of the meetings throughout the year, progress against this plan 
was reviewed. The plan was assessed on the basis of providing 
appropriate coverage over the internal control environment to 
provide the Committee with a balanced overview across the  
group, taking into account the level of risk and previous coverage. 
Additional areas of review were added to the plan as required 
where circumstances gave rise to an increased level of risk and 
any changes to the agreed audit plan were agreed by the 
Committee. The Committee received an update from the Head  
of Audit and Risk at each meeting summarising the findings of the 
internal audits undertaken and the progress made against actions 
agreed from previous audits. Detailed updates on specific areas 
are provided at the request of the Committee.
Risk management
The risk management process is reviewed annually by the 
Committee to ensure that it is set up to deliver appropriate risk 
management across the group. During the year the risk 
management process was developed, and improvements to the 
identification and review of major risks were implemented. The 
Committee believe that the improvements will further strengthen 
the way that the business understands and manages risk. In 
addition, the Committee reviewed the key risks on the corporate 
risk register at the time of each meeting. A detailed report was 
provided to the Committee from the Head of Audit and Risk, 
showing movements in major risks and an update on risk 
mitigation activity undertaken in relation to those risks. A summary 
of the key risks and uncertainties to which the business is exposed 
to can be found on pages 19 to 21 .
External audit 
There are a number of areas that the Committee considers in relation 
to the external auditors; their performance in discharging the audit 
and interim review of the financial statements, their independence 
and objectivity, and their reappointment and remuneration.
External auditor performance
The external auditors, Ernst and Y oung LLP , provided the 
Committee with their plan for undertaking the year end audit at  
the Committee meeting in May 2013. This highlighted the proposed 
approach and scope of the audit for the coming year and identified 
the key areas of audit risk, including the audit approach for these 
areas in some detail. These key areas were primarily identified as 
areas of judgement and complexity and included the valuation of 
goodwill and indefinite lived assets, the hedging of group borrowings, 
revenue recognition and the valuation of the defined benefit 
pension scheme. The Committee reviewed and appropriately 
challenged the basis for these before agreeing the proposed 
approach and scope of the external audit. 
The external auditors prepared a detailed report of their audit 
findings at the year end, which they were invited to take the 
Committee through at the Committee’s meeting in November. The 
findings were reviewed and discussed in detail by the Committee, 
particularly in relation to the areas highlighted. A similar review of 
the external auditors’ report of their findings at the half year review 
is undertaken by the Committee. As part of this review the 
Committee question and challenge the work undertaken, the 
findings and the key assumptions made, with particular attention to 
the areas of audit risk identified.
Independence and Reappointment
The Committee reviews the independence of the auditors when 
considering their reappointment following the year end close each 
year, and during the year. The external auditor is required to rotate 
the lead audit partner every five years. The current lead auditor 
partner was rotated on during the year. Ernst and Y oung LLP have 
been the company’s auditors since its stock market listing in 2005 
(8 years). During that time the external auditor has not been 
formally tendered; however, the Committee will continue to 
regularly consider this in accordance with the audit tendering 
provisions in the Code. 
I have regular contact with the external audit partner outside of 
Committee meetings and without the management of the 
business present. 
The group is in the process of developing a revised policy regarding 
the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors, based 
on best practice of a maximum audit to non-audit fee ratio of 1:1, 
except in exceptional circumstances. There will be a transition to 
this policy with the intention to implement ahead of the re-tender 
of the audit services which will be undertaken for the September 
2015 year end. In the meantime, control over non-audit fees is 
exercised by ensuring non-audit projects, where fees are expected 
to exceed £50,000, are subject to my prior approval and that of the 
Chief Financial Officer. If non-audit fees on a certain project are 
expected to exceed £150,000, prior approval of the Committee is 
required. The Committee has scrutinised the internal procedures  
of the company’s auditors, Ernst & Y oung LLP , during the year and 
satisfied itself that the independence and objectivity of the external 
auditors has not been affected by the non-audit work undertaken 
by them. Non-audit fees are disclosed in note 7 to the report 
and accounts.
Committee evaluation
The Committee was included in the external board evaluation 
performed during the year, the details of which can be found  
on pages 30 and 31 . 35 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
Objective
To lead the process for board and senior management 
appointments and to make recommendations to the board.
Responsibilities
The Committee is responsible for considering and recommending 
to the board persons who are appropriate for appointment as 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors and for other senior 
management roles, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of 
skills and experience within the company and on the board and  
to ensure progressive refreshing of the board. 
Membership
The Committee comprises Independent Non-Executive Directors, 
Ben Gordon, Bob Ivell and Michael Shallow and myself as Chairman.
Meetings
The Committee meets as necessary and at least twice a year.  
A third Committee meeting which was scheduled to be held in 
September was moved to October 2013.
Main activities during the year
The Committee considered and made recommendations to the 
board in respect of:
•  the appointment of Simon Litherland as our new Chief Executive 
Officer; 
•  senior management appointments including changes in the 
membership of the Executive Team; 
•  matters relating to succession planning, in particular, the tenure 
of Bob Ivell, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee, and Michael Shallow, Non-Executive 
Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee; and 
•  the results of the external evaluation of the board, the directors 
and the committees and, as part of that process, reviewed the 
continued independence of the Non-Executive Directors.
Appointment of directors
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the 
appointment of new directors to the board under which the 
Committee interviews suitable candidates who are proposed either 
by existing board members or by an external search firm. Careful 
consideration is given to ensure proposed appointees have enough 
time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience on the board is maintained. When 
discussions relate to the appointment of my successor, the Senior 
Independent Director chairs the Committee instead of me. When 
the Committee has found a suitable candidate, as Chairman of the 
Committee, I will make a proposal to the whole board, which has 
retained responsibility for all such appointments. I also report on 
the outcome of Committee meetings to the board.
Simon Litherland’s appointment as Chief Executive Officer took 
place in February this year. Simon joined Britvic in September 2011 
to perform the newly created role of Managing Director, GB. When 
Paul Moody, our former Chief Executive, decided to retire at the 
time the Office of Fair Trading referred the AG Barr plc merger in 
February, the board was unanimous in its decision to appoint 
Simon as his successor. Simon was appointed a director on the 
board on 13 February 2013. Further biographical details for Simon 
can be found on page 26.
During the year, as part of the new organisational design, a number 
of changes were made to the membership of the Executive Team. 
Martin Rose, former Supply Chain Director, and Alan Beaney, former 
Strategy Director, both retired at the end of the financial year. Paul 
Graham - GB General Manager, Kevin Donnelly - Commercial Director, 
Ireland, and Jean-Luc Tivolle - General Manager France, became full 
members of the Executive Team (and PDMRs for the purposes of 
the UK Listing Rules) with effect from 1 October 2013. Biographies 
for Paul, Kevin and Jean-Luc may be viewed on our website at 
www.britivic.com
Succession planning
Whilst board succession planning has been less of an area of focus 
during the last year, the Committee has agreed to spend more time 
discussing the matter in the coming year. Job profiles to commence 
the search for two new Non-Executive Directors to succeed Bob Ivell 
and Michael Shallow during the next 12-18 months have been drawn up 
and a shortlist of external search consultancies is being considered to 
assist us with this process. Bob and Michael have both been directors 
since the company’ s listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2005. 
Having been the company’s Chairman since 2005, my succession 
is something which the Committee will keep under review. For the 
foreseeable future, however, I am excited to be working with, and to 
extend my support to Simon, our new Chief Executive Officer, as he 
leads the business through its new strategy and organisational model.
Diversity
The board has determined it will monitor diversity through the 
Committee and more focus will be made in this area in the coming 
year and to the development of a company wide diversity policy. 
My medium term ambitions for the composition of the board are to 
bring in further manufacturing/FMCG and international expertise.
At Britvic, we see diversity as a wider topic than simply gender and 
the board will continue to recommend to the company that, in 
order to achieve its future growth aspirations, it should remain 
committed to building a pipeline of diverse talent and to regularly 
review its HR processes, including recruitment and performance 
management frameworks. 
Although we do have a number of women in senior operational 
roles, we recognise that there is a gender imbalance on the board. 
Whilst the directors do not feel in a position to publish a target of 
the percentage of women they aspire to having on the board, they 
recognise that diversity is important to the success of the business 
and will look to find opportunities to address this. Any woman 
appointed to the board, however, will be selected because they are 
the best candidate for the role based on merit. 
Our disclosure in relation to gender diversity within our organisation 
can be found on page 9 within the Chief Executive Officer’s Review. 
Board evaluation
Details of the externally facilitated evaluation of the board, the 
directors and the board committees, including this Committee, can 
be found on pages 30 and 31 . 
Having reviewed the results of the evaluation, the Committee has 
confirmed to the board that the present board and its committees 
continue to operate effectively and that all of the Non-Executive 
Directors remained independent in accordance with the Code and 
should stand for re-election at the AGM.
 governance
nomination  
committee report  
Gerald Corbett 
Chairman 
Nomination Committee 36 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
Objective
To agree remuneration policy and to set individual compensation 
for directors and senior management. 
Membership
The Committee comprises Gerald Corbett, Ben Gordon, Michael 
Shallow and myself, as its Chairman. The company Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer (who may attend by invitation) do not 
attend meetings when their individual remuneration is discussed.
Meetings
The Committee meets at least three times a year. As Chairman, I 
report on the outcome of the Committee’s meetings to the board.
Main activities during the year
Full details of the Committee’s responsibilities and its activities are 
set out in this report. 
Committee evaluation
The Committee was included in the external board evaluation 
performed during the year, the details of which can be found on 
pages 30 and 31 .
Introduction from the committee chairman
I am pleased to present the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report for the year ended 29 
September 2013, which was a particularly 
strong year for Britvic and our shareholders. 
The company’s 2013 year end has fallen one day before the new 
regulations relating to the changes in narrative and remuneration 
reporting came into force on 30 September 2013. However, to 
reflect good practice, this report has been prepared not only in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of The 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and 
Reports) Regulations 2008, but also includes the main elements  
of the “new reporting regime” under the regulations as amended 
in August 2013, which the company will be required to fully adhere 
to next year. The Committee has decided therefore to voluntarily 
include the following additional disclosures in this year’s report:
•  A policy table which summarises how the Committee 
approaches each element of remuneration including details of 
our recruitment and termination policy;
•  Performance scenario charts showing the value of packages 
based on different levels of performance;
•  A single total figure of remuneration for each Executive Director 
and a five year history of remuneration and incentive plan 
outcomes for the position of Chief Executive Officer (CEO); and
•  A distribution statement comparing annual changes in pay spend, 
profit after tax, dividends and capital expenditure.  
To accommodate these additions, and to proactively adopt many  
of the key changes in the new reporting requirements, we are 
presenting this report in a different format than our previous 
Directors’ Remuneration reports. The first part of the report sets out 
our forward-looking directors’ remuneration policy for 2014. The 
second part of the report provides details of the implementation of 
our existing policies in respect of 2013. As in previous years, at the 
AGM to be held on 29 January 2014, an advisory vote will be put to 
shareholders to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The 
board are not proposing that shareholders vote on our remuneration 
policy until next year’s AGM.
In addition, when preparing this report, the Committee has complied 
with the Code and with the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
We note that further guidance has been issued by the GC100 and 
by some institutional shareholders since the new regulations came 
into effect. Whilst it has not been possible to fully reflect all of this 
guidance in this year’s report, for reasons of timing, I wanted to 
acknowledge the Committee’s general support of the principal 
suggestions which are emerging. For example, we note the 
preference of many large shareholders for the development of a 
more flexible policy than that summarised in this report so that the 
company’s remuneration policy is only put to shareholder vote 
once in every three years and it is how best we approach some of 
these emerging issues which the Committee will want to reflect 
on over the forthcoming year and as the relevant guidance evolves. 
governance
dir ect ors’ r emuner ation  
report  
  
Bob Ivell 
Chairman 
The Remuneration Committee 37 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
directors’ remuneration report continued
The year under review
During the year we dealt with a number of specific pay-related 
issues. These arose against the backdrop of a period of both 
significant change and robust performance at Britvic. For example:
•  We set the remuneration arrangements of Simon Litherland 
when he took up the role of CEO, following Paul Moody’s 
retirement on 26 February 2013, at the same position to allow a 
swift transition and agreed to review this package at the end of 
the financial year.
•  In keeping with our market competitive remuneration policy we 
agreed it appropriate to move John Gibney’s base salary to 
£345,000 to reflect his contribution during a period of significant 
potential change and uncertainty.
•  As referred to in last year’s report, we also agreed the detailed 
terms relating to Paul Moody’s early retirement and subsequent 
six month consultancy arrangement. In line with normal practice 
for eligible employees the Committee used its discretion to allow 
Paul Moody to apply the Enhanced Early Retirement Facility 
(EERF) to his pension.
•  We agreed bonus payouts for the year under review which 
reflected excellent progress on our new business strategy and 
the delivery of a material increase in shareholder value. 
•  We further reviewed and confirmed the award levels and 
performance conditions for grants made under our two share-
based long-term incentive plans as well as confirming there 
would be no vesting of awards of certain grants made in earlier 
years due to the non-fulfilment of performance targets.
•  In accordance with best practice, we introduced malus 
provisions and discretion to allow the Committee to reduce 
future unvested or vested but unexercised long term incentive 
awards in various circumstances.  
•  Finally, we agreed the changes in salary for the CEO and Chief 
Financial Officer (CFO) effective from 1 January 2014 as part of 
the annual pay review process for the whole company.
As Chairman of the Committee and Senior Independent Director, I 
am committed to ensuring an open dialogue with our shareholders. 
Therefore, should you have any comments in relation to the 
content of this report, or any issues relating to our approach to 
executive remuneration, please feel free to contact me at 
investors@britvic.co.uk. 
Bob Ivell 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 38 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
directors’ remuneration report continued 39 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
directors’ remuneration report continued
remuneration policy  
section
Our overall approach to remuneration
The principal objective of our executive remuneration policy is to 
support a high performance culture and the successful execution 
of our new business strategy. In return we aim to provide competitive 
levels of remuneration opportunity for our senior executives and 
leadership team, a significant portion of which is in the form of 
variable pay.  
Our new business strategy is based on unlocking opportunities to 
deliver substantial value to our shareholders by sustaining market 
leading growth in our established markets and investing in rapid 
growth opportunities in new international markets. As set out in 
the Chief Executive Officer’s Review on page 9 a key part of the 
strategy is to successfully secure a step change in our cost base 
and realising the huge potential opportunities from our investment 
in international markets.  
The Committee believes that this requires the provision of a simple, 
transparent and competitive total remuneration policy that can help 
attract, retain and inspire the calibre of senior executive talent to 
deliver our ambitious growth plans.  
In particular this requires:
•  Competitively positioned base salary and incentive levels taking 
into account both our industry sector and other companies of a 
similar size and scope.
•  An incentive mix that balances our short and medium priorities to 
ensure sustained long- term value creation for our shareholders.
•  An incentive structure that provides an appropriate degree of 
variability to only reward excellent performance with superior pay 
opportunity.
•  Benefit arrangements sufficient to maintain the overall reward 
package close to the competitive norms described above.
•  Share ownership levels which, over time, align the actions and 
interests of executives with those of our long-term shareholders.
The Committee regularly reviews the remuneration policy to ensure 
that it is sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in 
the company’s business operations and environment, provides 
alignment to shareholder interests and that it recognises key 
developments in remuneration practice. The Committee believes 
our long-standing remuneration policy as described in this report 
continues to remain appropriate and that the incentive structures 
do not raise environmental, social or governance risks by 
inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
The Committee also takes account of general workforce pay and 
conditions when determining the remuneration of the Executive 
Directors and is kept abreast of all relevant issues through regular 
interaction with our HR function. Where our pay policy for directors 
differs to our pay policies for employees more widely, this reflects 
wider market-related influences. In keeping with typical market 
practice, the Committee did not consult with employees or 
shareholders in relation to our executive remuneration policies but 
believes that these policies are entirely justified and appropriate in 
light of our wider reward practices.
The section below provides further detail on how we apply these 
overriding principles to each element of the executives’ 
remuneration packages. 40 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
directors’ remuneration report continued
Element and purpose Policy and opportunity Operation and  performance measures Implementation of policy in the year
Base Salary 
A core element of fixed pay which reflects the individual’s role  
and position within the group, with some adjustment to reflect  
their experience, capability and contribution
To position the role and the individual fairly around mid-market 
derived from a peer group of similar sized UK listed companies 
(both pan-sector and from the food and beverages sector).   
The Committee used this data when giving consideration to  
the appropriate pay level having regard to other relevant factors 
including corporate and individual performance and any changes  
in an individual’s role and responsibilities.
Base salaries are paid in cash and reviewed annually,  
with any changes normally taking effect from 1 January.
Paul Moody’s salary was not increased during the year. John 
Gibney’s salary was increased from £324,000 to £345,000 from  
1 January 2013. When determining this increase, the Committee 
considered the overall GB salary review budget which was 3% in 
2013 but considered this increase appropriate for the reasons set 
out in the Committee Chairman’s introduction above.
As an interim measure, Simon Litherland’s salary was set at 
£510,000 upon him taking up the role as CEO and shall remain  
at this level until at least 31 December 2013.
The Committee has been considering what the appropriate level of 
salary for Simon Litherland should be, and from 1 January 2014 
Simon Litherland’s salary is planned to increase to £560,000 and 
John Gibney’s salary is planned to increase to £360,000 in line with 
both their individual and the company’s strong performance, in 
addition to the Committee’s market competitive policy.  
Benefits
To provide other standard benefits which should be  
valued by recipient
To provide market competitive benefits in kind. Values are shown in 
later tables but may fluctuate without the Committee taking action.
The company may amend the benefits available to staff from time 
to time, and the Executive Directors would normally be subject to 
the same changes.
Main benefits include annual car benefit (or allowance) and 
membership of the company’s private medical healthcare plan,  
and the ability to “buy” or “sell” holiday under the company’s  
flexible benefits plan.
There is also a relocation policy which provides for reasonable 
expenses to be paid subject to the Committee’s approval.
While not considered a benefit, consistent with general market 
practice, executives may attend various functions representing the 
company whether provided by the company or by a third party.   
Such attendance and the resulting costs are monitored under the 
company’s anti-bribery policy.
No changes were made in the current year and no changes are 
proposed in the forthcoming year.
Pension
To aid retention and to remain market-competitive
To provide a competitive suite of post-retirement benefits. Executive Directors can receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension 
contributions where they are in possession of protections from  
HM Revenue and Customs in relation to the Lifetime Allowance.
Paul Moody and John Gibney’s participation in the defined benefit 
section of the Britvic Pension Plan ceased on 10 April 2011 following 
the closure of the Plan to future accrual. They both qualify for the 
Enhanced Early Retirement Facility (EERF) which means that their 
pensions are not actuarially reduced if they retire within five years  
of normal pension age. However, the company has given notice to  
all Plan members that the EERF will be withdrawn by 11 April 2016.
Paul Moody and John Gibney are also members of the Britvic 
Executive Top Up Scheme (BETUS), a securitised unfunded 
unregistered pension scheme. BETUS closed to future accrual  
on 10 April 2011, in line with the closure of the defined benefit  
section of the Britvic Pension Plan. Members of BETUS may be 
offered a cash out of their benefits by Britvic on a basis previously 
agreed by the Committee.
The cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions for Paul Moody 
and subsequently Simon Litherland is 24.6% of basic salary and is 
22% for John Gibney.
No changes were made in the current year and no changes are 
planned in the forthcoming year.
As an early retiree, the basis of Paul Moody’s retirement benefits 
followed the same provisions that apply to all former members in 
the defined benefit section of the Britvic Pension Plan who are 
eligible to retire before 11 April 2016 and who remain in active 
service with the company.  
He qualified for the EERF which meant that his pension was not 
actuarially reduced as the date of Paul Moody’s retirement was 
within five years of his normal pension age.  
We also offered Paul the option to take his BETUS benefits as a 
cash payment which he exercised. As pre-agreed with the 
Committee this was based on the IAS19 value of those benefits, 
reduced by 10%, and reduced further to account for the National 
Insurance costs arising for the company as a result of making the 
payment as a cash lump sum.  
Short-term incentive plan (STIP) (see Note 1 below)
To motivate employees and incentivise delivery of annual  
performance targets
Simon Litherland’s maximum bonus opportunity is 140% of salary, 
with 70% at target. The equivalent percentages for John Gibney 
are 120% and 60%, respectively.
These levels were set in accordance with the same remuneration 
principles described above. The Committee reserves the right to 
adjust these levels from time to time in keeping with those objectives.
The targets are split between profit before tax (50% of bonus 
opportunity), net revenue (20%) and free cash flow (30%). 
The Committee reserves the right to adjust these levels and/or  
use different targets in accordance with our remuneration  
principles from time to time.
Due to his exceptional performance since appointment as CEO, 
including the 24% increase in share price over the period to  
29 September, the Committee agreed to a bonus payment 
equivalent to 138% of Simon Litherland’s annual salary out  
of a maximum possible of 140%.   
Elements of the package
The table below outlines the purpose for and, where relevant, performance measures attaching to each element of the remuneration package. 41 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
directors’ remuneration report continued
Element and purpose Policy and opportunity Operation and  performance measures Implementation of policy in the year
Base Salary 
A core element of fixed pay which reflects the individual’s role  
and position within the group, with some adjustment to reflect  
their experience, capability and contribution
To position the role and the individual fairly around mid-market 
derived from a peer group of similar sized UK listed companies 
(both pan-sector and from the food and beverages sector).   
The Committee used this data when giving consideration to  
the appropriate pay level having regard to other relevant factors 
including corporate and individual performance and any changes  
in an individual’s role and responsibilities.
Base salaries are paid in cash and reviewed annually,  
with any changes normally taking effect from 1 January.
Paul Moody’s salary was not increased during the year. John 
Gibney’s salary was increased from £324,000 to £345,000 from  
1 January 2013. When determining this increase, the Committee 
considered the overall GB salary review budget which was 3% in 
2013 but considered this increase appropriate for the reasons set 
out in the Committee Chairman’s introduction above.
As an interim measure, Simon Litherland’s salary was set at 
£510,000 upon him taking up the role as CEO and shall remain  
at this level until at least 31 December 2013.
The Committee has been considering what the appropriate level of 
salary for Simon Litherland should be, and from 1 January 2014 
Simon Litherland’s salary is planned to increase to £560,000 and 
John Gibney’s salary is planned to increase to £360,000 in line with 
both their individual and the company’s strong performance, in 
addition to the Committee’s market competitive policy.  
Benefits
To provide other standard benefits which should be  
valued by recipient
To provide market competitive benefits in kind. Values are shown in 
later tables but may fluctuate without the Committee taking action.
The company may amend the benefits available to staff from time 
to time, and the Executive Directors would normally be subject to 
the same changes.
Main benefits include annual car benefit (or allowance) and 
membership of the company’s private medical healthcare plan,  
and the ability to “buy” or “sell” holiday under the company’s  
flexible benefits plan.
There is also a relocation policy which provides for reasonable 
expenses to be paid subject to the Committee’s approval.
While not considered a benefit, consistent with general market 
practice, executives may attend various functions representing the 
company whether provided by the company or by a third party.   
Such attendance and the resulting costs are monitored under the 
company’s anti-bribery policy.
No changes were made in the current year and no changes are 
proposed in the forthcoming year.
Pension
To aid retention and to remain market-competitive
To provide a competitive suite of post-retirement benefits. Executive Directors can receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension 
contributions where they are in possession of protections from  
HM Revenue and Customs in relation to the Lifetime Allowance.
Paul Moody and John Gibney’s participation in the defined benefit 
section of the Britvic Pension Plan ceased on 10 April 2011 following 
the closure of the Plan to future accrual. They both qualify for the 
Enhanced Early Retirement Facility (EERF) which means that their 
pensions are not actuarially reduced if they retire within five years  
of normal pension age. However, the company has given notice to  
all Plan members that the EERF will be withdrawn by 11 April 2016.
Paul Moody and John Gibney are also members of the Britvic 
Executive Top Up Scheme (BETUS), a securitised unfunded 
unregistered pension scheme. BETUS closed to future accrual  
on 10 April 2011, in line with the closure of the defined benefit  
section of the Britvic Pension Plan. Members of BETUS may be 
offered a cash out of their benefits by Britvic on a basis previously 
agreed by the Committee.
The cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions for Paul Moody 
and subsequently Simon Litherland is 24.6% of basic salary and is 
22% for John Gibney.
No changes were made in the current year and no changes are 
planned in the forthcoming year.
As an early retiree, the basis of Paul Moody’s retirement benefits 
followed the same provisions that apply to all former members in 
the defined benefit section of the Britvic Pension Plan who are 
eligible to retire before 11 April 2016 and who remain in active 
service with the company.  
He qualified for the EERF which meant that his pension was not 
actuarially reduced as the date of Paul Moody’s retirement was 
within five years of his normal pension age.  
We also offered Paul the option to take his BETUS benefits as a 
cash payment which he exercised. As pre-agreed with the 
Committee this was based on the IAS19 value of those benefits, 
reduced by 10%, and reduced further to account for the National 
Insurance costs arising for the company as a result of making the 
payment as a cash lump sum.  
Short-term incentive plan (STIP) (see Note 1 below)
To motivate employees and incentivise delivery of annual  
performance targets
Simon Litherland’s maximum bonus opportunity is 140% of salary, 
with 70% at target. The equivalent percentages for John Gibney 
are 120% and 60%, respectively.
These levels were set in accordance with the same remuneration 
principles described above. The Committee reserves the right to 
adjust these levels from time to time in keeping with those objectives.
The targets are split between profit before tax (50% of bonus 
opportunity), net revenue (20%) and free cash flow (30%). 
The Committee reserves the right to adjust these levels and/or  
use different targets in accordance with our remuneration  
principles from time to time.
Due to his exceptional performance since appointment as CEO, 
including the 24% increase in share price over the period to  
29 September, the Committee agreed to a bonus payment 
equivalent to 138% of Simon Litherland’s annual salary out  
of a maximum possible of 140%.    42 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
directors’ remuneration report continued
Element and purpose Policy and opportunity Operation and  performance measures Implementation of policy in the year
Long-term incentives
To motivate and incentivise delivery of sustained and exceptional  
performance over the medium and long-term, we operate two  
plans, the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and Executive Share  
Option Plan (ESOP)
ESOP (see note 2 on page 44)
The policy is to award the CEO and CFO an initial face value equal 
to no more than 300% and 250% of annual salary each year, 
respectively. 
PSP (see note 3 on page 45)
The policy is to award Executive Directors shares with an initial 
face value equal to no more than 100% of annual salary each year.
The Committee chooses performance metrics that support the 
company’s strategy, provide a direct link with shareholder value  
and ensure a clear line of sight for participants between  
performance and reward. For Executive Directors:
ESOP
Three year real (i.e. above inflation) EPS growth. 25% vests for 
achieving a challenging threshold level of real growth, with 100% 
vesting for achieving particularly stretching targets.
PSP
Awards are equally split between three year relative TSR and  
absolute ROIC targets. For the TSR element, 25% vests for median 
performance versus a peer group of similar sector companies, with 
100% vesting at upper quartile. For the ROIC element, 25% vests  
for achieving a challenging threshold level of ROIC, with full vesting  
for reaching particularly stretching targets in light of the current 
economic environment.
The Committee sets these measures and targets having regard  
both to Britvic’s ambitious long-term business plan and strategic 
priorities. It reserves the right to use different targets in keeping  
with those objectives and realistic growth aspirations. 
The Committee undertook a review of the existing share incentive 
plans at the outset of the year. Due to the merger discussions with 
AG Barr plc, awards under the long-term incentive plans were 
delayed until March 2013 rather than December 2012.  
Simon Litherland received on appointment ESOP and PSP awards 
over shares with a face value of 300% and 100% of his salary, 
respectively.
John Gibney received ESOP and PSP awards over shares with  
a face value of 250% and 100% of salary respectively.
Paul Moody received no awards in the year under review.
In the event that awards under both plans are made in 2014, the 
grant date will revert back to December 2013.
Malus and claw-back provisions will also be introduced into the 
documents governing the PSP and ESOP to ensure the Committee 
have the ability to respond to unexpected financial events and 
unacceptable behaviour in an appropriate manner.
See pages 52 and 53 for description of performance conditions 
attaching to awards made in March 2013 and pages 44 and 45 for 
performance conditions agreed for awards planned for 2014.
Shareholding Guidelines
To encourage long-term share ownership by the Executive  
Directors so that interests are aligned with other investors
Executive Directors are to acquire a shareholding equal to their 
salary within five years from the date of appointment to the board.
The required shareholding is periodically reviewed and is currently  
set at 100% of salary. Until this holding is acquired, the Executive 
Directors may not sell any shares other than to finance the cost of 
exercising share options and any tax liabilities arising from the  
vesting of long-term incentive plans, unless approved by the 
Committee (for example, in cases of financial hardship).
No changes were made in the current year and no changes are 
proposed in the forthcoming year.
However, the CEO has voluntarily agreed to purchase the 
equivalent of £200,000 shares at the earliest opportunity following 
the announcement of the financial results. As a result of this 
purchase his total holding will be equivalent to circa 36% of his 
new salary from 1 January 2014. These shares will not be sold for 
at least three years and are intended to pro-actively strengthen his 
alignment with shareholder interests ahead of any future potential 
vesting of outstanding awards under the company’s long-term 
incentive plans.  
All-employee Share Plans
To encourage share ownership by employees, thereby allowing  
them to share in the long-term success of the company and  
align their interests with those of investors
Executive Directors are able to participate in an all-employee share 
plan on the same terms as other employees.
Executive directors may participate in the Britvic Share Incentive  
Plan, which is an all-employee HMRC approved share plan open to 
employees based in Great Britain. The plan has three parts, all of  
which the directors do participate in:
-  Free share awards, which are made annually subject to the  
company’s performance and at the discretion of the Committee.   
The value of the award is discretionary and the maximum is 3%  
of reckonable earnings, capped at £3,000 per annum. This award  
is typically made in the following financial year. 
-  Partnership shares, which are purchased by employees through  
payroll deductions ranging between £5 and £1 15 per pay period.
-  Matching shares which are provided by the employer to individuals 
purchasing partnership shares on a one for one basis up to a 
maximum of £50 per pay period. 
The Committee reserves the right to use its discretion to amend  
the operation of the all-employee share plan from time to time.
In light of 2012 performance against internal targets, the 
Committee determined that no award of free shares would be 
made in the year under review.
However, in light of 2013 performance a free share award will be 
made in January 2014, up to the maximum amount described in 
the previous column.
The table below summarises the policy applied to setting the remuneration of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors:
Element and purpose Policy and opportunity Operation and  performance measures Implementation of policy in the year
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees The fees paid to the Chairman and the fees of the other Non-
Executive Directors aim to be competitive with other fully listed 
companies of equivalent size and complexity. Fee levels are 
periodically reviewed by the board (for Non-Executives) and the 
Committee (for the Chairman).  
Additional fees are paid to Non-Executive Directors who are 
members of and who chair a board committee and to the Senior 
Independent Director (‘SID’).
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in company incentive 
arrangements, and do not receive any form of pension provision.
Fees are paid in cash.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors are reviewed annually with any 
changes taking effect from 1 January 2014.
On 1 January 2013, the fees were increased as follows: £230,000 
for the Chairman of the board (from £227 ,000), £50,000 for the role 
of Non-Executive Director (from £48,000) with additional fees of: (i) 
£8,000 payable for the role of SID; and (ii) £8,000 payable where an 
individual chairs a board committee. 43 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
directors’ remuneration report continued
Element and purpose Policy and opportunity Operation and  performance measures Implementation of policy in the year
Long-term incentives
To motivate and incentivise delivery of sustained and exceptional  
performance over the medium and long-term, we operate two  
plans, the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and Executive Share  
Option Plan (ESOP)
ESOP (see note 2 on page 44)
The policy is to award the CEO and CFO an initial face value equal 
to no more than 300% and 250% of annual salary each year, 
respectively. 
PSP (see note 3 on page 45)
The policy is to award Executive Directors shares with an initial 
face value equal to no more than 100% of annual salary each year.
The Committee chooses performance metrics that support the 
company’s strategy, provide a direct link with shareholder value  
and ensure a clear line of sight for participants between  
performance and reward. For Executive Directors:
ESOP
Three year real (i.e. above inflation) EPS growth. 25% vests for 
achieving a challenging threshold level of real growth, with 100% 
vesting for achieving particularly stretching targets.
PSP
Awards are equally split between three year relative TSR and  
absolute ROIC targets. For the TSR element, 25% vests for median 
performance versus a peer group of similar sector companies, with 
100% vesting at upper quartile. For the ROIC element, 25% vests  
for achieving a challenging threshold level of ROIC, with full vesting  
for reaching particularly stretching targets in light of the current 
economic environment.
The Committee sets these measures and targets having regard  
both to Britvic’s ambitious long-term business plan and strategic 
priorities. It reserves the right to use different targets in keeping  
with those objectives and realistic growth aspirations. 
The Committee undertook a review of the existing share incentive 
plans at the outset of the year. Due to the merger discussions with 
AG Barr plc, awards under the long-term incentive plans were 
delayed until March 2013 rather than December 2012.  
Simon Litherland received on appointment ESOP and PSP awards 
over shares with a face value of 300% and 100% of his salary, 
respectively.
John Gibney received ESOP and PSP awards over shares with  
a face value of 250% and 100% of salary respectively.
Paul Moody received no awards in the year under review.
In the event that awards under both plans are made in 2014, the 
grant date will revert back to December 2013.
Malus and claw-back provisions will also be introduced into the 
documents governing the PSP and ESOP to ensure the Committee 
have the ability to respond to unexpected financial events and 
unacceptable behaviour in an appropriate manner.
See pages 52 and 53 for description of performance conditions 
attaching to awards made in March 2013 and pages 44 and 45 for 
performance conditions agreed for awards planned for 2014.
Shareholding Guidelines
To encourage long-term share ownership by the Executive  
Directors so that interests are aligned with other investors
Executive Directors are to acquire a shareholding equal to their 
salary within five years from the date of appointment to the board.
The required shareholding is periodically reviewed and is currently  
set at 100% of salary. Until this holding is acquired, the Executive 
Directors may not sell any shares other than to finance the cost of 
exercising share options and any tax liabilities arising from the  
vesting of long-term incentive plans, unless approved by the 
Committee (for example, in cases of financial hardship).
No changes were made in the current year and no changes are 
proposed in the forthcoming year.
However, the CEO has voluntarily agreed to purchase the 
equivalent of £200,000 shares at the earliest opportunity following 
the announcement of the financial results. As a result of this 
purchase his total holding will be equivalent to circa 36% of his 
new salary from 1 January 2014. These shares will not be sold for 
at least three years and are intended to pro-actively strengthen his 
alignment with shareholder interests ahead of any future potential 
vesting of outstanding awards under the company’s long-term 
incentive plans.  
All-employee Share Plans
To encourage share ownership by employees, thereby allowing  
them to share in the long-term success of the company and  
align their interests with those of investors
Executive Directors are able to participate in an all-employee share 
plan on the same terms as other employees.
Executive directors may participate in the Britvic Share Incentive  
Plan, which is an all-employee HMRC approved share plan open to 
employees based in Great Britain. The plan has three parts, all of  
which the directors do participate in:
-  Free share awards, which are made annually subject to the  
company’s performance and at the discretion of the Committee.   
The value of the award is discretionary and the maximum is 3%  
of reckonable earnings, capped at £3,000 per annum. This award  
is typically made in the following financial year. 
-  Partnership shares, which are purchased by employees through  
payroll deductions ranging between £5 and £1 15 per pay period.
-  Matching shares which are provided by the employer to individuals 
purchasing partnership shares on a one for one basis up to a 
maximum of £50 per pay period. 
The Committee reserves the right to use its discretion to amend  
the operation of the all-employee share plan from time to time.
In light of 2012 performance against internal targets, the 
Committee determined that no award of free shares would be 
made in the year under review.
However, in light of 2013 performance a free share award will be 
made in January 2014, up to the maximum amount described in 
the previous column.
The table below summarises the policy applied to setting the remuneration of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors:
Element and purpose Policy and opportunity Operation and  performance measures Implementation of policy in the year
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees The fees paid to the Chairman and the fees of the other Non-
Executive Directors aim to be competitive with other fully listed 
companies of equivalent size and complexity. Fee levels are 
periodically reviewed by the board (for Non-Executives) and the 
Committee (for the Chairman).  
Additional fees are paid to Non-Executive Directors who are 
members of and who chair a board committee and to the Senior 
Independent Director (‘SID’).
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in company incentive 
arrangements, and do not receive any form of pension provision.
Fees are paid in cash.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors are reviewed annually with any 
changes taking effect from 1 January 2014.
On 1 January 2013, the fees were increased as follows: £230,000 
for the Chairman of the board (from £227 ,000), £50,000 for the role 
of Non-Executive Director (from £48,000) with additional fees of: (i) 
£8,000 payable for the role of SID; and (ii) £8,000 payable where an 
individual chairs a board committee. Face value
1
 (% of salary) • CEO: 300%
• CFO: 250%
Performance metrics •  Earnings per share (EPS) – defined as the company’s adjusted diluted earnings per 
ordinary share.
Performance condition in 2014 • 25% vests for EPS growth equivalent to RPI +3% compound per annum. 
• No awards will vest below this level of performance. 
• 100% vests for EPS growth equivalent to RPI +7% compound per annum. 
• Vesting is on a straight line basis between threshold and maximum. 
• Options lapse to the extent that the performance condition is not achieved.
Change in control provisions • Vesting is subject to achievement of performance conditions.
• Vesting is pro rated for the portion of the performance period elapsed.
•  At the discretion of the committee vesting may be reduced to zero or the way that 
performance is measured can be adjusted but should be no more or less difficult to 
achieve.
• Normally, awards must be exercised within six months of the change in control.
•  Subject to consent of the company and any acquiror, awards may be rolled over into 
other awards with equivalent structure and terms, except for performance conditions 
which may become subject to the performance conditions of the acquiror.
1 Based on average mid-market price for the three days prior to grant
44 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
directors’ remuneration report continued
Additional information to Policy T able
1 STIP
  For 2014, the Committee will maintain the same target and maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors as was the case in 2013.
  The Committee has also decided that the key short-term operational drivers of the business used in the year under review remain 
appropriate. Therefore, performance targets based on profit before tax (50% of total bonus), net revenue growth (20%) and free cash 
flow (30% of total bonus) will be set at appropriately stretching levels. Further details of performance against these targets will be set 
out in the 2014 remuneration report. Given the competitive environment in which the company operates, whilst the performance 
measures for annual bonus are disclosed, the detailed targets are considered to be commercially sensitive and therefore not disclosed.
2  Long-term incentives - Executive Share Option Plan 
  Options are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant to the extent that the performance conditions 
have been satisfied. 
  In the event that grants are made in 2014, the Committee has decided to maintain the same focus on long-term EPS growth as applied 
in 2013 and believes that the performance range remains sufficiently stretching in the context of the emerging business outlook and 
growth strategy of the company. Therefore, the ESOP will operate for Executive Directors as follows and will include the malus/
clawback provisions referred to in the policy table: 3 Long-term incentives - Performance Share Plan 
  In the event that grants are made in 2014, the Committee has decided to apply a higher ROIC range to those used for grants made in 
the year under review but will maintain the same relative TSR performance conditions. The higher ROIC range is designed to support 
the new business strategy. Therefore, the PSP will operate for Executive Directors as follows and will include the malus/clawback 
provisions referred to in the policy table:
Face value
1
 (% of salary) • CEO: 100%
• CFO: 100%
Performance metrics • Relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR)
•  Return on invested capital (ROIC) is defined as pre-exceptional operating profit after tax 
divided by average invested capital including goodwill (expressed as a percentage).
Performance condition in 2014
2, 3
Relative TSR portion (50%)
• Peer group comprises a group of similar sector companies (18 for the last grant).
• 25% vests for ranking at median.
• 100% vests for ranking at or above upper quartile.
• Vesting is on a straight line between threshold and maximum.
ROIC portion (50%)
• 25% vests for three year average ROIC of 23.4%.
• 100% vests for three year average ROIC at or above 24.2%.
• Vesting is on a straight line between threshold and maximum.
Change in control provisions • Vesting is subject to achievement of performance conditions.
• The extent of vesting also takes account the portion of the performance period elapsed.
•  At the discretion of the Committee the way that performance is measured can be 
adjusted but should be no more or less difficult to achieve.
•  Subject to consent of the company and any acquirer, awards may be rolled over into 
awards with equivalent structure and terms.
1 Based on the average mid-market price for the three days prior to grant
2  The comparator companies are currently: AG Barr plc, Associated British Foods, C&C Group, Dairy Crest, Diageo, Fuller Smith & Turner, Glanbia, Greencore, Greene 
King, Marston’s, Nichols, Origin Enterprises, Premier Foods, Reckitt Benckiser, SABMiller, Smith & Nephew, Tate and Lyle, Wetherspoon. The Committee retains 
discretion to review and amend the group of comparator companies from time to time where it is considered appropriate to do so.
3 The ROIC range has been changed from 20.7% to 21 .5% which applied to awards made in 2013.
How our incentive plan targets link to our strategy
Metric Incentive Plan Link to strategy 
Profit before tax (PBT) Short term incentive plan PBT is a key measure of the company’s financial performance and, in 
particular, how successful the company has been in at accelerating its 
profitability from various strategic initiatives in place. For STIP purposes  
PBT is pre-exceptional and other items in order to reflect the financial 
performance of the business, although the Committee will maintain 
discretion to adjust outcomes downward if deemed appropriate.
Net revenue Short term incentive plan Reflects a core strategic objective of growing revenues in all the company’s 
markets, particularly in emerging markets.
Free cash flow Short term incentive plan FCF is a good indicator of the company’s financial health, which links to a  
key corporate objective of improving cash conversion and is vitally important 
in ensuring our ability to invest in key international opportunities.
Three year EPS growth Executive share option plan EPS is an important long-term financial metric linked to value creation for our 
shareholders and provides an appropriate underpin for awards to vest under 
the ESOP . For ESOP performance measurement, adjusted diluted EPS is used.
Three year relative  
total shareholder  
return growth 
Performance share plan TSR reflects the growth in value of the company’s share price and dividends 
compared to broad sector peers, thereby ensuring that participants only 
receive rewards if they outperform a basket of other investment comparables.  
ROIC Performance share plan ROIC is an important measure for the company to ensure it optimises its 
invested capital to deliver returns significantly in excess of the cost of that 
capital.  
45 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
directors’ remuneration report continued Recruitment remuneration policy
Our recruitment remuneration policy aims to give the Committee 
sufficient flexibility to secure the appointment and promotion of 
high-calibre executives to strengthen the management team and 
secure the skill sets to deliver our strategic objectives.
The following represents the Committee’s guidelines in relation to 
recruitment remuneration which may need to be interpreted flexibly 
by the Committee in relation to securing an appropriate candidate 
whose appointment would, in the view of the board, be in 
shareholders’ best interests. 
•  For external appointments, the Committee may offer additional 
cash/share-based elements when they consider it in the best 
interests of the company and its shareholders.
•  For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in 
respect of the prior role may either continue on its original terms or 
be adjusted to reflect the new appointment as appropriate.
•  For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree 
that the company will meet certain relocation expenses as 
appropriate.
•  Ignoring any special recruitment arrangements which may prove to 
be necessary, it is not envisaged that the annual bonus or long-term 
incentive compensation arrangements will operate differently 
(including the maximum award levels) than for the predecessor of 
any newly appointed executive.
•  Where it is necessary to make a recruitment- related pay award 
to an external candidate, the company will not pay more than is 
necessary and will in all cases seek, in the first instance, to deliver 
any awards under the terms of the existing incentive pay structure. 
In some cases it may be necessary to make awards on terms 
that are more bespoke than the existing annual and equity-based 
pay structures at the company in order to secure a candidate.
•  All awards for external appointments, whether under the STIP , 
ESOP , PSP or otherwise, will take account of the nature, 
time-horizons and performance requirements for any remuneration 
relinquished by the individual when leaving a previous employer, 
and will be appropriately discounted to ensure that the company 
does not, in the opinion of the Committee, “ over-pay” .
The elements of any reward package for a new executive recruit and the approach taken by the Committee in relation to setting each 
element of the package will be consistent with the Executive Directors’ remuneration policy described in this report, as modified by the 
above statement of principles, where appropriate.
Potential rewards under various scenarios 
The potential total rewards available to the Executive Directors, 
ignoring any change in share price and roll-up of dividends, are set 
out in the illustration below. 
The Committee believes that the mix and variability in the reward 
package is aligned with our performance-orientated remuneration 
principles and business objectives already described above.
   
3000
2500
2000
1500
 1000
500
0
Minimum
£705
On-target
£1,363
Simon Litherland
Maximum
£2,553
Minimum
£460
On-target
£834
John Gibney
Maximum
£1,522
100% 52%
29%
10%
9%
27%
31%
22%
20%
100% 55%
26%
11%
8%
30%
28%
24%
18%
  ESOP
  PSP
   Short Term Incentives
  Total Fixed Pay
£’000
46 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
directors’ remuneration report continued The previous chart has been prepared using the following assumptions:
Minimum • Consists of base salary, benefits and pension.
• Base salary is the salary to be paid in 2014.
•  Benefits measured as benefits paid in 2013 as set out in the single figure table on page 51  
(which may vary, albeit not materially, over the course of next year).
•  Pension based on cash allowance levels described in policy table above. 
Base Salary Benefits Pension T otal Fixed
  Simon Litherland £560,000 £7 ,500 £138,000 £705,500
  John Gibney £360,000 £21,000 £79,000 £460,000
On-target Based on what the director would receive if performance was on-target (excl. share price appreciation and dividends):
• STIP: consists of the on-target bonus (i.e. 50% of maximum).
•  ESOP: 25% (being the vesting level at threshold) of 30% of the face value of the shares under option (the 30% 
being a standard market value for options which have a lower per share value than the PSP awards); and
• PSP: 25% of the face value of the shares awarded (equivalent to threshold level of vesting in the plan).
Maximum Based on the maximum remuneration receivable (excl. share price appreciation and dividends):
• STIP: consists of maximum bonus.
•  ESOP: assumes maximum vesting, therefore 30% of the face value of the shares under option (the 30% being 
a standard market value for options before any performance conditions are applied). 
• PSP: 100% of the face value of the shares awarded
Directors’ service contracts
General policy
The current policy is for the notice period in the Executive Directors’ service contracts to be normally no longer than one year. The service 
contracts of the Executive Directors at the start of 2013 included the following terms regarding notice periods:
Effective date of contract
Unexpired term 
(approx. months)
Notice period from 
director (months) Notice period from company (months) 
Paul Moody 14 December 2005 12
1
6 12
Simon Litherland 14 February 2013 12
1
9
2
18
2
John Gibney 14 December 2005 12
1
6 12
1 . Executive Directors are appointed on 12-month rolling contracts.
2. Simon Litherland has temporary arrangements relating to notice periods which are explained in the paragraph below.
Simon Litherland was appointed CEO on 13 February 2013. Due to 
the ongoing uncertainty regarding the merger with AG Barr plc that 
existed at the time of his appointment, it was considered necessary 
to depart from the Committee’s normal notice period policy. As a 
result, Simon Litherland’s service contract, dated 19 March 2013, 
contains an initial notice period of eighteen months from the company 
(nine months from Simon). However, this notice period returns to a 
policy-compliant twelve months from the company (six months from 
Simon) on 19 September 2014. During the first eighteen months 
following the service contract date of Simon Litherland’s contract, 
any payment in lieu of notice will take into consideration both base 
salary and pension allowance. In the period following this initial 
eighteen months, any payment in lieu of notice will be based on 
base salary only. For John Gibney, our standard notice period of 
twelve months from Britvic (six months from John) applies with 
payment in lieu of notice based on base salary only. In both cases, 
the payment in lieu of notice will be made in monthly instalments 
(in which case any income earned by Simon or John over the 
payment period will reduce the monthly amounts), however the 
Committee retains the discretion to make such payments as a 
lump sum where they consider the circumstances merit it. 
There are no other special provisions for Executive or Non-Executive 
Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office.  
In the event of the employment of an Executive Director being 
terminated, the Committee would pay due regard to best practice 
and take account of the individual’s duty to mitigate their loss. 
In practice, any form of termination payment to an Executive Director 
would require the Committee to consider all of the relevant facts 
and circumstances available at that time to ensure the company is 
protected and to prevent any “reward for failure” being made to an 
Executive Director. This policy applies both to any negotiations 
linked to notice periods on a termination and any treatment which 
the Committee may choose to apply under the discretions available 
to it under the terms of the STIP , ESOP or PSP . The potential 
treatments on termination under both of these plans are 
summarised on the next page.
 
47 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
directors’ remuneration report continued Incentives Good leaver
If a leaver is deemed to be a ‘good leaver’; 
i.e. leaving through voluntary redundancy, 
serious ill health or death or otherwise at 
the discretion of the Committee (e.g. 
circumstances of departure, personal 
contribution to company performance, how 
close the next vesting date is).
Bad leaver
If a leaver is deemed to be a ‘bad leaver’; 
typically voluntary resignation or leaving for 
disciplinary reasons
In the event of a change in 
control or a winding up of the 
company
STIP Pro-rated bonus Awards forfeited Pro-rated bonus
ESOP & PSP Pro-rated award, subject to the 
application of the performance 
conditions at the normal measurement 
date. If the Committee determines that 
awards vest on cessation, they will do 
so subject to the performance 
conditions and taking account of time 
elapsed since the start of the relevant 
performance period.   
All awards will normally lapse unless 
the Committee determines otherwise.
Awards will normally vest subject to 
the application of the performance 
conditions at the date of the event and 
will take account of the time elapsed 
since the start of the relevant 
performance period. 
Pension If the Executive Director is eligible for 
the EERF then the Committee may 
determine at their discretion to grant 
early retirement with the EERF 
applying. The EERF can only be applied 
to those who are eligible and only 
when taking early retirement.  
No special provisions apply. No special provisions apply.
Paul Moody
Paul Moody retired on 26 February 2013 and did not receive any 
severance arrangements under the terms of his contract or bonus 
payments in respect of 2013. As an early retiree in the defined 
benefit section of the Britvic Pension Plan, his retirement benefits 
followed the same provisions as apply to all other company 
employees who qualify for the Enhanced Early Retirement Facility, 
resulting in his pension not being actuarially reduced as the date of 
his retirement was within five years of his normal pension age. 
Further information can be found in the Pensions section on page 
54. In addition, in order to provide expert support to the board in 
relation to discussions with the Competition Commission regarding 
the proposed merger with AG Barr plc, Paul was provided with a 
consulting services agreement with Britvic plc for a fixed period of 
six months following his retirement to ensure his expertise was 
available for as long as the board required it during that period. 
The agreed fee for these services is £350,000 plus expenses.  
Other appointments 
The Executive Directors are not permitted to have any engagement 
with any other company during the term of their appointment 
without the prior written consent of the board. 
Paul Moody had the following external appointments:
• Non-Executive Director of Johnson Service Group plc
• Interactive Screen Media Limited
• Director of The British Soft Drinks Association
On 5 March 2013 Paul Moody ceased to be a director of The British 
Soft Drinks Association Limited and was replaced by Simon 
Litherland. John Gibney has, following the 2013 year end, replaced 
Paul Moody as a director of Interactive Screen Media Limited.
Paul Moody received a fee of £30,000
[1]
 per annum for his role as 
Non-Executive Director of Johnson Service Group plc.  
[1] Information from latest audited Johnson Service Group plc Report and 
Accounts as at 31 December 2012.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 
Under his Letter of Appointment, Gerald Corbett was appointed 
Chairman of the company for an initial three-year term to 14 
December 2008. This has been extended until 14 December 2014 
subject to annual re-election by the company’s shareholders in 
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but 
instead have Letters of Appointment for a three-year term, subject 
to annual re-election by Company’s shareholders in accordance 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Non-Executive Directors:
Effective date 
of contract
Unexpired term 
(approx. months)
Notice period from 
director (months)
Notice period from
 Britvic (months) 
Gerald Corbett 14 December 2011
1
12 12 12
Joanne Averiss 14 December 2011
1
12 3 3
Ben Gordon 15 April 2011
1
4 3 3
Bob Ivell 14 December 2011
1
12 3 3
Michael Shallow 14 December 2011
1
12 3 3
1 .   The Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment were extended for a further three-year term to 14 December 2014 with the exception of Ben Gordon whose 
letter of appointment was extended for a further three-year term to 14 April 2014.
All Directors’ service contracts and Letters of Appointment are available for inspection at the company’s registered office and at the AGM 
up until the start of the meeting.
48 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
directors’ remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee
Membership 
During the year, the Committee consisted wholly of independent 
Non-Executive Directors:
Bob Ivell (Chairman) 
Michael Shallow 
Ben Gordon  
Gerald Corbett
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chief 
Executive Officer and Group Human Resources Director attend the 
meetings of the Committee except when their own remuneration 
is under consideration. Details of the attendance by Committee 
members at Committee meetings are shown in the Corporate 
Governance Report on page 32.
Composition and terms of reference 
The Committee’s composition and terms of reference are in line 
with the Code and are available on the company’s website or on 
request from the Company Secretary. While the Chairman, who 
was independent on initial appointment, is a member of the 
Remuneration Committee, he is not present when his own 
remuneration is under discussion.
The Committee meets no less than three times a year and has 
responsibility for:
•  Reviewing executives’ remuneration in terms of the pay policy  
of the company as a whole, pay and conditions elsewhere in  
the group, and the overall cost to the shareholders;
•  Determining, within agreed terms of reference, and taking into 
account corporate performance on environmental, social and 
governance issues, the remuneration of the Chairman and 
specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive 
Directors and other members of the executive team, including 
pension rights, any compensation payments and benefits;
•  Approving the design and operation of the company’s incentive 
arrangements, both short and long-term. This includes agreeing 
the targets that are applied to awards made to senior executives; 
•  Responsibility for all of the company’s employee share plans and 
the share dilution position; and
•  Ensuring, via regular reviews, that the company’s pay policies 
remain appropriate and relevant.
Advisors 
The Committee’s appointed external advisor on executive 
compensation issues and performance-related remuneration  
is T owers Watson Limited (T owers Watson). T owers Watson  
were appointed following an extensive review of the leading 
remuneration advisers as it was felt that they had the most 
relevant experience and expertise to advise the Committee on 
executive compensation issues. The company is also advised by 
Towers Watson on other remuneration-related issues. Towers 
Watson’s fees in respect of advice to the Committee in the year 
under review were £140,408 and were charged on the basis of that 
firm’s standard terms of business for advice provided. These fees 
are higher than usual due to the aborted merger discussions with 
AG Barr plc. During the year, Linklaters LLP and Addleshaw 
Goddard LLP were also engaged by the Committee to advise on 
contractual arrangements, share schemes and pension matters.  
The Committee is entirely comfortable that the advice it received 
from these organisations was objective and independent. 
The following individuals also provided material advice or services 
to the Committee during the year:
• Paul Moody (former Chief Executive Officer); 
• Simon Litherland (current Chief Executive Officer);
• John Gibney (Chief Financial Officer);
• Doug Frost (Group Human Resources Director); and 
• Mario Yiannopoulos (Director of Compensation & Benefits). 
Distribution statement
The new disclosure regulations require companies to provide 
information on how the total remuneration paid to all employees of 
the company compares to any distributions made to shareholders 
by way of dividends and/or share buybacks. The following chart 
sets out this information as it applies to the company, comparing 
figures for the year under review and the previous year. Capital 
expenditure is also shown below for context given it is another 
relevant and significant distribution decision by the company. For 
the purposes of this table capital expenditure is defined as net 
cash flow from the purchase and sale of both tangible and 
intangible assets:-
 % Change   (25.9%)
 FY13   £34.9m
 FY12   £47 .1m
 % Change   31.3%
 FY13   £82.6m
 FY12   £62.9m
 % Change   (0.1%)
 FY13   £42.5m
 FY12   £42.5m
 % Change   (4.8%)
 FY13   £119.4m
 FY12   £125.4m
Capex
Profit after tax
Dividend payout
Salary roll
implementation report  
unaudited information
49 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
directors’ remuneration report continued Performance graph and table
The committee considers the FTSE 250 (excluding Investment Trusts Index) is a relevant index for total shareholder return and comparison 
disclosure as it represents a broad equity market index in which the company is a constituent member: 
The new disclosure regulations require companies to set out certain details of the CEO’s pay in the years covered by the chart above. 
These include details of the payments the CEO received under short and long-term incentive plans over these financial years. This 
information is set out below:
Financial year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Paul Moody  
Single figure of total remuneration  
(£,000)
1,982.1 1,955.3 1,819.7 670.1 1,412.6
1 
Simon Litherland  
Single figure of total remuneration  
(£,000)
n/a n/a n/a n/a 1,114.6
2
Annual variable element award rates  
against maximum opportunity
3
  
(£,000)
79%
501 .6
95%
637 .8
0%
0.0
0%
0.0
0% for  
Paul Moody
0.0
98.6% for 
Simon Litherland
703.8
Long-term incentive vesting rates against 
maximum opportunity
4
 (£,000)
ESOP: 100%
PSP: 100%
773.8
ESOP: 100%
PSP: 100%
599.6
ESOP: 86%
PSP: 91%
1,279.9
ESOP: 0%
PSP: 0%
0.0
ESOP: 0%
PSP: 0%
0.0
n/a for 
Simon Litherland
1 .  This sum covers the period during which Paul Moody was an Executive Director up to his retirement on 26 February 2013. It includes £1 .1m in respect of the EERF 
enhancement received to his pension at the Committee’s discretion. The total calculation comprises of base salary, benefits, pension and the value of ESOP and PSP 
awards at year end. 
2.  This sum covers the period from Simon Litherland’s appointment as CEO on 13 February 2013.
3. Actual amount paid.
4. Actual value of shares at the date of vesting.
Voting outcomes
The new regulations state that the Directors’ Remuneration Report should include details of how shareholders cast their votes on 
remuneration-related resolutions at the last AGM. Of the votes cast to approve the 2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report, at the AGM 
held on 19 March 2013, 171,751,061 (95.7%) were cast in favour of the resolution, 7 ,555,269 (4.2%) were cast against the resolution,  
and 2,582,938 votes were withheld. 
Directors Remuneration Report Votes for Votes against Withheld
2012 171,751,061 (95.7%) 7 ,555,269 (4.2%) 2,582,938
2011 154,461,496 (99.6%) 560,016 (0.4%) 6,315,270
2010 164,606,804 (99.7%) 527 ,943 (0.3%) 1,207 ,276
Britvic’s Historical TSR Performance Growth in the value of  
a hypothetical £100
£350
£300
£250
£200
£150
£100
£50
£0
 28 Sept 2008 27 Sept 2009 03 Oct 2010 02 Oct 2011 30 Sept 2012 29 Sept 2013
FTSE 250 Excluding Investment Trusts
Britvic
50 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
directors’ remuneration report continued Directors’ remuneration 
The emoluments of the directors for the year under review based on the current disclosure requirements were as follows:
Base salary 
and fees
1
£’000
Taxable 
benefits / 
other
2
£’000
Performance 
related bonuses
£’000
Total 
2013
£’000 
Total 
2012 
£’000 
Executive Directors: 
Paul Moody* 273.7 38.8 - 312.5
5
670.0
Simon Litherland** 383.0 27 .8
3
703.8 1,114.6 n/a
John Gibney 414.2 22.5 401 .1 837 .8 428.0
Non-Executive Directors: 
Gerald Corbett
 
213.7 26.9
4
  - 240.6 227 .0
Joanne Averiss 49.7 -  - 49.7 48.0
Ben Gordon 49.7 -  - 49.7 48.0
Bob Ivell 65.7 -  - 65.7 64.0
Michael Shallow 57 .7 -  - 57 .7 56.0
*    Paul Moody retired on 26 February 2013 – figures shown are for the period in the role of CEO.
**  Simon Litherland was appointed CEO on 13 February 2013 having previously been MD GB from 3 October 201 1 – figures shown are only for the period in the role of CEO.
1 .  The base salary and fees includes for Paul Moody a pro-rated base salary to 26 February 2013 of £219,692 and a pro-rated pensions cash alternative of £54,054. For 
Simon Litherland this number includes a pro-rated base salary from 13 February 2013 of £307 ,479 and a pro-rated pensions cash alternative of £75,529. For John 
Gibney this number includes a base salary of £339,639 and a pension cash alternative of £7 4,630 (being representative of earnings during the period under review). 
The agreed fee of £350,000 plus expenses for Paul Moody’s consultancy agreement detailed on page 48 above has not been included.
2.  Benefits for Paul Moody, Simon Litherland and John Gibney incorporate all taxable benefits and expense allowances arising from employment, which relate to the 
provision of car benefits or allowance and membership of the company’s private medical healthcare plan (worth £17 ,242 for Paul Moody to 26 February 2013, £7 ,831 
for Simon Litherland from 13 February 2013 and £22,488 for John Gibney). Paul Moody also received a payment of £21,577 in lieu of unused holiday allowance.
3. Includes a payment to Simon Litherland of £20,000 relating to the terms of his recruitment prior to his appointment as CEO.  
4. Gerald Corbett received one-off benefits of £26,919 in relation to medical expenses.
5.  A sum of £1 .1m in respect of the benefit of the EERF for Paul Moody is not included within the numbers above. (See page 54 (Pension table) for additional information.) 
Single figure table
The new disclosure regulations require companies to provide a single total figure of remuneration for each director, broken down by each 
element of pay and compared to the prior year figures. This information is set out in the table below for each of the Executive Directors.  
To avoid further replication this year the Non-Executive Director fees described above have not been disclosed again in the new format.
Single T otal Figure of Remuneration for each director:
Paul Moody
1
Simon Litherland
2
John Gibney
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
Salary
5
219.7 507 .4 307 .5 n/a 339.6 323.7
Benefits
3
38.8 18.0 7.8 n/a 22.5 21 .1
Other 1,100.0 - 20.0
7
- - -
STIP
6
- - 703.8 n/a 401 .1 -
LTIP
6
- - - n/a - -
Pension or cash in lieu
4
54.1 144.7 75.5 n/a 74.6 83.8
T otal 1,412.6 670.1 1,114.6 n/a 837 .8 428.6
1 .  Paul Moody, former CEO, retired on 26 February 2013. The figures above have been adjusted to reflect the period of the 2013 year that Paul Moody was an Executive 
Director. Upon retirement Paul Moody decided to crystallise his future pension promise under BETUS early at a discount to its current value equivalent to £0.5m. The 
other number above includes £1 .1m for the cost of the EERF . (See page 54 (Pension table) for additional information.)
2. Simon Litherland was appointed CEO on 13 February 2013, and the figures for 2013 above only reflect the period he was in role.  
3.  Benefits comprise car allowance and private medical insurance and life assurance. In the case of Paul Moody this number also includes payment in lieu of unused 
holiday allowance of £21,577 .
4.  All three Executive Directors have opted out of the occupational pension scheme due to HMRC protections from the Lifetime Allowance. They receive a cash sum 
rather than an employer contribution into the Britvic Pension Plan.
5. The Executive Directors are entitled to adjust their salary/benefit combination under flexible benefits arrangements and the figures shown are before individual selections.
6. Details of the performance measures and targets applicable to the annual bonus and long-term incentive awards are set out in the Director’s Remuneration Policy table.
7 .  Simon Litherland became eligible for a payment of £20,000 in September 2013 as per his employment terms as MD GB prior to his appointment as CEO. This 
payment was made in November 2013 following approval by the Committee but is included in the single figure above.    
 
directors’ remuneration report continued
implementation report  
audited information
51 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance STIP outcomes
Although we are unable to disclose our detailed targets, the table below shows the actual out-turn against the STIP maximum for the 
year under review:
Target
Weighting  
(% of bonus 
maximum)
2013 maximum  
bonus (% of salary)
2013 bonus  
earned (% of salary)
CEO CFO CEO CFO
PBT 50% 70% 60% 70% 60%
Net revenue 20% 28% 24% 26% 22%
Free cash flow 30% 42% 36% 42% 36%
T otal 100% 140% 120% 138% 118% 
1 .  The Committee decided that on account of Paul Moody’s early retirement he would not participate in the STIP in the year under review.
Given the competitive environment in which the company operates, whilst the performance measures for annual bonus are disclosed, 
the detailed targets are considered commercially sensitive and are accordingly not disclosed. However, as explained on page 37 , these 
bonus payouts reflected a strong year for the company in which excellent progress on the company’s new business strategy was 
achieved, significant shareholder value was delivered (with our share price increasing by 58% as at 29 September 2013), both of which 
were underpinned by a material improvement in underlying financial performance.  
Directors’ interests in share options 
The Executive Directors participate in the Britvic Executive Share Option Plan (on the terms and subject to the EPS growth performance 
condition as described on page 44. 
Number of shares under option
Date of grant
At start of 
year/date of 
appoint- 
ment
Granted 
during year
Exercised 
during year
Lapsed 
during year
At end of 
year/date of 
cessation
Option 
exercise 
price (pence)
Date from 
which 
exercise- 
able Expiry date
Paul Moody 15/12/05
1
273,005 - - - 273,005 245.0 26/11/08 15/12/15
06/12/06
1
338,776 - - - 338,776 245.0 26/11/09 06/12/16
05/12/07
1
246,369 - - - 246,369 347 .0 03/12/10 05/12/17
05/12/08
2
530,189 - - - 530,189 221 .0 01/12/11 05/12/18
07/12/09
2
372,326 - - (372,326) - 387 .0 28/11/12 07/12/19
07/12/10
2
310,111 - - (77 ,528)
3
232,583 464.4 27/11/13 07/12/20
06/12/11
2
452,368 - (263,881)
3
188,487 331 .6 26/11/14 06/12/21
T otal 2,523,144 - - (713,735) 1,809,409
Simon Litherland 06/12/11
2
174,916 - - - 174,916 331 .6 26/11/14 06/12/21
06/03/13
2
- 357 ,881 - - 357 ,881 427 .5 06/03/16 06/03/23
T otal 174,916 357 ,881 - - 532,797
John Gibney 15/12/05
1
124,366 - - - 124,366 245.0 26/11/08 15/12/15
06/12/06
1
162,245 - - - 162,245 245.0 26/11/09 06/12/16
05/12/07
1
119,135 - - - 119,135 347 .0 03/12/10 05/12/17
05/12/08
2
284,879 - - - 284,879 221 .0 01/12/11 05/12/18
07/12/09
2
200,065 - - (200,065) - 387 .0 28/11/12 07/12/19
07/12/10
2
166,634 - - - 166,634 464.4 27/11/13 07/12/20
06/12/11
2
240,502 - - - 240,502 331 .6 26/11/14 06/12/21
06/03/13
2
- 201,747 - - 201,747 427 .5 06/03/16 06/03/23
T otal 1,297 ,826 201,747 - (200,065) 1,299,508
1 .  Awards of share options from 2005 to 2007 vested at 40% threshold (EPS growth equal to RPI + 3% compound over three years) and 100% at maximum (EPS 
growth equal to RPI + 7% compound over three years).
2.  Awards of share options from 2008 onwards vest 25% at threshold with the EPS performance condition calibrated as detailed above.
3. Awards pro-rated as a result of leaving by retirement on 26 February 2013.
The market price of the company’s shares on 29 September 2013 was 575p and the range of closing prices during the year was 364.1p to 
592.0p.
52 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
directors’ remuneration report continued Directors’ interests in the Performance Share Plan 
The Executive Directors participate in the Britvic Performance Share Plan (as described on page 42).
Number of Shares
Date of 
award
At start of 
year/date of 
appointment
Awarded 
during year 
Vested 
during year
Lapsed 
during year
At end of 
year/date of 
cessation
Market price 
at date of 
award 
(pence) Vesting date
Paul Moody 07/12/09
1
124,110 - - (124,110) - 380.1 28/11/12
07/12/10
2
103,370 - - (25,843)
5
77 ,527 477 .0 27/11/13
06/12/11
3
150,790 - - (87 ,961)
5
62,829 329.8 26/11/14
T otal 378,270 - - (237 ,914) 140,356
Simon Litherland 06/12/11
3
69,966 - - - 69,966 329.8 26/11/14
06/03/13
4
- 119,294 - - 119,294 421 .2 06/03/16
T otal 69,966 119,294 189,260
John Gibney 07/12/09
1
80,026 - - (80,026) - 380.1 28/11/12
07/12/10
2
66,654 - - - 66,654 477 .0 27/11/13
06/12/11
3
96,200 - - - 96,200 329.8 26/11/14
06/03/13
4
- 80,699 - - 80,699 421 .2 06/03/16
T otal 242,880 80,699 - (80,026) 243,553
1 .  Awards of performance shares in December 2009 vest 25% at threshold and 100% at maximum (with 50% of the award subject to the TSR performance condition 
detailed above and 50% of the award subject to threshold ROIC of 21 .9% and maximum ROIC condition of 23.2%).
2.  Awards of performance shares in December 2010 vest 25% at threshold and 100% at maximum (with 50% of the award subject to the TSR performance condition 
detailed above and 50% of the award subject to threshold ROIC of 21 .9% and maximum ROIC condition of 22.7%).
3.  Awards of performance shares in December 2011 vest at 25% at threshold and 100% at maximum (with 50% of the award subject to the TSR performance 
condition detailed above and 50% of the award subject to threshold ROIC of 21 .5% and maximum ROIC condition of 22.3%).
4.  Awards of performance shares in March 2013 vest at 25% at threshold and 100% at maximum (with 50% of the award subject to the TSR performance condition 
detailed above and 50% of the award subject to threshold ROIC of 20.7% and maximum ROIC condition of 21 .5%).
5. Awards pro-rated as a result of retirement from the business as a good leaver on 26 February 2013.
Directors’ interests in shares 
                                                 Britvic plc ordinary shares of 20p each 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors 30 September 2012 29 September 2013
Paul Moody 445,040 445,246*
Simon Litherland n/a 222
John Gibney 373,434 243,900
Gerald Corbett 103,695 103,695
Joanne Averiss 14,696 14,696
Ben Gordon 11,393 11,393
Bob Ivell 10,870 10,870
Michael Shallow 21,739 21,739
*as at date of resignation on 26 February 2013
The above shareholdings are all beneficial interests and include shares held on behalf of the Executive Directors by the Trustee of the 
Britvic Share Incentive Plan which is detailed on page 42. As such, they count towards the shareholding guideline described on page 42, 
which will be reviewed in the forthcoming year.
In the period 30 September 2013 to 25 November 2013 there has been no change in the directors’ interests, other than through the 
monthly purchases in October and November of partnership and matching shares under the Share Incentive Plan.  
53 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
directors’ remuneration report continued Pensions 
The Executive Directors ceased participation in the defined benefit 
section of the Britvic Pension Plan (‘the Plan’) on 10 April 2011, 
following the closure of the Plan to future accrual. Most active 
members of the Plan transferred to the defined contribution section 
of the Plan, but the two Executive Directors opted to cease 
tax-relievable pension provision at the point of closure and instead 
now receive a cash sum in lieu of pension contributions. 
The cash allowance payable:
•  Reflects contributions the company would have made to the 
defined contribution section of the Plan had these individuals 
elected to join, less a deduction to ensure the cash allowance is 
cost neutral to the company from a National Insurance 
perspective. 
•  Is paid at a rate of 24.6% of pensionable pay (base salary only) for 
the CEO (both Paul Moody and subsequently to Simon Litherland) 
and 22.0% of pensionable pay (base salary only) to the CFO.
John Gibney continues to have a deferred pension in the defined 
benefit section of the Plan and also the Britvic Executive Top Up 
Scheme (‘BETUS’), the company’s unfunded retirement benefits 
scheme which also closed to future accrual on 10 April 2011 . The 
normal retirement age for executive directors is 60. 
In line with all members of the defined benefits section of the Plan, 
John Gibney may benefit from the Enhanced Early Retirement 
Facility (‘EERF’) which allows the Plan members to retire within five 
years of reaching normal pension age without a reduction in their 
pension. The EERF includes benefits payable from BETUS and is 
non-contractual. Continuation of the EERF formed part of the 
agreement with the Plan trustee on the closure of the defined 
benefit section of the Plan. The company has given notice to all of 
the Plan members that the EERF will be withdrawn by 5 April 2016.
Where a BETUS member is retiring, the Committee may consider 
offering a discounted one-off cash settlement to the member at the 
point of retirement to reduce the company’s balance sheet 
exposure to the BETUS liability.  
The table below shows, amongst other items, as at the year end, 
the accrued pension should the director leave employment; the 
increase in the accrued pension during the year; the increase 
excluding inflation and member contributions; the transfer value of 
accrued pension; and any increase/(decrease) in this value assessed 
on the transfer value basis as under the Plan. This disclosure is in 
compliance with both the London Stock Exchange Listing Rules 
and the Companies Act 2006. 
Name of 
Director
Age (last 
birthday) at 
29/09/13
Accrued 
pension at  
29/09/2013 
£ p.a.
Increase in 
accrued 
pension
1 
£ p.a.
Increase in 
accrued 
pension
2
 
£ p.a.
Transfer value 
of increase in 
accrued 
pension
3
  
 £
Transfer value 
of accrued 
benefits -  
29/09/13 
£
Transfer value 
of accrued 
benefits -  
30/09/12 
£
Increase in transfer 
value over accounting 
period less directors’ 
contributions
4
 
£
Paul Moody 56 216,600 n/a n/a n/a 5,970,000 4,597 ,900 1,372,100
John Gibney 53 197 ,700 5,900 (200) (2,900) 3,690,900 3,333,800 357 ,100
1. Absolute increase during accounting period.       
2. Increase in accrued pension during the accounting period, net of inflation (measured using the Retail Prices Index).  
3. Net of inflation (measured using the Retail Prices Index) and contributions.
4. Figures for Mr Moody have been presented as at his date of retirement as described in the notes below.
The transfer value shown above has been calculated in accordance with the relevant regulations, which preclude allowance being made 
for any discretionary options available. 
Notes in relation to Mr Gibney
The accrued pension and transfer value listed above is calculated 
on the basis of entitlements accrued to 10 April 201 1, but calculated 
where relevant in line with market conditions at 29 September 2013.
The entitlement shown also includes increases to accrued pension 
since date of leaving defined benefit service for this member as 
required under the rules of the Plan and BETUS, the aim of which 
are to increase the benefits in line with price inflation between the 
date of leaving pensionable service in the Plan and BETUS and the 
date when benefits are drawn. The increase due on 1 October 2013 
has been included in the above figures.
Notes in relation to Mr Moody
Mr Moody retired from the Britvic Pension Plan and the Britvic 
Executive Top-Up Scheme on 26 February 2013, utilising the 
Committee’s discretion to allow him to retire under the EERF . The 
accrued pension quoted above is calculated as the member’s 
pension (prior to commutation of pension for tax free cash) as at 
26 February 2013, on the basis of entitlements accrued to 10 April 
2011 . Mr Moody retired before receiving any pension increase on 
his accrued pension subsequent to 30 September 2012; we have 
therefore not disclosed any figures relating to increases in accrued 
pension for this financial year. The transfer value listed above is 
calculated as the transfer value of his early retirement pension as 
at 26 February 2013 (prior to commutation of pension for tax free 
cash) and following the enhancement received through the EERF , 
using market conditions as at 29 September 2013. The increase in 
the transfer value as a result of access to the EERF was £1 .1m.
The associated total liabilities of the BETUS in relation to Paul 
Moody were approximately £3.8m on an IAS19 basis. In order to 
reduce the BETUS related company balance sheet exposure 
sooner, the Committee agreed to a cash payment to the former 
CEO of £2.9m to eliminate all current and future entitlement under 
BETUS for Paul Moody. Taking into account employer NIC costs, 
this represents a saving of £0.5m to the company.
On behalf of the board 
Bob Ivell  
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
25 November 2013
54 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
directors’ remuneration report continued 55 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
directors’ remuneration report continued 56 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
governance
directors’ report
for the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013 
The directors present their report and the audited consolidated 
financial statements of the company and the group for the 52 
weeks ended 29 September 2013.
In support of the new requirements introduced by The Companies 
Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 
which became effective on 1 October, 2013, the directors have 
voluntarily included disclosures in this annual report in relation to 
gender and human rights which may be found in the Chief 
Executive Officer’s Strategic Review on page 9 and on the 
company’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions which are set out on 
page 57 of this Directors’ Report.
Certain information required for disclosure in this report is provided 
in other appropriate sections of the annual report. These include 
the Business Review, the Corporate Governance, Audit Committee, 
Nomination Committee and Directors’ Remuneration Reports and 
the Group Financial Statements, and these are, accordingly, 
incorporated into this report by reference.
Principal activities 
The group trades principally as a manufacturer and distributor of 
soft drinks.
Business review 
A detailed review of the group’s business is contained within the 
Chairman’s Statement, the Chief Executive Officer’s Strategic 
Review and the Chief Financial Officer’s Review on pages 8 to 21 . 
The information contained in those sections fulfils the requirements 
of the Business Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies 
Act 2006 and should be treated as forming part of this report.
Results and dividends 
The group’s profit for the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013 
before taxation attributable to the equity shareholders amounted to 
£82.6 million (2012: £77 .5 million) and the profit after taxation 
amounted to £61 .9 million (2012: £57 .4 million).
An interim dividend of 5.4p (2012: 5.3p) per ordinary share was 
paid on 12 July 2013. 
The directors have proposed a final dividend of 13.0p (2012: 12.4p) 
per ordinary share payable on 7 February 2014 to shareholders on 
the register at the close of business on 4 December 2013, giving a 
total dividend in respect of 2013 of 18.4p (2012: 17 .7p). 
Annual general meeting (AGM)
The company’ s AGM will be held at Nomura, One Angel Lane, London 
EC4R 3AB at 1 1 .00a.m. on 29 January 2014. Details of the resolutions 
to be proposed at the AGM are set out in the separate circular which 
has been sent to all shareholders with this annual report.
Articles of association (Articles)
The company’s articles may only be amended by a special 
resolution at a general meeting of shareholders. No amendments 
to the articles are being proposed at the AGM.
Directors 
The following were directors of the company during the 52 weeks 
ended 29 September 2013: Gerald Corbett, Simon Litherland 
(appointed 13 February 2013), Paul Moody (resigned on 26 
February 2013), Joanne Averiss, John Gibney, Ben Gordon,  
Bob Ivell and Michael Shallow. 
Subject to company law and the company’s articles, the directors 
may exercise all of the powers of the company and may delegate 
their power and discretion to committees. The Executive Team is 
responsible for the day-to-day management of the group.
The articles give the directors power to appoint and replace 
directors. Under the terms of reference of the Nomination 
Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the 
Nomination Committee for approval by the board. The articles also 
require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the 
first annual general meeting following appointment and to retire at 
the AGM held in the third calendar year after election or last 
re-election, but to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
all of the directors will submit themselves for re-election at the 
AGM. The biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 
26 and 27 of this report. 
Directors’ interests 
The directors’ interests in ordinary shares of the company are 
shown within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 
54. No director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of 
any group company.
Other than Joanne Averiss, who is a director of a number of 
PepsiCo’s subsidiaries, no director was or is materially interested  
in any contract other than his service contract, subsisting during or 
existing at the end of the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013 
which was significant in relation to the group’s business. Further 
details of Joanne Averiss’ appointment are set out on pages 27  
and 30 in the Corporate Governance Report.
Directors’ liabilities
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which 
the company has agreed, to the extent permitted by law and the 
company’s articles, to indemnify:
•  The directors, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in 
connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and 
responsibilities as directors of the company or any of its 
subsidiaries; and 
•  Directors of companies which are corporate trustees of the 
group’s pension schemes against liability incurred in connection 
with those companies’ activities as trustees of such schemes. 57 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
directors’ report continued
Directors’ remuneration
The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the board, has adopted 
a policy that aims to attract and retain the directors needed to run 
the group effectively. This is contained within the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 54. 
Employee involvement 
The group uses a number of ways to engage employees on matters 
that impact them and the performance of the group. These include 
road shows at key sites by members of the Executive T eam, regular 
team meetings, the publication of a bi-monthly internal newsletter, 
“Britvic Life” , together with the “b.link+” intranet site providing 
easy access to the latest company information as well as company 
policies and vacancies. The company organises quarterly formal 
business performance updates for employees, which are cascaded 
by line managers. An Employee Involvement Forum was established 
in 2004 through which nominated representatives ensure that 
employees’ views are taken into account regarding issues that are 
likely to affect them. In addition, where the group has entered into 
a recognition agreement with a trade union, it fulfils its obligations 
to consult and negotiate accordingly. The group approaches these 
relationships from a partnership perspective. A robust employee 
opinion survey process is also in place to ensure that employees 
are given a voice in the organisation and that the group can take 
action based on employee feedback. This covers a variety of topics 
including leadership & line management, employee wellbeing, 
career development, training, communications and corporate 
responsibility commitments.
All eligible employees are able to participate in the Britvic Share 
Incentive Plan which gives them the opportunity to purchase 
ordinary shares in the company using money deducted from their 
pre-tax salary, and to receive matching shares from the company, 
up to a maximum of £50 per four week pay period.
Equal opportunities
The group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all 
employees without discrimination and applies fair and equitable 
employment policies which ensure entry into and progression 
within the group. Appointments are determined solely by 
application of job criteria and competency.
Disabled persons
Disabled persons, whether registered or not, are accorded equal 
opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their 
aptitudes and abilities. In addition to complying with legislative 
requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are 
fairly treated in respect of training and career development. For 
those employees who become disabled during the course of their 
employment, the group is supportive, whether through retraining 
or redeployment, so as to provide an opportunity for them to 
remain with the group, wherever reasonably practicable.
In the opinion of the directors, all employee policies are deemed to 
be effective and in accordance with their intended aims.
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
The table below sets out the quantities of GHG emissions in 
tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO
2
e) for the 52 weeks ended 
29 September 2013. The directors are making this disclosure for 
the first time, ahead of the new requirements for companies to 
disclose their GHG emissions in periods ending on or after 30 
September 2013.
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under 
the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) 
Regulations 2013. These sources fall within our consolidated 
financial statement. We do not have responsibility for any emission 
sources that are not included in our consolidated statement. 
Emissions outside of our responsibility, including shared office 
locations, have been omitted from our disclosure. We have used 
the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 
(revised edition) and emission factors from UK Government’s GHG 
Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
2012-2013 T onnes CO
2
e
Total CO
2
e emissions 68,036 
Emissions from:
Combustion of fuel & operation of 
facilities
23,418 
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 
purchased for our own use
44,617
Intensity measure: 
Emissions reported above normalised 
to per tonne of product output
0.03357 T onnes CO
2
e/
Tonnage produced
Notes:
1 .  Emissions relate to those generated by our manufacturing, office and 
distribution sites in GB, Ireland and France. 
2.  Transport emissions, which are considered to be ‘Scope 3’, have not been 
included because our distribution network is sub-contracted to a third party. 
3.  Emissions outside of our responsibility and under the control of a third party 
have also been excluded.
Supplier payment policy
It is the group’s policy to agree terms and conditions for its 
business transactions with all suppliers. Payment is made in 
accordance with these terms provided the supplier meets its 
obligations. The average number of days of payments outstanding 
for the group at 29 September 2013 was 46 (2012: 51).  
Charitable and political donations
During the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013, the group and its 
subsidiaries donated £0.7 million for charitable purposes (2012: 
£1 .6 million). This included cash and product donations directly to 
charitable organisations and other investment in support of 
community programmes including employee volunteering.
No political donations were made by the group and its subsidiaries 
(2012: Nil). 58 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
directors’ report continued
Major shareholders 
At 25 November 2013 the company has been notified, pursuant to 
DTR5 of the Financial Services Authority’s Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights in its 
ordinary share capital:
Number of
ordinary 
shares
Percentage 
of voting 
rights
Nature 
of holding
Standard Life Investments Ltd 20,073,633 8.24% Direct/
Indirect
Prudential plc 12,324,136 5.07% Direct
PepsiCo, Inc. 1 1,813,032 4.88% Direct
TIAA-CREF Investment 
Management, LLC 7 ,415,047 3.03% Direct
Share capital
As at 29 September 2013, the company’s issued share capital 
comprised a single class of shares divided into ordinary shares of 
£0.20 each (referred to as ordinary shares). Full details of the 
ordinary shares in issue are given in note 20 to the financial 
statements on page 90.
Rights and restrictions attaching to shares
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every 
holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote 
shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person 
or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every 
ordinary share held. Any notice of general meeting issued by the 
company will specify deadlines for exercising voting rights and in 
appointing a proxy of proxies in relation to resolutions to be passed 
at the general meeting. All proxy votes are counted and the 
numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are 
announced at the general meeting and published on the company’s 
website after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the 
company other than:
•  Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws 
and regulations (for example, insider trading laws).
•  Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority 
whereby certain employees of the company require the approval 
of the company to deal in its ordinary shares.
The company is not aware of any agreements between 
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
securities and/or voting rights.
Shares held in employee benefit trusts
Under the rules of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan (‘the Plan’) 
eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company. 
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan 
Trustees Limited (‘the Trustees’). Voting rights are exercised by the 
Trustees on receipt of participants’ instructions. If a participant 
does not submit an instruction to the T rustees no vote is registered. 
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held 
under the Plan as surplus assets. As at 25 November 2013, the 
Trustees held 0.07% (2012: 0.05%) of the issued share capital of 
the company.
Similarly, if IFG Trust (Jersey) Limited, as Trustee of the Britvic 
Employee Benefit T rust (‘the T rustee’), holds ordinary shares on trust 
for the benefit of the Executive Directors, senior executives and 
managers of the group, a dividend waiver is in place. The Trustee is 
not permitted to vote on any unvested shares held in the trust 
unless expressly directed to do so by the company. The Trustee did 
not hold any ordinary shares as at 25 November 2013 (2012:nil).
Change of control provisions
There are no agreements between the company and its directors 
or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or 
employment (whether through resignation, purported redundancy 
or otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover bid. The company’s 
banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of 
the company. Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if a 
change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the 
company. The company’s agreements with PepsiCo are terminable 
upon a change of control, details of which are included on page 20. 
Financial risk management
It is the group’s objective to manage its financial risk so as to 
minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on the 
group’s reported profitability and cash flows. The policies for 
managing each of the group’s main financial risk areas are referred 
to in the Treasury Management section of the Chief Financial 
Officer’s Review on page 16 and in more detail within Note 24 of 
the consolidated financial statements.
Research and development
The group carries out research and development necessary to support 
its principal activities as a manufacturer and distributor of soft drinks.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information 
to auditors
So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information (as defined by the Companies Act 2006) of which the 
auditors are unaware. Each director has taken all steps that ought 
to be taken by a director to make himself aware of and to establish 
that the auditors are aware of any relevant audit information.
A copy of the financial statements is placed on the company’ s website. 
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the 
directors. The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration 
of these matters and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility 
for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements 
since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
Going concern 
In presenting the financial statements on a going concern basis, the 
directors have considered both the business activities and principal 
risks and uncertainties as set out in the Business Overview and 
Business Review on pages 1 to 21 . In addition, the directors have 
considered the following factors: the group’s ability to generate cash 
flows, the financial resources available to it, headroom under bank 
covenants, and exposure to credit risk. Based on the group’s cash 
flow forecasts and projections, the board is satisfied that the group 
will be able to operate within the level of its facilities for the 
foreseeable future. For this reason the group continues to apply the 
going concern basis in preparing its financial statements. 
Auditors
Ernst & Y oung LLP have indicated their willingness to accept 
re-appointment as auditors of the company and a resolution 
proposing their re-appointment is contained in the Notice of  
AGM and will be put to the shareholders at the AGM. 
By order of the board
 
Clare Thomas 
Company Secretary
25 November 2013 59 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
governance
statement of directors’ 
responsibilities in relation  
to the financial statements
The directors have prepared the financial statements for the group 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRS”) as adopted by the European Union, and for the company 
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (“UK GAAP”).
In the case of UK GAAP financial statements, under English company 
law it is the directors’ responsibility to prepare financial statements 
for each financial period, which give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the company as at the end of the financial period and 
of the profit or loss of the company for that period. In preparing 
those financial statements, the directors are required to:
•  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
• Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable;
•  State whether applicable accounting standards have been 
followed; and
•  Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless 
it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in 
business.
In the case of IFRS financial statements, IAS1 requires that the 
financial statements present fairly for each financial period the 
group’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows.  
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, 
other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and 
recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set 
out in the International Accounting Standards Board’s ‘Framework 
for the preparation and presentation of financial statements’. In 
virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by 
compliance with all applicable IFRS. Directors are also required to:
• Properly select and apply accounting policies consistently;
•  Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; 
•  Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions 
on the group’s financial position and financial performance; and
• State that the group has complied with IFRS.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records 
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the group and to enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act and Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. They are also responsible for the system of internal 
controls, for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
Disclosure and transparency rules
The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: 
(a)   The Financial Statements, which are prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the European Commission, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation as 
a whole; and 
(b)   The Business Review includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face. 
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations. Having taken 
advice from the Audit and Risk Committee, the board considers 
the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, as 
fair, balanced and understandable to assess the company’s 
performance, business model and strategy.
Neither the company nor the directors accept any liability to any 
person in relation to the annual report and financial statements 
except to the extent that such liability could arise under English 
law. Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated 
reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission shall 
be determined in accordance with section 90A of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000. 60 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 63  Independent auditor’s report to the members of Britvic plc
65 Consolidated income statement
66 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
67 Consolidated balance sheet
68 Consolidated statement of cash flows
69 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
111 Independent auditor’s report to the members of Britvic plc
112 Company balance sheet
113 Notes to the company financial statements
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
61 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
financial
statements 62 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 We have audited the group financial statements of Britvic plc for 
the 52 week period ended 29 September 2013 which comprise the 
consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the 
consolidated statement of cash flows, the consolidated statement 
of changes in equity and the related notes. The financial reporting 
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union. 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state 
to the company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. T o the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the 
opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 59, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of 
the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and 
non-financial statements information in the Annual Report to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and 
to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect 
based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired 
by us in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of 
any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we 
consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements:
•  give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at  
29 September 2013 and of its profit for the 52 week period then 
ended:
•  have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union; and
•  have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement
We identified the following risks of material misstatement which 
had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy; the allocation 
of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the 
engagement team:
•  the assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite 
lived assets;
•  the accounting for the Group’s derivatives and hedging activities;
•  revenue recognition – in particular the treatment of long term 
discounts, promotional discounts and account development 
funds and the timing of revenue recognition;
• the accounting for the defined benefit pension scheme; and
• the risk of management override of internal control
Our application of materiality
Materiality is a key part of planning and executing our audit strategy. 
For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements 
are free from material misstatement, we define materiality as the 
magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the 
aggregate, in light of the surrounding circumstances, could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the 
users of the financial statements. As we develop our audit strategy, 
we determine materially at the overall financial statement level and 
at the individual account level. Performance materiality is the 
application of materiality at the individual account level.
Planning the audit solely to detect individually material 
misstatements overlooks the fact that the aggregate of individually 
immaterial misstatements may cause the financial statements to 
be materially misstated, and leaves no margin for possible 
undetected misstatements. Performance materiality is set to 
reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the 
aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds 
materiality for the financial statements as a whole. 
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a 
magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be 
material for the financial statements as a whole. We determined 
materiality for the group to be £5.2 million (2012: £5.1 million), 
which is approximately 5% (2012: 5%) of adjusted pre-tax profit. 
We used adjusted pre-tax profits to exclude those items classified 
as exceptional items within the financial statements. This provided 
the basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of our audit 
procedures, and identifying and assessing the risk of material 
misstatement. 
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our 
assessment of the group’s overall control environment, our 
judgement was that overall performance materiality (i.e. our 
tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance) for 
the group should be 75% (2012: 75%) of planning materiality, 
namely £3.9 million (2012: £3.8 million). Our objective in adopting 
this approach was to ensure that the total detected and 
undetected audit differences did not exceed our planning 
materiality of £5.2 million for the financial statements as a whole. 
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the 
Committee all audit differences in excess of £0.26 million (2012: 
£0.25 million), as well as differences below that threshold that, in 
our view warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
63 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
independent auditor’s  
report to the members of Britvic plc An overview of the scope of our audit
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the consolidated 
financial statements, our Group audit scope focused on three 
operating locations, of which one was subject to a full scope audit 
for the 52 week period ended 29 september 2013. The remaining 
two operating locations were subject to a specific scope audit, 
where the extent of the audit work was based on our assessment 
of the risk of material misstatement and the materiality of the 
Group’s business operations at those locations. The audit of these 
three locations was performed at a materiality level calculated by 
reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the 
relevant scale of the individual business unit. Together with the 
Group Functions, which were also subject to a full scope audit 
these locations represent the principal business units of the Group 
and account for 100% of the Group’s total assets, 100% of the 
Group’s revenue and 100% of the Group’s operating profit. 
The Senior Statutory Auditor also leads the audit at the full scope 
location and has visited one of the specific scope locations during 
the year. For all locations in scope in addition to the locations 
visited the group audit team remained in continuous contact with 
component teams and reviewed the work on key audit areas.
Our response to the risks of material misstatement identified 
above included the following procedures:
The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and 
indefinite lived assets
•  we challenged management’s assessment of impairment, 
including the key inputs of the forecast cash flows, the discount 
rate used, the growth rate assumed and the historical accuracy 
of budgets and we used a valuation specialist to assist us with 
our consideration of the discount rate used;
•  we evaluated management’s sensitivity analysis; and 
•  we ensured that the financial statement disclosures met the 
requirements of accounting standards.
The accounting for the Group’s derivatives and hedging 
activities
•  we obtained direct external confirmations of the valuation for 
each of the derivative instruments held and tested a sample of 
valuations to ensure they had been reasonably calculated;
•  we evaluated management’s documentation and assessment of 
hedge effectiveness; and
•  we ensured that the financial statement disclosures were in 
accordance with accounting standards.
Revenue recognition – including the treatment of long term 
discounts, promotional discounts and account development 
funds and the timing of revenue recognition
•  we tested a sample of long term discounts, promotional 
discounts and account development funds to ensure the revenue 
recognition policies adopted complied with IFRS;
•  we carried out testing relating to controls over revenue 
recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition;
•  we performed analytical procedures, cut-off testing on customer 
delivery notes around the period end and journal testing around 
revenue; and
•  we ensured that the financial statement disclosures were in 
accordance with accounting standards.
The accounting for the defined benefit pension
•  we reviewed and challenged the assumptions used in the 
pension liability valuations and we used a pensions specialist to 
assist us with this procedure;
•  we understood and challenged management’s input into the 
assumptions underpinning the liability;
•  we tested a sample of the pension asset valuations to ensure 
they had been reasonably calculated; and
•  we ensured that the financial statement disclosures were in 
accordance with accounting standards.
The risk management override of internal control
•  we performed tailored procedures, sufficient to address the 
identified risk in respect of subjective areas which were 
considered to be most susceptible to management override. 
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the group financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial 
statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion, information in the annual report is:
•  materially inconsistent with the information in the audited 
financial statements; or
•  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the 
course of performing our audit; or
• is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired 
during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the 
annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the 
annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we 
communicated to the audit committee which we consider should 
have been disclosed. 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•  certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•  the directors’ statement, set out on page 59, in relation to going 
concern; and
•  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the 
company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
•  certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on 
directors’ remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company financial 
statements of Britvic plc for the 52 weeks ended 29 September 
2013 and on the information in the Director’s Remuneration Report 
that is described as having been audited.
Simon O’Neill (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Y oung LLP ,  
Statutory Auditor Birmingham
25 November 2013
64 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
independent auditor’s  report to the members of Britvic plc continued 52 weeks 
ended 29 September 2013
52 weeks 
ended 30 September 2012
Note
Before 
exceptional & 
other items 
£m
Exceptional  
& other 
items* 
 £m
T otal 
 £m
Before 
exceptional & 
other items 
£m
Exceptional  
& other  
items* 
 £m
Total 
 £m
Revenue 1,321.9 - 1,321.9 1,256.4 - 1,256.4
Cost of sales (646.9) - (646.9) (624.6) - (624.6)
Gross profit 675.0 - 675.0 631 .8 - 631 .8
Selling and distribution costs (351.5) - (351.5) (353.3) - (353.3)
Administration expenses (188.5) (26.2) (214.7) (165.8) (4.8) (170.6)
Operating profit / (loss) 6 135.0 (26.2) 108.8 112.7 (4.8) 107 .9
Finance costs 9 (26.9) 0.7 (26.2) (28.3) (2.1) (30.4)
Profit / (loss) before tax 108.1 (25.5) 82.6 84.4 (6.9) 77 .5
Taxation 10 (25.5) 4.8 (20.7) (21 .5) 1.4 (20.1)
Profit / (loss) for the period 
attributable to the equity 
shareholders
82.6 (20.7) 61.9 62.9 (5.5) 57 .4
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share 11 25.5p 23.8p
Diluted earnings per share 11 25.3p 22.4p
Adjusted basic earnings per share** 11 35.2p 27 .2p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share** 11 34.9p 26.5p
* See note 5.
**  Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share measures have been adjusted by adding back exceptional & other items (see notes 5 and 11) and amortisation relating 
to acquired intangible assets (see note 14). 
All activities relate to continuing operations.
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
65 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
consolidated income statement
For the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013 Note
52 weeks ended 
 29 September 
2013
 £m
52 weeks ended 
30 September 
2012
 £m
Profit for the period attributable to the equity shareholders 61.9 57 .4
Other comprehensive income:
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes 22 (32.4) 9.2
Deferred tax on actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes 10 4.4 (7 .9)
Current tax on additional pension contributions 10 3.1 4.6
(24.9) 5.9
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss
Losses in the period in respect of cash flow hedges 25 (1.4) (17 .0)
Amounts recycled to the income statement in respect of cash flow hedges 25 0.1 9.5
Deferred tax in respect of cash flow hedges accounted for in the hedging reserve 10 0.4 2.1
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 25 - (3.9)
Tax on exchange differences accounted for in the translation reserve 10 (2.9) 4.0
Deferred tax on other temporary differences 10 0.2 -
(3.6) (5.3)
Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax (28.5) 0.6
T otal comprehensive income for the period attributable to the equity shareholders 33.4 58.0
66 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013 Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 13 215.7 236.6
Intangible assets 14 317 .0 305.2
Other receivables 16 3.8 3.6
Other financial assets 25 62.5 92.1
Pension asset 22 0.1 7.5
599.1 645.0
Current assets
Inventories 17 90.8 73.8
Trade and other receivables 18 266.1 257 .4
Other financial assets 25 12.8 0.1
Cash and cash equivalents 19 94.0 49.5
463.7 380.8
T otal assets 1,062.8 1,025.8
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 23 (381.5) (357 .2)
Bank overdrafts 19 (2.5) (1 .9)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 21 (91.6) (0.6)
Other financial liabilities 25 (1.4) (4.4)
Current income tax payable (17 .0) (7 .8)
Provisions 27 (10.5) -
(504.5) (371 .9)
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 21 (458.3) (558.7)
Deferred tax liabilities 10e (27 .8) (34.1)
Pension liability 22 (19.4) (11 .2)
Other financial liabilities 25 (10.0) (10.9)
Other non-current liabilities 26 (1.9) (1 .9)
(517 .4) (616.8)
T otal liabilities (1,021.9) (988.7)
Net assets 40.9 37 .1
Capital and reserves
Issued share capital 20 49.0 48.5
Share premium account 25.0 17.7
Own shares reserve (1.1) (0.8)
Share scheme reserve 7.5 4.2
Hedging reserve 2.7 3.6
Translation reserve 19.6 22.5
Merger reserve 87 .3 87 .3
Retained losses (149.1) (145.9)
T otal equity 40.9 37 .1
The financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on 25 November 2013. 
They were signed on its behalf by:
Simon Litherland John Gibney 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
67 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
consolidated balance sheet
As at 29 September 2013 Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax 82.6 77 .5
Finance costs 9 26.2 30.4
Other financial instruments (6.0) (1 .4)
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 13,14 12.9 14.9
Depreciation 13 36.6 34.4
Amortisation 14 7.1 9.5
Share based payments 28 6.2 3.0
Net pension charge less contributions (17 .2) (31 .1)
(Increase)/decrease in inventory (14.9) 10.9
Increase in trade and other receivables (4.7) (2.0)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 9.9 (2.8)
Increase in provisions 10.5 -
Loss on disposal of tangible and intangible assets 3.8 1.5
Income tax paid (11.2) (12.5)
Net cash flows from operating activities 141.8 132.3
Cash flows from investing activities
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.3 2.2
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (26.3) (43.9)
Purchases of intangible assets (8.9) (5.4)
Net cash flows used in investing activities (34.9) (47 .1)
Cash flows from financing activities
Finance costs - (0.1)
Interest paid (26.6) (28.5)
Interest bearing loans repaid (0.9) (1 .0)
Issue of shares 7.1 2.0
Purchase of own shares - (9.3)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders 12 (42.5) (42.5)
Net cash flows used in financing activities (62.9) (79.4)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 44.0 5.8
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 47 .6 43.0
Exchange rate differences 29 (0.1) (1 .2)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 19 91.5 47 .6
68 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
consolidated statement of cash flows
For the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013 Issued  
share  
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Own shares 
reserve
£m
Share 
scheme 
reserve
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
Translation 
reserve
£m
 Merger 
reserve
£m
Retained 
losses
£m
T otal
£m
At 2 October 2011 48.3 15.0 (1.0) 7.8 9.0 22.4 87 .3 (166.3) 22.5
Profit for the period - - - - - - - 57 .4 57 .4
Other comprehensive income - - - - (5.4) 0.1 - 5.9 0.6
- - - - (5.4) 0.1 - 63.3 58.0
Issue of shares 0.2 2.7 (2.4) - - - - - 0.5
Own shares purchased for 
share schemes
- - (9.3) - - - - - (9.3)
Own shares utilised for 
share schemes
- - 11.9 (5.6) - - - (2.0) 4.3
Movement in share based 
schemes
- - - 2.0 - - - - 2.0
Current tax on share based 
payments
- - - - - - - 0.6 0.6
Deferred tax on share based 
payments
- - - - - - - 1.0 1.0
Payment of dividend - - - - - - - (42.5) (42.5)
At 30 September 2012 48.5 17.7 (0.8) 4.2 3.6 22.5 87 .3 (145.9) 37 .1
Profit for the period - - - - - - - 61 .9 61.9
Other comprehensive 
income
- - - - (0.9) (2.9) - (24.7) (28.5)
- - - - (0.9) (2.9) - 37 .2 33.4
Issue of shares 0.5 7.3 (2.1) - - - - - 5.7
Own shares utilised for 
share schemes
- - 1.8 (1 .8) - - - 1.4 1.4
Movement in share based 
schemes
- - - 5.1 - - - - 5.1
Current tax on share based 
payments
- - - - - - - 1.0 1.0
Deferred tax on share based 
payments
- - - - - - - (0.3) (0.3)
Payment of dividend - - - - - - - (42.5) (42.5)
At 29 September 2013 49.0 25.0 (1.1) 7.5 2.7 19.6 87 .3 (149.1) 40.9
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
69 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
consolidated statement of changes in equity
For the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013 1. General information
Britvic plc (the “company”) is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006. It is a public limited 
company domiciled in England & Wales and its ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange. Britvic plc and its subsidiaries 
(together the “group”) operate in the soft drinks manufacturing and distribution industry, principally in the United Kingdom, Republic of 
Ireland and France.
The operating companies of the group are disclosed within note 31 .
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 25 November 2013.
2. Statement of compliance 
The financial information has been prepared on the basis of applicable International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union (IFRS), as they apply to the financial statements of the group. 
3. Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. For further detail, please refer to note 32.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except where measurement of balances at fair value 
is required as explained below. The consolidated financial statements of the group are presented in pounds sterling, which is also the 
functional currency of the company, and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements of the group incorporate the financial information of the company and the entities controlled by the 
company (its subsidiaries) in accordance with IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’. The financial statements of 
subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the company, using consistent accounting policies. All intra-group transactions, 
balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the 
year are included in the consolidated income statement from the date the group gains control or up to the date control ceases 
respectively. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its 
activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights; 
or by way of contractual agreement. 
Revenue recognition
Revenue is the value of sales, excluding transactions with or between subsidiaries, after the deduction of sales related discounts and 
rebates, value added tax and other sales related taxes. Revenue is recognised when goods are delivered and accepted by customers, 
when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount can be measured reliably.
Sales related discounts are calculated based on the expected amounts necessary to meet claims by the group’s customers in respect of 
these discounts and rebates.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. Cost comprises the 
aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to 
making the asset capable of operating as intended. Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of an asset, less its estimated 
residual value, on a straight-line basis, over the useful economic life of that asset as follows:
Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years
Vehicles (included in plant and machinery) 5 to 7 years
Equipment in retail outlets (included in fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment) 5 to 10 years
Other fixtures and fittings (included in fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment) 3 to 10 years
Land is not depreciated.
Freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years.
Leasehold properties are depreciated over 50 years, or over the unexpired lease term when this is less than 50 years.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from 
the continued use of the asset. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount, and are 
included in the consolidated income statement in the period of derecognition.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the 
carrying value may not be recoverable and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount. Useful lives and residual amounts 
are reviewed annually and where adjustments are required these are made prospectively.
70 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
notes to the consolidated financial statements notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
3. Accounting policies continued
Goodwill
While the original acquisition of Britannia Soft Drinks Limited was accounted for under the merger method, business combinations on or 
after 4 October 2004 have been accounted for under IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ using the acquisition method. On acquisition, the 
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess of the 
cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the cost of 
acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired (discount on acquisition) is credited to the consolidated income 
statement in the period of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is not amortised.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value 
may be impaired. As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the group of cash-generating units expected to benefit 
from the combination’s synergies by management. Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the group of 
cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than the carrying 
amount, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement. 
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Intangible assets
Trademarks, franchise rights and customer lists
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at the fair value of consideration paid. Following initial 
recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation or impairment losses. An intangible asset acquired as 
part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill, at fair value at the date of acquisition, if the asset is separable or arises 
from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite. Amortisation is charged on assets with finite lives on a 
straight-line basis over a period appropriate to the asset’s useful life.
The carrying values of intangible assets with finite and indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in 
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are also tested for impairment annually either individually or, if the intangible asset does not 
generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, as part of the cash generating unit to 
which it belongs. Such intangibles are not amortised. The useful life of an intangible asset with an indefinite life is reviewed annually to 
determine whether indefinite life assessment continues to be supportable. If not, the change in the useful life assessment from indefinite 
to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Software Costs
Software expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after its technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated. 
Acquired computer software licences and software developed in-house are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and 
bring to use the specific software. Costs include resources focussed on delivery of capital projects where the choice has been made to 
use internal resource rather than external resources. These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives of three to seven years 
on a straight line basis.
Impairment of assets
The group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, or 
when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the group makes an estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s 
recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, 
unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the 
carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable 
amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that 
reflects senior management’s estimate of the cost of capital. Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the 
consolidated income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no 
longer exist or may have decreased. If such an indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised 
impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the 
last impairment loss was recognised. If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That 
increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss 
been recognised for the asset in prior years. Goodwill impairment losses cannot subsequently be reversed.
Inventories and work in progress
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour 
costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing inventories to their present location and condition. Cost is determined 
using the weighted average cost method. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of 
completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
71 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
3. Accounting policies continued
Financial assets 
The group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. When financial assets are recognised initially, they are 
measured at fair value, which is normally the transaction price, plus directly attributable transaction costs for those financial assets not 
subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss. The group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial asset or group 
of financial assets is impaired.
Loans and receivables
The group has financial assets that are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with 
fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as 
either fair value through profit or loss or available for sale. Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if 
the time value of money is significant. Gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement when loans and 
receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
The group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated 
with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. All derivative financial instruments are initially recognised and subsequently 
remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar 
maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is appropriate, the hedging relationship is documented at its 
inception. This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and 
how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration. Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the 
consolidated income statement. The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments 
depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows:
Cash flow hedges
Hedges are classified as cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk 
associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction. For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the 
gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the 
consolidated income statement. Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the consolidated 
income statement in the period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale occurs. However, when the 
forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income are included in the initial carrying amount of the asset or liability.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to 
the consolidated income statement. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, 
or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income remain in equity until the 
forecast transaction occurs and are then transferred to the consolidated income statement or included in the initial carrying amount of a 
non-financial asset or liability as above. 
Net investment hedges
Financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the group’s net investment in foreign operations. Some 
of the group’s foreign currency borrowings qualify as hedging instruments that hedge foreign currency net investment balances. The 
effective portion of gains or losses on translation of borrowings designated as net investment hedges is recognised in other 
comprehensive income. Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement. Upon disposal of the 
associated investment in foreign operations any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recycled 
through the consolidated income statement.
Fair value hedges
Hedges of the change in fair value of recognised assets or liabilities are classified as fair value hedges. For fair value hedges, the gain or 
loss on the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in the consolidated income statement. The gain or loss on the hedged item 
attributable to the hedged risk adjusts the carrying amount of the hedged item and is also recognised in the consolidated income 
statement. If the hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the hedged item would no longer be adjusted and 
the cumulative adjustment to its carrying amount would be amortised to the consolidated income statement based on a recalculated 
effective interest rate. The fair value gain on loss on the hedging instrument would continue to be recorded in the consolidated income 
statement.
Derecognition of financial instruments
The derecognition of a financial asset takes place when the contractual rights to the cash flows expire, or when the contractual rights to 
the cash flows have either been transferred or an obligation has been assumed to pass them through to a third party and the group does 
not retain substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset.
Financial liabilities are only derecognised when they are extinguished, that is, when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
72 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
3. Accounting policies continued
Share-based payments
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted. 
Fair value is determined by an external valuer using an appropriate pricing model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is 
taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares (‘market conditions’).
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the 
performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award (‘vesting 
date’). The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent 
to which the vesting period has expired and the number of equity instruments that, in the opinion of the directors and based on the best 
available estimate at that date, will ultimately vest (or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as 
described below). The consolidated income statement charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense 
recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, 
which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance 
conditions are satisfied.
T axation
The current income tax expense is based on taxable profits for the period, after any adjustments in respect of prior periods. It is 
calculated using taxation rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and is measured at the amount expected to 
be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken for deferred tax assets, on all material temporary differences between the tax 
base of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements.
The principal temporary differences arise from accelerated capital allowances, provisions for pensions and other post-retirement benefits, 
provisions for share-based payments and unutilised losses incurred in overseas jurisdiction.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled based on 
the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when: the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an 
outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognised for 
future operating losses.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due 
to passage of time is recognised as interest expense.
Pensions and post retirement benefits
The group operates a number of pension schemes. These include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
Defined benefit plans
The defined benefit pension liability or asset in the balance sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be 
settled directly. Plan assets are measured at fair value based on market price information and in the case of quoted securities, the 
published bid price. Plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method and discounted at an 
interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The movement in the defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet consists of four main elements:
-  The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees for the period which is recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
-  A charge representing the unwinding of the discount on the plan liabilities during the year which is included within administrative 
expenses.
-  A credit representing the expected return on the plan assets during the year which is included within administrative expenses. This 
credit is based on the market value of the plan assets, and expected rates of return, at the beginning of the period.
-  Actuarial gains and losses. These may result from: differences between the expected return and the actual return on plan assets; 
differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan liabilities and actual experience during the year; or changes in the 
actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the plan liabilities. Actuarial gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised 
immediately in other comprehensive income.
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
73 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
3. Accounting policies continued
Changes to benefits under a defined benefit plan are accounted for as follows:
-  Past service cost is the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for employee service in prior periods, resulting 
from changes to post-employment benefits. Past service costs are recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the vesting 
period or immediately if the benefits have vested.
-  When a settlement (eliminating all obligations for part or all of the benefits already accrued) or a curtailment (reducing future obligations 
as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement) occurs the obligation and related plan 
assets are re-measured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated income 
statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
Any net pension assets arising are assessed for restrictions.
Defined contribution plans
Under defined contribution plans, contributions payable for the period are charged to the consolidated income statement as an operating 
expense.
Employee benefits
Wages, salaries, bonuses and paid annual leave are accrued in the period in which the associated services are rendered by the employees 
of the group.
Leases
Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are retained by the lessor are classified as 
operating leases by the group. Leases in which the group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as 
finance leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Any lease 
incentives received are credited to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases to which they 
relate.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with 
original maturities of three months or less, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of 
changes in value. For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, bank overdrafts repayable on demand are a component of cash and 
cash equivalents.
T rade and other receivables
Trade receivables, which generally have 30-90 day terms, are recognised at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable 
amount.
Provision is made when collection of the full amount is no longer considered probable. Balances are written off when the probability of 
recovery is assessed as being remote. 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs 
and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance 
income and finance cost.
Foreign currencies
Functional and presentation currency
The consolidated financial statements of the group are presented in pounds sterling. The presentation currency of the consolidated 
financial statements is the same as the functional currency of the company.
Transactions and balances
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the 
consolidated income statement, except when hedge accounting is applied and for differences in monetary assets and liabilities that form 
part of the group’s net investment in a foreign operation. These are taken in other comprehensive income until the disposal of the net 
investment, at which time they are recognised in profit and loss.
Foreign operations
The consolidated income statement and statement of cash flows of foreign operations are translated at the average rate of exchange 
during the period. The balance sheet is translated at the rate ruling at the reporting date. Exchange differences arising on opening net 
assets and arising on the translation of results at an average rate compared to a closing rate are both recognised in other comprehensive 
income. On disposal of a foreign operation, the accumulated exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income 
are included in the consolidated income statement. 
Certain of the group’s financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the group’s net investment in 
foreign operations. See derivative financial instruments and hedging policy above for further detail.
Segmental reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The 
chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has 
been identified as the board of directors of the company.
74 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
3. Accounting policies continued
Issued share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the 
proceeds.
Other reserves
Share premium account
The share premium account is used to record the excess of proceeds over the nominal value on the issue of shares.
Own shares reserve
The own shares reserve is used to record purchases by the group of its own shares, which will be distributed to employees as and when 
share awards made under the Britvic employee share plans vest.
Share scheme reserve
The share scheme reserve is used to record the movements in equity corresponding to the cost recognised in respect of equity-settled 
share based payment transactions. Amounts recognised in the share scheme reserve are transferred to retained losses upon subsequent 
settlement of any awards that vest either by issue or purchase of the group’s shares, or when awards lapse.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve records the effective portion of movements in the fair value of forward exchange contracts, interest rate and cross 
currency swaps that have been designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve includes cumulative net exchange differences on translation into the presentational currency of items recorded in 
group entities with a non-sterling functional currency net of amounts recognised in respect of net investment hedges.
Merger reserve
The merger reserve arose as a result of the non pre-emptive share placement which took place on 21 May 2010. It was executed using a 
structure which created a merger reserve under Section 612-3 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Own shares
The cost of own shares held in employee share trusts and in treasury is deducted from shareholders’ equity until the shares are 
cancelled, reissued or disposed. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, the fair value of any consideration received is also 
included in shareholders’ equity.
Exceptional and other items
The group presents items as exceptional and other items on the face of the consolidated income statement to allow shareholders to 
understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess trends 
in financial performance more readily. 
•  ‘Exceptional’ items include those significant items of income and expense which, because of the size, nature and infrequency of the 
events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation.
•  ‘Other’ items include fair value movements on financial instruments where hedge accounting cannot be applied. These items have 
been included within ‘exceptional and other items’ because they are non-cash and do not form part of how management assesses 
performance.
Key judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts 
reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year. 
However, the nature of estimation means that the actual outcomes could differ from those estimates. In the process of applying the 
group’s accounting policies, management has made the following judgements which have the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognised in the financial statements.
Post retirement benefits
The determination of the pension and other post retirement benefits cost and obligation is based on assumptions determined with 
independent actuarial advice. The assumptions include discount rate, inflation, pension and salary increases, expected return on scheme 
assets, mortality and other demographic assumptions. These key assumptions are disclosed in note 22.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives
Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the 
cash generating units to which the goodwill / intangible asset has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires an estimate of the 
future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. Further 
details are given in note 15.
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
75 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
3. Accounting policies continued
Cross currency interest rate swaps
The group measures cross currency interest rate swaps at fair value at each balance sheet date. The fair value represents the net present 
value of the difference between the projected cash flows at the swap contract rate and the relevant exchange/interest rate for the period 
from the balance sheet date to the contracted expiry date. The calculation therefore uses estimates of present value, future foreign 
exchange rates and interest rates. Information regarding cross currency interest rate swaps is provided in notes 21 and 25.
New standards adopted in the current period
During the period, the group adopted a number of interpretations and amendments to standards which had an immaterial impact on the 
consolidated financial statements of the group.
New standards and interpretations not applied
The group has not applied the following IFRSs, which may be applicable to the group, that have been issued but are not yet effective:
Effective date – periods 
commencing on or after
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
IFRS 7 Amendment to IFRS 7 – Offsetting of assets and liabilities 1 January 2013
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – Classification and measurement 1 January 2015
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements 1 January 2013
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements 1 January 2013
IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities 1 January 2013
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement 1 January 2013
International Accounting Standards (IAS)
IAS 19 IAS 19 (revised 2011) - Employee benefits 1 January 2013
IAS 27 IAS 27 (revised 2011) – Separate financial statements 1 January 2013
IAS 32 Amendment to IAS 32 – Offsetting of assets and liabilities 1 January 2014
IAS 36 Amendment to IAS 36 – Recoverable amount disclosures 
for non- financial assets
1 January 2014
IAS 39 Amendment to IFRS 9 – Novation of derivatives 
and continuation of hedge accounting
1 January 2014
Other
Annual improvements Annual improvements 2011 1 January 2013
IFRIC Interpretation 21 IFRIC 21 - Levies 1 January 2014
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards, which will be adopted in line with the effective date will have a 
material impact on the group’s reported income or net assets in the period, with the exception of IAS 19 revised which is not anticipated 
to have a material impact on net assets, but the impact on the reported income of the group is not possible to determine as it will depend 
on conditions at the time of adoption. 
The most significant change for Britvic under IAS 19 revised is the replacement of interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a 
finance cost component which is determined by applying the same discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation to the 
net defined benefit liability or asset. The difference between the actual return on plan assets and the discount rate will be presented in 
other comprehensive income. The effect at the date of adoption will depend on market interest rates, rates of return and the actual mix of 
scheme assets at that time. Other changes will include the treatment of expenses paid in relation to the plans and the narrative 
disclosures. The directors consider that this change will not have a material impact on the group consolidated results. 
76 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
4. Segmental reporting
For management purposes, the group is organised into business units and has five reportable segments as follows:
• GB Stills – United Kingdom excluding Northern Ireland
• GB Carbs – United Kingdom excluding Northern Ireland
• Ireland – Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland
• France
• International
These business units sell soft drinks into their respective markets.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource 
allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on brand contribution. This is defined as revenue less 
material costs and all other marginal costs that management considers to be directly attributable to the sale of a given product. Such 
costs include brand specific advertising and promotion costs, raw materials and marginal production and distribution costs. However, 
group financing (including finance costs) and income taxes are managed on a group basis and are not allocated to reportable segments.
Transfer prices between reportable segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
52 weeks ended
29 September 2013
GB Stills
£m
GB Carbs
£m
T otal GB
£m
Ireland
£m
France
£m
International
£m
Adjustments
£m
T otal
£m
Revenue
- External 340.1 536.4 876.5 136.9 271 .0 37 .5 - 1,321.9
- Inter-segment*** 22.9 8.3 31.2 18.0 1.4 - (50.6) -
363.0 544.7 907 .7 154.9 272.4 37 .5 (50.6) 1,321.9
Brand contribution 154.5 200.1 354.6 49.0 67 .9 14.1 - 485.6
Non-brand advertising 
& promotion*
(7 .3)
Fixed supply chain** (100.7)
Selling costs** (124.5)
Overheads and other 
costs*
(118.1)
Operating profit before 
exceptional & other 
items
135.0
Finance costs before 
exceptional & other items
(26.9)
Exceptional & other items (25.5)
Profit before tax 82.6
52 weeks ended 30 
September 2012
GB Stills
£m
GB Carbs
£m
T otal GB
£m
Ireland
£m
France
£m
International
£m
Adjustments
£m
T otal
£m
Revenue
- External 321 .7 517 .9 839.6 138.7 248.8 29.3 - 1,256.4
- Inter-segment*** 15.0 9.6 24.6 8.0 0.8 - (33.4) -
336.7 527 .5 864.2 146.7 249.6 29.3 (33.4) 1,256.4
Brand contribution 141.2 188.7 329.9 44.6 59.2 8.3 - 442.0
Non-brand advertising & 
promotion*
(7 .8)
Fixed supply chain** (100.3)
Selling costs** (118.0)
Overheads and other 
costs*
(103.2)
Operating profit before 
exceptional & other 
items
112.7
Finance costs before 
exceptional & other items
(28.3)
Exceptional & other 
items
(6.9)
Profit before tax 77 .5
*  Included within ‘administration expenses’ in the consolidated income statement. Costs included within ‘overheads and other costs’ relate to central costs including 
salaries, IT maintenance, depreciation and amortisation.
** Included within ‘selling and distribution costs’ in the consolidated income statement.
*** Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
77 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
4. Segmental reporting continued
Geographic information
Revenues from external customers
The analysis below is based on the location where the sale originated.
2013
£m
2012
£m
United Kingdom 940.3 900.4
Republic of Ireland 110.6 107 .2
France 271 .0 248.8
T otal revenue 1,321.9 1,256.4
Non-current assets
2013
£m
2012
£m
United Kingdom 236.7 260.1
Republic of Ireland 107 .8 104.8
France 192.0 181 .3
T otal 536.5 546.2
Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and other receivables.
5. Exceptional and other items
Exceptional and other items are those items of financial performance that management believe should be separately disclosed by virtue 
of the size, nature and infrequency of the events giving rise to them to allow shareholders to better understand the elements of financial 
performance in the period so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess trends in financial performance more readily.
Unless otherwise stated, exceptional and other items are included within administration expenses in the consolidated income statement.
52 weeks ended 
29 September 2013
£m
52 weeks ended 
30 September 2012
£m
Net pension gain (a) - 21 .1
Asset impairments (b) (12.9) (14.9)
Strategic restructuring costs (c) (10.6) (11 .0)
Aborted merger costs (d) (9.6) -
Property and relocation costs (e) - (1 .3)
Other fair value movements* (f) 7.6 (0.8)
T otal exceptional and other items before tax (25.5) (6.9)
*   For the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013, a gain of £6.9m is included within administration expenses (52 weeks ended 30 September 2012: £1 .3m gain) and a 
gain of £0.7m is included within finance costs (52 weeks ended 30 September 2012: £2.1m loss) in the consolidated income statement.
a)  In 2012, the net pension gain related to an Ireland pension curtailment gain.
b)   In 2013, asset impairments relates to the planned closure of two factories as part of the strategic cost initiatives announced in May 
2013.
  In 2012, asset impairments related to the impairment of SAP implementation costs in Ireland.
c)   Strategic restructuring costs in 2013 relate to the implementation of cost initiatives announced in May 2013, including costs associated 
with the closure of two factories and planned changes to the business operating model.
   In 2012, restructuring costs included GB-related restructuring costs of £3.7m, Ireland restructuring costs of £5.2m and corporate 
acquisition due diligence costs of £2.1m.
d)  In 2013, costs related to the previously proposed merger of Britvic plc and A.G.Barr plc.
e)   In 2012, property and relocation costs related to the transfer of the Britvic plc head office from Chelmsford to Hemel Hempstead and 
a credit against an onerous lease provision relating to rental income received from a sublet during that year.
f)   Other fair value movements relate to the fair value movement of derivative financial instruments where hedge accounting cannot be 
applied.
Details of the tax implications of exceptional items are given in note 10a.
78 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
6. Operating profit/(loss)
This is stated after charging:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 646.9 624.6
Including: write-down of inventories to net realisable value 1.5 3.6
Research and development expenditure written off 0.6 0.6
Net foreign currency exchange differences 1.1 2.4
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 36.6 34.4
Amortisation of intangible assets 7.1 9.5
Operating lease payments – minimum lease payments 13.1 21 .4
7. Auditor’s remuneration
2013
£m
2012
£m
Audit of the group financial statements 0.2 0.2
Audit of subsidiaries 0.4 0.4
Total audit 0.6 0.6
Audit related assurance services - -
Other assurance services 0.1 -
All taxation advisory services - 0.2
Corporate finance services (excluding amounts included above in tax advisory and other assurance 
services)
0.7 1.2
Other non-audit services not covered above 1.6 1.3
Total non-audit services 2.4 2.7
Total fees 3.0 3.3
8. Staff costs 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Wages and salaries* 119.4 125.4
Social security costs 20.3 19.0
Net pension charge/(income) (note 22)** 8.7 (7 .3)
Expense of share based compensation (note 28) 6.2 3.0
154.6 140.1
* £6.7m (2012: £6.4m) of this is included within ‘strategic restructuring costs’ in exceptional and other items (note 5).
**   In 2012, the pension income includes a curtailment gain of £21 .3m in relation to changes in the Ireland defined benefit pension plan which is included within 
exceptional and other items (note 5).
2013
£m
2012
£m
Directors’ emoluments 2.7 1.5
Aggregate gains made by directors on exercise of options - 0.7
2013
No.
2012
No.
Number of directors accruing benefits under defined benefit schemes - -
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
79 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
8. Staff costs continued
The average monthly number of employees during the period was made up as follows:
2013
No.
2012
No.
Distribution 331 370
Production 1,508 1,465
Sales and marketing 979 1,038
Administration 458 464
3,276 3,337
9. Finance costs
2013
£m
2012
£m
Bank loans, overdrafts and loan notes 26.9 28.3
Fair value movement on interest rate swap (see note 25) (0.7) 2.1
Total finance costs 26.2 30.4
10. T axation
a) T ax on profit on continuing operations
2013
Before 
exceptional
& other items
£m
Exceptional
& other items
£m
T otal
£m
Income statement
Current income tax
 Current income tax (charge) / credit (26.9) 3.3 (23.6)
 Amounts over/(under) provided in previous years 1.2 (1.1) 0.1
Total current income tax (charge) / credit (25.7) 2.2 (23.5)
Deferred income tax
 Origination and reversal of temporary differences (0.5) 1.4 0.9
 Impact of change in UK tax rate on deferred tax liability 3.0 0.2 3.2
 Amounts (under)/over provided in previous years (2.3) 1.0 (1.3)
Total deferred tax credit 0.2 2.6 2.8
Total tax (charge) / credit in the income statement (25.5) 4.8 (20.7)
Statement of comprehensive income
Current tax on additional pension contributions 3.1
Deferred tax on actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 4.4
Deferred tax in respect of cash flow hedges accounted for in the hedging reserve 0.4
Tax on exchange differences accounted for in the translation reserve (2.9)
Deferred tax on other temporary differences 0.2
Total tax credit in the statement of comprehensive income 5.2
Statement of changes in equity
Current tax on share options exercised 1.0
Deferred tax on share options granted to employees (0.3)
Total tax credit in the statement of changes in equity 0.7
80 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
1 0. T axation continued
a) T ax on profit on continuing operations continued
2012
Before 
exceptional
& other items
£m
Exceptional
& other items
£m
Total
£m
Income statement
Current income tax
 Current income tax (charge) / credit (13.0) 3.2 (9.8)
 Amounts underprovided in previous years (2.1) (0.3) (2.4)
Total current income tax (charge) / credit (15.1) 2.9 (12.2)
Deferred income tax
 Origination and reversal of temporary differences (8.8) (1 .7) (10.5)
 Impact of change in UK tax rate on deferred tax liability 2.0 0.2 2.2
 Amounts overprovided in previous years 0.4 - 0.4
Total deferred tax charge (6.4) (1 .5) (7 .9)
Total tax (charge) / credit in the income statement (21 .5) 1.4 (20.1)
Statement of comprehensive income
Current tax on additional pension contributions 4.6
Deferred tax on actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes (7 .9)
Deferred tax in respect of cash flow hedges accounted for in the hedging reserve 2.1
Tax on exchange differences accounted for in the translation reserve 4.0
Total tax credit in the statement of comprehensive income 2.8
Statement of changes in equity
Current tax on share options exercised 0.6
Deferred tax on share options granted to employees 1.0
Total tax credit in the statement of changes in equity 1.6
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
81 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
1 0. T axation continued
b) Reconciliation of the total tax charge
The tax expense in the consolidated income statement is higher (2012: higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 
23.5% (2012: 25%). The differences are reconciled below:
2013
Before 
exceptional
 & other items
£m
Exceptional & 
other items
£m
T otal
£m
Profit / (loss) before tax 108.1 (25.5) 82.6
Profit / (loss) multiplied by the UK average rate of corporation tax of 23.5% (25.4) 6.0 (19.4)
Permanent differences 0.4 (0.6) (0.2)
Impact of change in UK tax rate on deferred tax liability 3.0 0.2 3.2
Tax underprovided in previous years (1.1) (0.1) (1.2)
Overseas tax rates (2.4) (0.7) (3.1)
(25.5) 4.8 (20.7)
Effective income tax rate 23.6% 25.0%
2012
Before 
exceptional
 & other items
£m
Exceptional & 
other items
£m
Total
£m
Profit / (loss) before tax 84.4 (6.9) 77 .5
Profit / (loss) multiplied by the UK average rate of corporation tax of 25% (21 .1) 1.7 (19.4)
Permanent differences 1.2 (0.6) 0.6
Impact of change in UK tax rate on deferred tax liability 2.0 0.2 2.2
Tax underprovided in previous years (1 .7) (0.3) (2.0)
Overseas tax rates (1 .9) 0.4 (1 .5)
(21 .5) 1.4 (20.1)
Effective income tax rate 25.5% 25.9%
c)  Unrecognised tax items
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised total 
£5.6m (2012: £3.8m). No deferred tax has been provided in respect of these differences, since the timing of the reversals can be 
controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the future.
The group expects that future remittances of earnings from its overseas subsidiaries will be covered by the UK dividend exemption and 
so the un-remitted earnings of these subsidiaries are not disclosed above.
A deferred tax asset of £0.4m (2012: £nil) has not been recognised in respect of tax losses.
d) Impact of rate change
Finance Act 2013 enacted reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and to 20% from 1 April 2015. 
The effect of the new rate is to reduce the deferred tax provision by a net £2.1m, comprising a credit of £3.2m to the income statement 
and a charge of £1 .1m to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
82 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
1 0. T axation continued
e) Deferred tax
The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Deferred tax liability
 Accelerated capital allowances (6.8) (9.8)
 Acquisition fair value adjustments (17 .6) (17 .8)
 Other temporary differences (0.1) (0.1)
 Post employment benefits (13.5) (19.5)
Deferred tax liability (38.0) (47 .2)
Deferred tax asset
 Employee incentive plan 3.7 3.6
 Unutilised losses incurred in overseas jurisdictions 5.1 4.4
 Other temporary differences 1.4 5.1
Deferred tax asset 10.2 13.1
Net deferred tax liability (27 .8) (34.1)
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for 
financial reporting purposes:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Net deferred tax assets - -
Net deferred tax liabilities (27 .8) (34.1)
(27 .8) (34.1)
The deferred tax included in the consolidated income statement is as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Employee incentive plan 0.4 (1 .1)
Accelerated capital allowances 3.0 7.8
Post employment benefits 1.5 (19.0)
Acquisition fair value adjustments 1.3 0.9
Unutilised losses incurred in overseas jurisdictions 0.7 3.1
Other temporary differences (4.1) 0.4
Deferred tax credit/(charge) 2.8 (7 .9)
In 2013, £2.6m credit of the group’s overall deferred tax credit relates to exceptional items (2012: £1 .5m charge).
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
83 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
11. Earnings per share 
Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit / (loss) for the period attributable to the equity shareholders of 
the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to the ordinary equity shareholders of the parent 
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The following table reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Basic earnings per share 
Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders 61.9 57 .4
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic earnings per share 243.2 241 .6
Basic earnings per share 25.5p 23.8p
Diluted earnings per share 
Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders 61.9 57 .4
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for diluted earnings per share 244.7 256.6
Diluted earnings per share 25.3p 22.4p
The group presents as exceptional and other items on the face of the consolidated income statement, those significant items of income 
and expense which, because of the size, nature and infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow 
shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the period, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods 
and to assess trends in financial performance more readily.
To this end, basic and diluted earnings per share are also presented on this basis with the amortisation of acquisition related intangible 
assets also added back using the weighted average number of ordinary shares for both basic and diluted amounts as per the table below.
The group modifies adjusted diluted earnings per share to exclude the impact of share options that have been granted but not yet vested, 
if applicable.
Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Adjusted basic earnings per share 
Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders 61.9 57 .4
Add: Net impact of exceptional and other items 20.7 5.5
Add: Intangible assets amortisation (acquisition related) 14 2.9 2.9
85.5 65.8
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic earnings per share 243.2 241 .6
Adjusted basic earnings per share 35.2p 27 .2p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 
Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders before exceptional items and 
other items and acquisition related intangible assets amortisation
85.5 65.8
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for diluted earnings per share 244.7 248.8
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 34.9p 26.5p
84 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
12. Dividends paid and proposed
2013
£m
2012
£m
Declared and paid during the period
Equity dividends on ordinary shares
 Final dividend for 2012: 12.4p per share (2011: 12.6p per share) 29.6 29.9
 Interim dividend for 2013: 5.4p per share (2012: 5.3p per share) 12.9 12.6
Dividends paid 42.5 42.5
Proposed 
 Final dividend for 2013: 13.0p per share (2012: 12.4p per share) 31.7 30.1
13. Property, plant and equipment
Freehold  
land and 
buildings
£m
Leasehold  
land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
machinery
£m
Fixtures, 
fittings,
 tools and 
equipment
£m
T otal
£m
At 2 October 2011, net of accumulated depreciation 
and impairment 59.9 28.7 105.1 50.1 243.8
Exchange differences (1 .4) (0.6) (2.9) (0.1) (5.0)
Additions 3.5 0.4 20.2 15.5 39.6
Disposals at cost (0.9) - (12.1) (7 .5) (20.5)
Depreciation eliminated on disposals 0.1 - 11.0 6.3 17.4
Depreciation charge for the year (2.1) (0.7) (19.6) (12.0) (34.4)
Impairment - - - (4.3) (4.3)
At 30 September 2012, net of accumulated 
depreciation and impairment 59.1 27 .8 101.7 48.0 236.6
Exchange differences 1.0 0.4 1.8 - 3.2
Additions 3.8 2.5 15.2 6.3 27 .8
Disposals at cost (0.1) - (3.5) (12.4) (16.0)
Depreciation eliminated on disposals 0.1 - 1.9 9.9 11.9
Depreciation charge for the year (2.4) (0.9) (20.3) (13.0) (36.6)
Impairment * - (0.8) (10.4) - (11 .2)
At 29 September 2013 net of accumulated 
depreciation and impairment 61.5 29.0 86.4 38.8 215.7
At 29 September 2013
Cost (gross carrying amount) 83.9 43.1 272.9 162.6 562.5
Accumulated depreciation and impairment (22.4) (14.1) (186.5) (123.8) (346.8)
Net carrying amount 61.5 29.0 86.4 38.8 215.7
At 30 September 2012
Cost (gross carrying amount) 77 .9 39.9 255.1 166.6 539.5
Accumulated depreciation and impairment (18.8) (12.1) (153.4) (118.6) (302.9)
Net carrying amount 59.1 27 .8 101 .7 48.0 236.6
*  The impairment in 2013 principally relates to the write down of plant and machinery following the strategic cost initiative announcement in May 2013, and has been 
included within exceptional and other items (see note 5).
Finance leases
The net book value of freehold land and buildings and plant and machinery includes £0.2m and £0.1m respectively (2012: £0.2m and 
£0.3m respectively) in respect of assets held under finance leases. The assets are pledged as security for the finance lease liabilities.
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
85 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
14. Intangible assets
T rademarks
£m 
Franchise 
rights
£m
Customer  
lists
£m
Software  
costs
£m
Goodwill
£m
T otal
£m
Cost as at 2 October 2011, net of 
accumulated amortisation 99.9 22.6 40.3 32.3 142.8 337 .9
Exchange differences (7 .4) (1 .6) (2.9) (0.2) (5.9) (18.0)
Additions - - - 5.4 - 5.4
Amortisation charge for the period - (0.7)* (2.2)* (6.6) - (9.5)
Impairment - - - (10.6) - (10.6)
Cost as at 30 September 2012, net of 
accumulated amortisation 92.5 20.3 35.2 20.3 136.9 305.2
Exchange differences 5.0 1.0 1.8 - 3.9 11.7
Additions - - - 8.9 - 8.9
Amortisation charge for the period - (0.7)* (2.2)* (4.2) - (7 .1)
Impairment** - - - - (1 .7) (1 .7)
At 29 September 2013 97 .5 20.6 34.8 25.0 139.1 317 .0
At 29 September 2013
Cost (gross carrying amount) 126.6 24.8 49.7 65.5 205.6 472.2
Accumulated amortisation and 
impairment (29.1) (4.2) (14.9) (40.5) (66.5) (155.2)
Net carrying amount 97 .5 20.6 34.8 25.0 139.1 317 .0
At 30 September 2012
Cost (gross carrying amount) 120.1 23.6 47 .2 56.0 198.9 445.8
Accumulated amortisation and 
impairment (27 .6) (3.3) (12.0) (35.7) (62.0) (140.6)
Net carrying amount 92.5 20.3 35.2 20.3 136.9 305.2
* Acquisition related amortisation (see note 11).
** The impairment in 2013 relates to the write down of goodwill relating to the Water business following the strategic cost initiative announcement in May 2013, and 
has been included within exceptional and other items (see note 5).
T rademarks
Britvic Ireland and Britvic France
Trademarks represent those trade names acquired which the group plans to maintain. All trademarks have been allocated an indefinite life 
by management. A list of the trademarks held in respect of the Britvic Ireland and Britvic France segments is shown in note 15.
It is expected, and in line with existing well-established trademarks within the group, that the trademarks with indefinite lives in respect 
of Britvic France and Britvic Ireland will be held and supported for an indefinite period of time and are expected to generate economic 
benefits. The group is committed to supporting its trademarks and invests in significant consumer marketing promotional spend.
Franchise rights 
Franchise rights represent the franchise agreements acquired as part of the Britvic Ireland business combination which provide the long 
term right to distribute certain soft drinks. These agreements have been allocated a 35 year useful economic life. As at 29 September 
2013 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of 29 years. The franchise agreement itself has a contract life less than the 
useful economic life. The useful economic life has been determined on the basis that the renewal of the contract is highly probable.
Customer lists
Britvic France
Customer lists recognised on the acquisition of Britvic France relate to those customer relationships acquired. These intangible assets 
have been allocated useful economic lives of 20 years. At 29 September 2013 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of 17 
years.
Britvic Ireland
Customer lists represent those customer relationships acquired which are valued in respect of the grocery and wholesale businesses. 
These customer lists have been allocated useful economic lives of between 10 and 20 years. At 29 September 2013 these intangible 
assets have a remaining useful life of between 4 and 14 years. 
Software costs
Software is capitalised at cost. These intangible assets have been assessed as having finite lives and are amortised using the straight-line 
method over a period of 3 to 7 years. As at 29 September 2013 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of up to 7 years.
Goodwill
Goodwill is subject to an impairment review at each reporting date in accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’. Further detail is 
provided in note 15.
Intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of Britvic Ireland and Britvic France are valued in euros and translated to sterling at the 
reporting date.
86 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
15. Impairment testing of intangible assets
Carrying amount of goodwill and trademarks with indefinite lives
The carrying amount of goodwill acquired through business combinations, and trademarks with indefinite lives recognised as part of fair 
value exercises on acquisitions, are attributable to the following cash-generating units:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Goodwill
 Orchid 6.0 6.0
 Tango 8.9 8.9
 Robinsons 38.6 38.6
 Britvic Soft Drinks business (BSD) 7.8 7.8
 Water business - 1.7
 Britvic Ireland 16.6 15.8
 Britvic France 61.2 58.1
139.1 136.9
2013
£m
2012
£m
T rademarks with indefinite lives
 Britvic Ireland
  Britvic 6.3 6.0
  Cidona 5.5 5.3
  Mi Wadi 8.6 8.1
  Ballygowan 2.4 2.2
  Club 14.2 13.5
37 .0 35.1
 Britvic France
  Teisseire 47 .9 45.4
  Moulin de Valdonne 3.9 3.7
  Pressade 4.5 4.3
  Fruité 4.2 4.0
60.5 57 .4
T otal T rademarks 97 .5 92.5
The Britvic Ireland and Britvic France goodwill and trademarks with indefinite lives are valued in euros and translated into sterling at the 
reporting date. The movements in the carrying amount of goodwill from the prior year relate to translation movements and the 
impairment of goodwill related to the Water business.
With the exception of Britvic Ireland and Britvic France goodwill, all other goodwill amounts were recognised on acquisitions made within 
Britvic GB.
Trademarks with indefinite lives were recognised as part of the fair value exercises relating to the 2007 acquisition of Britvic Ireland and 
the 2010 acquisition of Britvic France. They were allocated by senior management to the individual cash-generating units for impairment 
testing as shown in the table above.
Method of impairment testing
Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives
Impairment reviews of goodwill and intangible assets are undertaken by senior management annually. Value in use calculations are 
performed for each cash-generating unit using cash flow projections and are based on the latest financial budgets prepared by senior 
management and approved by the board of directors. Senior management expectations are formed in line with performance to date and 
experience, as well as available external market data.
The group has considered the impact of the current economic climate in determining the appropriate discount rate to use in impairment 
testing. The applicable pre-tax discount rate for cash flow projections is:
At 29 September 2013 At 30 September 2012
Britvic GB 8% 11%
Britvic Ireland 10% 11%
Britvic France 10% 12%
Cash flows beyond a one year period are extrapolated based on growth and discount rates as described on page 86. 
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
87 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
15. Impairment testing of intangible assets continued
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations
The following describes each key assumption on which management has based its cash flow projections to undertake impairment testing 
of goodwill.
Volume growth rates – reflect senior management expectations of volume growth based on growth achieved to date, current strategy 
and expected market trends.
Discount rates – reflect senior management’s estimate of the pre-tax cost of capital adjusted where necessary to reflect the different 
risks of different countries in which the group operates. The estimated pre-tax cost of capital is the benchmark used by management to 
assess operating performance and to evaluate future capital investment proposals.
Marginal contribution – being revenue less material costs and all other marginal costs that management considers to be directly 
attributable to the sale of a given product. Marginal contribution is based on financial budgets approved by the Britvic plc board. Key 
assumptions are made within these budgets about pricing, discounts and costs based on historical data, current strategy and expected 
market trends.
Advertising and promotional spend – financial budgets approved by senior management are used to determine the value assigned to 
advertising and promotional spend. This is based on the planned spend for year one and strategic intent thereafter.
Raw materials price, production and distribution costs, selling costs and other overhead inflation – the basis used to determine the value 
assigned to inflation is the forecast increase in consumer price indices in the relevant market. This has been used in all value in use 
calculations performed.
Intangible assets with finite lives
No indicators of impairment were identified on intangible assets with finite lives and no impairment was recognised against these assets.
Results and conclusions
Following the strategic cost initiative announcement in May 2013, the carrying value of goodwill relating to the Water business of £1 .7m 
has been impaired, and the impairment charge recognised within exceptional and other items (see note 5). 
The directors do not consider that a reasonably possible change in the assumptions used to calculate the value in use of remaining 
goodwill and intangible assets would result in any impairment.
16. Other receivables (non-current)
2013
£m
2012
£m
Operating lease premiums 1.8 2.3
Prepayments 1.5 1.3
Other 0.5 -
T otal other receivables (non-current) 3.8 3.6
Operating lease premiums relates to the un-amortised element of lease premiums paid on inception of operating leases.
17. Inventories
2013
£m
2012
£m
Raw materials 27 .1 22.2
Finished goods 54.9 42.5
Consumable stores 7.0 7.2
Returnable packaging 1.8 1.9
T otal inventories at lower of cost and net realisable value 90.8 73.8
88 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
18. T rade and other receivables (current)  
2013
£m
2012
£m
Trade receivables 236.4 207 .7
Other receivables 10.1 19.7
Prepayments 19.6 30.0
266.1 257 .4
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on credit terms usual for the markets in which the group operates. As at 29 
September 2013, trade receivables at nominal value of £1 .6m (2012: £2.5m) were impaired and fully provided against. Movements in the 
provision for impairment of receivables were as follows:
T otal
£m
At 2 October 2011 1.2
Charge for period 1.9
Utilised (0.5)
Unused amounts reversed (0.1)
At 30 September 2012 2.5
Charge for period 2.5
Utilised (1.9)
Unused amounts reversed (1.5)
At 29 September 2013 1.6
The group takes the following factors into account when considering whether a provision for impairment should be made for trade 
receivables:
• Payment performance history; and 
• External information available regarding credit ratings.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
Past due but not impaired
T otal
£m
Neither past 
due nor 
impaired
£m
<30 days
£m
30 – 60 days
£m
60 – 90 days
£m
90 – 120 days
£m
> 120 days
£m
2013 236.4 218.1 7.3 4.1 0.9 1.2 4.8
2012 207 .7 196.5 6.7 0.3 2.0 0.5 1.7
The credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired is considered good. Refer to note 24 for details of the group’s 
credit risk policy. The group monitors the credit quality of trade receivables by reference to credit ratings available externally.
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
89 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
19. Cash and cash equivalents 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 94.0 49.5
Cash and cash equivalents 94.0 49.5
Bank overdrafts (2.5) (1 .9)
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 91.5 47 .6
During the year, short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and one month depending on the immediate cash 
requirements of the group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is 
equal to the book value.
At 29 September 2013 the group had available £400.0m (2012: £400.0m) of un-drawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which 
all conditions precedent had been met.
Where available, the group operates cash pooling arrangements whereby the net cash position across a number of accounts is 
recognised for interest purposes.
20. Issued share capital
The issued share capital is wholly comprised of ordinary shares carrying one voting right each. The nominal value of each ordinary share is 
£0.20. There are no restrictions placed on the distribution of dividends, or the return of capital on a winding up or otherwise.
Issued, called up and fully paid ordinary shares 
No. of  
shares
Value
£
At 2 October 2011 241,400,052 48,280,010
Shares issued 944,499 188,900
At 30 September 2012 242,344,551 48,468,910
Shares issued 2,746,477 549,295
At 29 September 2013 245,091,028 49,018,205 
Of the issued and fully paid ordinary shares, 231,547 shares (2012: 217 ,994 shares) are own shares held by an employee benefit trust. 
This equates to £46,309 (2012: £43,599) at £0.20 par value of each ordinary share. These shares are held for the purpose of satisfying the 
share schemes detailed in note 28.
An explanation of the group’s capital management process and objectives is set out in note 24.
21. Interest bearing loans and borrowings
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current
Finance leases (0.2) (0.3)
Bank loans (0.2) (0.3)
Private placement notes (92.1) -
Less: unamortised issue costs 0.9 -
T otal current (91.6) (0.6)
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non-current
Finance leases (0.3) (0.5)
Bank loans (0.8) (1 .1)
Private placement notes (459.1) (560.8)
Less: unamortised issue costs 1.9 3.7
T otal non-current (458.3) (558.7)
T otal interest bearing loans and borrowings (549.9) (559.3)
90 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
21. Interest bearing loans and borrowings continued
The table below provides an analysis of amounts included within current and non-current interest bearing loans and borrowings:
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Finance leases (0.5) (0.8)
2007 Notes (270.3) (269.9)
2009 Notes (164.8) (171 .8)
2010 Notes (112.2) (114.5)
Accrued interest (3.9) (4.6)
Bank loans (1.0) (1 .4)
Capitalised issue costs 2.8 3.7
(549.9) (559.3)
Analysis of changes in interest-bearing loans and borrowings
2013
£m
2012
£m
At the beginning of the period (559.3) (573.2)
Net loans repaid 0.6 0.7
Repayment of finance leases 0.4 0.3
Amortisation and write off of issue costs (0.9) (0.9)
Net translation gain / fair value adjustment 8.6 13.5
Accrued interest 0.7 0.3
At the end of the period (549.9) (559.3)
Derivatives hedging balance sheet debt* 56.1 65.0
Debt translated at contracted rate (493.8) (494.3)
*  Represents the element of the fair value of interest rate currency swaps hedging the balance sheet value of the private placement notes. This amount has been 
disclosed separately to demonstrate the impact of foreign exchange movements which are included in interest bearing loans and borrowings. 
Bank loans
The bank loans classified as non-current are repayable by December 2018 (2012: December 2018).
Loans outstanding at 29 September 2013 attract interest at an average rate of 4.03% for euro denominated loans (2012: 4.16%). There 
were no sterling denominated bank loans outstanding at 29 September 2013 (2012: £nil). 
Private placement notes
2007 Notes
On 20 February 2007 , Britvic plc issued US$375m and £38m of Senior Notes (‘the 2007 Notes’) in the United States Private Placement 
market (USPP). The amount, maturity and interest terms of the Notes are shown in the table below:
Series T ranche Maturity date Amount Interest terms Swap interest
A 7 year 20 February 2014 US$87m US$ fixed at 5.80% UK£ fixed at 6.10%
B 7 year 20 February 2014 US$15m US$ LIBOR + 0.5% UK£ fixed at 6.07%
C 7 year 20 February 2014 £25m UK£ fixed at 6.11% n/a
D 10 year 20 February 2017 US$147m US$ fixed at 5.90% UK£ fixed at 5.98%
E 12 year 20 February 2019 US$126m US$ fixed at 6.00% UK£ fixed at 5.98%
F 12 year 20 February 2019 £13m UK£ fixed at 5.94% n/a
Britvic plc makes quarterly or semi-annual interest payments in US dollars and sterling under these notes. The 2007 Notes are unsecured 
and rank pari passu in right of repayment with other senior unsecured indebtedness of the company. In order to manage the risk of 
foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations, the group has entered into currency interest rate swaps whereby fixed / floating US dollar 
interest is swapped for fixed sterling interest. The swap contracts have the same duration and other critical terms as the borrowings 
which they hedge and are designated as part of effective hedge relationships (see note 25).
2009 Notes
On 17 December 2009, Britvic plc issued US$250.0m of Senior Notes in the United States Private Placement market (‘the 2009 Notes’). 
The 2009 Notes are additional borrowings to the 2007 Notes.
Britvic plc makes semi-annual interest payments in US dollars under these notes. The 2009 Notes are unsecured and rank pari passu in 
right of repayment with other senior unsecured indebtedness of the group.
In order to manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and to ensure an appropriate mix of sterling and euro funding, the group has 
entered into a number of cross currency interest rate swaps. The 2009 Notes were swapped into floating rate sterling and euro liabilities 
through a series of US dollar to sterling and, with the exception of series A, sterling to euro swap instruments. These cross currency 
interest rate swap contracts have the same duration and other critical terms as the relevant borrowings they hedge and are designated as 
part of effective hedge relationships (see note 25).
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
91 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
21. Interest bearing loans and borrowings continued
The amount, maturity and interest terms of the 2009 Notes are shown in the table below:
Series T ranche Maturity date Amount Interest terms Swap terms
A 5 year 17 December 2014 US$30m US$ fixed at 4.07% UK£ LIBOR + 1 .44%
B 7 year 17 December 2016 US$75m US$ fixed at 4.77% EURIBOR + 1 .69%
C 8 year 17 December 2017 US$25m US$ fixed at 4.94% EURIBOR + 1 .70%
D 10 year 17 December 2019 US$120m US$ fixed at 5.24% EURIBOR + 1 .75%
The 2009 USPP cross currency swaps converted an amount of US dollar borrowings into a floating rate euro liability. To mitigate exposure 
to changes in euro interest rates on a portion of this liability, €75.0m of interest rate swaps were transacted into a fixed rate euro liability 
with an effective date of December 2010. These interest rate swaps do not form part of an effective hedge relationship.
2010 Notes
On 17 December 2010, Britvic plc issued US$163m and £7 .5m of Senior Notes in the United States Private Placement market (‘the 2010 
Notes’). The 2010 Notes are additional borrowings to the 2007 and 2009 Notes.
Britvic plc makes semi-annual interest payments in US dollars and sterling under these notes. The 2010 Notes are unsecured and rank 
pari passu in right of repayment with other senior unsecured indebtedness of the group.
In order to manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and to ensure an appropriate mix of sterling and euro funding, the group has 
entered into a number of cross currency interest rate swaps. The 2010 Notes were swapped into a mix of fixed and floating rate sterling 
and fixed euro liabilities through a series of US dollar to sterling and sterling to euro swap instruments. These cross currency interest rate 
swap contracts have the same duration and other critical terms as the relevant borrowings they hedge and are designated as part of 
effective hedge relationships (see note 25).
The amount, maturity and interest terms of the 2010 Notes are shown in the table below:
Series T ranche Maturity date Amount Interest terms Swap terms
A 7 year 17 December 2017 £7 .5m UK£ fixed at 3.74% N/A
B 7 year 17 December 2017 US$25m US$ fixed at 3.45% UK£ fixed 3.85%
US$25m US$ fixed at 3.45% € fixed 3.34%
C 10 year 17 December 2020 US$37m US$ fixed at 4.04% UK£ LIBOR +1 .24%
US$23m US$ fixed at 4.04% € fixed 3.85%
US$10m US$ fixed at 4.04% UK£ fixed 4.49%
D 12 year 17 December 2022 US$18m US$ fixed at 4.14% UK£ LIBOR +1 .18%
US$25m US$ fixed at 4.14% € fixed 3.97%
The 2010 USPP cross currency swaps converted an amount of US dollar borrowings into a floating rate sterling liability. To mitigate 
exposure to interest rates on a portion of this liability, £20.0m of 2-year interest rate swaps were transacted with an effective date of 
December 2011 . These interest rate swaps do not form part of an effective hedge relationship.
2014 Notes
In November 2013, the group reached agreement with a number of investors in the US private placement market to raise an additional 
$170.4m equivalent of funding for terms of between 7 and 12 years. This funding is subject to documentation and due diligence which is 
scheduled to be completed in December 2013. Where this funding is dollar-denominated this has been hedged using cross-currency 
interest-rate swaps to meet the group’s desired funding profile and to manage the associated foreign currency risk to the profit and loss 
account.
22. Pensions 
The group’s principal pension scheme for GB employees, the Britvic Pension Plan (BPP) has both a defined benefit and contribution 
section. The defined benefit section was closed to new members from 1 August 2002 and closed to future accrual for active members 
from 1 April 2011, with new members moving to the defined contribution section for future service benefits.
Contributions are paid to the Plan as determined by the Trustee, agreed by the company and certified by an independent actuary in the 
Schedule of Contributions. The latest formal actuarial valuation for contribution purposes was carried out as at 31 March 2010. The 31 
March 2013 valuation is currently underway and is expected to be completed by 30 June 2014. Changes to the contributions payable 
could result.
The BPP is a limited partner of Britvic Scottish Limited Partnership (Britvic SLP), which in turn is a limited partner in both Britvic Property 
Partnership (Britvic PP) and Britvic Brands LLP (Britvic Brands). Britvic SLP , Britvic PP and Britvic Brands are all consolidated by the group. 
The investment held by BPP does not represent a plan asset for accounting purposes and is therefore not included in the fair value of the 
plan assets.
Properties were transferred to Britvic PP at a value of £28.6m and certain group brands to the value of £72.4m were transferred to Britvic 
Brands, all of which are leased back to Britvic Soft Drinks Limited. The group retains operational flexibility over the properties and brands 
including the ability to substitute the properties and brands held by Britvic PP and Britvic Brands respectively.
92 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
22. Pensions continued
The BPP is entitled to a share of the profits in Britvic SLP for the next 13 years. At the end of this period, the partnership capital allocated 
to the BPP will be changed to an amount equal to any funding deficit of the BPP at this time, up to a maximum of £105m.
In addition to the expected partnership income of at least £5m per annum, the group will make payments to the BPP of £15m per annum 
by 31 December each year, from 2013 to 2017 . During this year £12.5m of additional contributions were paid to the BPP , of which £7 .5m 
was paid by the group and £5.0m relates to income received from the pension funding partnership structure. 
The amount recognised as an expense in relation to the BPP defined contribution scheme in the consolidated income statement for 2013 
was £10.6m (2012: £10.5m).
Britvic’s business in GB also has a secured unfunded unregistered retirement benefit scheme called The Britvic Executive Top Up Scheme 
(BETUS) which provides benefits for members who have historically exceeded the Earnings Cap, or the Lifetime Allowance whilst 
members of the defined benefit section of the BPP . BETUS closed to future accrual on 10 April 2011 which coincided with the closure of 
the defined benefit section of the BPP . 
The Britvic Northern Ireland Pension Plan (BNIPP) was closed to new members on 28 February 2006, and since this date new employees 
have been eligible to join a Stakeholder plan with Legal & General. The latest formal actuarial valuation for contribution purposes was 
carried out as at 31 December 2011 .
In relation to the Britvic Ireland Pension Plan (BIPP), following the changes made in 2012 no deficit recovery contributions are currently 
required. The next valuation is due as at 1 January 2015. The Trustee has been undertaking investment de-risking to protect the on-going 
funding position achieved as a result of the 2012 changes.
The amount recognised as an expense in relation to the Irish defined contribution schemes in the consolidated income statement for 
2013 was £0.8m (2012: £0.3m).
All group pension schemes are administered by trustees who are independent of the group’s finances. 
The assets and liabilities of the pension schemes were valued on an IAS 19 basis at 29 September 2013 by Towers Watson (BPP), Invesco 
(BIPP) and Buck (BNIPP).
Included within the pension liability on the consolidated balance sheet is an accrual of £2.1m (2012: £1 .8m) in respect of Britvic France. 
The liability represents an unfunded pension obligation made up of two components being retirement indemnities of £1 .9m (2012: £1 .6m) 
and long-service cash payments due on retirement of £0.2m (2012: £0.2m).
Principal assumptions 
Financial assumptions
2013
%
ROI
2013
%
NI
2013
%
GB
2012
%
ROI
2012
%
NI
2012
%
GB
Discount rate 4.25 4.60 4.55 4.20 4.70 4.85
Rate of compensation increase 3.00 3.75 n/a 3.00 3.60 n/a
Expected long term return on plan assets 4.25 5.21 4.84 4.85 5.21 5.61
Pension increases - 1.95-2.45 1.95-3.05 - 1 .65-2.05 1 .80-2.75
Inflation assumption 2.00 2.45 3.35 2.00 2.00 2.90
To develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption, the group considered the level of expected returns on risk free 
investments (primarily government bonds), the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the 
portfolio is invested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class was then 
weighted based on the target asset allocation to develop the expected long term rate on assets assumption for the portfolio.
Demographic assumptions
The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity. This is based on standard actuarial tables, which for the 
BPP are known as SAPS Series 1 . The following life expectancy assumptions have been used:
2013
Y ears
ROI
2013
Y ears
NI
2013
Y ears
GB
2012
Years
ROI
2012
Years
NI
2012
Years
GB
Current pensioners (at age 65) – males 22.7 22.0 22.2 23.1 21 .0 22.1
Current pensioners (at age 65) – females 24.5 25.0 24.8 24.7 23.8 24.7
Future pensioners currently aged 45 
(at age 65) – males 25.6 23.3 24.4 25.8 22.8 24.3
Future pensioners currently aged 45 
(at age 65) – females 26.8 26.6 27 .1 26.9 25.3 27 .0
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
93 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
22. Pensions continued
Sensitivities
Changes in assumptions used for determining retirement benefit costs and obligations may have a material impact on the consolidated 
income statement and balance sheet. The main assumptions are the discount rate, the rate of inflation and the assumed mortality rate. 
The following table provides an estimate of the potential impact of each of these variables on the principal pension plans.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on ROI plan liabilities Impact on NI plan liabilities Impact on GB plan liabilities
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.1% Decrease/increase by £1 .2m Decrease/increase by £0.5m Decrease/increase by £1 1 .0m
Inflation rate Increase/decrease by 0.1% Increase/decrease by £0.6m Increase/decrease by £0.3m Increase/decrease by £8.4m
Mortality rate Increase/decrease in life 
expectancy by one year
Increase/decrease by £0.8m Increase/decrease by £0.8m Increase/decrease by £16.3m
Net benefit income/(expense)
ROI
£m
NI
£m
GB
£m
2013
T otal
£m
Current service cost (0.8) (0.2) - (1.0)
Interest cost on benefit obligation (2.4) (1.2) (24.0) (27 .6)
Expected return on plan assets 2.4 1.2 23.9 27 .5
Settlement gain - - 3.8 3.8
Net income / (expense) (0.8) (0.2) 3.7 2.7
ROI
£m
NI
£m
GB
£m
2012
Total
£m
Current service cost (0.9) (0.2) - (1 .1)
Interest cost on benefit obligation (3.4) (1 .3) (26.5) (31 .2)
Expected return on plan assets 2.5 1.2 25.9 29.6
Curtailment gain 21 .3 - - 21 .3
Net income / (expense) 19.5 (0.3) (0.6) 18.6
The net income detailed above is recognised in arriving at net profit from continuing operations before tax and finance costs / income, 
and is included within cost of sales, selling and distribution costs and administration expenses.
The settlement gain in 2013 has been recognised due to the arrangement reached with the former chief executive upon his retirement 
relating to his benefits under BETUS. The gain realised on the extinguishment of this liability has been recognised in exceptional and other 
items in the income statement.
The ROI curtailment gain in 2012 was recognised under IAS19 Employee Benefits arising from the removal of the guaranteed pension 
indexation.
T aken to the statement of comprehensive income
ROI
£m
NI
£m
GB
£m
2013
T otal
£m
Actual return on scheme assets 3.5 2.2 39.9 45.6
Less: Expected return on scheme assets (2.4) (1.2) (23.9) (27 .5)
1.1 1.0 16.0 18.1
Other actuarial gains/ (losses) 4.1 0.8 (55.4) (50.5)
Actuarial gains/(losses) taken to the statement of comprehensive income 5.2 1.8 (39.4) (32.4)
ROI
£m
NI
£m
GB
£m
2012
Total
£m
Actual return on scheme assets 6.4 2.4 55.6 64.4
Less: Expected return on scheme assets (2.5) (1 .2) (25.9) (29.6)
3.9 1.2 29.7 34.8
Other actuarial losses (12.3) (0.4) (12.9) (25.6)
Actuarial (losses)/gains taken to the statement of comprehensive income (8.4) 0.8 16.8 9.2
94 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
22. Pensions continued
Net (liability)/asset
ROI
£m
NI
£m
GB
£m
2013
T otal
£m
Present value of benefit obligation (54.8) (26.6) (562.4) (643.8)
Fair value of plan assets 53.2 26.7 546.7 626.6
Net (liability)/asset (1.6) 0.1 (15.7) (17 .2)
ROI
£m
NI
£m
GB
£m
2012
Total
£m
Present value of benefit obligation (53.6) (26.8) (503.9) (584.3)
Fair value of plan assets 47 .2 23.8 511 .4 582.4
Net (liability)/asset (6.4) (3.0) 7.5 (1 .9)
Movements in the present value of benefit obligation are as follows:
ROI
£m
NI
£m
GB
£m
2013
T otal
£m
At 30 September 2012 (53.6) (26.8) (503.9) (584.3)
Exchange differences (3.0) - - (3.0)
Settlement gain - - 3.8 3.8
Current service cost (0.8) (0.2) - (1.0)
Member contributions (0.3) - - (0.3)
Interest cost on benefit obligation (2.4) (1.2) (24.0) (27 .6)
Benefits paid 1.2 0.8 17.1 19.1
Actuarial gains/(losses) 4.1 0.8 (55.4) (50.5)
At 29 September 2013 (54.8) (26.6) (562.4) (643.8)
ROI
£m
NI
£m
GB
£m
2012
Total
£m
At 2 October 2011 (64.4) (25.4) (481 .2) (571 .0)
Exchange differences 4.7 - - 4.7
Curtailment gain 21 .3 - - 21 .3
Current service cost (0.9) (0.2) - (1 .1)
Member contributions (0.4) - - (0.4)
Interest cost on benefit obligation (3.4) (1 .3) (26.5) (31 .2)
Benefits paid 1.8 0.5 16.7 19.0
Actuarial losses (12.3) (0.4) (12.9) (25.6)
At 30 September 2012 (53.6) (26.8) (503.9) (584.3)
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
95 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
22. Pensions continued
Movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
ROI
£m
NI
£m
GB
£m
2013
T otal
£m
At 30 September 2012 47 .2 23.8 511.4 582.4
Exchange differences 2.6 - - 2.6
Expected return on plan assets 2.4 1.2 23.9 27 .5
Actuarial gains 1.1 1.0 16.0 18.1
Employer contributions 0.8 1.5 12.5 14.8
Member contributions 0.3 - - 0.3
Benefits paid (1.2) (0.8) (17 .1) (19.1)
At 29 September 2013 53.2 26.7 546.7 626.6
ROI
£m
NI
£m
GB
£m
2012
Total
£m
At 2 October 2011 44.5 20.3 462.5 527 .3
Exchange differences (3.6) - - (3.6)
Expected return on plan assets 2.5 1.2 25.9 29.6
Actuarial gains 3.9 1.2 29.7 34.8
Employer contributions 1.3 1.6 10.0 12.9
Member contributions 0.4 - - 0.4
Benefits paid (1 .8) (0.5) (16.7) (19.0)
At 30 September 2012 47 .2 23.8 511 .4 582.4
Categories of scheme assets as a percentage of the fair value of total scheme assets
ROI
£m
NI
£m
GB
£m
2013
T otal
£m
2013
T otal
%
Equities 30.7 13.8 225.3 269.8 43
Bonds and gilts 21.9 12.6 310.7 345.2 55
Properties 0.6 - 7.6 8.2 1
Cash - 0.3 3.1 3.4 1
Total 53.2 26.7 546.7 626.6 100
ROI
£m
NI
£m
GB
£m
2012
Total
£m
2012
Total
%
Equities 24.7 11.7 249.8 286.2 49
Bonds and gilts 18.8 11.9 236.6 267 .3 46
Properties 3.7 - 21 .7 25.4 4
Cash - 0.2 3.3 3.5 1
Total 47 .2 23.8 511 .4 582.4 100
Analysis of expected return on assets by categories of scheme assets
ROI
£m
NI
£m
GB
£m
2013
T otal
£m
2013
T otal
%
Equities & real estate 2.0 0.9 16.3 19.2 70
Bonds and gilts 0.4 0.3 7.5 8.2 30
Cash 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 0
Total 2.4 1.2 23.9 27 .5 100
ROI
£m
NI
£m
GB
£m
2012
Total
£m
2012
Total
%
Equities & real estate 2.0 0.8 16.5 19.3 65
Bonds and gilts 0.5 0.3 9.2 10.0 34
Cash - 0.1 0.2 0.3 1
Total 2.5 1.2 25.9 29.6 100
96 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
22. Pensions continued
History of experience gains and losses
2013
£m
2012
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2009
£m
Fair value of schemes assets 626.6 582.4 527 .3 523.8 461 .9
Present value of defined benefit obligations (643.8) (584.3) (571 .0) (641 .0) (547 .0)
Deficit in the schemes (17 .2) (1 .9) (43.7) (117 .2) (85.1)
Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 6.1 - 1.5 36.7 2.0
Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 18.3 (34.8) (26.7) 27 .2 (2.7)
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 4 October 2004 in the group statement of comprehensive income 
is an overall loss of £81 .6m (2012: loss of £49.2m). The directors are unable to determine how much of the pension scheme deficit 
recognised on transition to IFRS and taken direct to equity of £1 .3m is attributable to actuarial gains and losses since the inception of 
those pension schemes. Consequently, the directors are unable to determine the amount of actuarial gains and losses that would have 
been recognised in the group statement of comprehensive income before 4 October 2004.
Normal contributions of £1 .0m are expected to be paid into the defined benefit pension schemes during the 2014 financial year. Additional 
contributions of £21 .5m are expected to be paid into the defined benefit pension schemes during the 2014 financial year, of which £16.5m 
is expected to be paid by the group and £5.0m by the partnership.
23. T rade and other payables (current) 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Trade payables 237 .1 230.9
Other payables 4.9 8.5
Accruals and deferred income 99.2 92.2
Other taxes and social security 40.3 25.6
381.5 357 .2
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 60 - 90 day terms.
24. Financial risk management objectives and policies
Overview
The group’s principal financial instruments comprise derivatives, borrowings and overdrafts, and cash and cash equivalents. These 
financial instruments are used to manage interest rate and currency exposures, funding and liquidity requirements and share price 
exposure arising under the group’s employee incentive schemes. Other financial instruments which arise directly from the group’s 
operations include trade receivables and payables (see notes 18 and 23 respectively).
It is, and has always been, the group’s policy that no derivative is entered into for trading or speculative purposes.
The main risks arising from the group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. 
Additionally, the group is exposed to commodity price risk and share price risk. The board of directors review and agree policies for 
managing these risks as summarised below. 
Interest rate risk
The group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the group’s long-term debt obligations with 
floating interest rates.
The group’s policy is to manage its interest cost by maintaining a mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The group’s policy is to have an 
average over the next three years of between 25% and 80% of its borrowings at fixed rates of interest. To manage this, the group enters 
into interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward rate agreements which are designated to hedge underlying debt obligations. 
At 29 September 2013 after taking into account the effect of these instruments, approximately 97% of the group’s borrowings are at a 
fixed rate of interest (2012: 86%).
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
97 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
24. Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Interest rate risk table
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, 
on the group’s profit before tax (through the impact on floating rate borrowings) and equity (through the change in fair values of applicable 
derivative instruments). 
Increase / 
(decrease) 
in basis 
points
Effect on 
profit /loss 
before tax
£m
Effect on 
equity
£m
2013
Sterling 200 - 18.7
(200) - (22.1)
Euro 200 0.7 6.5
(200) (0.8) (7 .6)
2012
Sterling 200 (0.2) 24.5
(200) 0.2 (27 .6)
Euro 200 1.6 7.0
(200) (1 .8) (8.4)
Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is primarily in respect of exposure to fluctuations to the sterling-euro, sterling-US dollar and euro-US dollar rates of 
exchange. The group has operations in euro-denominated countries and finances these partly through the use of foreign currency 
borrowings and cross currency swaps which hedge the translation risk of net investments in foreign operations. Additionally cash 
generation from euro-denominated operations can be utilised to meet euro payment obligations in sterling denominated companies, 
providing a natural hedge.
The group also has transactional exposures arising from purchases of prime materials, capital expenditure and interest costs in currencies 
other than the functional currency of the individual group entities. Non functional currency purchases and interest costs are made in the 
currencies of US dollars and euros. As at 29 September 2013 the group has hedged 65% (2012: 69%) of forecast net exposures 12 
months in advance using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Where funding is raised in a currency other than the currency ultimately required by the group, cross currency interest rate swaps are 
used to convert the cash flows to the required currency. These swaps have the same duration and other critical terms as the underlying 
borrowing.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar and euro exchange rates, with all other 
variables held constant, of the group’s profit before tax (due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities) and the group’s 
equity (due to changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts).
Increase / 
(decrease) in 
currency rate
%
Effect on  
profit  
before tax
£m
Effect on  
equity
£m
2013
Sterling / euro 10 (1.1) 6.5
(10) 1.1 (6.5)
Sterling / US dollar 10 (0.5) 1.3
(10) 0.5 (1.3)
Euro / US dollar 10 (1.1) 1.6
(10) 1.1 (1.6)
2012
Sterling / euro 10 (0.6) 5.1
(10) 0.6 (5.1)
Sterling / US dollar 10 - 0.9
(10) - (0.9)
Euro / US dollar 10 - 0.9
(10) - (0.9)
98 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
24. Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Credit risk
The group trades only with recognised creditworthy third parties. It is the group’s policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit 
terms are subject to credit verification procedures. In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that 
the group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. The maximum exposure is the carrying amount disclosed in note 18. For transactions 
that do not occur in the country of the relevant operating unit, the group does not offer credit terms without the approval of the Head of 
Finance Shared Services. There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the group.
The group maintains a policy on counterparty credit exposures with banks and financial institutions arising from the use of derivatives and 
financial instruments. This policy restricts the investment of surplus funds and entering into derivatives to counterparties with a minimum 
credit rating maintained by either Moody’s, Standard & Poors or Fitch. The level of exposure with counterparties at various ratings levels is 
also restricted under this policy. The level of exposure and the credit worthiness of the group’s banking counterparties is reviewed 
regularly to ensure compliance with this policy.
Commodity price risk
The main commodity price risk arises in the purchases of prime materials, being polyethylene terephthalate (PET), sugar, steel and frozen 
concentrated orange juice. Where it is considered commercially advantageous, the group enters into fixed price contracts with suppliers 
to hedge against unfavourable commodity price changes.
Share schemes equity price risk
The group operates several employee incentive share schemes. It has an exposure to the share price for the schemes in which shares 
are purchased in the market to satisfy the requirements of the plan. To hedge this risk the group has entered into a number of total return 
share swaps against schemes maturing in 2014.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the Britvic plc share price, with all other variables held 
constant, of the group’s profit before tax (due to changes in the fair value of the share swaps).
Increase / 
(decrease) in 
share price
%
Effect  
on profit  
before tax
£m
2013 10 0.8
(10) (0.8)
2012 10 1.5
(10) (1 .5)
Liquidity risk
The group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using rolling cash flow forecasts. These forecasts consider the maturity of both its 
financial investments and financial assets (e.g. accounts receivable, other financial assets) and projected cash flows from operations. The 
objective of the group’s liquidity policy is to maintain a balance between continuity of funds and flexibility through the use of bank loans 
and overdrafts and long term private placement issuance. The bank loans entered into under the £400.0m bank facility are unsecured 
however £1 .0m of outstanding Britvic France bank loans are secured. At 29 September 2013, £91 .6m of the group’s debt will mature in 
less than one year (2012: £0.6m).
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the group’s financial liabilities at 29 September 2013 based on contractual 
undiscounted payments:
2013
Less than  
1 year
£m
1 to 5  
years
£m
> 5  
years
£m
T otal
£m
Secured bank loans 0.2 0.8 0.1 1.1
Private placement notes 113.2 285.7 253.4 652.3
Derivatives hedging private placement notes - payments 67 .9 229.2 215.7 512.8
Derivatives hedging private placement notes - receipts (75.0) (256.4) (226.6) (558.0)
106.1 258.5 242.5 607 .1
Interest rate swap - payments 1.6 2.1 - 3.7
Interest rate swap - receipts (0.3) (0.3) - (0.6)
1.3 1.8 - 3.1
Trade and other payables 341.2 - - 341.2
Finance leases 0.2 0.3 - 0.5
Other financial liabilities 1.4 - - 1.4
450.4 261 .4 242.6 954.4
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
99 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
24. Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
2012
Less than  
1 year
£m
1 to 5  
years
£m
> 5  
years
£m
Total
£m
Secured bank loans 0.3 0.9 0.2 1.4
Private placement notes 27 .4 331 .2 320.1 678.7
Derivatives hedging private placement notes - payments 18.5 243.4 265.2 527 .1
Derivatives hedging private placement notes - receipts (24.8) (271 .6) (286.3) (582.7)
21 .1 303.0 299.0 623.1
Interest rate swap - payments 1.6 3.5 - 5.1
Interest rate swap - receipts (0.8) (1 .5) - (2.3)
0.8 2.0 - 2.8
Trade and other payables 324.3 - - 324.3
Finance leases 0.3 0.5 - 0.8
Other financial liabilities 4.4 - - 4.4
351 .2 306.4 299.2 956.8
In respect of the private placement notes, the periods when the cash flows are expected to occur (as shown by the tables above) and 
when they are expected to affect the consolidated income statement are the same.
Details with regard to derivative contracts are included in note 25.
All bank loans outstanding at year end were secured loans from inception
Fair value hierarchy
The group uses the following valuation hierarchy to determine the carrying value of financial instruments that are measured at fair value:
Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
2013
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Level 1 - -
Level 2
- Derivatives used for hedging 74.0 (8.5)
- Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 1.3 (2.9)
Level 3 - -
T otal 75.3 (11.4)
2012
Assets
£m
Liabilities
£m
Level 1 - -
Level 2
- Derivatives used for hedging 92.2 (6.9)
- Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss - (8.4)
Level 3 - -
Total 92.2 (15.3)
100 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
24. Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Capital management
The group defines ‘capital’ as being net debt plus equity.
The group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the group’s ability to continue as a going concern and maintain an 
appropriate capital structure to balance the needs of the group to grow, whilst operating with sufficient headroom within its bank 
covenants.
The group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the 
capital structure, the group has a number of options available to it including modifying dividend payments to shareholders, returning 
capital to shareholders or issuing new shares. In this way, the group balances returns to shareholders between long term growth and 
current returns whilst maintaining capital discipline in relation to investing activities and taking any necessary action on costs to respond 
to the current environment.
The group monitors capital on the basis of the adjusted net debt / EBITDA ratio. Adjusted net debt is calculated as being the net of cash 
and cash equivalents, interest bearing loans and borrowings and the element of the fair value of interest rate currency swaps hedging the 
balance sheet value of the US private placement notes. Adjusted net debt is shown in note 29. The adjusted net debt / EBITDA ratio 
enables the group to plan its capital requirements in the medium term. The group uses this measure to provide useful information to 
financial institutions and investors.
25. Derivatives and hedge relationships 
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the group’s financial instruments, except trade and 
other receivables and payables.
Book value
2013
£m
Fair value
2013
£m
Book value
2012
£m
Fair value
2012
£m
Financial assets 
 Cash and cash equivalents 94.0 94.0 49.5 49.5
 Cross currency interest rate swaps * 62.5 62.5 92.1 92.1
 Cross currency interest rate swaps ** 11.4 11.4 - -
 Forward currency contracts ** 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
 Share swaps ** 1.3 1.3 - -
169.3 169.3 141 .7 141 .7
Financial liabilities
  Interest-bearing loans and borrowings  
(bank loans and private placement notes):
  Fixed rate borrowings (540.1) (572.6) (549.2) (598.9)
  Floating rate borrowings (9.3) (9.3) (9.3) (9.3)
 Bank overdrafts (2.5) (2.5) (1 .9) (1 .9)
 Finance leases (0.5) (0.5) (0.8) (0.8)
 Forward currency contracts *** (1.2) (1.2) (1 .9) (1 .9)
 Foreign exchange swaps *** (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) (0.2)
 Cross currency interest rate swaps **** (7 .3) (7 .3) (5.0) (5.0)
 Interest rate swaps *** (0.1) (0.1) - -
 Interest rate swaps **** (2.7) (2.7) (3.5) (3.5)
 Share swaps *** - - (2.3) (2.3)
 Share swaps **** - - (2.4) (2.4)
(563.8) (596.3) (576.5) (626.2)
* Included within ‘Non-current assets: other financial assets’ on the consolidated balance sheet.
** Included within ‘Current assets: other financial assets’ on the consolidated balance sheet.
*** Included within ‘Current liabilities: other financial liabilities’ on the consolidated balance sheet.
**** Included within ‘Non-current liabilities: other financial liabilities’ on the consolidated balance sheet.
Non-derivative financial assets are categorised as loans and receivables as defined in IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments – recognition and 
measurement’. Non-derivative financial liabilities are all carried at amortised cost.
The fair value of derivatives, which are quoted at market price, has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at 
prevailing interest rates. 
The fair value of the current trade and other receivables and payables approximate to book value.
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings has been derived from the sum of future cash flows to maturity discounted back to present values 
at a market rate.
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
101 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
25. Derivatives and hedge relationships continued
Derivatives not designated as part of hedge relationships
Interest rate swaps
The 2009 USPP cross currency swaps converted an amount of US dollar borrowings into a floating rate euro liability. To mitigate exposure 
to changes in euro interest rates on this liability, €75.0m of interest rate swaps were transacted. These 5-year fixed rate swaps had an 
effective start date of December 2010.
From the 2010 USPP issuance an amount of $55m was swapped into a floating rate sterling liability. To mitigate exposure for a proportion 
of this liability, £20.0m of 2-year interest rate swaps were transacted with an effective date of December 2011 .
Share swaps
The group operates several employee incentive share schemes. It has an exposure to the share price for the schemes in which shares 
are purchased in the market to satisfy the requirements of the plan. To hedge this risk the group has entered into a number of total return 
share swaps against schemes maturing in 2014.
FX swaps
As part of operational cash management €82.5m of euro / sterling FX swaps were in existence at 29 September 2013 (2012: €83.0m).
Hedging activities
The group has a number of derivative contracts which are designated as part of effective hedge relationships. These are included in other 
financial assets and liabilities as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Consolidated balance sheet
Non-current assets: other financial assets
Fair value of the 2007 USD GBP cross currency fixed interest rate swaps ¹ 36.9 49.9
Fair value of the 2009 USD GBP cross currency floating interest rate swaps ³ 20.2 27 .1
Fair value of the 2009 GBP euro cross currency floating interest rate swaps ² 5.4 11.1
Fair value of the 2010 USD GBP cross currency floating interest rate swaps ³ - 1.6
Fair value of the 2010 GBP euro cross currency fixed interest rate swaps ² - 2.4
62.5 92.1
Current assets: other financial assets
Fair value of the 2007 USD GBP cross currency fixed interest rate swaps ¹ 11.4 -
Fair value of forward currency contracts ¹ 0.1 0.1
Fair value of share swaps 1.3 -
12.8 0.1
Current liabilities: other financial liabilities
Fair value of forward currency contracts ¹ (1.2) (1 .9)
Fair value of share swaps - (2.3)
Fair value of foreign exchange swaps (0.1) (0.2)
Fair value of interest rate swaps (0.1) -
(1.4) (4.4)
Non-current liabilities: other financial liabilities
Fair value of the 2010 USD GBP cross currency fixed interest rate swaps ¹ (4.9) (5.0)
Fair value of the 2010 GBP euro cross currency fixed interest rate swaps ² (1.6) -
Fair value of the 2010 USD GBP cross currency floating interest rate swaps ³ (0.8) -
Fair value of share swaps - (2.4)
Fair value of interest rate swaps (2.7) (3.5)
(10.0) (10.9)
¹ Instruments designated as part of a cash flow hedge relationship
² Instruments designated as part of a net investment hedge relationship
³ Instruments designated as part of a fair value hedge relationship
102 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
25. Derivatives and hedge relationships continued
There have been no significant changes to derivative contracts designated as part of effective hedge relationships in the period. As at the 
29 September 2013 these hedging relationships are categorised as follows:
Cash flow hedges
Forward currency contracts
At 29 September 2013, the group held 99 (2012: 68) US dollar and 47 (2012: 38) euro forward exchange contracts (the ‘forward currency 
contracts’) designated as hedges of expected future purchases from suppliers in US dollars and euros which the group believe to be 
highly probable transactions. The forward currency contracts are being used to hedge the foreign currency risk of these highly probable 
transactions. 
The forward currency contracts hedge the expected future purchases in the period to 15 October 2014 and have been assessed as part of 
effective cash flow hedge relationships. At the period end there is a net unrealised loss of £1 .2m (2012: net unrealised loss of £1 .8m), 
with a related deferred tax asset of £0.3m (2012: related deferred tax asset of £0.4m), which has been included in equity in respect of 
these contacts.
The terms of these forward contracts are detailed in the table below.
Forward contracts to hedge expected future purchases Maturity range Average exchange rate
2013
£ / US$ 20.9m Oct 2013 to Oct 2014 $1.56/£
£ / € 77 .6m Oct 2013 to Sep 2014 €1.18/£
€ / US$ 21.2m Oct 2013 to Sep 2014 $1.33/€
2012
£ / US$ 13.8m Oct 2012 to Sep 2013 $1 .57/£
£ / € 64.3m Oct 2012 to Sep 2013 €1 .22/£
€ / US$ 14.0m Oct 2012 to Mar 2013 $1 .27/€
Cross currency interest rate swaps 
2007 Notes / 2007 USD GBP cross currency interest rate swaps
The group continues to have a number of cross currency interest rate swaps relating to the 2007 Notes. These cross currency interest 
rate swaps (the ‘2007 cross currency interest rate swaps’) have the effect of fixing the borrowings into sterling and the rate of interest 
payable on the 2007 Notes.
The 2007 cross currency interest rate swap instruments have the same duration and other critical terms as the 2007 Notes and continue 
to be designated as part of a cash flow hedge relationship with the 2007 Notes. This has been assessed to be a highly effective 
relationship as at 29 September 2013. 
The fair value of the 2007 cross currency interest rate swap instruments on the balance sheet at 29 September 2013 is:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Consolidated balance sheet
Non-current assets: other financial assets
Fair value of the 2007 USD GBP cross currency fixed interest rate swaps 36.9 49.9
Current assets: other financial assets
Fair value of the 2007 USD GBP cross currency fixed interest rate swaps 11.4 -
The movement in the fair value has been taken to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. A total loss of £0.4m (2012: 
£8.7m gain) has been recycled to the consolidated income statement in the year to match the foreign exchange gain on the 2007 Notes.
Within equity there is a net unrealised gain of £6.5m (2012: net unrealised gain of £8.4m) with a related deferred tax liability of £1 .3m 
(2012: deferred tax liability of £1 .9m) in respect of the 2007 cross currency interest rate swap instruments. 
2010 Notes / 2010 USD GBP cross currency fixed interest rate swaps
The group continues to have a number of cross currency interest rate swaps relating to the 2010 Notes. These instruments swap the 
principal and interest from US dollars into sterling (the ‘2010 USD GBP cross currency fixed interest rate swaps’).
The 2010 USD GBP cross currency interest rate swaps, which swap interest from fixed US dollar to fixed sterling, are designated as part 
of a cash flow hedge relationship with the future cash flows associated with the 2010 Notes. This has been assessed to be a highly 
effective relationship as at 29 September 2013. 
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
103 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
25. Derivatives and hedge relationships continued
The fair value of these instruments on the balance sheet at 29 September 2013 is:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Consolidated balance sheet
Non-current liabilities: other financial liabilities
Fair value of the 2010 USD GBP cross currency fixed interest rate swaps (4.9) (5.0)
The movement in fair value has been taken to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. A total loss of £0.1m (2012: £2.5m 
gain) has been recycled to the consolidated income statement to match the foreign exchange gain on the 2010 Notes. 
Within equity there is a net unrealised loss of £1 .9m (2012: net unrealised loss of £1 .9m) with a related deferred tax asset of £0.4m (2012: 
deferred tax asset of £0.4m) in respect of the 2010 cross currency interest rate swap instruments. 
Fair value hedges
2009 Notes / 2009 USD GBP cross currency interest rate swaps
The group continues to have a number of cross currency interest rate swaps in respect of the 2009 Notes. These instruments swap the 
principal and interest from fixed US dollar into floating sterling (the ‘2009 USD GBP cross currency interest rate swaps’). 
The 2009 USD GBP cross currency interest rate swaps are designated as part of a fair value hedge relationship with the 2009 Notes. The 
fair value movements on the 2009 USD GBP cross currency interest rate instruments are recorded in the consolidated income statement, 
as is the fair value movement in the 2009 Notes. 
The 2009 USD GBP cross currency interest rate swap contracts have the same duration and other critical terms as the 2009 Notes they 
hedge. The 2009 USD GBP cross currency interest rate swaps have been assessed as part of a highly effective hedge relationship as at 
29 September 2013. 
The fair value of the swap instruments at 29 September 2013, included within ‘Non-current assets: other financial assets’ on the 
consolidated balance sheet, was £20.2m (2012: Non-current assets: other financial assets £27 .1m).
2010 Notes / 2010 USD GBP cross currency floating interest rate swaps
The group has entered into swap instruments which swap the principal and fixed rate interest of the 2010 Notes to floating sterling (‘2010 
USD GBP cross currency floating interest rate swaps’). These instruments are designated as part of a fair value hedge relationship with 
the 2010 Notes. 
The fair value movements on the 2010 USD GBP cross currency floating interest rate swaps are recorded in the consolidated income 
statement, as is the fair value movement of the hedged item. The swap contracts have the same duration and other critical terms as the 
2010 Notes they hedge. 
The 2010 USD GBP cross currency floating interest rate swaps have been assessed as part of a highly effective hedge relationship as at 
29 September 2013. 
The fair value of the swap instruments at 29 September 2013, included within ‘Non-current liabilities: other financial liabilities’ on the 
consolidated balance sheet was £0.8m (2012: Non-current assets: other financial assets £1 .6m).
Net investment hedges
2009 GBP euro cross currency interest rate swaps
These instruments swap floating sterling liabilities into floating euro liabilities. They have been designated as part of an effective hedge of 
the net investment in Britvic Ireland. 
The 2009 GBP euro cross currency interest rate swaps, along with the underlying loan instruments, are being used to hedge the group’s 
exposure to foreign exchange risk on this euro investment. Movements in the fair value of the 2009 GBP euro cross currency interest rate 
swaps are taken to equity where they offset foreign exchange movements on the translation of the net investment in Britvic Ireland. 
The fair value of the 2009 GBP euro cross currency interest rate swaps at 29 September 2013, included within ‘Non-current assets: other 
financial assets’ on the consolidated balance sheet is £5.4m (2012: ‘Non-current assets: other financial assets’ of £11 .1m). No 
ineffectiveness has been recognised in the consolidated income statement (2012: £nil).
2010 GBP euro cross currency interest rate swaps
These instruments swap fixed sterling liabilities arising from the 2010 USD GBP cross currency fixed interest rate swaps into fixed euro 
liabilities and have been designated as part of an effective hedge of the net investment in Britvic France. 
The 2010 GBP euro cross currency interest rate swaps, along with the underlying loan instruments, are being used to hedge the group’s 
exposure to foreign exchange risk on this euro investment. Movements in the fair value of the 2010 GBP euro cross currency interest rate 
swaps are taken to equity where they offset foreign exchange movements on the translation of the net investment in Britvic France. 
The fair value of the 2010 GBP euro cross currency interest rate swaps at 29 September 2013, included within ‘Non-current liabilities: 
other financial liabilities’ on the consolidated balance sheet is £1 .6m (2012: ‘Non-current assets: other financial assets’ of £2.4m). No 
ineffectiveness has been recognised in the consolidated income statement (2012: £nil).
104 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
25. Derivatives and hedge relationships continued
The impact on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income of the derivatives and hedge relationships described above is 
summarised in the table below.
2013
 £m
2012
 £m
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Amounts recycled to the income statement in respect of cash flow hedges
Forward currency contracts* 0.6 (1 .7)
2007 cross currency interest rate swaps** (0.4) 8.7
2010 cross currency interest rate swaps** (0.1) 2.5
0.1 9.5
Gains/(losses) in the period in respect of cash flow hedges
Forward currency contracts 0.1 (1 .6)
2007 cross currency interest rate swaps (1.6) (11 .7)
2010 cross currency interest rate swaps 0.1 (3.7)
(1.4) (17 .0)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations
Movement on 2009 GBP euro cross currency interest rate swaps (5.7) 10.5
Movement on 2010 GBP euro cross currency interest rate swaps (4.0) 3.5
Exchange movements on translation of foreign operations 9.7 (17 .9)
- (3.9)
* Offsetting amounts recorded in cost of sales.
** Offsetting amounts recorded in finance costs.
26. Other non-current liabilities
2013
£m
2012
£m
Firm commitment 1.9 1.9
A firm commitment exists in respect of the receipt of the 2009 and 2010 Notes. 
27. Provisions
Restructuring
£m
Other
£m
T otal
£m
At 30 September 2012 - 2.4 2.4*
Provisions made during the year 11.4 - 11.4
Provisions used during the year (2.9) (0.4) (3.3)
Exchange differences (0.1) 0.1 -
At 29 September 2013 8.4 2.1 10.5
* Included within trade and other payables in 2012
Restructuring provisions
During the 52 week period ended 29 September 2013, the group committed to a restructuring plan to reduce costs across the supply 
chain and back office functions. Following the announcement of the plan, the group recognised a provision of £11 .4m for expected 
restructuring costs, including contract termination costs, consultation fees and employee termination benefits. Estimated costs were 
based on the terms of relevant contracts. It is expected that the remaining provision will be utilised within 2014.
Other provisions
Other provisions at 29 September 2013 and 30 September 2012, primarily relate to onerous lease provisions that have arisen due to the 
exit of certain group premises, and range from 3 to 10 years.
 
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
105 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
28. Share-based payments
The expense recognised for share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the 52 weeks ended 29 September 
2013, including national insurance of £1 .1m (2012: £0.4m) and dividend equivalents of £nil (2012: £1 .0m), is £6.2m (2012: £3.0m). This 
expense arises from transactions which are expected to be equity-settled share-based payment transactions. 
The Britvic Share Incentive Plan (SIP)
The SIP is an all-employee plan approved by HMRC. The plan allows for discretionary annual awards of free ordinary shares with a value 
of 3% of salary (subject to HMRC maximum limits) together with an offer of matching shares on the basis of one free matching share for 
each ordinary share purchased with a participant’s savings, up to a maximum of £50 (2012: £50) per four week pay period. Employees are 
entitled to receive the annual free share award, where granted by the group, provided they are employed by the company on the last day 
of each financial year and on the award date. There are no cash settlement alternatives.
Awards made during the period are shown in the table below. The fair value of these awards is equivalent to the intrinsic value of the 
shares.
No. of shares
2013 2012
Annual free shares award - -
Matching shares award – 1 free share for every ordinary share purchased 185,563 281,662
The Britvic Executive Share Option Plan (Option Plan)
The Option Plan allows for options to buy ordinary shares to be granted to selected employees. The option price is the average market 
price of Britvic plc’s shares on the three business days before the date of grant. Options become exercisable on the satisfaction of the 
performance condition and remain exercisable until ten years after the date of grant.
The performance condition requires average growth in EPS of 7% pa over a three year period in excess of the average growth in RPI over 
the same period for the options to vest in full. If EPS growth averages 3% per annum in excess of RPI growth, 25% (2012: 25%) of the 
options will vest. Straight-line apportionment will be applied between these two levels to determine the number of options that vest and 
no options will vest if average EPS growth is below the lower threshold.
In some circumstances, at the discretion of the company, an option holder who exercises his/her option may receive a cash payment 
rather than the ordinary shares under option. The cash payment would be equal to the amount by which the market value of the ordinary 
shares under option exceeds the option price. However, it is expected that this plan will be equity-settled and as a consequence has been 
accounted for as such.
The following table illustrates the movements in the number of share options during the period.
Number  
of share 
options
Weighted 
average  
exercise  
price
(pence)
Outstanding as at 2 October 2011 8,764,386 314.8
Granted during the period 2,175,767 331 .6
Exercised during the period (244,499) 233.1
Forfeited during the period (246,138) 406.4
Lapsed during the period (9,496) 347 .0
Outstanding at 30 September 2012 10,440,020 318.0
Granted during the period 1,583,878 427 .5
Exercised during the period (2,220,417) 253.7
Forfeited during the period (573,284) 367 .7
Lapsed during the period (1,994,425) 364.4
Outstanding at 29 September 2013 7 ,235,772 347 .1
Exercisable at 29 September 2013 2,739,540 257 .1
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 491 .1p (2012: 362.2p).
The share options outstanding as at 29 September 2013 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 6.8 years (2012: 6.7 years) 
and the range of exercise prices was 221 .0p – 464.6p (2012: 221 .0p – 464.6p).
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the period was 79.8p (2012: 58.2p).
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial model, taking account of the 
terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
106 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
28. Share-based payments continued
The Britvic Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The PSP allows for awards of ordinary shares or nil cost options to be made to selected employees with vesting subject to the 
satisfaction of a performance condition. Different performance conditions apply to different groups of employees. Awards up to and 
including 2008 were made in respect of ordinary shares. Awards granted since 2009 have been in respect of nil cost options. Nil cost 
options become exercisable on the satisfaction of the performance conditions and remain exercisable until 10 years / 7 years after the 
date of grant for employees based in the UK / Ireland respectively.
The performance condition applying to the total number of awards granted to members of the senior leadership team during the current 
period is divided equally between the total shareholder return (“TSR”) and return on invested capital (“ROIC”) performance conditions 
described below. 
The TSR condition measures the company’s TSR relative to a comparator group (consisting of 18 companies) over a three year 
performance period. The awards will not vest unless the company’s position in the comparator group is at least median. At median 25% 
(2012: 25%) will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting at upper quartile.
For the award granted during the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2013, the ROIC performance condition requires the company’s ROIC to 
be at least 21 .5% (2012: 22.3%) over the three year performance period for the award to vest in full. If ROIC is 20.7% (2012: 21 .5%) over 
the performance period, 25% (2012: 25%) of the award will vest. Straight-line apportionment will be applied between these two levels to 
determine the percentage of awards that vest and no awards will vest if ROIC is below the lower threshold.
Awards granted to members of the senior management team vest solely subject to a performance condition which requires average 
growth in EPS of 7% pa over a three year period in excess of the growth in RPI over the same period for the awards to vest in full. If EPS 
growth averages 3% pa in excess of RPI growth, 25% (2012: 25%) of the awards will vest. Straight-line apportionment will be applied 
between these two levels to determine the number of awards that vest and no awards will vest if average EPS growth is below the lower 
threshold.
In some circumstances, at the discretion of the company, vested awards may be satisfied by a cash payment rather than a transfer of 
ordinary shares. However, it is expected that this plan will be equity-settled and as a consequence has been accounted for as such.
The following tables illustrate the movements in the number of shares and nil cost options during the period.
Number of shares 
subject to
TSR condition
Number of shares 
subject to 
EPS condition
Number of shares 
subject to ROIC 
condition
Outstanding at 2 October 2011 584,781 1,095,428 584,779
Granted during the period - 14,997 -
Vested during the period* (532,156) (916,249) (532,157)
Outstanding at 30 September 2012 and 29 September 2013 52,625 194,176 52,622
Number of nil cost 
options subject to
TSR condition
Number of nil cost 
options subject to 
EPS condition
Number of nil cost 
options subject to 
ROIC condition
Outstanding at 2 October 2011 699,278 1,342,025 699,278
Granted during the period 481,128 1,001,479 481,128
Forfeited during the period (62,591) (313,138) (62,591)
Outstanding at 30 September 2012 1,117 ,815 2,030,366 1,117 ,815
Granted during the period 372,514 746,155 372,514
Forfeited during the period (116,080) (244,435) (116,080)
Lapsed during the period (353,192) (578,173) (353,192)
Outstanding at 29 September 2013 1,021,057 1,953,913 1,021,057
* The share price on the date of vesting was 329.8p.
There were no nil cost options exercisable at 29 September 2013 (2012: nil).
The nil cost options outstanding as at 29 September 2013 had a weighted average remaining contracted life of 8.2 years (TSR condition) 
(2012: 8.2 years), 8.3 years (EPS condition) (2012: 8.0 years) and 8.2 years (ROIC condition) (2012: 8.2 years).
The weighted average fair value of nil cost options granted during the period was 203.1p (TSR condition) (2012: 194.2p), 381 .5p (EPS 
condition) (2012: 323.0p) and 250.2p (ROIC condition) (2012: 322.7p).
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
107 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
28. Share-based payments continued
The Britvic Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The fair value of equity-settled shares and nil cost options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using separate models, taking 
account of the terms and conditions upon which the shares and nil cost options were granted. The fair value of the options subject to the 
TSR condition is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation. The fair value of all other options is calculated using the share price at the 
date of grant, adjusted for dividends not received during the vesting period.
The following table lists the inputs to the model used in respect of the Option Plan and PSP awards granted during the 52 weeks ended 
29 September 2013. The comparative shows the inputs to the model used in respect of the awards granted during the 52 weeks ended 
30 September 2012.
2013 2012
Dividend yield (%) 4.45 3.6
Expected volatility (%) 32.2 27 .9
Risk-free interest rate (%) 0.8 0.8
Expected life of option (years) 5.0 5.0
Share price at date of grant (pence) 421.0 329.8
Exercise price (pence) 427 .5 331 .6
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be 
the actual outcome.
29. Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement
Analysis of net debt
2012
£m
Cash flows
£m
Exchange 
differences
£m
Other  
movement
£m
2013
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 49.5 44.4 0.1 - 94.0
Bank overdrafts (1 .9) (0.4) (0.2) - (2.5)
Debt due within one year (0.6) 0.9 (0.3) (91 .6) (91.6)
Debt due after more than one year (558.7) - 9.0 91 .4 (458.3)
(511 .7) 44.9 8.6 (0.2) (458.4)
Derivatives hedging the balance sheet debt* 65.0 - (8.9) - 56.1
Adjusted net debt (446.7) 44.9 (0.3) (0.2) (402.3)
2011
£m
Cash flows
£m
Exchange 
differences
£m
Other  
movement
£m
2012
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 43.0 7.7 (1 .2) - 49.5
Bank overdrafts - (1 .9) - - (1.9)
Debt due within one year - - - (0.6) (0.6)
Debt due after more than one year (573.2) 1.0 13.5 - (558.7)
(530.2) 6.8 12.3 (0.6) (511.7)
Derivatives hedging the balance sheet debt* 78.2 - (13.2) - 65.0
Adjusted net debt (452.0) 6.8 (0.9) (0.6) (446.7)
* Represents the element of the fair value of interest rate currency swaps hedging the balance sheet value of the Notes. This amount has been disclosed separately to 
demonstrate the impact of foreign exchange movements which are included in debt due after more than one year.
108 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
30. Commitments and contingencies
Operating lease commitments
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2013
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other
£m
T otal
£m
Within one year 3.2 8.4 11.6
After one year but not more than five years 14.9 17.0 31.9
After more than five years 41.0 - 41.0
59.1 25.4 84.5
2012
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Within one year 3.1 10.3 13.4
After one year but not more than five years 13.4 17.0 30.4
After more than five years 44.0 0.2 44.2
60.5 27 .5 88.0
Finance lease commitments
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases are as follows:
2013
£m
2012
£m
Within one year 0.2 0.3
After one year but not more than five years 0.3 0.5
More than five years - -
0.5 0.8
Due to the timing of the expiry of the finance lease commitments, there is no material difference between the total future minimum 
lease payments and their fair value.
Capital commitments
At 29 September 2013, the group has commitments of £8.0m (2012: £3.3m) relating to the acquisition of new plant and machinery.
Contingent liabilities 
The group had no material contingent liabilities at 29 September 2013 (2012: none).
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
109 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
31. Related party disclosures 
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Britvic plc and the subsidiaries listed in the table below. 
Particulars of dormant and non-trading subsidiaries which do not principally affect the group results have been excluded.
Name Principal activity Country of incorporation % equity interest
Directly held
Britannia Soft Drinks Limited Holding company England and Wales 100
Britvic Finance No 2 Limited Financing company Jersey 100
Indirectly held
Britvic International Limited Marketing and distribution of soft drinks England and Wales 100
Britvic Soft Drinks Limited Manufacture and sale of soft drinks England and Wales 100
Britvic Irish Holdings Limited Holding company Republic of Ireland 100
Britvic Ireland Limited Manufacture and marketing of soft drinks Republic of Ireland 100
Britvic Northern Ireland Limited Marketing and distribution of soft drinks Republic of Ireland 100
Aquaporte Limited Supply of water-coolers and bottled water Republic of Ireland 100
Britvic Worldwide Brands Limited Marketing and distribution of soft drinks Republic of Ireland 100
Britvic Property Partnership Financing company Scotland 100
Britvic North America LLC Marketing and distribution of soft drinks USA 100
Britvic France SNC Holding partnership France 100
Fruité Entreprises SA Holding company France 100
Fruité SAS Manufacture and sale of soft drinks France 100
Bricfruit SAS Manufacture and sale of soft drinks France 100
Unisource SAS Manufacture and sale of soft drinks France 100
Teisseire SAS Manufacture and sale of soft drinks France 100
Teisseire Benelux SA Marketing and distribution of soft drinks France 100
Key management personnel are deemed to be the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the company and members of the Executive 
Committee. The compensation payable to key management in the period is detailed below.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Short-term employee benefits 6.6 3.0
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.6
Share-based payment 1.1 0.4
7.8 4.0
See note 8 for details of directors’ emoluments.
There were no other related party transactions requiring disclosure in these financial statements.
32. Going concern
The directors are confident that it is appropriate for the going concern basis to be adopted in preparing the financial statements. As at 29 
September 2013, the consolidated balance sheet is showing a net assets position of £40.9m (30 September 2012: net assets of £37 .1m).
Group reserves are low due to the capital restructuring undertaken at the time of flotation. This does not impact on Britvic plc’s ability to 
make dividend payments.
The liquidity of the group remains strong in particular with £491 .2m of private placement notes with maturity dates between 2014 and 
2022 and a £400.0m bank facility maturing in March 2016. In addition, it is expected that additional private placement notes will be 
secured in December 2013 subject to completion of documentation and due diligence (see note 21).
110 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 We have audited the parent company financial statements of 
Britvic plc for the 52 week period ended 29 September 2013 which 
comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 
17 . The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice).
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state 
to the company’s members those matters we are required to state 
to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the 
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.  
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 59, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and 
express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all 
the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to  
identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 
statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit. If 
we become aware of any apparent material misstatements  
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
•  give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as 
at 29 September 2013;
•  have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
•  have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
•  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
•   the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in 
our opinion:
•    adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•    the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•    certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
•    we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of 
Britvic plc for the 52 week period ended 29 September 2013.
Simon O’Neill (Senior statutory auditor) 
for and on behalf of Ernst & Y oung LLP , Statutory Auditor 
Birmingham
25 November 2013
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
111 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
independent auditor’s report to the 
members of Britvic plc Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non-current assets
Investments in group undertakings 6 748.7 742.5
Other financial assets 11 62.5 92.1
811.2 834.6
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 8 59.2 3.1
Deferred tax asset 7 0.7 0.9
Other financial assets 11 11.4 -
71.3 4.0
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 9 (69.8) (14.1)
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 10 (117 .9) (22.4)
Other financial liabilities 11 (0.1) (0.2)
(187 .8) (36.7)
Net current liabilities (116.5) (32.7)
T otal assets less current liabilities 694.7 801 .9
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 10 (457 .2) (557 .1)
Other financial liabilities 11 (10.0) (8.6)
Other non-current liabilities 12 (1.9) (1 .9)
(469.1) (567 .6)
Net assets 225.6 234.3
Capital and reserves
Issued share capital 13 49.0 48.5
Share premium account 14 25.0 17.7
Own shares reserve 14 (1.1) (0.8)
Share scheme reserve 14 7.5 4.2
Hedging reserve 14 4.6 6.4
Merger reserve 14 87 .3 87 .3
Retained earnings 14 53.3 71 .0
Equity shareholders’ funds 225.6 234.3
The financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on 25 November 2013. They were signed on its 
behalf by:
Simon Litherland John Gibney 
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
1 12 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
company balance sheet
At 29 September 2013 1. Parent undertaking
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for the measurement of derivative instruments at fair 
value. They have been drawn up to comply with applicable accounting standards in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 
These accounts have been prepared under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and present information about the company as 
an individual undertaking, and not about its group.
The company has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual 
profit and loss account and related notes.
The company is exempt from the requirements of Financial Reporting Standard No.1 (Revised) “Cash Flow Statements” .
2. Accounting policies
Investments
The company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost less any provisions made for impairment.
In respect of FRS 20 ‘Share-based payment’, the company records an increase in its investment in subsidiaries to reflect the share-based 
compensation expense recorded by its subsidiaries. 
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method or at fair value.
Finance costs arising from the outstanding loan balance and finance charges are charged to the profit and loss account using an effective 
interest rate method.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the 
profit and loss account.
Issued share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Dividends
Dividend income is recognised when the company’ s right to receive payment is established. Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in 
the period in which they are approved by the company’ s shareholders. Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are declared.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised, subject to certain exceptions, in respect of all material timing differences between the 
recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and for tax purposes. Those timing differences recognised include accelerated 
capital allowances, unrelieved tax losses and short term timing differences. Timing differences not recognised include those relating to 
the revaluation of fixed assets in the absence of a commitment to sell the assets, the gain on sale of assets rolled into replacement 
assets and the distribution of profits from overseas subsidiaries in the absence of any commitment by the subsidiary to make the distribution.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered and to the extent 
that it is regarded as probable that future taxable profits will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences 
reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging 
The company uses cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations 
classified as cash flow hedges (when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk 
associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction). All derivative financial instruments are initially 
recognised and subsequently re-measured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as 
liabilities when the fair value is negative. 
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at its 
inception. This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged 
and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration. Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the profit and 
loss account. The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing interest rate swaps designated as hedging instruments is as follows: 
For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the 
ineffective portion is recognised in the profit and loss account. Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the profit and loss account 
when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the profit and loss 
account. If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a 
hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to 
the profit and loss account. If the related transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken to the profit and loss account. 
For fair value hedges, the gain or loss on the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in the profit and loss account. The gain 
or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk shall adjust the carrying amount of the hedged item and be recognised in 
the profit and loss account. If the hedge relationship was ineffective the hedged item would no longer be adjusted and the fair value 
gain or loss on the hedging instrument would continue to be recorded in the profit and loss account.
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
1 13 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
notes to the company financial statements notes to the company financial statements continued
3. Auditor’s remuneration
Auditor’s remuneration has been borne by another group undertaking. For further details, refer to note 7 of the consolidated financial 
statements.
4. Profit/loss of the company
The company made a profit of £23.4m in the period (2012: loss £25.3m).
5. Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration of the directors of the company is borne by another group company.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Directors’ emoluments 2.7 1.5
Aggregate gains made by directors on exercise of options - 0.7
2013
No.
2012
No.
Number of directors accruing benefits under defined benefit schemes - -
6. Investments in group undertakings
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cost and net book value at the beginning of the period 742.5 739.5
Capital contribution 6.2 3.0
Cost and net book value at the end of the period 748.7 742.5
The following is a list of the principal subsidiary undertakings of which Britvic plc is, either directly or through subsidiary companies, the 
beneficial owner of the whole of the equity share capital. Particulars of dormant and non-trading subsidiaries have been excluded.
Name Principal activity
Country of  
incorporation
% equity  
interest
Directly held
Britannia Soft Drinks Limited Holding company England and Wales 100
Britvic Finance No 2 Limited Financing company Jersey 100
Indirectly held
Britvic International Limited Marketing and distribution of soft drinks England and Wales 100
Britvic Soft Drinks Limited Manufacture and sale of soft drinks England and Wales 100
Britvic Irish Holdings Limited Holding company Republic of Ireland 100
Britvic Ireland Limited Manufacture and marketing of soft drinks Republic of Ireland 100
Britvic Northern Ireland Limited Marketing and distribution of soft drinks Republic of Ireland 100
Aquaporte Limited Supply of water-coolers and bottled water Republic of Ireland 100
Britvic Worldwide Brands Limited Marketing and distribution of soft drinks Republic of Ireland 100
Britvic Property Partnership Financing company Scotland 100
Britvic North America LLC Marketing and distribution of Soft drinks USA 100
Britvic France SNC Holding partnership France 100
Fruité Entreprises SA Holding company France 100
Fruité SAS Manufacture and sale of soft drinks France 100
Bricfruit SAS Manufacture and sale of soft drinks France 100
Unisource SAS Manufacture and sale of soft drinks France 100
Teisseire SAS Manufacture and sale of soft drinks France 100
Teisseire Benelux SA Marketing and distribution of soft drinks France 100
1 14 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the company financial statements continued
7. Deferred tax
2013
£m
2012
£m
Opening balance 0.9 1.4
Profit and loss account (0.2) (0.5)
Closing balance 0.7 0.9
Analysed as tax on timing differences related to:
Other 0.7 0.9
8. T rade and other receivables
2013
£m
2012
£m
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 59.2 3.0
Other receivables - 0.1
59.2 3.1
9. T rade and other payables
2013
£m
2012
£m
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings (68.7) (13.6)
Accruals and deferred income (1.1) (0.5)
(69.8) (14.1)
10. Interest bearing loans and borrowings
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current
Bank overdrafts (26.7) (22.4)
Private placement notes (92.1) -
Unamortised issue costs 0.9 -
Total current (117 .9) (22.4)
Non-current
Private placement notes (459.1) (560.8)
Unamortised issue costs 1.9 3.7
Total non-current (457 .2) (557 .1)
Private placement notes
2007 Notes
On 20 February 2007 , Britvic plc issued US$375m and £38m of Senior Notes (‘the 2007 Notes’) in the United States Private Placement 
market. The amount, maturity and interest terms of the 2007 Notes are shown in the table below:
Series T ranche Maturity date Amount Interest terms Swap terms
A 7 year 20 February 2014 US$87m US$ fixed at 5.80% UK£ fixed at 6.10%
B 7 year 20 February 2014 US$15m US$ LIBOR + 0.5% UK£ fixed at 6.07%
C 7 year 20 February 2014 £25m UK£ fixed at 6.11% n/a
D 10 year 20 February 2017 US$147m US$ fixed at 5.90% UK£ fixed at 5.98%
E 12 year 20 February 2019 US$126m US$ fixed at 6.00% UK£ fixed at 5.98%
F 12 year 20 February 2019 £13m UK£ fixed at 5.94% n/a
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
1 15 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the company financial statements continued
10. Interest bearing loans and borrowings continued
Britvic plc makes quarterly or semi-annual interest payments in the currency of issue. The 2007 Notes are unsecured and rank pari passu 
in right of repayment with other senior unsecured indebtedness of the company. In order to manage the risk of foreign currency and 
interest rate fluctuations, the company has entered into cross currency interest rate swaps whereby fixed / floating US dollar interest is 
swapped for fixed sterling interest. The swap contracts have the same duration and other critical terms as the borrowings which they 
hedge and are considered to be effective.
2009 Notes
On 17 December 2009, Britvic plc issued US$250m of Senior Notes in the United States Private Placement market (‘the 2009 Notes’). 
The 2009 Notes are additional borrowings to the 2007 Notes.
Britvic plc makes semi-annual interest payments in US dollars. The 2009 Notes are unsecured and rank pari passu in right of repayment 
with other senior unsecured indebtedness of the group.
In order to manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and to ensure an appropriate mix of sterling and euro funding, the company 
has entered into a number of new cross currency interest rate swaps. The 2009 Notes were swapped into floating rate sterling and euro 
liabilities through a series of US dollar to sterling and sterling to euro swap instruments. The US dollar to sterling cross currency interest 
rate swap contracts have the same duration and other critical terms as the relevant borrowings they hedge and are designated as part of 
effective hedge relationships.
The amount, maturity and interest terms of the 2009 Notes are shown in the table below:
Series T ranche Maturity date Amount Interest terms Swap terms
A 5 year 17 December 2014 US$30m US$ fixed at 4.07% UK£ LIBOR + 1 .44%
B 7 year 17 December 2016 US$75m US$ fixed at 4.77% EURIBOR + 1 .69%
C 8 year 17 December 2017 US$25m US$ fixed at 4.94% EURIBOR + 1 .70%
D 10 year 17 December 2019 US$120m US$ fixed at 5.24% EURIBOR + 1 .75%
The 2009 USPP cross currency swaps converted an amount of US dollar borrowings into a floating rate euro liability. To mitigate exposure 
to changes in euro interest rates on a portion of this liability, €75.0m of interest rate swaps were transacted. These interest rate swaps do 
not form part of an effective hedge relationship.
2010 Notes
On 17 December 2010, the company issued US$163.0m and £7 .5m of Senior Notes in the United States Private Placement market (‘the 
2010 Notes’). The 2010 Notes are additional borrowings to the 2007 Notes and the 2009 Notes.
Britvic plc makes semi-annual interest payments in US dollars and sterling under these notes. The 2010 Notes are unsecured and rank 
pari passu in right of repayment with other senior unsecured indebtedness of the group.
In order to manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and to ensure an appropriate mix of sterling and euro funding, the company 
has entered into a number of cross currency interest rate swaps. The 2010 Notes were swapped into a mix of fixed and floating rate 
sterling and euro liabilities through a series of US dollar to sterling and sterling to euro swap instruments. These cross currency swap 
contracts have the same duration and other critical terms as the relevant borrowings they hedge and are designated as part of effective 
hedge relationships.
The amount, maturity and interest terms of the 2010 Notes are shown in the table below:
Series T ranche Maturity date Amount Interest terms Swap terms
A 7 year 17 December 2017 £7 .5m UK£ fixed at 3.74% N/A
B 7 year 17 December 2017 US$25m US$ fixed at 3.45% UK£ fixed 3.85%
US$25m US$ fixed at 3.45% € fixed 3.34%
C 10 year 17 December 2020 US$37m US$ fixed at 4.04% UK£ LIBOR +1 .24%
US$23m US$ fixed at 4.04% € fixed 3.85%
US$10m US$ fixed at 4.04% UK£ fixed 4.49%
D 12 year 17 December 2022 US$18m US$ fixed at 4.14% UK£ LIBOR +1 .18%
US$25m US$ fixed at 4.14% € fixed 3.97%
The 2010 USPP cross currency swaps converted an amount of US dollar borrowings into a floating rate sterling liability. To mitigate 
exposure to interest rates on a portion of this liability, £20.0m of 2-year interest rate swaps were transacted with an effective date of 
December 2011 . These interest rate swaps do not form part of an effective hedge relationship.
2014 Notes
In November 2013, the group reached agreement with a number of investors in the US private placement market to raise an additional 
$170.4m equivalent of funding for terms of between 7 and 12 years. This funding is subject to documentation and due diligence which is 
scheduled to be completed in December 2013. Where this funding is dollar-denominated this has been hedged using cross-currency 
interest-rate swaps to meet the group’s desired funding profile and to manage the associated foreign currency risk to the profit and loss 
account.
1 16 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the company financial statements continued
11. Other financial asset and financial liabilities
2013
£m
2012
£m
Other financial assets: non-current
Cross currency interest rate swaps relating to the 2007 Notes 36.9 49.9
Cross currency interest rate swaps relating to the 2009 Notes 25.6 38.2
Cross currency interest rate swaps relating to the 2010 Notes - 4.0
62.5 92.1
Other financial assets: current
Cross currency interest rate swaps relating to the 2007 Notes 11.4 -
11.4 -
Other financial liabilities: current
Foreign exchange swaps - (0.2)
Interest rate swaps (0.1) -
(0.1) (0.2)
Other financial liabilities: non-current
Cross currency interest rate swaps relating to the 2010 Notes (7 .3) (5.0)
Interest rate swaps (2.7) (3.6)
(10.0) (8.6)
12. Other non-current liabilities
2013
£m
2012
£m
Firm commitment (1.9) (1 .9)
A firm commitment exists in respect of the receipt of the 2009 and 2010 Notes. 
13. Issued share capital
The issued share capital is wholly comprised of ordinary shares carrying one voting right each. The nominal value of each ordinary share is 
£0.20. There are no restrictions placed on the distribution of dividends, or the return of capital on a winding up or otherwise.
Issued, called up and fully paid ordinary shares No. of shares
Value
£
At 2 October 2011 241,400,052 48,280,010
Shares issued 944,499 188,900
At 30 September 2012 242,344,551 48,468,910
Shares issued 2,746,477 549,295
At 29 September 2013 245,091,028 49,018,205 
Of the issued and fully paid ordinary shares, 231,547 shares (2012: 217 ,994 shares) are own shares held by an employee benefit trust. 
This equates to £46,309 (2012: £43,599) at £0.20 par value of each ordinary share. These shares are held for the purpose of satisfying the 
share schemes detailed in note 28.
An explanation of the group’s capital management process and objectives is set out in note 24 of the consolidated accounts.
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
117 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 notes to the company financial statements continued
14. Reconciliation of movement in equity shareholders’ funds
Issued share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Own shares 
reserve
£m
Share 
scheme 
reserve
£m
Hedging 
reserve
£m
 Merger 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total
£m
At 30 September 2012 48.5 17.7 (0.8) 4.2 6.4 87 .3 71.0 234.3
Profit for the year - - - - - - 23.4 23.4
Issue of shares 0.5 7.3 (2.1) - - - - 5.7
Own shares utilised for share schemes - - 1.8 (1 .8) - - 1.4 1.4
Movement in share based schemes - - - 5.1 - - - 5.1
Movement in cash flow hedges - - - - (1 .8) - - (1.8)
Payment of dividend - - - - - - (42.5) (42.5)
At 29 September 2013 49.0 25.0 (1.1) 7.5 4.6 87 .3 53.3 225.6
15. Dividends paid and proposed
2013
£m
2012
£m
Declared and paid during the period
Equity dividends on ordinary shares
 Final dividend for 2012: 12.4p per share (2011: 12.6p per share) 29.6 29.9
 Interim dividend for 2013: 5.4p per share (2012: 5.3p per share) 12.9 12.6
Dividends paid 42.5 42.5
Proposed 
 Final dividend for 2013: 13.0p per share (2012: 12.4p per share) 31.7 30.1
16. Contingent liabilities
The company is co-guarantor of the group’s bank loan and overdraft facilities.
17. Related party transactions
The company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 8 available to a parent company not to disclose transactions with its 
wholly owned subsidiaries within its financial statements.
118 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 shareholder
information
120 Shareholder information
122 Cautionary statement
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
119 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 Range of holdings
Number of  
shareholders
Percentage  
of total  
shareholders
Ordinary  
shares (million)
Percentage  
of issued  
share capital
1 - 199 204 7 .70% 13,516 0.01%
200 - 499 278 10.50% 91,330 0.04%
500 - 999 424 16.01% 296,889 0.12%
1000 - 4999 1,079 40.75% 2,278,188 0.93%
5000 - 9999 226 8.53% 1,462,922 0.60%
10000 - 49999 174 6.57% 4,125,813 1 .68%
50000 - 99999 68 2.57% 5,057 ,231 2.06%
100000 - 499999 116 4.38% 25,955,294 10.59%
500000 - 999999 24 0.91% 16,886,381 6.89%
1000000 Plus 55 2.08% 188,923,464 77 .08%
 2,648 100.00% 245,091,028 100.00%
Category
Number of  
shareholders
Percentage  
of total  
shareholders
Ordinary  
shares (million)
Percentage  
of issued  
share capital
Private Individuals 1,635 61 .75% 5,262,629 2.15%
Nominee Companies 579 21 .87% 219,923,541 89.73%
Limited and Public Limited Companies 371 14.01% 13,471,898 5.50%
Other Corporate Bodies 60 2.27% 6,227 ,663 2.54%
Pension Funds, Insurance Companies and Banks 3 0.11% 205,297 0.08%
 2,648 100.00% 245,091,028 100.00%
2013 Dividends
Payment Date Amount per share
Interim 12 July 2013 5.4p
Final 7 February 2014 13.0p
Dividend mandates
Shareholders who wish dividends to be paid directly into a bank or 
building society account should contact the Registrar for a dividend 
mandate form or the form can be downloaded from the company’s 
website http://ir.britvic.com/shareholder-centre/dividends.aspx 
This method of payment removes the risk of delay or loss of dividend 
cheques in the post and ensures that your account is credited on 
the due date. 
Dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) 
Shareholders can choose to reinvest dividends received to purchase 
further shares in the company through the company’s DRIP . A DRIP 
application form is available via the registrar or for download from 
the company’s website http://ir.britvic.com/shareholder-centre/
dividends.aspx 
Share dealing services
The company’s registrar, Equiniti Financial Services Limited, offers 
a telephone and internet dealing service, Shareview, which provides 
a simple and convenient way of buying and selling shares. For 
telephone dealings call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and 
4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealings log onto  
www.shareview.co.uk/dealing 
Individual savings accounts (ISAs) 
ISAs in Britvic plc ordinary shares are available through Equiniti 
Financial Services Limited. Further information may be obtained 
through their ISA Helpline, telephone 0845 300 0430. 
American depository receipts
Britvic American Depository Receipts (ADRs) are traded on the Over 
The Counter (OTC) market under the symbol BTVCY . One ADR 
represents two Britvic plc ordinary shares. This is a sponsored 
Level 1 ADR programme for which The Bank of New Y ork Mellon acts 
as both Depositary Bank and Registrar . For the issuance and management 
of ADRs and any general ADR questions, please contact:
The Bank of New Y ork Mellon 
Investor Services 
P .O. Box 11258 
Church Street Station 
New Y ork, NY 10286-1258  
USA
Investor Helpline:  +1-888-BNY -ADRs (USA caller, toll free) 
+1 201 680 6825 (non-USA caller)
Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com
Website: http://www.bnymellon.com/shareowner
Warning to shareholders – boiler room fraud 
and other investment scams
Share or investment scams are often run from ‘boiler rooms’ where 
fraudsters cold-call investors offering them worthless, overpriced or 
even non-existent shares, or offer to buy their shares in a company 
at a higher price than the market value. Shareholders are advised 
to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a 
discount, or offers of free reports about the company. Even seasoned 
investors have been caught out by such fraudsters and it is estimated 
that £200 million is lost in this way in the UK each year.
The FCA have some helpful information about such scams on their 
website, including tips to protect your savings and how to report 
a suspected investment scam. Britvic encourages shareholders 
to read the information on the site which can be accessed at 
www.fca.org.uk/consumers/scams/investment-scams
120 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
Shareholder information
Shareholder profile as at 29 September 2013 Financial calendar 
Ex-dividend date 4 December 2013 
Record date 6 December 2013 
Annual general meeting 29 January 2014
Payment of final dividend 7 February 2014 
Interim results announcement 21 May 2014
Electronic communications
Shareholders can elect to receive shareholder documents electronically 
by registering with Shareview at www.shareview.co.uk. This will 
save on printing and distribution costs, creating environmental 
benefits. When you register, you will be sent an email notification to 
say when shareholder documents are available on our website and 
you will be provided with a link to that information. When registering, 
you will need your shareholder reference number which can be 
found on your share certificate or proxy form. Please contact 
Equiniti if you require any assistance or further information.
Contacts
The Company Secretary is Clare Thomas. The registered office 
is Breakspear Park, Breakspear Way, Hemel Hempstead, 
Hertfordshire HP2 4TZ, telephone +44 (0)1442 284411, 
fax +44 (0)1442 284402, website www.britvic.com 
Shareholder inquiries to the Company Secretary may also 
be submitted to company.secretariat@britvic.co.uk
Investor Relations: investors@britvic.co.uk
This report is available to download via the company’s website 
http://ir.britvic.com/results-and-presentations/results-and-
presentations/2013.aspx
The company’s Registrar is Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, 
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, telephone 0871 384 2550* 
(UK callers), +44 121 415 7019 (non- UK callers).
* For those with hearing difficulties, a textphone is available on 0871 384 2255 for 
UK callers with compatible equipment. Calls to 0871 numbers are charged at 8p 
per minute plus network extras.
business review financial statements overview shareholder information governance
121 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements
This announcement includes statements that are forward-looking in nature. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown 
risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the group to be materially 
different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Except as 
required by the Listing Rules and applicable law, Britvic undertakes no obligation to update or change any forward-looking statements to 
reflect events occurring after the date such statements are published.
Definitions
(1)  Where appropriate, comparisons are quoted using constant exchange rates. Constant currency change removes the impact of 
exchange rate movements during the period by retranslating prior year foreign currency denominated results of the group at current 
period exchange rates to aid comparability.
(2)  EBITA is defined as operating profit before exceptional and other items and amortisation. Only amortisation attributable to intangibles 
related to acquisitions is added back, in the period this is £2.9m (2012: £2.9m as reported last year). EBITA margin is the EBITA as a 
proportion of group revenues.
(3)  Adjusted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing adjusted earnings by the average number of shares during the period. 
Adjusted earnings is defined as the profit/(loss) attributable to ordinary equity shareholders before exceptional and other items 
adjusted for the adding back of acquisition related amortisation. Average number of shares during the period is defined as the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period excluding any own shares held by Britvic that are used to 
satisfy various employee share-based incentive programmes. The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for adjusted 
earnings per share for the period was 243.2m (2012: 241 .6m). 
(4)  Underlying free cash flow is defined as net cash flow excluding movements in borrowings, dividend payments and exceptional and 
other items.
(5)  Group adjusted net debt is defined as group net debt, adding back the impact of derivatives hedging the balance sheet debt.
(6)  Return on invested capital (ROIC) - is defined as operating profit after applying the tax rate for the period, stated before exceptional 
and other items, as a percentage of invested capital. Invested capital is defined as non-current assets plus current assets less current 
liabilities, excluding all balances relating to interest bearing liabilities and all other assets or liabilities associated with the financing and 
capital structure of the group and excluding any deferred tax balances and effective hedges relating to interest-bearing liabilities.
All numbers in this announcement, other than where stated or included within the financial statements, are disclosed before exceptional 
and other items.
The auditors have reported on the 2013 and 2012 accounts. Their reports for both years were unqualified and did not contain statements 
under section 498 (2) or (3) of the Companies Act 2006.
122 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
Shareholder information continued Designed by sg design [sg-design.co.uk]
Photography by ben fisher [benfisherphotography.com]
Print management by oliver marketing [www.oliver-marketing.com]  Br itvic plc 
Breakspear Park 
Breakspear Way 
Hemel Hempstead 
HP2 4TZ
Tel: +44 (0)121 711 1102
www.britvic.com
