 www.btgplc.com
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
2011
Because people depend on us
We are Expanding Developing Partnering Delivering 10
Report from the directors on 
the key strategic, financial and 
operational developments  
during the year.
36
The report from the directors,  
our governance and 
remuneration reports. 
72
The financial statements  
and accompanying notes. 
 
12 Group highlights
14 Chairman’s statement
16 Chief Executive Officer’s review
20 Business review
25 Principal risks and uncertainties
30 Corporate responsibility report
38 Board of directors
40 Directors’ report
44 Corporate governance
52 Audit Committee report
56 Nomination Committee report
57 Remuneration report
69  Statement of directors’ responsibilities
70  Independent auditor’s report to the 
members of BTG plc
74 Consolidated income statement
75 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
76 Consolidated statement of financial position
77  Consolidated statement of cash flows
78 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
128 Company statement of financial position
129  Company statement of cash flows
130  Company statement of changes in equity
131 Notes to the company financial statements
135  Appendix 1: Unaudited pro-forma consolidated 
income statement
136  Five-year financial record
138  Shareholder information
140  Cautionary statement
01 
We are
Business review
Directors and governance
Financials
02 
Expanding
04 
Developing
06 
Partnering
08 
Delivering
Printed in the UK using soya-based 
inks and water sealants; the paper  
manufacturing mill is accredited with 
ISO 14001 Environmental Management  
systems and is Forest Stewardship  
Council certified. 
Designed and produced by 
Bostock and Pollitt Limited, London
Printed by 
Quadracolor We are
 01
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 We are
We are a growing international  
specialist healthcare company  
focused on specialty pharmaceuticals 
and interventional medicine. 
Our mission is to bring to market  
medical products that meet the  
needs of specialist physicians  
and their patients and in doing  
so to build a sustainably profitable  
business that delivers superior  
returns to shareholders. 02
We are  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
We are expanding. In the past year we began 
selling our own specialty pharmaceutical 
products in the US and we acquired 
Biocompatibles International plc, adding  
an interventional medicine focus.
Products and availability
Product
CroFab® (crotalidae polyvalent immune fab (ovine)) 
 DigiFab® (digoxin immune fab (ovine)) 
Bead Block™ 
LC Bead™ 
DC Bead®
Available in regions*
1 
1,2,4 
1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8 
1 
2,3,4,5,6,7,8
2
1
3
8
4
7
6
5
Expanding
 *Products may only be available in some territories in the regions highlighted. Expanding
 03
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 We are
Specialty pharmaceutical products
On 1 October 2010, our new acute care 
sales force commenced selling CroFab® 
(crotalidae polyvalent immune fab (ovine)) 
and DigiFab® (digoxin immune fab (ovine))  
in the US. CroFab® is approved in the US  
for the management of patients with North 
American crotalid snake envenomation. 
DigiFab® is approved in the US for the 
treatment of patients with life-threatening  
or potentially life-threatening digoxin toxicity  
or overdose; it is also approved in Canada 
and Switzerland, and we are progressing  
a regulatory application in the UK while 
exploring additional opportunities in  
other markets.
Interventional medicine products
Through the acquisition of Biocompatibles  
in January 2011, we now have a range of 
implantable products to address the needs  
of patients with cancer of the liver and 
prostate. These include embolisation beads 
and drug-eluting beads that are guided into 
arteries supplying tumours, most frequently 
liver tumours. Embolisation beads block the 
blood supply and drug-eluting beads slowly 
release cytotoxic drugs. Biocompatibles  
also brought delivery systems containing 
radioactive Seeds and ancillary equipment 
used in brachytherapy implants to treat 
early-stage prostate cancer. In addition  
to strengthening our sales in Western 
markets, Biocompatibles’ products  
also provide a footprint in increasingly 
important Asian markets.
Building our product portfolio
We intend to expand our product range 
through organic development and acquisition 
activities. From our own pipeline, if we are 
successful in gaining regulatory approvals in 
the US, potential additions to our marketed 
products are Voraxaze® (glucarpidase), which 
is under development for the rapid and 
sustained reduction of toxic methotrexate 
levels due to impaired renal function, and 
Varisolve® (PEM), an experimental treatment 
for varicose veins. Glucarpidase would be 
sold by our existing acute care sales force 
and we would establish a new specialist 
sales force within our interventional medicine 
area to market PEM in the US reimbursed 
sector. We are also seeking to acquire 
products from outside BTG that fit our 
specialty pharmaceuticals and interventional 
medicine franchises, or which merit a 
dedicated specialist sales force.
Acquisition of Biocompatibles
Jan 2011
Acquisition of Protherics
Dec 2008
Over the past 30 months, we have  
brought together three strong companies 
– BTG, Protherics and Biocompatibles –  
to create a growing, international specialist 
healthcare company, focused on specialty 
pharmaceuticals and interventional medicine. 
We will support growth in both areas by 
investing in product acquisition, development 
and direct, customer-facing activities. 04
We are  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
We developed and we manufacture our 
marketed products CroFab® and DigiFab®, 
which are based on our polyclonal antibody 
platform. We have also developed and 
manufacture embolising beads and drug-
eluting beads for treating tumours, in 
particular liver cancer, and brachytherapy 
products that are used in the treatment of 
early-stage prostate cancer. 
Our current development programmes 
support expansion of our marketed products 
and provide partnering opportunities.
Recent progress in clinical development 
programmes includes:
Voraxaze® (glucarpidase): We expect to 
submit the final components of the rolling 
Biologics License Application (BLA) in  
the US in early H2 2011. This is to seek 
approval as a treatment for the rapid and 
sustained reduction of toxic methotrexate 
levels due to impaired renal function.
Varisolve® (PEM): Three Phase III trials 
were initiated in the US during September  
to November 2010, two (VANISH-1 and 
VANISH-2) are intended to support a US 
regulatory application for approval as a 
single agent to treat the symptoms and 
appearance of varicose veins in people  
with incompetence of the great saphenous 
vein (GSV), and the third (VV017) to support 
an application for use alongside heat 
ablation of the GSV to treat vein segments 
not treated by the ablation procedure. 
Recruitment in all three is on track: VV017 
has completed recruitment of all 105 
patients, VANISH-2 has recruited 220 
patients (96% of target) and VANISH-1 has 
recruited 62 patients (25% of target). As 
treatments complete in VV017 a number of 
VV017 sites will immediately begin recruiting 
for VANISH-1, increasing the overall number 
of sites in this study. All studies are 
expected to be completed by the end of 
2011, with data in H1 2012, a US regulatory 
submission in H2 2012 and potential 
approval in H2 2013.
DC Bead® , HCC (SPACE trial): In collaboration 
with Bayer this Phase II study of patients 
with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is 
exploring the use of sorafenib in combination 
with transarterial chemoembolisation (TACE) 
using the DC Bead® compared with DC 
Bead® alone. Recruitment is complete and 
the study results are expected in H1 2012.
DC Bead® , HCC (bridge to transplant): Two 
investigator-led Phase II studies are currently 
recruiting patients, a multicentre study  
in Germany and single centre study in  
New Zealand.
DC Bead® , HCC (downstage to resection): A 
single centre investigator-led Phase II study 
is currently recruiting patients in the US.
DC Bead® , mCRC (PARAGON): Four 
investigator-led Phase II studies are 
recruiting patients covering all stages of 
metastatic colorectal cancer: neoadjuvant, 
first line, second line and refractory. The 
neoadjuvant study is a single arm, multicentre 
study in patients with resectable liver 
metastases from colorectal cancer; the first 
line study is a randomised multicentre study 
with concomitant systemic oxaliplatin, 
fluorouracil and leucovorin chemotherapy 
with anti-angiogenic therapy; the second line 
study is a randomised multicentre study of 
DC Beads with irinotecan and systemic 
cetuximab vs. systemic irinotecan and 
cetuximab in patients with refractory KRAS 
wild type tumours; and the refractory study 
is a single arm study in patients with liver 
dominant disease.
Developing
We are developing products to be used by 
specialist physicians and that we will market 
ourselves. We are also developing products 
addressing major indications that we intend 
to partner.  Developing
 05
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 We are
Key products in our pipeline
R&D expenditure
10/11 £32.1m
09/10 £27.0m
08/09 £21.6m
07/08 £12.9m
Our investment in research  
and development has increased 
during the past four years in  
line with the expansion of the 
business, following the acquisition 
of Protherics and Biocompatibles, 
and the decision to complete 
development of Varisolve® (PEM).
Phase I Phase II Phase III NDA/BLA 
Specialty pharmaceuticals 
 
Interventional medicine 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Licensing candidates
Product, Indication
 
Voraxaze® (glucarpidase)
Delayed MTX elimination
Varisolve® (PEM)
Varicose veins
DC Bead® SPACE trial (with Bayer)
Hepatocellular cancer
Drug-Eluting Bead (PARAGON)
Metastatic colorectal cancer 
(mCRC)
Drug-Eluting Bead (PRECISION)
Primary liver cancer (HCC)
BGC20-0134 (Pleneva™)
Multiple sclerosis
CellBead™ (neuro)
NeuroHaemorrhage
CellBead™ (cardio)
Cardiovascular diseases
The results of the DC Bead® studies 
mentioned on the previous page will  
inform our future development strategy  
for DC Bead® .
BGC20-0134 (Pleneva™): Recruitment of 
166 patients was completed in January 
2011 into this Phase IIa study of BGC20-
0134, an oral compound under development 
as a potential treatment for relapsing-
remitting multiple sclerosis. The primary 
outcome at the end of a six-month double 
blind treatment period is the number of  
new lesions in the brain detected by MRI 
scanning during the treatment period.  
Data relating to the primary outcome are 
anticipated in H2 2011; additional data  
will be generated in a six-month open  
label study extension. 06
We are  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Partnering
We partner products in development that  
we do not plan to market ourselves once  
we have demonstrated proof of concept.
BTG’s origins as a technology licensing 
company have resulted in us receiving 
significant milestone and royalty revenues 
from partners. Revenues from licensed 
programmes generally cease when the 
patents we have licensed expire, but new 
revenue streams commence as partners are 
successful in developing and commercialising 
other products. We have an exciting pipeline 
of partnered programmes with the potential 
to generate significant future value.
Partnering is a key part of BTG’s strategy.  
In bringing together the portfolios of BTG, 
Protherics and Biocompatibles, we have 
continued several development programmes 
that do not fit our specialty pharmaceuticals 
or interventional medicine focus. This is 
because we believe they have the potential 
to deliver significant value in return for a 
defined R&D investment if we can generate 
positive early data and find appropriate 
partners. This activity is managed by our 
licensing and biotechnology team.
Among our current active development 
programmes, those destined for partnering  
if the data from the current studies are 
promising are: BGC20-0134 (Pleneva™), 
under development as a treatment for 
multiple sclerosis; CellBead™ (neuro), 
targeting stroke; and CellBead™ (cardio), 
targeting cardiovascular diseases. Each of 
these programmes will require large pivotal 
Phase III trials, and if they are approved, 
large sales forces and marketing budgets. 
This does not fit our strategy of developing 
products for niche indications, where smaller 
patient numbers are required for the trials 
programme and small sales forces address 
specialist audiences if the products are 
successfully approved.
Progress in key partnered programmes:
ZYTIGA™ (abiraterone acetate): In 
September 2010 a Phase III trial of 
abiraterone acetate plus prednisone in 
patients with advanced metastatic prostate 
cancer was unblinded after an interim 
analysis demonstrated a statistically 
significant improvement in overall survival 
and an acceptable safety profile. Regulatory 
applications were submitted in the US and 
EU in December 2010, and US approval was 
received in April 2011. Abiraterone acetate is 
licensed to Cougar Biotechnology, which was 
acquired by Johnson & Johnson in 2009. 
Alemtuzumab: Five-year data from a 
completed Phase II study in multiple 
sclerosis patients was published in April 
2011, showing that nearly two-thirds of 
alemtuzumab-treated patients remained  
free of clinically active disease for up to  
four years after receiving their last course  
of treatment of the investigational drug. 
Initial results from two pivotal Phase III trials 
are expected in the third and fourth quarters 
of 2011, leading to anticipated regulatory 
submissions in early 2012.
AZD9773 (CytoFab™): A global Phase IIb 
study to compare the efficacy and safety of 
AZD9773 with placebo in adult patients with 
severe sepsis and/or septic shock receiving 
best supportive care was initiated in October 
2010 and continues to recruit patients. 
Results are anticipated in H1 2012. 
AZD9773 is licensed to AstraZeneca.
Otelixizumab: This monoclonal antibody 
failed to meet the primary endpoint in a 
Phase III study in type 1 diabetes. A Phase II 
study in rheumatoid arthritis is ongoing. 
Otelixizumab is licensed to Tolerx, Inc./
GlaxoSmithKline.
CM-3: A development and option agreement 
relating to CM-3, a GLP-1 analogue being 
developed by CellMed for use in type 2 
diabetes and other indications, was 
terminated by AstraZeneca in May 2011. Partnering
 07
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 We are
Partnered programmes
Recurring royalties
10/11 £60.1m
09/10 £54.1m
08/09 £55.3m
07/08 £42.4m
Key contributors to recurring 
royalties in 10/11:
BeneFIX® £28.7m
Two-Part Hip Cup £12.4m
MRC humanisation IP £6.3m
Campath® 
(alemtuzumab) £5.2m
Phase I Phase II Phase III NDA/BLA 
Cougar Biotechnology/J&J
 
 
Genzyme Corporation/Sanofi 
 
AstraZeneca 
 
Tolerx/GSK 
 
Abiogen Pharma 
 
Renovo Group plc 
 
 
Advancell S.A. 
 
 
ImmusanT, Inc. 
 
Onyx Pharmaceuticals
 
Product, Indication
 
CB7630 (abiraterone acetate)
Prostate cancer (EU) 
Advanced breast cancer
Alemtuzumab
Multiple sclerosis
AZD9773 (CytoFab™)
Severe sepsis
Otelixizumab
Rheumatoid arthritis
ABIO-0801
Anxiety
Juvidex™
Accelerated healing  
and scar improvement
Acadra™ (acadesine)
B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic 
Leukaemia
Nexvax2
Coeliac disease
ONX 0801
Solid tumours
Campath® (alemtuzumab) 08
We are  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Delivering
We are delivering against the key corporate 
objectives supporting our overall goal of 
becoming a sustainably profitable specialist  
healthcare company. 
We now have a US commercial 
infrastructure, and on 1 October 2010 our 
new acute care sales force started selling 
CroFab® and DigiFab® . In January 2011, we 
completed the acquisition of Biocompatibles 
and its range of interventional oncology 
products. We expect to increase revenue 
and gross margins by optimising our US 
commercial arrangements and taking over 
direct sales of the Bead products in the US 
when the current distribution arrangement 
expires at the end of 2011.
In our pipeline, we decided to complete 
regulatory development of Varisolve®  
(PEM) in the US – an investment of around 
$55m over three years – and initiated three 
Phase III trials between September and 
November 2010. If approved, we plan to 
market PEM ourselves in the US for the 
treatment of symptomatic varicose veins, 
where reimbursement is available and  
where we estimate the peak sales 
opportunity for PEM to be $250m to $500m 
per annum. Other pipeline investments are 
to support the approval of new and existing 
products. These investments also support 
the generation of data to enable licensing of 
products that address major indications and 
are more appropriate for partnering.
Key performance indicators and  
priorities for the year
We use financial and non-financial indicators 
to monitor company performance. The key 
financial indicators are revenue, gross 
margin, operating profit and cash. Similar 
key performance indicators (KPIs) are used  
in the annual bonus scheme (see the 
remuneration report on pages 57 to 68). 
Threshold, target and stretch levels are  
set, based on the Group’s annual budget. 
The threshold must be reached for any 
bonus to be payable; the actual performance 
determines the bonus element relating to 
company performance. Results for the 
financial KPIs are shown in the table below.
The non-financial indicators approved by  
the Board are cascaded into team and 
individual goals. Progress against these 
goals determines the personal element of 
an individual’s bonus. Performance against 
priorities for 2010/11 and priorities for 
2011/12 are shown opposite. 
Financial KPIs
  2010/11 2009/10
Revenue £111.4m £98.5m
Gross margin 69.4% 66.7%
Operating profit
1
 £1.7m £10.8m
Cash and cash equivalents
2
 £73.9m £82.6m
1 The operating profit or loss before acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs. 
2 2010/11 number includes cash held on fixed term deposits. Delivering
 09
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 We are
Priorities in 2010/11 Performance Priorities in 2011/12
In May 2009 we set out our growth strategy, 
which had three components: 
1.  Establish a US commercial infrastructure 
and sales force to sell both CroFab®  
and DigiFab®; 
2.  Acquire additional products to leverage 
this commercial infrastructure; and
3. Invest in our pipeline to build future value.
These led to our priorities for 2010/11, 
progress against which is shown below. 
1. Financial management
1
A. Achieve revenue, gross margin,  Achieved 
profit and cash targets
B. Achieve new licence revenue targets Not Achieved
2. Commercial
A. Initiate sales of CroFab®and DigiFab® Achieved
B. Successful audit of compliance systems Achieved
C. Progress DPC CroFab® for 2012 introduction Not achieved 
  (project replaced)
3. Growth
A. Expand marketed products and pipeline Achieved 
in line with strategy 
4. Development
A. Progress Varisolve® (PEM)  
Phase III programme Achieved
B. Submit final part of Voraxaze®  
(glucarpidase) BLA  Not achieved 
(submission  
delayed  
to include  
additional data)
5. Operations
A. Manage supply chain to meet commercial Partially achieved 
production targets (ongoing)
B. Achieve targeted increases in  Partially achieved 
production yields (ongoing)
1. Financial management 
A.  Achieve revenue, gross margin, profit and  
cash targets
B. Deliver acquisition synergies
2. Specialty pharmaceuticals
A.  Deliver production, revenue and profit targets  
for CroFab® and DigiFab®
B. Submit Voraxaze® (glucarpidase) BLA
3. Interventional medicine
A.  Deliver production, revenue and profit targets  
for Beads and BrachySciences
B.  Ensure readiness to sell LC Bead™ directly  
in the US from 2012
C. Progress Beads expansion in Asian Markets
D.  Complete all patient treatments in Varisolve®  
(PEM) Phase III trials
4.  Licensing and biotechnology
A.  Deliver targets from out-licensing/sale of  
pipeline assets
 B. Develop CellMed R&D/partnering plans
 C. Meet R&D programme timelines
5. Corporate
A.  Audit quality systems
B.  Audit global health and safety and environmental 
policies and procedures
C. Grow company through product acquisitions
1 A detailed review of the financial performance is included in the financial review on pages 21 to 24. 10
Report from the directors on 
the key strategic, financial and 
operational developments  
during the year.
12 Group highlights
14 Chairman’s statement
16 Chief Executive Officer’s review
20 Business review
25 Principal risks and uncertainties
30 Corporate responsibility report
Business review Business review 12
Business review  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
6.0
35.4
9.9
60.1
Our results demonstrate the achievement  
of key strategic goals that we set for the year. 
We are confident that the investments we 
are making will be reflected in our future 
financial performance.
Highlights
Group highlights
Our operating priorities for the year were  
to commence selling CroFab® and DigiFab® 
in the US, to initiate the Varisolve® (PEM) 
Phase III programme and to expand our 
range of marketed products and pipeline.  
We achieved all three. At the same time,  
we achieved our key financial goals relating 
to revenue, gross margin, operating profit  
and cash management during a year of 
substantial investment.
Total revenue increased by 13.1% to 
£111.4m. Royalty revenues comprised 
recurring royalties of £60.1m, 11% higher 
than in the previous year, and milestones/
one-off income of £9.9m, £0.2m lower  
than in the previous year. Product revenues 
were 3% higher than in the previous year at 
£35.4m. Our recurring revenues (comprising 
recurring royalties and product revenues) 
grew by 8% in total to £95.5m. The 
contribution from Biocompatibles during the 
two months from 27 January to 31 March 
2011 was £6.0m. Our gross margin was 
69.4%, an increase of 2.7%.
Total revenue
£111.4m
Recurring royalties
£60.1m
Milestones/one-off income
£9.9m
Marketed product revenues
£35.4m
Biocompatibles revenues
£6.0m Business review
 13
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review
Highlights
Total revenue
£111.4m
09/10 £98.5m
08/09 £84.8m
07/08 £75.0m
06/07 £45.7m
Gross margin
69.4%
09/10 66.7%
08/09 56.3%
07/08 57.2%
06/07 58.6%
Operating profit before 
acquisition adjustments  
and reorganisation costs
£1.7m
Loss before tax including £15.5m 
of acquisition adjustments and 
reorganisation costs
£10.8m
Profit after tax following  
a tax credit of £20.0m 
£9.2m
R&D expenditure
£32.1m
09/10 £27.0m
08/09 £21.6m
07/08 £12.9m
06/07 £9.7m
Operating highlights
 — Initiation of three Varisolve® 
(PEM) Phase III trials in  
the US
 — Acquisition of Biocompatibles 
International plc
 — Establishment of US acute 
care sales force
 — Accelerated transition of 
marketing rights for CroFab® 
and DigiFab®
 — Approval of ZYTIGA™ 
(abiraterone acetate)
 — Initiation of Phase IIb study of 
AZD9773 (CytoFab™)
Cash and cash equivalents
£73.9m
*
09/10 £82.6m
08/09 £78.2m
07/08 £57.0m
06/07 £43.0m
 *Includes held to maturity financial assets
Acute care sales coverage
 — 19 sales representatives and 
two medical science liaisons 
recruited in to our acute  
care field force
 — Direct representation in  
22 states; sales coverage  
in all states 14
Business review  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
I am pleased to report a year of strong 
progress, in which we started selling our  
own products in the US and expanded  
our product range through the acquisition  
of Biocompatibles.
Gross profit in 10/11  
(09/10: £65.7m)
£77.3m
Total revenue
10/11 £111.4m
09/10 £98.5m
08/09 £84.8m
07/08 £75.0m
Chairman’s statement
The financial results for the year reflect  
the achievement of key strategic objectives 
as we have continued to deliver on our 
growth strategy.
Results summary
Revenue of £111.4m (09/10: £98.5m) 
generated a gross profit of £77.3m (09/10: 
£65.7m). The loss before tax of £10.8m 
(09/10: profit of £9.1m) includes acquisition 
adjustments and reorganisation costs  
of £15.5m (09/10: £8.7m) and reflects  
the costs of the accelerated transition  
of marketing rights to CroFab® and DigiFab® 
from Nycomed US Inc. back to BTG and  
the Varisolve®(PEM) investment. A tax  
credit following the reorganisation of  
our US businesses resulted in a profit  
after tax of £9.2m (09/10: £11.3m).  
Cash and cash equivalents, together  
with cash on fixed term deposits, were 
£73.9m at 31 March 2011 (cash and  
cash equivalents of £82.6m at 1 April 
2010). The financial review on pages  
21 to 24 describes the results in detail.
Progress against strategy
We achieved the key operating goals we set 
for the year. Our first direct sales force, the 
acute care team, started selling CroFab® and 
DigiFab® in the US on 1 October 2010. This 
enables us to retain the full value of these 
products. We initiated three Phase III trials 
of our experimental treatment for varicose 
veins, PEM, between September and 
November 2010. Patient recruitment is 
complete in one and on track in the other 
two. We believe PEM has the potential to 
generate $250m–$500m per annum in 
sales in the US reimbursed sector. We 
expanded our range of marketed products 
and our development pipeline in line with  
our strategy through the acquisition of 
Biocompatibles in January 2011, adding  
a new growth component to BTG.
The Biocompatibles business is proving to 
be an excellent fit for BTG. Its products are 
used by specialists who can be served by a 
small sales force. Sales of the embolisation 
and drug-eluting bead products grew at 
approximately twice the market rate between 
2007 and 2009 and provide significant 
opportunities for further growth. We intend 
to market the embolisation beads directly  
in the US from 2012, leveraging our existing 
commercial infrastructure. The beads also 
give us access to important Asian markets, 
with reimbursement awaited in Korea and 
Taiwan and registration progressing in Japan 
and China. We have also gained access to 
early-stage programmes in the CellMed 
subsidiary that provide partnering 
opportunities. Integration of Biocompatibles 
is proceeding well and we have taken all the 
actions necessary to achieve the targeted 
£3m annualised synergies by the end of the 
2011/12 financial year.
Value creation continued in our partnered 
pipeline, with ZYTIGA™ (abiraterone acetate) 
being approved in the US as a treatment  
for men with advanced prostate cancer and 
AstraZeneca initiating a global Phase IIb 
study of AZD9773 (CytoFab™) in severe 
sepsis patients.
Board changes
Ian Much and Melanie Lee, CBE, joined  
the Board as non-executive directors in 
August and November 2010, respectively. 
William Jenkins retired from the Board in 
February 2011. On behalf of my fellow 
directors, I wish to thank William for his 
many contributions to the Company’s 
development since he was appointed  
as a non-executive director in 2002.
Outlook
Having established direct sales operations 
in the US and expanded our product offering,  Business review
 15
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review
Dr John Brown Chairman
We are at an exciting stage in the 
development of our business. Having 
established our own US sales force and 
supporting operations, we will retain the  
full value of CroFab® and DigiFab®, and  
of any other products we develop or acquire 
that can be sold through the same team.
The acquisition of Biocompatibles has 
brought a range of marketed products in 
the growing field of interventional medicine, 
providing another specialist focus area for 
our business. In addition to increasing our 
sales revenues in the US, the Bead products, 
which address the needs of patients with 
liver cancer, provide a footprint in important 
Asian markets. 
With a clear strategy for expanding our 
business and a strong financial profile, we 
are well-positioned to deliver growth for our 
shareholders.
we can look forward to increasing  
revenue, gross profit and cash generation  
to fuel further growth of our business.  
To drive growth we will continue to invest  
in pipeline programmes including PEM,  
we will enhance our US commercial 
operations in preparation for commencing 
direct sales of the LC Bead™ and we will 
seek to acquire new products to expand our 
product portfolio and pipeline. I am confident 
that the investments we are making will be 
reflected in the future performance and 
value of the Group. 16
Business review  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
By bringing together three strong companies, 
we have created a financially strong, 
diversified specialist healthcare business 
with excellent growth potential.
Chief Executive 
Officer’s review
In line with our strategy to migrate from a 
pure licensing business into one that also 
sells its own products, thereby benefiting 
from enhanced revenues and margins, in 
December 2008 we acquired Protherics  
and two acute care products, CroFab® and 
DigiFab® . These are approved in the US  
and were being sold there by Nycomed.  
We saw the opportunity to build our own  
US commercial operations in a de-risked  
way around these established, profitable 
products by taking over direct sales. In 
October 2010, following an agreement  
with Nycomed to accelerate the return  
of marketing rights to BTG, our new acute 
care sales force commenced selling  
the products.
Having established US commercial 
operations, our strategy has been to  
acquire further products that meet the 
needs of specialist physicians and their 
patients. This led to the acquisition in 
January 2011 of Biocompatibles and its 
range of interventional oncology products 
that are sold in the US, the EU and other 
territories including growing Asian markets. 
Biocompatibles has brought a new focus 
area to BTG – interventional medicine, a 
branch of medicine that is growing rapidly 
and is practised by specialist physicians 
including interventional radiologists.
The strong financial profile of the Group  
and planned commercial capabilities 
enabled us to confirm we would fund the 
remaining development of Varisolve®  
(PEM) and market it ourselves in the  
US reimbursed sector if approved. This 
product is a key value driver for BTG.
Integration of Biocompatibles
Since completing the acquisition of 
Biocompatibles in January I have met  
many of our new employees and have spent 
time with the operational management 
teams at our new sites in the UK, the US  
and Germany. I have been impressed by  
the commercial focus and professionalism 
of everyone I have met. Biocompatibles  
has operated to a very similar set of values 
and standards to BTG, which has made 
integration of the business that much easier.
Our approach to the integration has been  
to recognise that the enlarged company  
now has three distinct areas of focus: 
specialty pharmaceuticals, interventional 
medicine and licensing and biotechnology. 
Each area already generates revenues from 
marketed products or royalties, has ongoing 
development programmes which, if 
successful, would lead to new revenue 
streams, and has opportunities for further 
growth through acquisition, development  
and geographic expansion activities.
Specialty pharmaceuticals
Our acute care sales force launched on 
1 October 2010 with ten representatives  
and grew to 19 representatives in February 
2011 in preparation for the main season  
for CroFab® in the US. We are pleased with 
progress to date and encouraged by initial 
customer responses to our engagement  
with them and to new initiatives. For 
example, we provided an educational  
grant to opinion leaders in the toxicology 
community to enable them to develop  
the first unified treatment algorithm for 
managing crotaline snake bites in the US. 
With DigiFab® , we are optimising 
geographical sales coverage in the US and 
seeking to improve awareness amongst 
physicians of the signs of digoxin toxicity 
which, due to its relative rarity, may not be 
immediately recognisable. We have received 
Estimated incidents of  
snakebite envenomation  
each year in the US
8,000
Percentage of patients 
prescribed digoxin who may 
experience toxicity
1%–4% Business review
 17
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review
Louise Makin Chief Executive Officer
Our new acute care sales team has 
made a strong start selling CroFab® and 
DigiFab® direct in the US. Biocompatibles 
has now bought us another focus area 
in interventional medicine. We are now 
confidently building another sales team  
as we prepare to start selling the LC Bead™ 
directly in the US from 2012. 18
Business review  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
regulatory approvals in Canada and 
Switzerland, are progressing a regulatory 
application in the UK and intend to seek 
additional approvals elsewhere.
We have signed an agreement with 
Glenveigh Pharmaceuticals, LLC whereby 
rights to develop DigiFab® for pre-eclampsia 
revert back to Glenveigh in return for 
undisclosed milestone and royalty payments 
to BTG. Glenveigh will be responsible for 
development and commercialisation and 
BTG will supply clinical trial materials and, 
subject to further agreement, commercial 
scale supplies.
Our strategy is to build our specialty 
pharmaceuticals revenues through both 
organic development activities and through 
product acquisitions. From our own pipeline, 
we expect to submit the final part of the 
rolling BLA for Voraxaze® (glucarpidase)  
to the US FDA in mid 2011, leading to a 
potential US approval during 2012. If 
approved, the existing acute care sales  
force would sell glucarpidase, which is  
under development to treat toxicity 
associated with high-dose methotrexate  
in patients with renal impairment, 
supplemented by a few medical sales 
liaisons (MSLs). We are also reviewing a 
number of external opportunities, which 
include products that would be used in the 
hospital emergency room and products that 
would be prescribed by specialist physicians 
outside of the hospital setting.
Interventional medicine
Biocompatibles’ embolisation beads and 
drug-eluting beads and BrachySciences’ 
brachytherapy products are medical devices 
that are used to address the needs of 
patients with cancer of the liver and prostate 
respectively. The products are sold in the  
US, the EU and in other territories, and  
they are in registration studies or pending 
reimbursement in a number of important 
Asian markets (see product availability  
map on page 2). Primary liver cancer is 
estimated to be seven times more common 
in certain Asian countries than in Western 
countries owing to widespread infection  
with hepatitis B and C; we believe Asia will 
become an increasingly important market  
for these products.
We currently sell Bead Block™ directly in 
the US and plan to sell LC Bead™ directly 
following expiry of the current distribution 
agreement with AngioDynamics, Inc. on 
31 December 2011. To this end, we are 
recruiting 21 additional MSLs and account 
managers, who will join the existing small 
team and will be supported by the same 
commercial infrastructure that supports  
our acute care team.
Through BrachySciences we also sell a range 
of radioactive seeds and delivery systems  
in the US that are used to treat early-stage 
prostate cancer. As we sell more products 
directly in the US, we see opportunities for 
increased efficiency from sharing resources 
and infrastructure, which will enable us to 
drive margin and profit improvements.
We estimate that in 2009 our Bead products 
had around one-third of a global market that 
reached around $95m, and we believe that 
our global Bead sales grew at around twice 
the rate of the overall market from 2007 
to 2009. We see multiple opportunities 
to drive further growth, and we estimate 
that the total global market could reach 
$400m–$800m. The drivers of growth 
include:
 — Product innovation – we are developing 
innovations such as M1 Beads that 
would allow access to different sizes 
of tumour, and pre-loaded drug-eluting 
beads that would eliminate the need for 
compounding in the hospital pharmacy;
 — Geographical expansion – we are 
progressing registrations in China and 
Japan and are awaiting reimbursement 
approval in Taiwan and Korea; and
 — Segmental expansion – we are 
supporting a number of clinical studies 
designed to explore the safety and 
efficacy of the Beads for treating different 
types of liver tumours; the results of 
these studies will inform the clinical and 
regulatory strategy for further studies 
designed to expand the uses for which 
the Beads are indicated.
Many interventional radiologists are  
treating varicose veins and it is becoming 
increasingly clear that this physician group 
could be important to the future adoption  
of PEM. As we interact with these physicians 
in connection with the Bead products,  
we are gaining invaluable experience that  
we believe will be of benefit for the future 
marketing of PEM if it is approved in the  
US. The PEM trials are progressing well,  
with recruitment on track in all three.  
We are on track to submit a US regulatory 
Chief Executive 
Officer’s review continued
Estimated global market 
potential for oncology  
bead implants
$400m– 
$800m
Estimated peak sales potential 
for Varisolve® (PEM) in the US 
reimbursed sector
$250m– 
$500m Business review
 19
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 
application in H2 2012, leading to potential 
approval in H2 2013. We continue to believe 
that the market opportunity in the US 
reimbursed sector is $250m–$500m per 
annum, and we intend to retain maximum 
value by marketing the product ourselves  
if approved.
Licensing and biotechnology
We generated £60.1m (09/10: £54.1m)  
in recurring royalties from our licensing 
activities. Although future revenues on 
BeneFIX® , the largest contributor in 
2010/11, will cease following sale of 
inventory existing when the final licensed 
patents expired in February and March 
2011, we anticipate new contributors.  
These include ZYTIGA™ (abiraterone 
acetate), which was approved in the US  
in April 2011 as a treatment for men  
with advanced prostate cancer who have 
previously been treated with docataxel 
chemotherapy.
Development and commercialisation 
activities continue to be important to BTG.  
In our current development pipeline are a 
number of programmes that we intend to 
partner once they have completed their 
current studies if the data are supportive, 
including BGC20-0134 (Pleneva™), which  
is currently in a Phase IIa study for  
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis.
With Biocompatibles we acquired CellMed,  
a research and development company  
in Germany that has a number of early  
stage programmes based on its CellBeads 
technology. These aim to deliver therapeutic 
proteins generated by mesenchymal stromal 
cells, and they seek to overcome certain 
difficulties by being encapsulated in a 
biopolymer coated bead. The target 
indications include stroke, which is not  
a strategic fit for BTG. We are currently 
exploring options to develop the CellBeads 
programmes to the point where we can 
partner them to realise both immediate  
and future value.
Building for the future
By bringing together three strong companies 
over the past 30 months we have created a 
company with the capabilities, resources 
and opportunities to become a substantial, 
sustainably profitable specialist healthcare 
business. 20
Business review  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Our core activities are:
Sales and marketing: We market and sell 
CroFab® and DigiFab® in the US through our 
acute care field force, which was established 
on 1 October 2010. We also sell the Bead 
Block™ in the US, and plan to sell LC Bead™ 
from 2012 following the expiry of the current 
distribution arrangements. If approved, we  
plan to market Varisolve® (PEM) in the US 
reimbursed sector. Our products are available 
in many other territories, where we usually 
work with distribution partners. A map showing 
the availability of our products worldwide is 
presented on page 2 of this report.
Manufacturing: We manufacture the 
polyclonal antibodies CroFab® and DigiFab® , 
and the licensed product AZD9773 (CytoFab™), 
currently in Phase IIb development by 
AstraZeneca. We also manufacture our 
implantable oncology Bead products and 
radioactive Seed delivery systems used in 
brachytherapy.
Research and development: We conduct 
non-clinical and clinical studies to explore 
among other parameters the mechanisms  
of action, physiological activity, safety and 
efficacy of our pharmaceuticals and medical 
devices. We are currently developing PEM as 
a potential treatment for varicose veins and 
Voraxaze® (glucarpidase) as a potential 
treatment for high-dose methotrexate 
toxicity, both of which we intend to market 
ourselves in the US if approved. We are also 
conducting a number of clinical studies to 
explore further uses of our implantable 
oncology Bead products. In addition, we are 
conducting proof of concept studies on a 
number of products that are intended for 
partnering. Our current pipeline and recent 
progress are described on pages 4 and 5  
of this report.
Business review
The following sections should be read in 
conjunction with the financial statements 
and related notes on pages 74 to 134.
Overview and business model 
We are a specialist healthcare company that 
is focused on bringing products to market 
that meet the needs of specialist physicians 
and their patients. Following the acquisitions 
of Protherics in December 2008 and of 
Biocompatibles in January 2011, our focus 
areas are specialty pharmaceuticals and 
interventional medicine. 
We concentrate on specialist products that 
address serious medical needs because  
the development pathways and costs are 
manageable for a company of our scale  
and resources; there is usually limited 
competition from larger pharmaceutical and 
biotechnology companies as markets are 
niche; the products are usually reimbursed 
by governments or insurance companies; 
and the costs of selling and marketing are 
relatively low.
Business review
Rolf Soderstrom Chief Financial Officer
We have made good progress in a 
transformational year. We have the  
portfolio, capabilities and resources  
to deliver sustainable profitability  
in the medium term. Business review
 21
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 
Regulatory development: We work with 
industry experts and regulators to design 
clinical programmes that support the 
regulatory approval of our products.  
We provide the regulators with all data 
generated when seeking approval of  
our products.
Business development: We acquire 
products and programmes from 
pharmaceutical, biotechnology and  
medical device companies worldwide.  
We also license programmes to other 
companies that we do not intend to market 
ourselves when we have demonstrated  
proof of concept in early safety and efficacy 
studies. Our key partnered programmes  
and recent progress are described on  
pages 6 and 7.
Revenues
Our revenues derive principally from sales  
of our own products, both direct and through 
distributors, and from milestone and royalty 
payments from companies to which we have 
licensed our programmes and intellectual 
property. The key contributors to product 
sales are CroFab® , DigiFab® , and, following 
the acquisition of Biocompatibles, LC Bead™ 
and DC Bead® . We started selling CroFab® 
and DigiFab® directly on 1 October 2010 and 
now retain 100% of sales revenues rather 
than 50% prior to 1 October 2010 when the 
products were distributed by Nycomed. We 
intend to sell the LC Bead™ directly in the 
US from 2012, when the current distribution 
agreement ends.
The main royalty revenues come from 
BeneFIX® , the Two-Part Hip Cup, the  
MRC humanisation IP and Campath® 
(alemtuzumab). The patents on BeneFIX® 
expired in February and March 2011, which 
will result in revenues ceasing following the 
sale of inventory existing at patent expiry. 
We expect during 2011 to start receiving 
royalties on ZYTIGA™ (abiraterone acetate) 
following its approval in April 2011 as a 
treatment for early-stage prostate cancer. 
Markets
The US is our most important market.  
It accounts for 100% of CroFab® revenues, 
around 85% of DigiFab® revenues, 
approximately 50% of the implantable 
oncology bead revenues and the majority  
of our brachytherapy products revenues. 
Many of the licensed products on which we 
earn royalties are sold worldwide although 
our licensees are often US-based 
companies. Around 85% of our total 
revenues are US $-denominated.
We expect certain Asian markets to  
become increasingly important. Our  
Bead products are progressing through 
registration studies in China and Japan  
and are awaiting reimbursement approval  
in Korea and Taiwan.
Our strategy is to sell directly in the  
US. We currently sell CroFab® , DigiFab® ,  
Bead Block™ and our brachytherapy 
products in the US; we plan to sell the  
LC Bead™ directly in the US from 2012,  
and glucarpidase and PEM if approved.  
In other territories our strategy is to  
operate through partners. Arrangements 
vary but typically we supply the products  
and receive around 50% of sales revenues 
and the distribution/marketing partner 
retains 50% of sales revenues.
Key performance indicators
Our key performance indicators and priorities 
for the year are described on pages 8 and 9 
of this report.
Financial review
The financial results reflect the achievement 
of our strategic priorities for the year. These 
were the accelerated transition of marketing 
rights for CroFab® and DigiFab® from Nycomed 
back to BTG, the initiation of three US Phase 
III trials to support regulatory approval of 
PEM and the expansion of our marketed 
products and pipeline, which was effected 
through the acquisition of Biocompatibles.
Revenue
Reported revenue increased by 13.1%  
to £111.4m (09/10: £98.5m). Total  
royalty income of £70.0m (09/10: £64.2m) 
included recurring royalties of £60.1m 
(09/10: £54.1m) and milestones/one-off 
income of £9.9m (09/10: £10.1m). Key 
contributors to recurring royalties were 
BeneFIX® at £28.7m (09/10: £26.6m),  
the Two-Part Hip Cup at £12.4m (09/10: 
£10.8m), the MRC humanisation IP at 
£6.3m (09/10: £5.1m) and Campath® 
(alemtuzumab) at £5.2m (09/10: £4.5m). 
Marketed product revenues were slightly 
higher than in the prior year at £35.4m 
(09/10: £34.3m). CroFab® revenues  
were £25.0m (09/10: £24.2m), DigiFab® 
revenues were £6.7m (09/10: £5.4m)  
Total royalty income in 10/11 
(09/10: £64.2m)
£70.0m
Revenue from marketed 
products in 10/11  
(09/10: £34.3m)
£35.4m 22
Business review  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
and glucarpidase generated £3.7m (09/10: 
£3.4m) in cost recovery in the US and 
named patient sales elsewhere.
The main contributors to milestones/one-off 
income of £9.9m were a settlement with 
Samsung over the MLC technology, the 
release of deferred income on AZD9773 
(CytoFab™) and a milestone on submission 
of the US regulatory application for ZYTIGA™ 
(abiraterone acetate).
Revenues from Biocompatibles for the two 
months following its acquisition were £6.0m, 
of which £5.3m were recurring revenues 
from product sales.
Around 85% of revenues are denominated  
in US dollars. There was a positive impact  
on reported revenues of £2.1m owing to 
movements in the US $.
Gross profit
Gross profit increased to £77.3m (09/10: 
£65.7m) and the gross margin was 69.4% 
(09/10: 66.7%). The components of  
gross profit are royalties, including recurring 
royalties and milestones/one-off income, 
marketed products and Biocompatibles 
revenues.
Revenue sharing on recurring royalties  
was £16.9m (09/10: £16.1m), giving a 
gross margin of 71.9% (09/10: 70.2%).  
The increase in margin reflected a  
higher proportion of income from licence 
agreements that had a lower revenue share. 
The revenue share on milestones/one-off 
income was £5.4m (09/10: £1.5m), giving  
a gross margin of 45.5% (09/10: 85%)  
and reflecting higher sharing obligations  
on the MLC settlement.
The cost of sales relating to marketed 
products was £8.8m (09/10: £15.2m), 
delivering a gross margin of 75.1% (09/10: 
55.7%). The change in margin reflects a 
reduced cost of sales being recorded as 
there were fewer product shipments to 
Nycomed in the run-up to the transition of 
rights to CroFab® and DigiFab® , a positive 
impact from exchange rate variances and 
the benefits of the transition to direct sales 
on 1 October 2010. The gross margin on 
acute care product sales is anticipated to 
reduce during the year as cost of goods 
(COGs) return to normalised levels and to 
stabilise at around 70%.
The gross profit on Biocompatibles revenues 
was £3.0m (09/10: nil), a 50% gross 
margin. The £3m cost of sales included a 
charge of £1.7m relating to a reversal of the 
fair value uplift on inventory acquired at the 
time of the acquisition, the remaining £2.1m 
of which is expected to be fully released in 
H1 2011/12. The gross margin excluding 
the £1.7m charge was 78.3%.
Operating expenses
Operating expenses increased to £55.3m 
(09/10: £38.4m). These expenses include 
the amortisation of the payment of £9.6m  
to Nycomed to accelerate the transition of 
CroFab® and DigiFab® marketing rights to 
BTG, which resulted in an increased gross 
profit on marketed products and ensured a 
smooth transition of the marketing rights.
Included within operating costs is a charge 
of £10.0m (09/10: £9.1m) relating to 
amortisation of acquired intangibles, of 
which £1.8m related to the Biocompatibles 
acquisition in January 2011 and the 
remainder to the Protherics acquisition  
in December 2008.
SG&A expenses were £33.7m (09/10: 
£25.3m), the majority of the increase 
relating to the establishment of our  
acute care sales force and supporting 
infrastructure, with underlying G&A  
costs in line with the previous year. 
Biocompatibles’ operating costs were 
£2.6m (09/10: nil). Transaction and 
reorganisation costs associated with  
the Biocompatibles acquisition were  
£3.8m (09/10: nil).
Increased research and development 
investment of £32.1m (09/10: £27.0m) 
resulted from the decision to fund the  
PEM Phase III programme, with three  
trials initiated during the year, and progress 
made with glucarpidase, which is moving 
towards a BLA filing.
Approximately 85% of Group revenues are 
denominated in US dollars and we have a 
policy to hedge 80%–90% of surplus US $ 
cash flows for the forthcoming 12 months. 
Settlement of forward contracts and other 
US $-denominated transactions resulted  
in losses of £2.0m (09/10: losses of 
£4.0m). Unrealised foreign exchange gains 
and losses are recognised at year end on 
the mark-to-market of forward contracts.  
Business review continued
Our revenue increased  
by 13% in 10/11  
(09/10: £98.5m)
£111.4m
Recurring revenue from recurring 
royalties and marketed products 
increased by 8% in 10/11 
(09/10: £64.2m)
£95.5m
Earnings per share in 10/11 
(09/10: 4.4p)
3.4p Business review
 23
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 
At 31 March 2011, mark-to-market 
adjustments resulted in a gain of £2.7m 
(09/10: gain of £6.5m), which is reflected  
in the net financial income.
Operating loss
Before acquisition adjustments and 
reorganisation costs we made an operating 
profit of £1.7m (09/10: £10.8m). Including 
acquisition adjustments and reorganisation 
costs of £15.5m (09/10: £8.7m), our 
operating loss was £13.8m (09/10: 
operating profit of £2.1m).
Financial income
The financial income was £3.1m (09/10: 
£7.1m) and included interest on cash held 
of £0.4m (09/10: £0.6m) and a fair value 
gain of £2.7m (09/10: £6.5m) on marking 
to market our forward contracts to sell  
US dollars.
Profit after tax
Profit after tax was £9.2m (09/10: £11.3m). 
During the year we completed a corporate 
restructuring of our US businesses. The 
restructuring has provided us with increased 
certainty over the future utilisation of certain 
of our US tax losses. This is reflected in a 
credit to the income statement of £18.6m  
as we have recognised a deferred tax asset  
in respect of these losses. In line with 
accounting standards, this deferred tax asset 
has been offset against the associated US 
deferred tax liability on the Group’s balance 
sheet. Other deferred tax movements in the 
year reflect the movement in tax losses and 
timing differences. A current tax charge of 
£0.2m has been made in the US in addition 
to withholding tax on licence income.
Earnings per share
Earnings per share were 3.4p (09/10: 4.4p). 
The reduction reflects lower levels of overall 
profit and an increase in the number of 
shares in issue following the acquisition of 
Biocompatibles. Adjusting for acquisition 
adjustments, restructuring costs and the 
one-off deferred tax credit recognised in the 
year on US tax losses, the Group’s underlying 
EPS reduced to 1.0p (09/10: 6.9p), 
reflecting the increased investment in PEM 
and the acute care sales force and lower 
mark-to-market adjustments on foreign 
exchange forward contracts in the year.
Non-current assets
Non-current assets increased from £197.9m 
to £358.9m, the majority of the increase 
being the addition of goodwill and intangible 
assets acquired with Biocompatibles.  
The net book value of the Group’s property, 
plant and equipment increased by £14.2m 
to £24.8m following the purchase of  
land in Australia and the Biocompatibles 
acquisition.
Current assets, current and non-current 
liabilities
Inventory increased by £10.4m to £20.0m  
as a result of us holding finished goods of 
CroFab® and DigiFab® in the US that would 
previously have been shipped to Nycomed  
and higher work in progress held at the year 
end following a planned temporary shutdown 
at our fill and freeze-dry supplier. In addition, 
the balance includes a fair value uplift of 
£3.8m relating to the acquisition of which 
£1.7m has been reversed during the year  
as product has been sold. Trade and other 
receivables increased from £20.4m to 
£32.7m as a result of the acquisition and the 
switch to direct sales of CroFab® and DigiFab® .
With Biocompatibles we acquired £10.2m  
of cash on fixed term deposit, and there was 
a net inflow of cash and cash equivalents  
of £10.8m.
Current liabilities increased from £43.4m to 
£52.3m. Trade and other payables increased 
from £40.8m to £49.8m and accounted for 
the majority of the increase.
Non-current liabilities decreased from 
£52.4m to £43.9m. The net deferred  
tax liability reduced from £33.4m to 
£30.7m. The key movements in the year 
were the recognition of a deferred tax  
liability of £21.0m on the acquisition of 
Biocompatibles offset by the recognition  
of a deferred tax asset of £18.6m in relation 
to US losses. Other movements in the 
liability represent the net movement on 
losses and foreign exchange differences  
on US $-denominated balances.
Cash
Net cash and cash equivalents decreased 
from £82.6m to £63.7m. An additional 
£10.2m cash is held in fixed-term deposits 
due within one year.
Cash flows
The Group’s cash reduced by £18.9m in a 
year of significant investment and operating  24
Business review  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
progress. Total investments were £21.3m 
(09/10: £2.7m) in tangible and intangible 
assets, the principal components of which 
are the reacquired rights from Nycomed 
(£9.7m) and the purchase of land in 
Australia that is integral to our supply chain 
for £8.3m. The acquisition of Biocompatibles 
resulted in a net cash inflow of £10.8m after 
accounting for payments to Biocompatibles 
shareholders and directly associated 
transaction costs. The transition to direct 
sales of our acute care products has been 
the most significant contributor to a net cash 
outflow from working capital movements 
over the year. Inventory levels are £5.4m 
higher as previously explained, receivables 
are £6.7m higher due to significant sales in 
the month of March and payables are £5.0m 
lower due mainly to the unwind of deferred 
income previously received on shipments  
of our acute care products to Nycomed. 
Overall, the net cash outflow from operating 
activities, including the working capital 
effects, was £12.0m (09/10: £5.8m inflow).
Outlook
We have made excellent progress over the 
past year with our key strategic objectives.  
We set up our sales force in the US, agreed 
the accelerated transition back to BTG of 
marketing rights to CroFab® and DigiFab® , 
invested in PEM and purchased the land in 
Australia to secure our supply chain. We  
were able to make these investments from  
a fundamentally strong financial position.
Looking ahead, we will receive the full 
benefits of selling CroFab® and DigiFab®  
this year, with significant growth in sales 
revenues. We also look forward to a new, 
potentially significant, royalty stream from 
ZYTIGA™ (abiraterone acetate), a treatment 
for advanced prostate cancer that was 
approved in April 2011 in the US, which will 
partially offset the loss of royalty revenues 
from BeneFIX® following patent expiry.
On 13 May 2011 we announced that 
AstraZeneca had terminated the 
development and option agreement relating 
to CM-3, under development by CellMed for 
type 2 diabetes and other indications. As a 
result, we will incur a non-cash accounting 
charge of approximately £8m in the current 
financial year.
We will continue to invest in a number of 
areas including the PEM Phase III trials and 
clinical studies exploring additional uses of 
the implantable oncology bead products.  
Our sales and marketing costs will increase 
as we prepare to commence direct sales  
of the LC Bead™ in the US from 2012. We 
are already recruiting 21 additional medical 
science liaisons (MSLs) and account 
managers, who will join the existing small 
interventional medicine team.
In parallel with these investing activities we 
are focused on efficiency. We are confident 
of realising the £3m cost synergies from the 
Biocompatibles acquisition in the year to 
March 2012, and we are looking for further 
opportunities to improve efficiency across 
our operations.
We are pleased with the progress we have 
made in what has been a transformational 
year. We now have the product portfolio, 
commercial capabilities, opportunities and 
financial resources to deliver sustainable 
profitability in the medium term.
Business review continued Business review
Interruption of product supply
BTG relies on third-party contractors for the supply of key 
materials and services, such as filling and freeze-drying of  
end products. These processes carry risks of failure and  
loss of product. Problems at contractors’ facilities may lead  
to delays and disruptions in supplies. Some materials and 
services may be available from one source only and regulatory 
requirements make substitution costly and time-consuming. 
BTG’s polyclonal antibody products rely on serum produced 
from our sheep flocks in Australia, which could be subject to 
disease outbreaks. BTG relies on its single site in Wales for 
supply of manufactured product, with the consequent 
possibilities for disruption to supplies. 
Patent validity, patent infringement litigation and  
changes in patent laws
In common with all patents, BTG’s patents can be subject  
to challenge at any time. Challenges can relate to the validity 
of patents or to alleged infringement of others’ intellectual 
property, which might result in litigation costs and/or loss of 
earnings. BTG might be obliged to sue third-parties for their 
infringement of its patents. Failure by BTG to maintain or 
renew key patents might lead to losses of earnings and 
liability to suit from both the licensee and licensor. BTG may 
not be able to secure the necessary intellectual property 
rights in relation to products in development, limiting the 
potential to generate value from these products. Changes in 
patent laws and regulations in territories where BTG conducts 
its business that make it more difficult or time-consuming to 
prosecute patents, or which reduce the exclusivity period for 
granted patents, could adversely impact the Group’s financial 
performance. BTG’s patent portfolio is currently subject to 
several challenges.
Rigorous monitoring of suppliers; dual sourcing implemented 
wherever possible; inventories monitored through sales and 
operational planning process and production changes 
implemented where needed to ensure continued product 
supply; regular checks made on sheep flock health; disaster 
recovery plans in place. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dedicated internal resource supplemented by external 
expertise monitors patent portfolio and third-party patent 
applications; processes in place to automate patent 
renewals; internal controls established to avoid disclosure  
of patentable material prior to filing patent applications.
 25
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 
Principal risks  
and uncertainties
BTG’s performance and prospects may be 
affected by risks and uncertainties relating to 
its business and to the environment in which 
it operates. 
The Group’s internal controls include a risk 
management process to identify key risks 
and, where possible, manage the risks 
through its systems and processes and by 
implementing specific mitigation strategies. 
The Group’s risk management processes 
are described further in the corporate 
governance report on pages 44 to 51.
The most significant risks identified in an 
annual update of the Group’s risk register 
that could materially affect the Group’s 
ability to achieve its financial and operating 
objectives are summarised in this section. 
Other risks are unknown or deemed 
immaterial.
Risks and mitigating actions for 2010/11
Risk Controls and mitigating actions Patent expiry, product supply, safety or compliance issues,  
or competition may reduce current revenues
BTG’s key current royalty-generating products are expected  
to continue to provide royalty revenues until their patents  
or licence agreements expire. Any unforeseen patent loss, 
supply, safety or compliance issues with these products  
could result in premature cessation of the revenues.
BTG also earns revenues from sales of its acute care 
products CroFab® and DigiFab® . CroFab® is patent protected 
but DigiFab® has no patent protection; both products are 
protected by significant know-how and complex manufacturing 
processes, and BTG expects revenues to continue regardless 
of patent protection. However, future competition cannot be 
ruled out and competing products could materially adversely 
impact BTG’s financial results. BTG’s Bead products are 
subject to competition.
Product liability and other risks may not be capable of being 
adequately insured
The manufacturing, testing, marketing and sale of BTG’s 
products involve significant product liability and business 
interruption risks. As the developer, manufacturer and seller 
of certain products, BTG may be held liable for death or 
personal injury to persons receiving the products during the 
development phase or after the product is approved. 
 
New royalty streams may emerge from our licensing  
activities. For example, ZYTIGA™ (abiraterone acetate)  
was approved as a treatment for men with advanced  
prostate cancer in April 2011 and BTG will earn a royalty  
on all sales; additional future royalty streams would result  
if alemtuzumab is approved to treat multiple sclerosis  
and AZD9773 (CytoFab™) if approved to treat severe sepsis. 
BTG acquired Biocompatibles International plc in January 
2011 and acquired a portfolio of marketed products,  
providing another revenue stream and reducing the reliance 
on revenues from the acute care products. Mitigations with 
respect to the Bead products include product development, 
geographic expansion and the conduct of clinical studies  
to expand Bead product sales. 
 
 
 
 
BTG maintains product liability insurance and operates  
quality systems relating to the manufacture of its products 
and a pharmacovigilance system to monitor safety events 
arising with respect to products sold.
 
26
Business review  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Risks and mitigating actions for 2010/11
Risk Controls and mitigating actions
Principal risks  
and uncertainties 
continued Business review
Failure to comply with regulations may result in prosecutions
The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated and the  
Group must comply with a broad range of regulations relating 
to the development, approval, manufacturing and marketing  
of its products. This is particularly true in the US, from which 
the Group derives most of its revenues and where the Group 
is establishing its own sales and marketing operations. 
Regulatory regimes are complex and dynamic, and alterations 
to the regulations may result in delays in product development 
or in the products becoming non-approvable. Ensuring 
compliance with such regulations necessitates allocation  
of significant financial and operating resources.
Failure to comply with relevant rules, laws and regulations  
may result in criminal and civil proceedings against the Group. 
Significant breaches could result in large financial penalties, 
which could materially adversely impact the Group’s financial 
performance and prospects. Moreover, failure by BTG or a BTG 
partner company to comply with regulations may result in a 
product being withdrawn from market with a subsequent loss 
of revenues.
Inability to access new products and programmes may limit 
future growth
Other than through the CellMed subsidiary acquired with 
Biocompatibles, BTG does not conduct fundamental research 
to generate its own development programmes but instead 
seeks to acquire new products and late-stage development 
programmes from other organisations. There is significant 
competition from other companies who may have greater 
financial resources and sales and marketing reach than  
BTG. BTG may not be able to acquire suitable products  
and programmes, which will materially adversely impact the 
Group’s financial future performance and growth prospects.
A Code of Conduct has been provided to all employees 
supported by an ongoing training programme; compliance 
systems are in place to ensure sales and marketing  
activities comply with regulations in the US and other 
territories; standard operating procedures in place to  
ensure compliance with good clinical and manufacturing 
practice, monitored through quality control systems.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dedicated product acquisition team in place; strategy is  
to focus on niche opportunities that leverage BTG’s US 
commercial operations and may be a better fit with BTG  
than with other organisations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 27
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 
 
Risk Controls and mitigating actions The success of development activities is uncertain
BTG may not be able to access the later-stage development 
opportunities it seeks. The development of medical products 
is inherently uncertain and the timelines and costs to 
approval may vary significantly from budget or expectation. 
The product may not demonstrate the expected efficacy or 
safety benefits and may not be approved by the regulatory 
bodies, such as the US Food and Drug Administration. 
Manufacturing difficulties or patent litigation may cause 
programmes to be delayed or halted. Failure of a late-stage 
programme such as Varisolve® (PEM) would materially 
adversely impact the Group’s financial prospects.
Competition may erode revenues
The Group operates in competitive markets. The products  
on which BTG currently earns revenues, or from which it 
anticipates earning revenues once on the market, face 
competition from other products that are already approved  
or in development. Competing products may have superior 
efficacy and side-effect profiles, cost less to produce or be 
offered at a lower price than BTG’s products; such competition 
could materially adversely impact Group revenues.
Experienced development team in place; focus is on  
acquiring later-stage programmes that have already 
demonstrated proof of concept and potentially have  
lower-risk development pathways; development programmes 
monitored to identify risks and challenges and recommend 
mitigating and corrective actions. Certain products are 
licensed to larger companies who may have greater  
resources to support product development. 
 
 
 
BTG focuses on niche opportunities addressing specialist 
markets where there is limited competition and high  
barriers to entry; CroFab® has no current competitor and  
BTG estimates DigiFab® has about 80% market share;  
both products are complex to manufacture. We differentiate  
the embolisation and drug-eluting bead products from 
competitors by supporting clinical studies to generate  
safety and efficacy data. 
28
Business review  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Principal risks  
and uncertainties 
continued
Risks and mitigating actions for 2010/11
Risk Controls and mitigating actions Business review
Pricing and reimbursement pressures are increasing
There is increasing pressure on healthcare budgets causing 
payers to demand increasing treatment and economic 
benefits before agreeing to reimburse product suppliers at  
all or at appropriate prices. In March 2010, healthcare reform 
legislation was adopted in the US, requiring manufacturers  
to increase the rebates or discounts they give on products 
reimbursed or paid for by public payers including Medicaid 
and Medicare. The purpose of the reform is to increase 
healthcare coverage in the US population and to manage 
treatment of chronic conditions efficiently and cost effectively. 
Management of acute conditions is generally not affected. 
BTG’s acute care and implantable oncology products treat 
serious medical conditions and the impact of healthcare 
reform on current Group revenues is not expected to be 
material to the Group’s financial position. If BTG acquires 
products in future that are more impacted by healthcare 
reforms, revenue expectations could be lower. Failure of  
a product to qualify for government or health insurance 
reimbursement or the failure to achieve an appropriate sales 
price could adversely impact the Group’s financial 
performance.
Currency and treasury effects can adversely impact results
Many of BTG’s revenues and receipts are denominated in  
US dollars and movements in foreign exchange rates could 
adversely impact results. 
BTG focuses on niche products that address serious  
unmet needs; early on in a product’s development the  
Group conducts pricing and reimbursement studies; the 
assessments of potential new products will include an 
assessment of healthcare reforms on pricing and 
reimbursement. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BTG actively manages its exchange risks where feasible, 
using short-term hedging transactions guided by market 
expectations and economic forecasts to seek to match  
actual receipts and payments over a rolling 12-month  
period to those forecast. This policy can result in both 
exchange gains and losses, but provides a level of  
certainty over cash receipts.
 29
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 
 
Risk Controls and mitigating actions 30
Business review  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
We implement a structured approach to 
Corporate responsibility (CR) reporting, 
based on an annual plan and targets.  
We have chosen our reporting categories, 
listed below, in the belief that the business 
benefits from the implementation of good 
governance practices in each:
1. Business ethics 
2. Research and development 
3. Suppliers and customers 
4. Community 
5. Environment
Our CR Committee comprises individuals 
from across the business, meets quarterly 
to discuss new trends, set targets and 
monitors progress. This year we have 
started harmonising policies, procedures 
and processes across the Group to ensure 
that they reflect the larger consolidated 
business, following the acquisition of 
Biocompatibles in January 2011. This is  
a significant task which is ongoing.
The Committee reports to Rolf Soderstrom, 
our Chief Financial Officer and the Board 
member with responsibility for this area  
of the business.
1. Business ethics
Code of Conduct
We updated and launched our new Code of 
Conduct during the year, which is accessible 
on our corporate website. This describes the 
principles, policies and procedures that we 
have developed to promote ethical behaviour 
from all our employees, based on our 
foundation of core company values. It has 
been drafted in accordance with the relevant 
legal legislation where we do business. The 
core principle is that each one of us must 
take individual responsibility for our actions 
and behave ethically and compliantly. 
To help support a good understanding  
of our Code of Conduct and our obligations 
as a supplier of medicines to patients  
and healthcare professionals, we provided 
training and mentoring for all employees 
through our Compliance Programme during 
the year. This will be extended to our new 
colleagues from Biocompatibles over the 
next few months. Training is mandatory  
and includes practical examples of  
good and bad practice as case studies  
for learning. 
Employee engagement
We believe we can facilitate greater employee 
engagement in the business by providing 
forums for two-way dialogue, information 
exchange and collaborative working.  
These are especially important during times  
of significant change, such as during the 
recent acquisition of Biocompatibles.  
We have a structured internal communications 
framework for the Group, and we use a 
number of different communications channels, 
including our new SharePoint-based intranet, 
email and monthly companywide meetings.
We recently updated and reissued our HR 
Policy Guide. It has been developed to meet 
the needs of a changing organisation and  
will adapt as we grow. It provides our 
employees with a reference guide to help them 
understand the policies and procedures that 
affect their employment and benefits.
During the last year we partnered with the 
consultancy Great Place to Work® Institute, 
to launch an internal employee engagement 
survey to measure if our employees and 
leaders are living our company values and 
give us insights into general employee 
satisfaction. We received valuable feedback 
which we are already putting into action 
through local employee representative 
“We aim to make a positive 
impact by focusing our corporate 
responsibility activities in areas 
that are most relevant to our 
business. This helps to promote 
understanding of what we do, 
saves money and resources, and 
builds relationships and trust in 
our governance. ” 
Rolf Soderstrom, CFO 
Corporate responsibility 
report Business review
 31
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 
committees and we plan to conduct  
our next survey in 2012.
Training and development
Our success depends on the abilities and 
skills of our employees and we recognise 
that training and development helps them 
fulfil their maximum potential, while also 
benefiting the business. Training and 
development is an important part of each 
employee’s annual appraisal process and  
a training team is available in the UK to  
help identify suitable opportunities. 
Identified training and development needs 
are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure 
relevance for both the employee and the 
company. We launched the Horizon’s 
Leadership Training Programme during  
the year to bring together our next generation 
of leaders to engage from a strategic, 
operational and capability perspective. 
Work placements and internships are 
considered on a case-by-case basis and  
over a dozen were completed during the year. 
Our Australian manufacturing facility hosted 
two placements for engineering students 
from The University of Adelaide. During the 
next financial year our London office has 
partnered with the University of Exeter to 
host a Clinical Development Industrial 
Placement student for a year.
Status of business ethics targets  
 
Targets for 2010–11:
Completed:
 — Update the Code of Conduct to reflect 
harmonised HR policies and procedures 
across BTG and our new commercial 
activities, marketing and selling our  
own drugs in the US; 
 — Create a new HR Policy Guide, 
incorporating the updated Code of 
Conduct; make available to employees  
on the new intranet; and 
 — Launch an employee questionnaire to 
gauge if our employees are living our 
values and give insight into general 
employee satisfaction.
Targets for 2011–12:
 — Complete Compliance training for our 
new colleagues at Biocompatibles sites 
and roll out a Compliance certification 
process for all employees; and
 — Complete Horizons 2, the second 
companywide Leadership Training 
Programme.
2. Research and development
Researching and developing new medicines 
is fundamental to building a sustainable 
business. We have a broad internal pipeline 
of candidates in different stages of 
development.
Preclinical research
Our policy on the ethical treatment of 
animals in research ensures that all animal 
experimentation is performed to the highest 
standard of ethics, adhering to the three 
guiding principles of reduction, refinement 
and replacement. We will only perform 
studies in territories where animal studies 
are strictly regulated. Alternatives to animal 
use will always be assessed and in vitro 
testing performed as an alternative  
wherever possible.
Clinical development
We perform our clinical trials in accordance 
with the listed directives, applicable  
laws and the global standards of good 
practice (e.g. Good Clinical Practice (GCP), 
Good Laboratory Practice (GLP), Good 
Manufacturing Practice (GMP) and the 
Declaration of Helsinki) and summary 
information on our studies are made 
available on www.clinicaltrial.gov. 
We always obtain written informed consent 
from trial subjects by providing fair and 
balanced information to help them 
understand the potential risks and benefits 
associated with participation in a given trial. 
The rights, safety and well-being of trial 
subjects are paramount and prevail over  
any commercial or business interests. We 
always protect the confidentiality of trial 
subjects and abide by data protection laws. 
We have set in place procedures to monitor 
and report any adverse events during trials 
to the relevant regulatory authorities.
Status of research and development targets
 
Targets for 2011–12:
 — Launch online annual GCP certification 
training companywide; and
 — Launch a new process to invite, evaluate, 
approve and implement independent 
programmes (grants, investigator-initiated 
studies, continuing medical education, 
etc.) that we intend to support. 32
Business review  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
3. Suppliers and customers
Suppliers
All our products are developed, tested and 
distributed according to the standard of good 
practice required by pharmaceutical and 
device regulators. We only appoint Contract 
Research Organisations (CROs), Contract 
Manufacturing Organisations (CMOs) and 
other third-party vendors that have a high 
standard of ethics and quality, that comply 
with good practice guidelines.
Customers
Our reputation depends on our ability to 
manufacture safe, quality and efficacious 
products for patients worldwide. We operate 
recognised quality management systems 
comprising the BS EN ISO 9001, BS EN ISO 
13485:2003 standards, the FDA cGMP and 
MHRA/TGA GMP standards and good 
practice guidelines. Our Quality Policy 
Manual outlines our approach and 
commitment to quality and a comprehensive 
quality management system is currently 
being launched globally. Quality is regularly 
discussed during internal meetings and 
during personnel training and development 
to highlight its importance throughout  
the organisation.
This year we marked a significant milestone 
as we started selling our own approved 
products for the first time in our Company’s 
history. With this comes a responsibility to 
new audiences with whom we are now 
interacting directly, including specialist 
physicians and patients. We have 
implemented appropriate policies and 
training to ensure we comply with all relevant 
regulations relating to our interactions with 
healthcare professionals.
We recruited, trained and launched our  
acute care US sales force in October 2010 
in partnership with our Contract Sales 
Organisation (CSO) inVentiv Health and  
we expanded the force from 10 to 19 
representatives in February 2011.  
To support their activities we developed 
marketing materials and to provide a more 
general source of information we created 
and launched product websites. We also 
added a new section to our corporate 
website dedicated to US Healthcare 
Professionals, incorporating frequently 
asked questions (FAQs) on each product, a 
medical enquiry form and medical contact 
information, which links visitors through to 
an independent trained medical 
professional. We have ensured that the 
details for reporting suspected adverse 
events are clearly visible on the site.
All collateral used in the marketing or sale  
of our products underwent review through 
our new Promotional Review Committee, 
consisting of senior level expertise in 
Product Marketing, Medical Affairs, Legal 
and Compliance.
Status of suppliers and customers targets  
 
Targets for 2010–11:
Completed:
 — Update the Code of Conduct to 
incorporate a new Sales and Marketing 
Code of Conduct; and
 — Develop a confidential ‘whistle-blowing’ 
hotline to incorporate ethical and 
compliance reporting.
Ongoing:
 — Roll-out a Compliance Programme and 
certification process for all employees; 
and
 — Devise an appropriate questionnaire 
incorporating CR questions to provide 
evidence of the level of ethical, quality 
and compliance practices of BTG’s 
contractors. 
Targets for 2011–12:
 — Consolidate our different supplier 
questionnaires incorporating CR 
questions to provide evidence of the 
level of ethical, quality and compliance 
practices of BTG’s contractors; and
 — Launch the new Quality Policy Manual and 
provide training and development for UK 
employees to emphasise the importance 
of quality throughout the organisation.
Corporate responsibility 
report continued Business review
 33
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review
4. Community
Community engagement
We recognise the importance of forging 
close relationships with local communities  
in the countries where we operate. This is 
especially important in our sites in West 
Wales and South Australia where we 
undertake activities to raise our profile  
and drive recruitment. We periodically 
organise open days for friends and family  
of employees at our manufacturing facility  
in Wales, as well as educational open  
days for local school children.
This year we participated in the Engineering 
Education Scheme, which gave 450 college 
students throughout Wales the opportunity 
to sample working alongside professional 
engineers. At our Australian site last year we 
held an educational open day for engineering 
students from the University of Adelaide. In 
Australia we also support a number of local 
community sports teams in which many of 
our employees participate. We see this as  
a reflection of our commitment to good 
health and teamwork.
Charitable donations
We principally give to charities which either 
support diseases or conditions in which  
we are therapeutically focused or that 
benefit the local communities in which  
we operate. We encourage employees to 
support charitable events to raise money  
for their chosen charities and in most 
locations we match individual donations  
up to a designated cap. During the last  
year we made donations to a number of 
charities and more information on these  
is available on our corporate website.
Charitable contributions made by the Group 
during the year £12,921 (09/10: £6,193).
We launched a new Give As You Earn (GAYE) 
scheme in the UK and we continue to 
evaluate options to provide this opportunity 
for our employees in other territories. During 
the next financial year we aim to launch a 
new global charitable donations policy to 
provide guidance to employees on our 
approach to giving. 
Part of our policy is that we make no political 
donations, but lobbying is undertaken from 
time to time through our local industry 
associations.
Status of community targets 
 
Targets for 2010–11:
Completed:
 — Maintain our sustainable development 
sponsorships such as World Vision 
and Rwandan Orphans and increase 
donations to our local corporate charities;
 — Launch the new Give As You Earn (GAYE) 
Scheme in the UK to provide a more 
efficient mechanism for employees to 
support their charity of choice; and
 — Organise an activity day at the Melmark 
School near Philadelphia which provides 
residential, educational, therapeutic and 
recreational services for children and 
adults with developmental disabilities.
Targets for 2011–12:
 — Launch a new global charitable  
donation policy to provide guidance to  
our employees and to ensure we are fair 
in our approach to giving and do so in  
line with our values; and
 — Organise community/charitable activities 
at each office to raise money or donate 
time for our local corporate charities.
Charitable contributions made  
by the Group during the year 
(09/10: £6,193)
£12,921
The activity day at the Melmark 
School near Philadelphia which 
provides services for children 
and adults with developmental 
disabilities 34
Business review  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
5. Environment
Health and safety
We understand our responsibilities to 
protect the health and safety of our 
employees and the environment in which  
we operate. We conduct regular risk 
assessments, audits and training, and we 
fully comply with the requirements of local 
legislation, such as the Health and Safety  
at Work Act, 1974. BrachySciences have  
an NRC Radiation Licence, and employees 
involved in the receipt, processing and 
distribution of radioactive sealed sources 
have access to the Biocompatibles Inc. 
Radiation Safety Manual and receive annual 
radiation safety training. In the next year we 
aim to review our current Health and Safety 
policies across the Group with the objective 
of creating a coordinated management 
system, following the acquisition of 
Biocompatibles in January 2011.
Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) 
Committees meet regularly at each of our 
manufacturing sites, and we regularly remind 
employees of their obligation to report any 
incidents to ensure that measures can be 
taken for improvement. We maintain strong 
local relationships with Government Health 
and Safety bodies. This year the British 
Safety Council completed a Health and 
Safety audit of our Wales manufacturing 
facility and we achieved a four-star rating 
(out of five) and have been recommended  
for BS OHSAS18001:2007 Certification.  
We publish the annual Health and Safety 
incidence rates for our manufacturing sites 
and the Group has an excellent safety record 
with only four reportable incidents recorded 
during the last year.
Reportable incidents at manufacturing sites
*
 2010/11 2009/10
Australia 0 0 
Wales, UK 3 4 
Farnham, UK 0 0 
Oxford, CT , US 1 0
 *Notifications under RIDDOR (Reporting of Injuries,  
Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations)  
or local equivalent.
Sustainability
We aim to operate our business sustainably 
to help manage finite resources. We recycle 
paper, cardboard, plastic and metal at each 
of our sites and encourage the use of local 
materials, suppliers and contractors 
wherever possible and cost effective. 
Our London office received a Gold Award last 
year in the 2010 Clean City Awards Scheme, 
improving on the merit received the year 
before. This Award recognises businesses 
with responsible waste management 
practices in the City of London. 
Our manufacturing site in Wales aims to 
adopt additional environmental management 
systems such as ISO 14001 over the longer 
term. We also have an Integrated Pollution 
and Prevention Control (IPPC) permit in 
Wales from the Environment Agency and we 
plan to complete installation of a new waste 
water treatment plant during the next 
financial year. In Australia where water is a 
particularly valuable resource, we collect rain 
water in storage tanks, and we regularly 
review if there is a need to increase our 
water storage facilities.
Energy efficiency
We regularly assess the environmental 
impact of our business to ensure that we  
are taking advantage of all opportunities  
to improve our performance and efficiency. 
We operate an international supply chain for 
the manufacture of our acute care products 
which involves international transportation 
over long distances. We aim to transport in 
bulk where possible and use the most 
efficient transportation to save money for 
the Company and reduce our carbon 
emissions. We have a number of initiatives 
underway to evaluate whether there are any 
manufacturing cost savings or other 
efficiencies to be made and we aim to report 
progress during the next financial year.
We monitor electricity and gas consumption 
at manufacturing sites and offices which 
employ more than 20 people, and we try to 
reduce carbon emissions and increase 
energy efficiency wherever possible. Our 
office space is rented so we liaise with local 
landlords and managing agents to ask about 
the deployment of energy efficient systems. 
We are not currently collecting emissions 
data on transport/logistics but we are 
reviewing this for potential inclusion during 
the next financial year. We currently fall 
Corporate responsibility 
report continued Business review
 35
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review
below the threshold for participation in  
the UK Government’s Carbon Reduction 
Commitment Scheme.
Additional initiatives are in place to reduce 
our carbon footprint. During the course of 
the last year we have installed net meeting 
software on computers and videoconference 
equipment in a number of offices to provide 
an alternative to business travel. Our 
manufacturing facility in Australia is making 
good progress towards achieving Bronze 
Greenbiz certification, designed to give small 
and medium sized organisations ways to 
measure eco-efficiency footprints and we 
envision completing this milestone in the 
next financial year. We aim to develop  
Group policies for the management of 
environmental, Health and Safety across all 
sites to reflect the consolidated business 
following the acquisition of Biocompatibles  
in January 2011.
Status of suppliers and customers targets  
 
Targets for 2010–11:
Ongoing:
 — Complete installation of a new 
waste water treatment plant at our 
manufacturing site in Wales, which 
should be fully operational early  
in the next financial year; and
 — Achieve a Greenbiz Certificate at our 
manufacturing facility in Australia, which 
is designed to give small and medium 
organisations ways to measure eco-
efficiency footprints.
Targets for 2011–12:
 — Review and restructure environmental, 
health and safety across all sites 
ensuring common policies are in  
place and in use; and
 — Drive use of common metrics and 
reporting standards across all sites.
Further information on our approach  
to corporate responsibility and data is  
available on our corporate website at  
www.btgplc.com in the responsibility section.
BTG is a member of the 
FTSE4Good index series, 
designed to objectively measure 
the performance of companies 
that meet globally recognised 
corporate responsibility standards. 
Site energy consumption and equivalent CO2 emissions in tonnes during the financial year
 Electricity Gas and oil Total equivalent 
 consumption  consumption CO2 emissions
 (MWh)  (MWh)  (tonnes)
London, UK 180 –  97 
Wales, UK 3,554 304 (Gas Oil) 1,960 
Farnham, UK* 165 96 (Natural Gas) 89 
Oxford, CT , US* 32 29 (Natural Gas) 20 
  1 (Propane Gas)  
Philadelphia, PA, US 507 –  272 
Alzenau, Germany* 158 12 (Natural Gas) 70 
Australia 559 –  300
Total 5,155 442  2,808
 *We only include data from these former Biocompatibles sites from January to March 2011, following the completion of the 
acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc. 36
The report from the directors,  
our governance and 
remuneration reports. 
38 Board of directors
40 Directors’ report
44 Corporate governance
52 Audit Committee report
56 Nomination Committee report
57 Remuneration report
69 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
70  Independent auditor’s report to the 
members of BTG plc
Directors and governance Directors and governance 38
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
John Brown Chairman
John Brown, PhD, MBA, FRSE, joined the Board of BTG in January 2008 and was appointed 
non-executive Chairman in March 2008. He is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.  
John is Chairman of Axis-Shield plc and a non-executive director of Vectura Group plc. He is 
Chairman of the Roslin Foundation and a non-executive director of the Technology Strategy 
Board. Until late 2003, John was Chief Executive of Acambis plc. He is a Fellow of the Royal 
Society of Edinburgh and an Honorary Professor of the University of Edinburgh. 
 
 
Louise Makin Chief Executive Officer 
Louise Makin joined BTG as Chief Executive Officer in October 2004 and she is a non-
executive director of Premier Foods plc. From 2001, she was President, Biopharmaceuticals 
Europe of Baxter Healthcare, where she was responsible for Europe, Africa and the Middle 
East. Louise joined Baxter Healthcare in 2000 as Vice President, Strategy & Business 
Development Europe. Before joining Baxter, she was Director of Global Ceramics at English 
China Clay and prior to that she held a variety of roles at ICI between 1985 and 1998. 
Louise has an MBA, and holds an MA in Natural Sciences and a PhD in Metallurgy from  
the University of Cambridge. 
Rolf Soderstrom Chief Financial Officer 
Rolf Soderstrom, BA, ACA, joined BTG as Chief Financial Officer in December 2008 from 
Protherics PLC, where he was Finance Director from August 2007. From 2004, he was a 
Divisional Finance Director of Cobham plc, managing a portfolio of businesses across 
Europe and the US. From 2000 he was a Director of Corporate Finance at Cable & Wireless 
plc. Prior to this, he worked in the Corporate Recovery and Corporate Finance Department  
of PricewaterhouseCoopers after qualifying as a Chartered Accountant. 
 
 
Peter Chambré Non-executive director
Peter Chambré joined BTG as a non-executive director in September 2006 and he is a 
member of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees. Peter is Chairman of 
Axellia Pharmaceuticals AS, OneMed Group AB and 7TM Pharma A/S. He is also a non-
executive director of Spectris plc, the precision instrumentation and controls company.  
Peter was Chief Executive Officer of Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc from 2002 
until its acquisition by AstraZeneca plc in 2006. Previously he was Chief Operating Officer  
of Celera Genomics Group and Chief Executive of Bespak plc. 
Board of directors Directors and governance
 39
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
Giles Kerr Non-executive director
Giles Kerr joined BTG as a non-executive director in October 2007 and is the Company’s 
Senior Independent Director. He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees. Giles is currently the Director of Finance with 
the University of Oxford, UK. He is also a Director of Victrex plc, Elan Corporation plc and Isis 
Innovation Ltd. Previously Giles was the Group Finance Director and Chief Financial Officer of 
Amersham plc, acquired by GE Healthcare in 2004. Prior to his role at Amersham, he was a 
partner with Arthur Andersen in the UK. He is a graduate of the University of York and a 
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. 
Melanie Lee Non-executive director
Melanie Lee, PhD, CBE, FMedSci, DSc (Hons), joined BTG as a non-executive director  
in November 2010 and she is a member of the Remuneration Committee. Melanie is the 
CEO of Syntaxin Limited, a biotechnology company developing novel biopharmaceuticals  
to control cell secretion, and Founder and Director of the pharmaceutical consultancy 
Think10. She also chairs the board of Cancer Research Technology Limited, the technology 
development and commercialisation arm of Cancer Research UK. Melanie was formerly 
President of New Medicines and Executive VP R&D with UCB, having been R&D Director  
and a member of the board of Celltech plc. 
Ian Much Non-executive director
Ian Much joined BTG as a non-executive director in August 2010. He is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee. Ian is currently a non-
executive director and the senior independent director of Chemring Group PLC, Senior plc 
and Simplyhealth Group. Ian was Chief Executive of De La Rue plc between 1998 and 2004 
and Chief Executive of T&N plc between 1996 and 1998. Previous non-executive director 
appointments include Manchester United plc, Camelot plc and Admiral plc. 
 
 
James O’Shea Non-executive director
Jim O’Shea joined BTG as a non-executive director in April 2009 and he is a member of the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committees. He is a director of Zalicus Inc and a former 
Chairman of the US National Pharmaceuticals Council. From 2007 to 2008, he was Vice 
Chairman of Sepracor, Inc, where he was also President and Chief Operating Officer from 
1999 to 2007. Previously Jim was Senior Vice President of Sales & Marketing and Medical 
Affairs for Zeneca Pharmaceuticals (US), a business unit of Zeneca Inc. While at Zeneca,  
he held several management positions of increasing responsibility in international sales  
and marketing in the US and the UK. 40
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
The directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group, together with the 
audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Principal activities and business review
The principal activity of the Group is as an international specialist healthcare company, 
developing and commercialising products targeting critical care, cancer and other disorders. 
The Group is building a sustainably profitable business financed by revenues from sales 
of critical care and interventional oncology products, and from royalties and milestone 
payments on partnered products. The results of the Group are set out in detail on pages  
74 to 78 and the accompanying notes.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review, including a review of 
the business, the principal business risks, key performance indicators and likely future 
developments, can be found in the Chief Executive Officer’s review on pages 16 to 19, the 
business review on pages 20 to 29 and the corporate responsibility report on pages 30 to 
35. These are incorporated into this report by reference.
Further information on the Group is available on the Company’s website: www.btgplc.com 
Results and dividends
The results for the year and the financial position at 31 March 2011 are shown in the 
consolidated income statement on page 74 and the consolidated statement of financial 
position on page 76. The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year 
(2010: nil). The results of the Group for the year are explained further on pages 21 to 24. 
Directors and their powers and interests
The directors of the Company at the date of this report, together with their biographical 
details and dates of appointment, are shown on pages 38 to 39. The Board confirms that 
each of the directors who served during the year has been formally appraised during the 
period and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to the Group, the Board and to 
their role. 
The Board has decided that all the directors of the Company will stand for election or 
re-election annually in future in accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code 
published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010. The Board is proposing the 
election of Melanie Lee and Ian Much, who have been appointed to the Board since the  
last AGM, and the re-election of the other directors.
Colin Blakemore, who joined the Board in 2007, retired at the time of the AGM on  
13 July 2010. William Jenkins, having been a director since 2002, retired from the Board  
on 4 February 2011.
In accordance with the Company’s articles of association, throughout the year the Company 
has maintained cover for its directors and officers and those of its subsidiary companies 
under a directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy as permitted by sections 232 to 235 
of the Companies Act 2006. The Company has entered into separate Deeds of Indemnity 
in favour of each of its directors to the extent permitted by law. Neither the insurance nor 
the indemnities provide cover where the relevant director or officer has acted fraudulently or 
intentionally breached the law.
Information on directors’ remuneration, contracts, options and their beneficial interests, 
including those of their immediate families, in the shares of the Company are shown in the 
remuneration report on pages 57 to 68. None of the directors had an interest in any contract 
of significance to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was party during the year. 
Corporate governance
A report on corporate governance may be found on pages 44 to 51.
Directors’ report Directors and governance
 41
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
Corporate responsibility
Information on the Company’s social, environmental, health and safety and ethical 
considerations, charitable donations and policies regarding its employees may be  
found in the corporate responsibility report on pages 30 to 35.
Acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc
On 19 November 2010, the Board of BTG announced that it had agreed the terms of  
a recommended offer with the board of Biocompatibles International plc to acquire the  
entire issued and to be issued share capital of Biocompatibles. The acquisition was effected 
by a Scheme of Arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act 2006. Under the terms  
of the Scheme, Biocompatibles shareholders who were on the register of members at  
6pm on 26 January 2011 were entitled to receive 1.6733 new BTG shares and 10p cash 
for every Biocompatibles share they held at that date. The acquisition became effective on 
27 January 2011 and the new BTG shares were admitted to trading on the London Stock 
Exchange at the start of business on 28 January 2011. They were credited as fully paid  
and ranked pari passu in all respects to the existing BTG shares. 
As an alternative to receiving the 10p cash element of the consideration, Biocompatibles 
shareholders were entitled to elect to receive an entitlement to a contingent right to payment 
of the Sterling equivalent of €0.56 per Biocompatibles share in cash (the Partial CVN 
Alternative) by participating in value that may potentially be achieved from part of 
Biocompatibles’ programme to develop the GLP-1 Compound, which it has partnered with 
AstraZeneca. If they opted for the Partial CVN Alternative they received one Contingent Value 
Note (CVN) for every Biocompatibles share they held at 26 January 2011. The CVNs are not 
listed on any stock exchange and are only tradable on a ‘matched bargain’ basis. Those 
non-UK shareholders who were not entitled to opt for the CVN received the 10p cash 
element. See note 38 on pages 125 to 127 for further information.
The Company announced on 13 May 2011 that AstraZeneca had terminated the 
development and option agreement relating to CM-3, a GLP-1 analogue being developed by 
BTG’s CellMed subsidiary for use in type 2 diabetes and other indications. As a result of 
AstraZeneca’s decision to terminate the development and option agreement, it is highly 
unlikely that any payment will be made in relation to the CVNs. The payment obligation would 
only now arise if BTG enters into another form of licence, sale or other disposal of the GLP-1 
asset to AstraZeneca prior to 31 December 2012. In light of AstraZeneca’s decision to 
terminate the development and option agreement, the BTG Board does not believe that there 
is any realistic possibility that this will occur.
As a result of the termination of this option agreement, BTG’s results for the year ending  
31 March 2012 will include non-cash accounting charges in relation to the CVNs and the 
impairment of the intangible book value ascribed to CM-3 at the time of BTG’s acquisition  
of Biocompatibles in January 2011 totalling approximately £8m (see note 39 on page 127 
for further information).
BTG will now review options for this programme as part of the ongoing portfolio review 
following the acquisition of Biocompatibles.
Share capital and shareholders
During the year 68,723,244 ordinary shares were issued pursuant to the acquisition of 
Biocompatibles referred to above. A further 365,086 were released to employees and former 
employees of BTG as a result of the exercise of share awards under the Company’s employee 
share schemes. There are no restrictions on voting rights or on the transfer of securities. 
Share capital is comprised solely of ordinary shares and all have the same voting rights.
The BTG Employee Share Trust holds shares in the Company which may be used for the 
benefit of employees. The shares held by the Trust have the same rights as those held by 
all other shareholders. Further details of the Trust are set out in note 31 to the financial 
statements on page 117. 42
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Details of outstanding share options and awards are set out in note 30 to the financial 
statements on pages 113 to 116.
Details of the movements in the Company’s share capital are shown in note 24 to the 
financial statements on pages 107 and 108. At 31 March 2011, the Company had 12,080 
shareholders (2010: 9,199). Further details of shareholdings and company reporting dates 
may be found on page 138. 
At the date of this report the Company had been notified of the following interests held, 
directly or indirectly, in 3% or more of the Company’s issued share capital.
 Shareholding % holding
Invesco Asset Management Ltd 91,567,192 28.03 
M&G Investment Management Ltd 45,952,581 14.06 
Schroder Investment Management Ltd 18,858,959 5.77 
AXA Framlington Investment Management Ltd 13,169,129 4.03 
Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 11,323,186 3.47 
Aviva Investors Global Services Ltd 11,103,133 3.40 
Standard Life Investments Ltd 11,012,639 3.37 
Hunter Hall Investment Management 9,855,644 3.02 
Norges Bank 9,810,443 3.00
Articles of association
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of relevant 
statutes, the Company’s articles of association (the Articles) and any directions given by a 
special resolution of the shareholders. The Articles, for instance, contain certain specific 
provisions and restrictions regarding the Company’s power to borrow money. Powers relating 
to the issuing and buying back of shares are included in the Articles and are subject to 
such authorities being approved annually by shareholders at the AGM. There is no current 
intention of requesting the authority to buy back shares of the Company. The rules for the 
election and re-election of directors are set out in the Articles however, as reported on page 
46 of the corporate governance report, the directors propose to stand for re-election at each 
AGM as from this year, in accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
Change of control
There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or terminate upon, a change 
of control of the Company, such as commercial contracts, bank facility agreements, 
guarantees, property agreements and employee share plans. None of these are considered 
to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole. 
Furthermore, the directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its 
directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that 
occur because of a takeover bid.
Policy on payment of creditors
It is the BTG Group’s policy to abide by the terms of payment agreed with suppliers. In many 
cases, the terms of payment are as stated in the supplier’s own literature. In other cases, 
the terms of payment are determined by specific written or oral agreement.
At 31 March 2011 the total owed to trade creditors by the Group was equivalent to 33 days 
average purchases (2010: 41 days). The Company had no trade creditors at that date 
(2010: nil). 
Going concern
On the basis of current financial projections and cash resources and facilities available, and 
after making enquiries, the directors believe that the Company has adequate resources to 
continue to operate for the foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors’ report continued Directors and governance
 43
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 10.30am on 20 July 2011 at 
the offices of Stephenson Harwood, 1 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7SH. Matters to be 
considered at the meeting include resolutions to receive the Annual Report and Accounts, 
to re-appoint the auditor and elect or re-elect the directors. Further details are set out in the 
Notice of the Annual General Meeting which is enclosed with this report.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this report confirm that, so far as  
they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor  
is unaware; and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a 
director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that  
the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor
Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, to re-appoint KPMG 
Audit Plc as auditor and to authorise the directors to determine its remuneration.
By order of the Board
Paul Mussenden
Company Secretary   
24 May 2011 44
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate governance
The Board of BTG recognises its accountability to shareholders and believes that good 
corporate governance is essential to running a successful company. The Board is committed 
to ensuring that high levels of corporate governance are maintained that underpin the 
management of the Company’s affairs. This report explains how the Company applies the 
principles of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the Code), published by 
the Financial Reporting Council (FRC).
The Board considers that the Company complied with all the provisions set out in Section 1 
of the Code throughout the year to 31 March 2011. More information on the Code can be 
found on the FRC website, www.frc.org.uk.
Board composition, responsibilities and balance
The Board comprises six non-executive directors, including the Chairman, and two executive 
directors. The Board is chaired by John Brown who is responsible for leading the Board and 
ensuring the effectiveness on all aspects of its role. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Louise 
Makin, is primarily responsible for the running of the Group. Rolf Soderstrom, Chief Financial 
Officer (CFO), is responsible for all financial reporting, tax and financial control aspects of  
the Group.
The Board has appointed Giles Kerr as the Senior Independent Director (SID). The principal 
role of the SID is to support the Chairman in his role, to work with the Chairman and other 
directors to resolve any significant issues that may arise, to lead non-executive directors 
in the oversight of the Chairman and to ensure there is a clear division of responsibility 
between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. He is also available to shareholders 
to express concerns which the normal channels have failed to resolve or which would be 
inappropriate. 
The names and brief biographical details of all the directors are set out on pages 38 to 39. 
The table below details the composition of the Board, its Committees, together with their 
attendance at meetings since the last Annual Report and the Company’s assessment of the 
independence of the directors.
Board and Committee  Committee  Board Nomination Audit Remuneration 
composition and attendance memberships Independent meetings  Committee Committee Committee
Total number of meetings   10 5 3 5
Executive directors      
Louise Makin (CEO)  No 10/10 N/A N/A N/A 
Rolf Soderstrom (CFO)  No 10/10 N/A N/A N/A
Non-executive directors
John Brown (Chairman)  Nomination No
a
 10/10 5/5 N/A N/A
Colin Blakemore
b
 Audit, Remuneration Yes 1/1 N/A N/A N/A
Peter Chambré Audit
c
, Remuneration, Nomination Yes 10/10 5/5 3/3 5/5
William Jenkins
d
 Audit, Remuneration Yes 7/8 N/A 1/1 2/3
Giles Kerr  Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Yes 10/10 5/5 3/3 5/5 
Melanie Lee
e
 Remuneration Yes 4/5 N/A N/A 1/1
Ian Much
f
 Audit, Remuneration Yes 9/9 N/A 3/3 4/4
James O’Shea Remuneration, Nomination Yes 10/10 5/5 N/A 5/5
a  John Brown is excluded from the determination of independence by virtue of his role as Chairman of the Company.
b Colin Blakemore resigned from the Board and Committees at the date of the AGM on 13 July 2010.
c Peter Chambré joined the Audit Committee on 1 November 2010.
d  William Jenkins resigned as Chairman and as a member of the Remuneration Committee and of the Audit Committee  
on 24 January 2011 and from the Board on 4 February 2011.
e  Melanie Lee joined the Board on 29 November 2010 and joined the Remuneration Committee on 23 March 2011.
f  Ian Much joined the Board on 1 August 2010. He was appointed to the Remuneration and Audit Committees on  
28 September and 1 November 2010 respectively and became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on  
24 January 2011, following the resignation of William Jenkins.
g  Directors who are not Committee members may attend meetings by invitation. Details are not included in the table.  
The external auditor usually attends the Audit Committee meetings. Directors and governance
 45
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy itself that its non-executive directors 
remain independent. The Board reviews the independence of the non-executive directors 
every year, using its own judgement when applying the criteria in the Code. Having undertaken 
this review, the Board confirms that all the non-executive directors are considered to be 
independent in character and judgement. In line with the recommendations of the Code, 
at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent non-executive directors. 
The Chairman, John Brown, was considered to be independent at the date of appointment 
although, in accordance with the Code, he is excluded from the determination  
of the independence of the non-executive directors thereafter.
The Board has a number of matters specifically reserved for its decision or approval.  
These include the approval of the interim and annual financial statements, the interim 
management statements and major public announcements, setting strategic direction, 
budgets and long-term plans. Other areas include the approval of major investments  
and disposals, major capital expenditure, major litigation, significant financing, dividend 
policy and senior executive remuneration.
The Board as a whole monitors operating performance, the performance of management, 
succession planning, health, safety and environmental performance and standards of ethical 
and social behaviour. It is also responsible for developing robust corporate governance, 
legal compliance and risk management procedures aimed at safeguarding the Company’s 
reputation and assets and the integrity of its financial information and business conduct.
While the executive and non-executive directors are collectively responsible for the success 
of the Company and have fiduciary duties towards shareholders, their roles are strictly 
delineated. The executive directors have direct responsibility for the business operations 
of the Company, the non-executive directors have a responsibility to bring independent and 
objective judgement to Board decisions and the Chairman’s primary responsibility is for the 
effective running of the Board. The non-executive directors’ duties include helping to develop 
the Company’s strategy and constructively challenging the executive directors where they 
consider it appropriate. 
To address the effect of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 (directors’ conflicts of 
interests), the Company’s articles enable the Board to authorise situations that might 
give rise to directors’ conflicts of interest. Directors complete a declaration form in order 
to determine whether any actual or potential conflicts need authorisation. The forms are 
reviewed annually to ensure that the information provided is up to date and includes any 
disclosures made during the past year. 
At the March 2011 Board meeting all directors were asked to review and make any necessary 
amendments to their existing declarations. The Company Secretary has reviewed the latest 
declarations and has confirmed that no conflicts have arisen. Board members are reminded 
at regular intervals to disclose any conflicts should they arise. 
All such notifications are kept in a conflicts register maintained by the Company Secretary. 
Any director who considers they may have a potential conflict of interest should report this to 
the Chairman in the first instance, who may consult the Nomination Committee and report 
their findings to the Board.
There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional advice, if 
necessary, at the Company’s expense. Directors have direct access to the advice and the 
services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures 
are followed. The Company arranges appropriate directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. 
The removal of a director or of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.  46
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Information and training, performance evaluation and re-election of directors
The directors are sent an agenda and a full set of papers for each item to be discussed, 
in advance of each Board or Committee meeting. Additional information is provided as 
appropriate and senior executives regularly make presentations at Board meetings on the 
results and strategies in their areas of responsibility. Board meetings are sometimes held  
at different office locations enabling non-executive directors an additional opportunity to  
visit other Company sites.
Upon joining BTG, each director receives a comprehensive induction pack, including written 
information and opportunities to meet key and relevant members of staff. All directors 
refresh their knowledge regularly through publications and conferences and through 
information provided by the Company and its advisers.
The Board evaluates its own effectiveness and that of its Committees on an annual basis, 
both through measuring performance against annual objectives and through an individual 
appraisal process. The Chairman of each Committee reports the results of the reviews back 
to the Board with identified areas for future action. 
The CEO is responsible for appraising the performance of the CFO, the Chairman and non-
executive directors review the performance of the CEO. Each director was asked to complete 
a questionnaire comprising both qualitative and quantitative responses. The Chairman 
subsequently interviewed each director separately to discuss their individual performance as 
a director over the past year, the effectiveness of the Committees and the Board as a whole 
and how it might improve its monitoring of the business. The non-executive directors, led by 
the Senior Independent Director and following input from the executive directors, evaluated 
the performance of the Chairman. The Committees also reviewed their performance and 
reported the results to the Chairman and the Board as a whole. The operation of the Board 
and its members was considered to be effective and no particular issues were identified. 
The non-executive directors meet at least once a year without the executive directors in 
order to discuss the performance of the executive directors and any concerns over their 
management of the Company’s affairs.
The Financial Reporting Council published The UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code)  
in June 2010. The Code has provided updated recommendations in many areas of corporate 
governance, and applies to all companies whose accounting period commences on or after  
29 June 2010. The Board has noted the provision that evaluation of the boards of FTSE350 
companies should be externally facilitated at least every third year and has requested that 
arrangements be made to enable this to take place in future. 
The Board reviews its constitution regularly and has established a clear plan for refreshing 
its members. Changes to the composition of the Board during the year have been as follows: 
Ian Much joined the Board on 1 August 2010 and Melanie Lee joined on 29 November 
2010. Colin Blakemore retired from the Board on 13 July 2010 having served since 2007 
and William Jenkins retired from the Board on 4 February 2011, having served since 2002. 
Following these changes the Board comprised a non-executive Chairman, five independent 
non-executive directors and two executive directors. As reported in the Nomination 
Committee report on page 56, the Committee continues to review the composition of the 
Board on a regular basis to ensure that, as the business evolves, the Board continues to 
have the necessary skills to continue the development of the business. 
Among other provisions in the Code is a proposal that the directors of all FTSE350 
companies should stand for election every year rather than every third year as at present. 
Along with many other FTSE350 companies, the Board has decided to adopt the proposal 
early and all directors will stand annually for election as from this year.
Corporate governance 
continued Directors and governance
 47
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
Ian Much and Melanie Lee, having been appointed to the Board since the last AGM,  
are standing for election for the first time while all the other directors are standing for  
re-election. Following a formal evaluation process, the Chairman is satisfied that each  
of the directors continues to perform effectively and demonstrates commitment to their  
role, including commitment of time for Board, Committee meetings and their other duties.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors met without the 
Chairman being present, to consider the Chairman’s performance. The Senior Independent 
Director and other non-executive directors are satisfied that he continues to perform 
effectively and demonstrates commitment to his role, including commitment of time for 
Board, Committee meetings and his other duties.
Further information on the directors is shown in their biographies on pages 38 to 39.
Financial reporting and internal control
The statement of directors’ responsibilities in relation to the preparation of the financial 
statements is set out on page 69 and the auditor’s statement on the respective responsibilities 
of directors and the auditor is included within its report set out on pages 70 and 71. 
Communications with shareholders, be they results announcements, interim reports, annual 
reports or AGM and trading updates, are reviewed carefully and approved by the Board, or a 
sub-committee thereof, in order to ensure they are transparent and balanced in the view they 
give of the Company’s progress and prospects.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate 
system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness. The Audit 
Committee on behalf of the Board undertakes the detailed monitoring of the controls, at 
least annually, and reports to the Board on its findings. The Board has reviewed the system 
of internal controls including financial controls for the year under review and up to the date 
of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts. Such a system is designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The criteria applied by the directors in judging the effectiveness of these controls are that 
they allow the maximisation of shareholder value by exploiting business opportunities while 
ensuring that risks are properly identified and managed. The controls are regularly reviewed 
to ensure that they enable the proper management of business risks without so restricting 
efficiency and entrepreneurial nature that they inhibit proper running of the business. 
BTG has a management structure with clear lines of responsibility and accountability, staffed 
by appropriate personnel. The Board is responsible for setting the overall strategy and 
reviewing the performance of the Group. 
Structure and reporting
The day-to-day running of BTG’s operations is managed by the Company’s Leadership 
Team, chaired by the CEO. Other members include the CFO and senior staff members from 
the business. This team is also responsible for the recommendation to the Board of the 
Company’s strategy and its subsequent implementation, for ensuring that appropriate 
internal controls are in place to manage and assess risk and that they are fully complied 
with. The fundamental elements of the Group’s internal control and risk management 
framework are described below. 48
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
The Group has well-defined management structures and processes for acquisition, 
assessment and evaluation of technology opportunities, and development and execution  
of commercialisation strategies and a number of committees report to the Leadership  
Team that monitor various parts of the business:
 — Development Leadership Team: This evaluates new technology opportunities, and is 
intimately involved in the development and execution of commercialisation strategies;
 — Operational Leadership Team: This is responsible for ensuring that the manufacturing 
and supply chain parts of the business are tightly controlled and their operations are 
optimised as far as possible;
 — Risk Committee: This is responsible for monitoring risks throughout the organisation 
and reporting findings to the Audit Committee twice yearly;
 — Compliance Committee: This is responsible for maintaining a complete compliance 
system to ensure that the Group is fully compliant with all applicable laws (including 
US Federal and State requirements) that relate to the commercial operations of the 
Group, including its US sales and marketing team. This Committee reports to the Audit 
Committee at least twice yearly;
 — Corporate Responsibility Committee: This is responsible for ensuring the Group 
maintains high standards in this area; and
 — Integration Committee: Following the acquisition of the Biocompatibles Group in January 
2011, the Company has set up an Integration Committee to manage all aspects of 
bringing the two businesses together. This Committee will continue its work during the 
coming year.
Compliance and the review of risk and risk management are embedded throughout the 
Group. The Audit Committee has reviewed the detailed report of the Risk Committee and 
Compliance Committee and reported its findings to the whole Board. For further details 
see the Audit Committee report on pages 52 to 55. The Board has reviewed the risk 
management process and confirms that ongoing processes and systems ensure that BTG 
continues to be compliant with the guidance on internal control issued by the Code.
BTG actively monitors its royalty revenue streams and from time to time audits its major 
licensees to ensure compliance with the terms of agreements. BTG also has a system for 
supporting the protection and maintenance of patents.
The Leadership Team meets formally at least once each month to review business 
performance measured against annual budgets and longer-term plans and an agreed set 
of objectives and performance criteria for each business unit. Forecasts are reset quarterly 
on the basis of detailed reviews of progress and prospects. Reporting to the Board is based 
on these monthly and quarterly assessments. The reports include non-financial as well as 
financial information and a review of development progress with the portfolio. 
Approval procedures
The Group has delegated authority structures that ensure that decisions are taken at 
an appropriate level, with an appropriate level of input by internal and external expert 
advisers. The delegated authority structure prescribes financial limits of approval at each 
level and requires decisions with significant financial, legal or reputational impact for BTG 
to be approved by the Board. The process has been reviewed during the year, following the 
acquisition of the Biocompatibles Group, and a revised Group-wide structure has been put  
in place.
Corporate policies, values and compliance
During the year a new Code of Conduct was issued and all employees within the Group 
received appropriate training on its key requirements. The Code of Conduct covers all 
aspects of ethics, business practices and compliance, including an updated whistle-blowing 
policy, an anti-bribery and corruption policy and policies related to the ethical conduct of 
research and development and interactions with doctors and other healthcare professionals. 
Relevant employees meet regularly to discuss external changes in the regulatory, legal and 
financial environments in which BTG operates to ensure it remains fully compliant with new 
legislation and best practice. The Group also runs periodic sessions updating staff on key 
issues affecting the business.
Corporate governance 
continued Directors and governance
 49
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal 
controls of the Group. The controls described above operate and are embedded within the 
day-to-day business. There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing 
significant risks faced by the Group. A reporting structure has been in place throughout the 
year, up to the date of approval of the financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the 
directors in accordance with the Code. Further information is given in the Audit Committee 
report on pages 52 to 55.
Related parties and conflicts of interest
BTG maintains robust procedures to ensure that related party transactions and potential 
conflicts of interest are identified, disclosed and managed. The directors are required to 
declare interests in other businesses on appointment to the Board and thereafter complete 
an annual self-certification. Directors are also reminded at Board meetings to declare any 
changes. Where it is identified that a related party relationship exists, the Board agrees 
specific additional procedures to ensure the effective management of potential conflicts of 
interest.
Giles Kerr, a non-executive director of BTG plc, is also the Director of Finance at Oxford 
University and a director of Isis Innovations Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Oxford 
University. Melanie Lee is chairman of Cancer Research Technology Ltd. Wholly owned 
subsidiaries of BTG plc entered into revenue sharing agreements with these organisations in 
each case prior to either Giles Kerr or Melanie Lee joining the BTG Board. The BTG Group has 
licensed the Intellectual Property covered by these agreements to third-party companies that 
are developing and/or selling the licensed products. Under these licence agreements, BTG is 
entitled to receive milestone payments and/or a royalty on sales of the products made by the 
third-party licensees. 
Under the various revenue-sharing agreements, the BTG Group pays a share of any income it 
receives to Oxford University, Isis Innovations or Cancer Research Technology Ltd, depending 
on the specific technology that generated the income. As the revenue sharing agreements do 
not permit these organisations to have any input over the commercialisation of the licensed 
products or the amount payable under the relevant revenue sharing agreement, Giles Kerr 
and Melanie Lee are not able to influence the amounts received in their positions outside 
BTG. Because they have no influence over any aspect of these agreements in their roles 
outside the BTG Group, the Company considers that their independence in relation to the 
BTG Group is not compromised.
Within the BTG Group, to avoid any possible conflict of interest, it has been agreed that 
Giles Kerr and Melanie Lee will not participate in any discussions concerning the relevant 
agreements either within the Board meetings of BTG plc or in any other discussions or 
meetings with the executives of BTG plc and its subsidiaries.
The Board has considered, and is satisfied with, this separation of duties. See note 36  
on page 123 for additional related party disclosures.
Market abuse directive
The Company has a Disclosure Committee, as required by the Market Abuse Directive, 
comprising the CEO, CFO and the Director of Investor Relations. The Committee reviews 
all significant items of business within the Group regularly, and on an ad hoc basis if 
required, and maintains an Insider List recording both those employed within the Group 
and as external advisers who may have access to inside information. Whenever individuals 
are placed on or removed from the List they are notified accordingly and advised of their 
responsibilities. 50
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Relations with shareholders and constructive use of the AGM
BTG endeavours to maintain good communications with shareholders through the 
appropriate channels. The Company formally reports its results twice a year with full 
year results announced in May and interim results in November. The CEO and CFO give 
presentations of these results to the Company’s institutional shareholders, analysts 
and the media. The presentations are broadcast live on the internet for the information 
of shareholders and are available thereafter as an archive on the Company’s website. In 
addition, the Company prepares Interim Management Statements in January and July that 
are released to a regulatory news service and are available on the Company’s website.
The CEO and CFO meet regularly with institutional investors with support from the Investor 
Relations department. The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other directors are 
available to meet with major shareholders on request. As part of his role as the Senior 
Independent Director, Giles Kerr is available to shareholders when contact with the executive 
directors or the Chairman may not be appropriate. No requests have been received from 
major shareholders to meet with the Chairman, Senior Independent Director or other non-
executive directors during the year, although the Chairman met with a number of institutional 
shareholders as part of the Company’s shareholder communications programme. The 
Investor Relations department acts as a contact point for investors throughout the year.
The directors receive a report from the Investor Relations department at each Board meeting 
giving information on the changes in shareholdings and any feedback from the Company’s 
brokers and investors. Following the twice-yearly results announcements, detailed feedback 
from external advisers and brokers is provided to the Board, outlining the views and 
reactions of investors and analysts. This enables the Board to develop an understanding of 
the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
The Annual Report contains a full business review and the interim report, which is available 
on the Company’s website, gives an update at the half year. Extensive information, including 
annual and interim reports, interim management statements and all press releases, is 
published on the Company’s website (www.btgplc.com) for access by all shareholders. In 
addition, through the website, individuals can register to receive electronic copies of all 
Company announcements on the day they are issued. 
The AGM is the principal opportunity for private shareholders to meet and discuss the 
Group’s business with the directors and other senior management. A full business 
presentation is given and there is an open question and answer session during which 
shareholders may ask questions both about the resolutions being proposed and the 
business in general. The directors are available after the meeting for an informal  
discussion with shareholders.
Notice of the AGM, which will be held at 10.30am on 20 July 2011, at the offices of 
Stephenson Harwood, 1 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7SH, is included with this report. 
The Notice of the AGM is sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the 
meeting. The directors’ report on pages 40 to 43 summarises the main resolutions and 
the letter accompanying the AGM Notice includes details of the resolutions and explanatory 
notes thereon. Members of the Company unable to attend the meeting may elect to 
vote electronically or use the proxy form enclosed with the AGM Notice. In order to vote 
electronically, members should log on to Capita Registrar’s website (www.capitashareportal.
com) and follow the instructions on the screen. Crest members may send their proxy votes 
to the Company’s registrars electronically. 
At the AGM the number of proxy votes cast in favour, against and withheld in respect of each 
resolution will be disclosed and subsequently published on the Company’s website. The 
Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be present at the 
AGM to answer shareholders’ questions.
Corporate governance 
continued Directors and governance
 51
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
Audit Committee and auditor
BTG has an established Audit Committee with the principal responsibilities of overseeing 
financial reporting and internal control matters and maintaining appropriate relations with the 
Company’s auditor.
A report on the work of the Committee is set out on pages 52 to 55.
Appointments to the Board
The Company has a Nomination Committee with responsibilities that include reviewing 
the size and composition of the Board; making recommendations to the Board on the 
appointment of executive and non-executive directors; the re-appointment of non-executive 
directors when their three-year terms of appointment expire and for ensuring that succession 
planning is in place. The Committee also advises the Board on matters generally relating to 
Board appointments and meets as required but at least twice a year.
A report on the work of the Committee is set out on page 56.
Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code
The Board considers that the Company complied in full with the principles set out in Section 
1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2011. Details of directors’ 
remuneration, as required by the Combined Code and Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium 
Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, is set out in the 
remuneration report on pages 57 to 68.
The Company’s auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is required to review whether this corporate 
governance statement reflects the Company’s compliance with nine of the Code’s provisions 
as specified in the Listing Rules of the FSA, relating to Accountability and Audit. Having 
conducted such a review KPMG is obliged to report if it considers this statement of corporate 
governance does not reflect such compliance. The Company confirms that no such report 
has been made.
John Brown
Chairman
24 May 2011 52
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
The Audit Committee (the Committee) is comprised of independent non-executive directors 
and membership is detailed in the table below. The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 
and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) may attend meetings and provide input as required. The 
Company Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee. Details of 
attendance at meetings are shown in the table on page 44.
Members Committee member since
Giles Kerr (Committee Chairman) 6 November 2007 
Colin Blakemore
a
 16 July 2008
Peter Chambré 1 November 2010 
William Jenkins
b
 27 July 2005
Ian Much 1 November 2010
a Colin Blakemore resigned from the Committee and the Board on 13 July 2010.
b William Jenkins resigned from the Committee on 24 January 2011.
Giles Kerr is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and Director of Finance at 
Oxford University. He is considered by the Board to have the necessary significant recent 
and relevant financial experience to qualify him to be the chairman of the Committee. He 
receives additional remuneration to compensate him for his additional responsibilities, as 
set out on page 63. Other members bring substantial experience in the pharmaceutical 
and international business areas as well as financial expertise to the deliberations of the 
Committee. For further information, see the directors’ biographies on pages 38 to 39.
The terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Company’s website or from 
the Company on request. These terms of reference have been updated during the year to 
reflect the recommendations of the FRC Guidance published in December 2010.
A summary of matters considered at the Committee since the last Annual Report and 
actions taken is shown below:
 — Review of the Group’s half year results to 30 September 2010 and full year results to 
31 March 2011;
 — Review of the reports from the external auditor on the interim and full year results to 
31 March 2011;
 — Consideration of accounting issues, changes in accounting standards and their impact 
on Group reporting, in particular relating to the acquisition of the Biocompatibles Group 
during the year;
 — Review of the scope, nature, resource planning and fee estimate for the full year audit;
 — Review of trading updates issued by the Group and amendments thereto;
 — Assessment of the going concern basis;
 — Review of revenue and cash management in the US sales third-party distribution 
arrangements;
 — A review of IT security and controls;
 — Review of risk management systems, internal controls and fraud procedures;
 — Review of the Group’s compliance systems and policies and the results of internal 
compliance monitoring and auditing;
 — Review of the Group’s whistle-blowing policy;
 — Review of the impact of the UK Bribery Act on the operations of the Group and 
consideration of any amendments to Group policies to ensure compliance;
 — Review of the disclosures relating to material risks in the business review;
 — Assessment of the need for an internal audit function;
 — Review of a new policy on non-audit work carried out by the Company’s auditors;
 — Considering a report of internal review work covering a review of controls at Group  
sites in the UK, US and Australia;
 — Review of committee terms of reference; and
 — Completion of an effectiveness review.
Audit Committee report  
for the year ended 31 March 2011 Directors and governance
 53
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
A key role of the Committee is to undertake detailed monitoring of the interim and annual 
financial statements. As part of this review it discusses the audit findings and auditor’s 
report with management and the external auditor and considers significant judgements and 
issues contained in them, whether the financial statements comply fully with the relevant 
statutes and accounting standards and if they present a balanced assessment of the 
Company’s financial position and prospects. Following this discussion the Chairman of the 
Committee reports the results of its review to the full Board. The external auditor usually 
meets with the non-executive directors in the absence of management at the time when the 
half and full year results are discussed.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate 
system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness. The 
Committee on behalf of the Board undertakes the detailed monitoring of the controls and 
reports to the Board on its findings twice a year. The Committee has reviewed the system 
of internal controls including financial, operational, compliance and risk for the year under 
review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts. Such a system is 
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, 
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement 
or loss.
The criteria applied by the directors in judging the effectiveness of these controls are that 
they allow the maximisation of shareholder value by exploiting business opportunities while 
ensuring that risks are properly identified and managed. The controls are regularly reviewed 
to ensure that they enable the proper management of business risks without so restricting 
efficiency and entrepreneurial nature that they inhibit proper running of the business.
The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the material controls of the Group,  
which are embedded within the day-to-day business. The Committee with the Board has  
an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by  
the Group. A reporting structure has been in place throughout the year and up to the  
date of approval of the financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the directors  
in accordance with the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Group Risk Committee, chaired by the CFO and including staff from all sections of the 
business, reviews the risks throughout the business and identifies and evaluates risks which 
may impact on the Group’s strategic and business objectives. The Risk Committee maintains 
a risk management plan that identifies the key risks. The plan is designed to assess the 
probability of those risks occurring, the impact should they occur, how such risks may be 
mitigated and monitored and the actions and individuals responsible for managing the risks. 
The Committee continues to monitor all areas of risk and the progress of actions designed 
to mitigate such risks; it reports its findings twice-yearly through the Audit Committee to 
the Board. The Audit Committee received the latest report at its May 2011 meeting, which 
included results of a review of the Biocompatibles Group following its acquisition in January 
2011, and was satisfied with actions being taken to control and mitigate risks identified.  
The Group also has a Compliance Committee which is responsible for maintaining a 
complete compliance system to ensure that the Group is fully compliant with all applicable 
laws (including US Federal and State requirements) that relate to the commercial operations 
of the Group including the US sales and marketing team. The results are reported to  
the Audit Committee alongside the twice-yearly risk management report. For details of 
principal risks and uncertainties that may affect the business, see pages 25 to 29 in  
the business review. 54
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
The Audit Committee considered the process for internal audit compliance as part of its 
review. The process for compliance is included as part of the responsibilities of each local 
finance function. This process was changed during the year by an appointment to the Head 
Office finance team of a senior accountant, with considerable experience of internal audit 
and compliance work, who has been tasked to visit all sites to ensure compliance with 
all internal controls and authorities. During the year the Group’s offices in the UK, US and 
Australia were visited and every site will be visited at least annually in order to ensure high 
standards of compliance are maintained. The Committee noted that the internal audit  
work did not identify any material weaknesses in internal control but approved proposals  
to enhance control procedures. 
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management 
systems. The Company currently has no dedicated internal audit function and the 
Committee reviews on an annual basis as to whether this is still appropriate. The Committee 
considered, taking account of the increasing size and complexity of the organisation, 
particularly following the recent acquisition of the Biocompatibles Group, that it was 
now time for the Company to employ a dedicated internal auditor. A search for a suitable 
candidate to fill this role is currently underway. 
The Committee is responsible for ensuring that arrangements under which employees 
may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial 
performance or other matters are operating effectively and that appropriate follow-up 
action takes place. Included within the new Code of Conduct are details of the Group’s 
whistle-blowing policy and there are posters and pamphlets prominently displayed at 
each site giving details of what employees should do if they have concerns regarding any 
aspect of the business. Employees are encouraged to report any concerns without fear of 
recrimination and an independent telephone line is available should staff wish to use it. 
These arrangements were reviewed by the Committee during the year.
The Committee reviews the overall performance of the auditor annually and approves its 
terms of engagement and remuneration. The Committee discussed the auditor’s proposed 
work plan prior to the commencement of the audit of the results for the year to 31 March 
2011 and also reviews the non-audit work carried out by the Company’s auditor, KPMG Audit 
Plc (KPMG), to ensure that such services do not impair its independence or objectivity. 
The Committee approved a new process for deciding whether the auditor may be employed 
for non-audit work detailing areas where the auditor may not be used, areas where it may 
be used subject to the agreement of the Committee and areas where prior approval is 
not required. Areas where prior approval is not required include audit-related services as 
specified in the APB Ethical Standards for Auditors and other services, routine in nature, 
where the fee is not significant in the context of the audit fee and where the conduct of such 
services will not adversely impact auditor independence or objectivity. The Committee may 
set a threshold for the annual expenditure for each type of work and will receive a written 
annual report describing the fees paid to the auditor for non-audit work and whether such 
services were pre-approved or specifically approved by the Committee. 
The auditor is appointed by the shareholders at the AGM to ensure its independence. The 
Committee regularly discusses the independence of the auditor and whether there should 
be a need to rotate audit firms. Given the relative size of the Company to that of KPMG 
and that the lead audit partner is changed on a regular basis (at least every five years), the 
Committee is presently satisfied that KPMG is independent in its reporting on the audit of 
the Group and rotation of firms is not necessary. The current lead audit partner took over the 
audit as from the year ended 31 March 2009. 
Audit Committee report  
continued Directors and governance
 55
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
Fees paid to KPMG included £439,000 in relation to non-audit work (see note 9 on page 94 
for an analysis). The Committee believes that the use of KPMG was appropriate and efficient 
in the circumstances and that independence was preserved as a partner other than the audit 
partner was responsible for the work and the fees paid were insignificant in the context of the 
size of KPMG as a whole.
As part of corporate governance, the Committee also carried out a review of its effectiveness 
and reported the results and its recommendations for improvement to the Board.
Giles Kerr
Chairman of the Audit Committee 56
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
The Nomination Committee (the Committee) is comprised of independent non-executive 
directors; membership of the Committee is detailed in the table below. The Company 
Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee. Details of attendance at 
meetings are shown in the table on page 44.
Members Committee member since
John Brown (Committee Chairman) 17 March 2008 
Peter Chambré 22 May 2007 
Giles Kerr 16 July 2008 
James O’Shea 13 May 2009
The Committee terms of reference, which were updated during the year, can be found on the 
Company’s website or from the Company on request.
The Committee has continued its review of Board membership to ensure it has the right 
balance of experience and expertise as the business develops and it is Company policy  
to refresh Board membership on a regular basis. 
The Committee employs external consultants to assist it in making appointments. Prior to 
any appointments being made, the Committee prepares a full description of the role, desired 
skills and capabilities required for the appointment. It interviews candidates and produces  
a shortlist for subsequent interview by all Board members. 
During the year the Committee considered the re-appointment of William Jenkins and Giles 
Kerr as non-executive directors, whose three-year contracts were due for renewal. It was 
agreed that Giles Kerr would be re-appointed for a second three-year period but that William 
Jenkins, having served since 2002, would be re-appointed for a period of up to a year. It 
was anticipated that William Jenkins would retire from the Board once a new non-executive 
director had been found who offered the detailed research and development experience  
that he provided. 
Following the departure of Colin Blakemore, who retired from the Board at the time of the 
AGM on 13 July 2010, having served since 2007, and the completion of the latest review 
of the constitution and skills of the Board, the Committee commenced a search for new 
Board members. Following an extensive search and interview process the Committee 
recommended to the Board that Ian Much be appointed to the Board and he joined on 
1 August 2010. The Committee then commenced a further search to find a suitably qualified 
replacement for William Jenkins, and Melanie Lee was appointed on 29 November 2010. 
Following her appointment, William Jenkins retired from the Board on 4 February 2011. 
Further details on the new Board members may be found in the directors’ biography section 
on pages 38 and 39. 
Following the appointment of new non-executive directors, the Committee ensures that they 
receive a full induction programme. As part of the induction process the new director is given 
a full briefing on the financial history of the Company and details of operating plans, budgets 
and forecasts for future years. Arrangements are also made for the new director to meet 
with the heads of the various business units for an in-depth briefing on the areas in which 
the Company is involved. A briefing on corporate governance and directors’ responsibilities 
may also be given and the opportunity to attend external courses is also available.
The Committee reviews succession plans and plans for emergency cover of key managers 
and directors on a regular basis.
As part of corporate governance, the Committee also carried out a review of its effectiveness 
and reported the results and its recommendations for improvement to the Board.
John Brown
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
Nomination Committee 
report for the year ended 
31 March 2011 Directors and governance
 57
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
Introduction and compliance
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board 
in accordance with the requirements of the Schedule 8 to the Large- and Medium-Sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the Regulations), and 
explains how the Company has applied the principles of the Combined Code in respect of 
directors’ remuneration. In accordance with the Regulations the following sections of this 
report have been subject to audit: directors’ emoluments, shareholdings, share awards,  
long-term incentive schemes and pensions.
In accordance with the Regulations, a resolution inviting shareholders to approve the report 
will be put to the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 20 July 2011.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee (the Committee) has been established by the Board  
which has responsibility for executive remuneration. The Committee is comprised of 
independent non-executive directors; membership of the Committee is detailed in the table 
below. Details of attendance at meetings are shown in the table on page 44. The Chairman,  
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) may attend meetings by 
invitation, other than where their own remuneration is being considered, and provide input  
as required. The Company Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee.
Members Committee member since
Ian Much (Committee Chairman)
a
 28 September 2010
William Jenkins
b
   16 July 2008 
Colin Blakemore
c
 16 July 2008 
Peter Chambré 26 September 2006 
Giles Kerr 3 November 2009 
Melanie Lee 23 March 2011 
James O’Shea 13 May 2009
a Ian Much took over as Chairman of the Committee on 24 January 2011.
b William Jenkins resigned as Chairman and Committee member on 24 January 2011.
c Colin Blakemore resigned from the Committee and the Board on 13 July 2010.
The Committee’s full terms of reference were revised in November 2010 in the light of recent 
best practice and corporate governance developments. They are available on the Company’s 
website or from the Company on request and are summarised below:
 — To make recommendations to, and determine on behalf of the Board, remuneration 
packages for the executive directors in accordance with current best practice;
 — To give advice and make recommendations on the framework and broad policy for all 
aspects of the remuneration of senior management and on the overall policy for total 
compensation for all other employees; and 
 — To determine policy and advise on equity participation schemes, employee share trust 
matters, pensions and other benefits. 
Consultants to the Committee
The Committee has authority to appoint such advisers as it sees fit. Hewitt New Bridge 
Street (a brand of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon Corporation Inc (HNBS)) acts as adviser 
to the Committee and a representative usually attends Committee meetings. HNBS advises 
the Committee on all remuneration issues including the vesting of long-term incentive 
arrangements. During the year PricewaterhouseCoopers provided information and advice  
on pension issues and share awards.
Remuneration report 58
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
The Group continues to use HNBS to advise on other matters including remuneration 
matters in general. The firm also assists with the total shareholder return (TSR) performance 
measurement and the implementation of employee share schemes and, through its Radford 
brand, provides the Group with advice on matters specific to the US employment market. 
The Group also uses Mercer Ltd and PricewaterhouseCoopers to advise on remuneration 
issues, particularly in relation to pension schemes.
Matters considered by the Committee
A summary of the main matters considered at the Committee meetings since the date of the 
last Annual Report and actions taken is as follows: 
 — Benchmarking the remuneration of the Executive Directors with assistance from HNBS; 
 — Following this exercise, consideration of executive director remuneration and long-term 
incentive awards for 2011/12 including setting parameters for achievement of bonus 
and share incentive awards;
 — Assessing Group performance against various criteria for annual bonuses and long-term 
incentive schemes in respect of the year to 31 March 2011;
 — Approval of awards under the Company’s long-term incentives and all-employee share 
plans;
 — Proposed the inclusion of a clause in the various share plan agreements to permit the 
claw back of awards where appropriate, to be in place in advance of any future share 
awards to be made under the various plans;
 — Reviewing the overall level of employee salary increases to be applied from 1 June 2011, 
reviewing the structure and setting the parameters and objectives for the 2011/12 
bonus and share incentive awards for employees;
 — Reviewing the impact of new pension legislation and considering any changes for 
directors and other employees affected;
 — Approval of a share trading plan for the executive directors;
 — Approval of the remuneration report; and
 — Review of Committee and adviser effectiveness.
Remuneration policy
The policy for remuneration for executive directors is to enable the Company to offer a 
package of rewards that:
 — Is sufficiently competitive to enable the Company to attract and retain the management 
talent it needs to ensure BTG is successful;
 — Supports the achievement of the Company’s strategy by delivering the potential to 
receive significant rewards linked to the long-term performance of the Company;
 — Provides executives with alignment with shareholders and helps to retain them by 
delivering a significant element of remuneration in shares; and
 — Is flexible enough to cope with the Company’s changing needs as it grows and the 
strategy evolves.
Performance-related remuneration is in the form of an annual bonus, part of which is 
awarded in shares, deferred for three years. Share options and performance shares are 
awarded to directors and may also be awarded to Leadership Team members and certain 
other senior members of staff. Performance-related remuneration forms a significant 
proportion of the total executive directors’ remuneration and is subject to demanding 
performance conditions. The intention is that approximately 50% of executive directors’ 
remuneration should be fixed and 50% variable. 
Remuneration report 
continued Directors and governance
 59
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
The balance of fixed and variable remuneration is illustrated below for the two executive 
directors. The table is a theoretical model showing the on-target value of annual bonus and 
the fair value of PSP and ESOP awards (assuming PSP awards have a fair value of 55% of 
salary and ESOP awards have a fair value of 20% of salary):
    Fixed Annual Long-term  
    remuneration bonus incentives 
    % total % total % total
Louise Makin    49% 20% 31% 
Rolf Soderstrom    49% 20% 31%
The Committee believes that the bonus opportunity, partly paid in deferred shares with 
forfeiture provisions, together with other elements of the long-term incentive plans, provides 
a balanced market-competitive package for the executive team. However, the Committee 
keeps such targets under regular review in order to ensure they remain appropriate. 
The Committee continues to believe that:
 — The overall remuneration package must be market-competitive;
 — Short- and long-term variable pay should be the most significant proportion of overall 
remuneration with a greater emphasis on long-term rather than short-term remuneration;
 — Significant rewards should be available for delivering the Group’s short- and long-term 
objectives and achieving sector-leading returns for shareholders;
 — The structure of the remuneration package should continue to provide significant ‘lock-in’ 
for the executive team; and
 — Executive directors should be required to build significant shareholdings of 100% of base 
salary in the Company to increase alignment with shareholders.
Remuneration levels for the executive directors are reviewed annually with assistance from 
HNBS who provide data on levels of remuneration among two comparator groups as well as 
on level of salary increases in the wider economy. The two comparator groups used comprise 
a general industry group of companies selected on the basis of market capitalisation and a 
sector group of companies within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors.
In line with the Association of British Insurers’ Guidelines on Responsible Investment 
Disclosure, the Committee will ensure that the incentive structure for executive directors 
and senior management will not raise environmental, social or governance (ESG) risks by 
inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour. More generally, the Committee will ensure 
that the overall remuneration policy does not encourage inappropriate operational risk-taking.
Components of the remuneration package
Base salary: Base salary is reviewed annually taking account of the incumbent’s 
responsibilities, the performance of the individual and market data from independent 
sources. As part of their consideration, the Committee reviews information from 
management on planned salary changes and bonus levels for the rest of the Group. 
The Committee does not aim to target a precise statistical point when setting salaries for 
executive directors; rather it aims to position salaries at a broadly mid-market level having 
regard to the factors above. For 2011 the Committee, having taken advice from HNBS, 
determined the following salary increases: 
    As from  Percentage As from 
    1 April 2010 increase 1 April 2011 
    £ % £
Louise Makin    436,452 5 458,275 
Rolf Soderstrom    283,694 5 297,879
These increases are broadly in line with the level of increases awarded in the rest of the 
Group, which were generally in the range of 3–5%. 60
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Benefits and pension: Benefits mainly comprise the provision of medical benefits and 
permanent health insurance.
Louise Makin is a member of the Group defined benefit pension plan which provides for a 
pension based on the level of pension contributions by the member and length of service 
(see page 64 of this report and note 29 on pages 110 to 113 for further information). She 
also has a separate defined contribution Executive Pension Plan to which the Company 
makes contributions. Rolf Soderstrom is a member of the Protherics defined contribution 
pension plan. 
Annual bonuses: The Company operates an annual bonus incentive scheme in which all 
members of staff, including executive directors participate. The intention of this bonus is to 
link incentives more closely to Group performance over the short to medium term. Bonuses 
are calculated based on personal and business performance. For the year ended 31 March 
2011 bonuses were subject to a maximum of 100% of base salary for executive directors 
and up to 75% for other staff. Half of the bonus earned by the executive directors and a 
smaller percentage for certain senior staff is deferred under the Company’s Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan (DSBP) into a conditional award over shares, to be held for three years. Other 
than in ‘good leaver’ circumstances these will normally be subject to forfeiture on a time- 
pro-rated basis should they leave the Company during the deferral period.
Bonus targets were set at the start of the financial year for both Louise Makin and 
Rolf Soderstrom based on the achievement of certain objectives. These included the 
achievement of targets for a trading profit measure (up to 37.5% of potential bonus), cash 
generation (37.5%) and growth (25%) in the business. For the first two categories the 
Committee defined threshold, target and stretch levels. In judging performance against 
against the growth measure, the Committee takes account of progress in a number of areas 
of the business. The level of bonus payable is dependent on the degree to which each target 
is exceeded. The trading profit measure, used for both bonuses and long-term incentives, is 
a normalised measure relating to earnings before amortisation of intangibles, restructuring 
and acquisition costs, fair value adjustments on foreign exchange forward contracts, 
intercompany loans and movements in derivatives. 
The target level of performance for operating cash and trading profit was the achievement 
of budget. Threshold and stretch were £6.2m and £10.8m either side of budget for cash 
and £6.2m and £10.8m either side of budget for trading profit. Payout between the various 
performance levels being calculated on a straight-line basis. The on-target and maximum 
level of bonus payable are 50% and 100% of base salary, respectively. 
The Committee agreed that it would be inappropriate to include the results of 
Biocompatibles in calculations to assess the achievement against bonus targets for 
the year. The Company achieved operating cash outflow of £28.9m, after adjusting for 
acquisition and restructuring payments, and trading profit of £3.0m, both being between 
the target and stretch performance levels. Trading profit is calculated as loss before tax 
(£7.9m), amortisation of intangibles (£8.2m), restructuring and acquisition costs (£3.8m) 
less the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts, derivatives and intercompany  
loans (£1.1m).
Following a review of performance against targets, the Committee determined that the 
following bonuses be payable for the period:
     Bonus payable 
     in deferred   
   Percentage Bonus payable shares under Total value 
   bonus payable in cash the DSBP of bonus 
Director   % £ £ £
Louise Makin   70 152,758 152,758 305,516 
Rolf Soderstrom   70 99,293 99,293 198,586
Remuneration report 
continued Directors and governance
 61
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
The Committee has set business performance objectives for the executive directors  
for 2011/12 which focus on trading profit, operating cash and individual KPIs. There are 
threshold, target and stretch levels of financial performance for trading profit and cash.  
The Committee uses its judgement in assessing performance against individual KPIs.  
No bonus is payable unless a profit threshold is achieved. The maximum level of bonus 
payable is 100% of base salary. 
Long-term incentive arrangements: Executive directors and senior managers, together with 
all other employees, are eligible to participate in the Company’s share schemes as operated 
from time to time.
The Company currently operates the Performance Share Plan 2006 (PSP) and the Executive 
Share Option Plan 2009 (ESOP). The Committee’s current policy is that executive directors 
should receive annual awards under both plans as this:
 — Places significant weight on longer-term performance given the strategy to transition 
the business from an R&D-focused biotech company to an earnings-driven specialist 
healthcare company; and
 — Ensures that packages for the executive directors include a strong emphasis on the 
absolute growth in shareholder value (by the use of share option grants).
Performance share plan
Recipients of awards under the PSP are entitled to receive annual awards of shares with  
a face value of up to 100% of base salary.
The awards made in 2010/11 have performance conditions based on a combination  
of a trading profit target (as described on page 60) and total shareholder return (TSR)  
measured over three financial years. The Company’s TSR is compared with that of a 
peer group comprising FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts, companies in 
the financial services sector (banking, insurance, broking, fund management etc.) and 
companies in the consumer discretionary sector (non-food retail, media, leisure, gambling) 
with opening and closing TSR values averaged over three months prior to the start and  
end of the performance period. 
Trading profit targets for the awards made during 2010/11 were based on cumulative targets 
measured over a three-year period with a range of performance levels between threshold and 
stretch. Trading profit will be measured on a normalised basis over the three-year period in 
the range £24m to £60m. 
The Committee intends to make awards for 2011/12 to both executive directors equal to 
100% of salary. The Committee intends to set performance conditions for the awards that  
will be a combination of the same TSR and trading profit measures as used in 2010/11. 
Details of the conditions will be disclosed in next year’s report.
Executive share option plan
The Company operates a share option plan under which grants of options may be made to 
executive directors and other employees at the invitation of the Committee. Participants 
may be granted awards of options, the vesting of which will normally be dependent upon 
performance conditions measured over a period of not less than three years. Awards will 
typically be limited to 100% of base salary, although, in exceptional circumstances, there  
will be an individual limit on each award of 150% of base salary. Performance conditions  
for awards made in 2010/11 were the same as for the PSP awards described above.
The Committee has agreed to make awards for 2011/12 of 100% of base salary to Louise 
Makin and Rolf Soderstrom under the ESOP. These will be subject to the same performance 
conditions as for the 2011/12 PSP awards. 62
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Other plans
The Company operates an HMRC-approved save-as-you-earn scheme, open to all eligible 
employees (including executive directors) who open an approved savings contract, to  
enable them to purchase shares in the Company. The options are exercisable after three 
years at a price not less than 80% of the market value of the shares at the date of grant.  
The Scheme provides an international section to allow for the participation of European  
and Australian employees. 
The Company also provides a US Internal Revenue Service s423 Plan for its US employees 
and a restricted share scheme in order to award nil paid shares to employees below  
Board level.
External appointments
The Board believes that it may be beneficial to the Company for executives to hold non-
executive directorships outside the Group. Any such appointments are subject to approval 
by the Board and the director may retain any fees payable. Louise Makin received fees 
from her position at Premier Foods plc of £67,500 during the year to 31 March 2011 
(2010: £61,375). Rolf Soderstrom does not currently hold any outside directorships. 
Service contracts
The Company’s policy on directors’ service contracts is that, in line with the best practice 
provisions of the Code, they should be terminable by the Company on a maximum of one 
year’s notice and contracts do not provide for pre-determined compensation in the event of 
termination or provision for enhanced payments in the event of a takeover of the Company. 
The Company may terminate the contracts of the executive directors with immediate 
effect by making a payment in lieu of notice. Any payments made would be determined by 
reference to normal contractual principles with mitigation being applied wherever relevant  
or appropriate. The directors’ contracts do not provide for an automatic entitlement to  
bonus or share awards.
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts, but have letters of appointment 
for an initial period of three years, which may be renewed by mutual agreement, normally for 
a further three-year term. The terms of appointment provide for a notice period in the event 
of early termination of six months for the Chairman and three months for other non-executive 
directors, other than if they are not re-elected at an AGM.
Details of contracts and letters of appointment, for directors serving at the date of this 
report, are as set out below.
 Date of  Notice Date of expiry 
 appointment period  of current contract
Executive
Louise Makin 19 October 2004 12 months N/A 
Rolf Soderstrom 4 December 2008 12 months N/A
Non-executive  
John Brown 1 January 2008 6 months 31 December 2013 
Peter Chambré 26 September 2006 3 months 25 September 2012 
Giles Kerr 1 October 2007 3 months 30 September 2013 
Melanie Lee 29 November 2010 3 months 28 November 2013 
Ian Much 1 August 2010 3 months 31 July 2013 
James O’Shea 2 April 2009 3 months 1 April 2012
Non-executive directors’ fees
The Chairman, in consultation with the executive directors, is responsible for proposing 
changes to the non-executive directors’ fees. The Senior Independent Director, in 
consultation with the executive directors, is responsible for proposing changes to the 
Chairman’s fees. In each case this follows advice on appropriate fee levels supplied by 
HNBS. In proposing such fees, account is also taken of the time commitments of BTG’s non-
executives. The decision on fee changes is taken by the Board as a whole. Individual 
Remuneration report 
continued Directors and governance
 63
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
non-executive directors do not take part in discussions on their remuneration. Non-executive 
directors do not receive benefits or pension contributions from the Group and do not 
participate in any Group incentive scheme. 
Following a detailed review and advice from HNBS, the Board agreed to increase the 
Chairman’s salary by 15% and other non-executive directors by 3%, other fees to remain 
unchanged. 
Set out in the table below are the fees paid for the year ended 31 March 2011 and  
proposed fees for the year ended 31 March 2012:
 As from Year ended
 1 April 2011 31 March 2011
Director £ £
Chairman 115,000 100,008
Non-executive director 38,110 37,000
Senior Independent Director 3,000 3,000
Audit Committee chairmanship 6,000 6,000
Remuneration Committee chairmanship 6,000 6,000
Directors’ emoluments
The amounts below represent emoluments earned as directors during the relevant  
financial year:
   Cash 
   allowance   2011 2010 2011 2010
 Salary/  in lieu of   Total Total DC pension DC pension
 fees Bonus
1
 pension
2
 Benefits emoluments  emoluments contributions contributions 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive directors        
Louise Makin
3
 436 306 21 2 765 753 42 59
Rolf Soderstrom
4
 284 199 – 1 484 466 57 52
Non-executive directors        
John Brown 100 –  –  – 100 90  –  –
Peter Chambré 37  –  –  – 37 35  –  –
Giles Kerr  46  –  –  – 46 41  –  –
Melanie Lee
5
 13  –  –  – 13  –  –  –
Ian Much
6
 26  –  –  – 26  –  –  –
James O’Shea 37  –  –  – 37 35  –  –
Ex-directors        
Colin Blakemore
7
 18  –  –  – 18 35  –  –
William Jenkins
8
 43  –  –  – 43 38  –  –
 1,040 505 21 3 1,569 1,493 99 111
1  Of the bonus shown above, the following amounts will be deferred into shares in accordance with the DSBP rules.  
Louise Makin £152,758 (2010: £165,347), Rolf Soderstrom £99,293 (2010: £102,440).
2  The cash allowance represents a supplement in lieu of employer pension contributions following the changes  
to pension legislation
3  Pension contributions shown for Louise Makin represent amounts paid to an Executive Pension Plan for her benefit.
4   Pension contributions shown for Rolf Soderstrom represent amounts paid to a defined contribution pension scheme  
for his benefit.
5   Fees were paid to Melanie Lee from the date of her appointment to the Board on 29 November 2010.
6  Fees were paid to Ian Much from the date of his appointment to the Board on 1 August 2010. He received an  
additional fee following his appointment as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
7   Fees were paid to Colin Blakemore for the period to his retirement from the Board on 13 July 2010.
8  Fees were paid to William Jenkins for the period to his retirement from the Board on 4 February 2011.
9   All directors’ fees, salaries and bonuses are subject to UK income tax.
 10  During the year an administrative error was found in respect of payments made under the defined benefit pension fund  
to Rusi Kathoke, a former director. Following negotiations, there was an overpayment of benefits of £11,705 in the year. 
The additional payments, which will be at a lower level in subsequent years, will cease when he attains 65 years in 
December 2012. The additional payments are covered by contributions to the fund by the Company.
Benefits shown above for Louise Makin and Rolf Soderstrom relate principally to the 
provision of life assurance and medical benefits. 64
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Louise Makin is a member of the BTG Pension Fund. The Fund is a contracted-out defined 
benefit arrangement which provides a pension based on an accrual rate of either one-
sixtieth or one-eightieth of basic salary (up to the earnings cap), depending on the level 
of contributions paid by members of 7% or 5% respectively. Members are able to retire 
at any time from age 60 onwards and under current legislation, if members continue to 
work beyond age 60, they may continue to pay contributions and enhance their pension 
entitlement, subject to a maximum of 40 years pensionable service. Pension payments  
post retirement are increased annually by inflation for pensionable service earned up to  
5 April 2006 and inflation subject to a ceiling of 2.5% for pensionable service earned after 
that date. Members may take early retirement, once they have achieved 55 years of age, 
although any pension paid will be subject to an actuarial reduction. Ill-health retirements  
may be permitted from an earlier age subject to meeting certain medical conditions. In the 
event of the death of a member, the Fund provides for a spouse’s pension to be payable 
equal to two-thirds of the deceased member’s pension. For current active members, a lump 
sum death benefit equal to four times basic salary (up to the earnings cap) is payable  
plus a refund of the member’s contributions.
During the year Louise Makin, aged 50, contributed £8,652 (2010: £8,652) to the fund, 
representing 7% of her salary up to the Earnings Cap and the Company contributed £21,136 
(2010: £21,136). In addition, she made pension contributions to a separate defined 
contribution Executive Pension Scheme to which the Company contributed £41,713 during 
the year (2010: £59,213). 
Following a review of the impact of changes to pension legislation, changes were made to 
the level of employer contributions to Louise Makin’s defined contribution scheme. A cash 
allowance was made to her to compensate her for reduced employer pension contributions 
made during the year, previously 20% of base salary above the earnings cap. See the table 
on page 63 for further information.
Rolf Soderstrom is a member of the Protherics defined contribution pension scheme to 
which the Company contributed 20% of base salary. The Company paid contributions of 
£56,739 to the pension scheme for his benefit (2010: £51,995). As a result of changes  
to pension legislation, a cash allowance will be paid to him in 2012 to compensate him  
for reduced employer pension contributions.
Details of the value of Louise Makin’s individual pension entitlement in the defined  
benefit BTG Pension Fund, as required under the Listing Rules and the Regulations,  
are shown below:
 Directors’ remuneration report regulations Listing requirements
  
        Transfer value
        of the increase
  Increase     Increase in accrued
  in accrued    in accrued pension
  pension during    pension during (excluding
  year ended  Transfer value Transfer value  year ended RPI inflation)
 Accrued 31 March  of accrued of accrued Increase in 31 March at 31 March
 pension 2011  benefits benefits transfer value
 
2011
 
2011 less
 at 31 March (including  at 31 March at 31 March less director’s (excluding director’s
  2011 
1
 inflation)
2 
2011 2010 contributions 
3
 RPI inflation) contributions
 £ £ £ £ £ £ £
Louise Makin 13,004pa 2,351pa 207,968 159,381 39,935 1,861pa 19,448
1  The accrued pension at 31 March 2011 is the leaving service benefit to which Louise Makin would have been entitled to if 
she had left the BTG Pension Fund at that date.
2  This equals the accrued pension as at 31st March 2011 less the equivalent pension as at 31st March 2010 disclosed in 
the 2010 Annual Report.
3  This is the transfer value as at 31 March 2011 less the transfer value as at 31 March 2010 less the contributions paid by 
the director in the year.
Remuneration report 
continued Directors and governance
 65
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
Directors’ share awards
The directors have the following interests in BTG plc shares under the Company’s various 
share plans. Full details of their holdings at the start and end of the financial year and at  
24 May 2011 are set out below.
Louise Makin
 Exercise        
 price (p) on  At 1 April Granted    At 31 March   Share price
Date of grant date of grant (p) 2010 in year Exercised Lapsed 2011 Exercise period on exercise (p)
Share option grants
11 Nov 2004 92.00 32,608 – – – 32,608 11 Nov 2007 to 
       10 Nov 2014  
31 Jul 2009 179.25 233,974 – – – 233,974 31 Jul 2012 to 
       30 Jul 2019  
13 Jul 2010 201.30 – 216,816 – – 216,816 13 Jul 2013 to 
       12 Jul 2017 
Sharesave grants
30 Jul 2007 93.74 4,032 – 4,032 – – 1 Sep 2010 to
        28 Feb 2011 200.80 
15 Jul 2008 129.20 1,455 – – – 1,455 1 Sep 2011 to
        28 Feb 2012  
2 Sep 2009 146.70 2,474 – – – 2,474 1 Oct 2012 to
        31 Mar 2013  
6 Jul 2010 146.67 – 2,454 – – 2,454 1 Sep 2013 to
        1 Mar 2014 
 Market price on  At 1 April Granted    At 31 March   Share price
Date of award date of award (p) 2010 in year Exercised Lapsed 2011 Vesting date on vesting (p)
Performance share awards
15 Jun 2007 123.25 285,975 – 284,734 1,241 – 15 Jun 2010 188.46
28 May 2008
1
 121.25 316,824 – – – 316,824 28 May 2011 
22 Jul 2009 174.00 246,633 – – – 246,633 22 Jul 2012 
13 Jul 2010 201.30 – 218,751 – – 218,751 13 Jul 2013 
Deferred share awards
15 Jun 2007
2
 123.25 98,991 – 98,991 – – 15 Jun 2010 178.30
28 May 2008 121.25 85,185 – – – 85,185 28 May 2011 
22 Jul 2009 174.00 105,808 – – – 105,808 22 Jul 2012 
13 Jul 2010 201.30 – 98,386 – – 98,386 13 Jul 2013 
Total awards      1,561,368  
Notes:
1   PSP awards made prior to March 2009 are subject to cumulative pre-tax profit and relative TSR performance conditions  
with each determining the vesting of 50% of an award. Following advice from HNBS on the TSR performance and the 
measurement of the performance against the profit measure, the Committee approved the release of 281,973 shares  
to Louise Makin under the 2008 PSP award, the balance of 34,851 shares will lapse. The shares are due to vest on  
28 May 2011. 
2   On 1 April 2010 the Committee approved the vesting of this award and its conversion into a cash award on that date.  
The value, net of deductions for income tax and national insurance, was deposited with the Group’s Guernsey Trust,  
to be held on behalf of Louise Makin until the normal vesting date of 15 June 2010. The cash was released and the  
net sum was used to purchase 55,149 shares at a share price of 186.95p.
3  The aggregate gain on the exercise of sharesave options in the year was £4,317. 66
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Rolf Soderstrom
 Exercise        
 price (p) on  At 1 April Granted    At 31 March  
Date of grant date of grant (p) 2010 in year Exercised Lapsed 2011 Exercise period
Share option grants
31 Jul 2009 179.25 145,048 – – – 145,048 31 Jul 2012 to
       30 Jul 2019 
13 Jul 2010 201.30 – 140,930 – – 140,930 13 Jul 2013 to
       12 Jul 2020
 Market price on  At 1 April Granted    At 31 March 
Date of award date of award (p) 2010 in year Exercised Lapsed 2011 Vesting date
Performance share awards
22 Jul 2009 174.00 152,896 – – – 152,896 22 Jul 2012
13 Jul 2010 201.30 – 142,188 – – 142,188 13 Jul 2013
Special award under LR9.4.2 R
1,2
22 Jul 2009 174.00 76,448 – – – 76,448 22 Jul 2011
Deferred share awards
22 Jul 2009 174.00 45,476 – – – 45,476 22 Jul 2012
13 Jul 2010 201.30 – 60,954 – – 60,954 13 Jul 2013
Total awards      763,940 
1  The performance conditions attached to this award are substantially the same as those that apply to the 2009/10 PSP 
awards save that performance is measured over two financial years from the start of the financial year in which the award 
was made and the cumulative EBITDA (profit before tax add back depreciation and amortisation, less net interest) targets 
were set to take account of the shorter performance period. The EBITDA performance targets were based on cumulative 
EBITDA measured over a two-year period with a range of performance levels between threshold and stretch. EBITDA will be 
measured on a normalised basis over the two-year period in the range £24m to £41m. 
2  Following advice from HNBS on the TSR performance and the measurement of the performance against the profit measure, 
the Committee approved the release of 22,934 shares to Rolf Soderstrom under the special award, the balance of 53,514 
shares will lapse. The shares are due to vest on 22 July 2011.
Share options and performance shares were granted for nil consideration. The awards are 
subject to the performance conditions as set out on page 61. Sharesave options were 
granted on the condition that participants agree to enter into a monthly savings contract. 
The price used for calculating the number of shares awarded under the PSP and DSBP was 
based on average of the closing share prices over the five days immediately prior to the 
award date. Share options are awarded using the closing mid-market price on the date prior 
to the date of grant.
Awards are normally satisfied using new issue shares. BTG’s share plans comply with 
recommended guidelines on dilution limits and the Company has always operated within 
these limits. Assuming none of the extant options lapse and will be exercised and, having 
included all exercised options, the Company has utilised 3.0% of the 10% in ten years and 
2.8% of the 5% in ten years in accordance with the Association of British Insurers (ABI) 
guidance on dilution limits.
The Committee, with advice from HNBS, is responsible for assessing whether the relevant 
performance conditions have been achieved. 
Remuneration report 
continued Directors and governance
 67
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
Directors’ shareholdings
The directors’ beneficial interests, including interests of connected persons, in the shares  
of the Company at the end of the financial year and at 24 May 2011 are shown below.  
None of the directors had any non-beneficial interest at any time in the period 1 April 2009  
to 24 May 2011. None of the directors who held office at the end of the financial period  
had any beneficial interest in the shares of other Group companies.
 Interest at 31 March 2011 Interest at 31 March 2010
 ordinary shares 10p  ordinary shares 10p
John Brown 6,547 6,547
Louise Makin 376,853 178,883
Rolf Soderstrom 79,857 79,857
Peter Chambré 3,000 3,000
The executive directors have a beneficial interest in ordinary shares of the Company by 
direct holdings and by virtue of their entitlements in the Company’s employee share plans. 
As employees of the Group, all executive directors also have an interest in any unallocated 
shares held on behalf of all employees in the BTG Employee Share Trust, which at 31 March 
2011 amounted to 718,158 ordinary shares in the Company. The non-executive directors  
are not entitled to participate in any of the Company’s employee share plans.
Alignment with shareholders
The Committee operates shareholding guidelines requiring executives to build and maintain 
a holding of Company shares worth at least 100% of salary.
Based on the shares and share options and awards held at 31 March 2011 (assuming  
full vesting and having taken account of any relevant exercise costs), the following table 
illustrates the value each executive director has at risk and how this has fluctuated during 
the year, using the lowest, highest and closing share prices for the year for illustrative 
purposes.
   Lowest Highest Closing 
   150.0p 270.8p 227.6p 
Executive director Type of holding Number £’000 £’000 £’000
Louise Makin Shareholding 376,853 565 1,021 858 
 Options/awards 1,561,368 1,627 3,333 2,658
  1,938,221 2,192 4,354 3,516
Rolf Soderstrom Shareholding 79,857 120 216 182 
 Options/awards 763,940 717 1,525 1,195
  843,797 837 1,741 1,377
The Committee has introduced a formal trading plan to enable the executive directors to sell 
shares from their holdings from time-to-time. Provided that executive directors have achieved 
and continue to maintain the minimum level of holding required under the shareholding 
guidelines of 100% of basic salary, executive directors will be permitted to sell shares in 
addition to those required to meet their tax liabilities within a six-week period from the 
announcement of the Company’s results for any period. 68
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Total shareholder return
The performance of the Company’s ordinary shares compared with the FTSE 250 (excluding 
Investment Trusts) (the Index) for the five-year period ended on 31 March 2011 is shown in 
the graph below.
140
31 March 2006
BTG plc
Value (£)
31 March 2007 31 March 2008 31 March 2009 31 March 2010 31 March 2011
120
100
80
40
20
60
 0
FTSE 250 (excl. Investment Trusts) 
Source: Thomson Reuters 
This graph shows the value at 31 March 2011 of £100 invested in BTG plc on 31 March 
2006 compared with £100 invested in the Index. The other points plotted are the values at 
intervening financial year-ends.
The Company has chosen the Index as a comparator as it believes that it gives shareholders 
a reasonable comparison with the total shareholder return (TSR) of other equity investments 
in companies of a broadly similar size across all sectors. The TSR performance has been 
measured by HNBS. 
The middle-market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2011 was 227.6p. During the 
year the share price ranged from a low of 150.0p to a high of 270.8p.
Directors’ interests in contracts
Except as described in note 36 to the financial statements, ‘Related party transactions’,  
no director or connected person had any material interest in any contract of significance  
in relation to the Group’s business with a third-party either during or at the end of the 
financial year.
This report was approved by the Board on 24 May 2011 and signed on its behalf by
Ian Much
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Remuneration report 
continued Directors and governance
 69
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
The directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are 
sufficient to show and explain the Parent 
Company’s transactions and disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Parent Company  
and enable them to ensure that its financial 
statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to 
them to safeguard the assets of the Group 
and to prevent and detect fraud and other 
irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the 
directors are also responsible for preparing 
a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and Corporate Governance 
Statement that complies with that law and 
those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement  
pursuant to DTR4
We confirm that to the best of our 
knowledge:
 — The financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with the applicable set of 
accounting standards, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the Company 
and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
 — The directors’ report includes a fair review 
of the development and performance 
of the business and the position of the 
issuer and the undertakings included 
in the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that  
they face.
By order of the Board 
Dr Louise Makin Rolf Soderstrom
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
24 May 2011
Statement of directors’ responsibilities  
in respect of the Annual Report and the 
financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report and Accounts and the 
Group and Parent Company financial 
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to 
prepare Group and Parent Company financial 
statements for each financial year. Under 
that law they are required to prepare the 
Group financial statements in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and 
applicable law and have elected to prepare 
the Parent Company financial statements  
on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
Parent Company and of their profit or loss for 
that period. In preparing each of the Group 
and Parent Company financial statements, 
the directors are required to:
 — Select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently;
 — Make judgements and estimates that  
are reasonable and prudent;
 — State whether they have been prepared  
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 
the EU; and
 — Prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the Group 
and the Parent Company will continue in 
business.
Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities 70
Directors and governance  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
We have audited the financial statements of 
BTG plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 
set out on pages 74 to 134. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied 
in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and, as 
regards the Parent Company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s 
members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company’s 
members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for 
no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than 
the Company and the Company’s members, 
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors  
and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement set out on page 
69, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and 
for being satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view. Our responsibility is to audit, and 
express an opinion on, the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require us 
to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
(APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial 
statements
A description of the scope of an audit of 
financial statements is provided on the 
APB’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/
scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
 — The financial statements give a true and 
fair view of the state of the Group’s and  
of the Parent Company’s affairs as at  
31 March 2011 and of the Group’s  
profit for the year then ended;
 — The Group financial statements have 
been properly prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
 — The Parent Company financial statements 
have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
EU and as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006;
 — The financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 — The part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 — The information given in the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which 
the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; 
and
 — Information given in the Corporate 
Governance Statement set out on 
pages 44 to 51 with respect to internal 
control and risk management systems in 
relation to financial reporting processes 
and about share capital structures is 
consistent with the financial statements.
Independent auditor’s 
report to the members  
of BTG plc Directors and governance
 71
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
Matters on which we are required  
to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect  
of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 — Adequate accounting records have not 
been kept by the Parent Company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited 
by us; or
 — The Parent Company financial 
statements and the part of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to be audited are 
not in agreement with the accounting 
records and returns; or
 — Certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or
 — We have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit; 
or
 — A Corporate Governance Statement has 
not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required  
to review:
 — The directors’ statement, set out on  
page 42, in relation to going concern;
 — The part of the Corporate Governance 
Statement on page 51 relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine 
provisions of the June 2008 Combined 
Code specified for our review; and
 — Certain elements of the report to 
shareholders by the Board on  
directors’ remuneration. 
David Bills
(Senior Statutory Auditor)  
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, 
Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square 
London E14 5GL
24 May 2011 72
The financial statements  
and accompanying notes. 
 
74 Consolidated income statement
75 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
76 Consolidated statement of financial position
77  Consolidated statement of cash flows
78 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
128 Company statement of financial position
129  Company statement of cash flows
130  Company statement of changes in equity
131 Notes to the company financial statements
135  Appendix 1: Unaudited pro-forma consolidated 
income statement
136  Five-year financial record
138  Shareholder information
140  Cautionary statement
Financials Financials Consolidated income statement
74
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
 Year ended 31 March 2011 Year ended 31 March 2010
  
   Results before Acquisition  Results before Acquisition
  acquisition adjustments  acquisition adjustments
  adjustments and and  adjustments and and
  reorganisation reorganisation  reorganisation reorganisation  
  costs costs Total costs costs Total
 Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
Existing operations  105.4  – 105.4 98.5  – 98.5
Acquisitions  6.0  – 6.0  –  –  –
 4 111.4  – 111.4 98.5  – 98.5
Cost of sales  (32.4) (1.7) (34.1) (32.5) (0.3) (32.8)
Gross profit 4 79.0 (1.7) 77.3 66.0 (0.3) 65.7
Operating expenses:       
Amortisation and impairment of  
 acquired intangible assets   – (10.0) (10.0)  – (9.1) (9.1)
Amortisation of repurchase of  
 contractual rights 17 (9.6)  – (9.6)  –  –  –
Foreign exchange losses  (2.0)  – (2.0) (4.0)  – (4.0)
Other  (33.7)  – (33.7) (25.3)  – (25.3)
Operating expenses: total  (45.3) (10.0) (55.3) (29.3) (9.1) (38.4)
Research and development 5 (32.1)  – (32.1) (27.0)  – (27.0)
Profit on disposal of intangible  
 assets and investments 6 1.5  – 1.5 1.1  – 1.1
Acquisition and reorganisation costs 7  – (3.8) (3.8)  – 0.7 0.7
Amounts written off investments 8 (1.4)  – (1.4)  –  –  –
Operating (loss)/profit       
Existing operations  1.0 (15.5) (14.5) 10.8 (8.7) 2.1
Acquisitions  0.7  – 0.7  –  –  –
Operating (loss)/profit 9 1.7 (15.5) (13.8) 10.8 (8.7) 2.1
Financial income 11   3.1   7.1
Financial expense 12   (0.1)   (0.1)
(Loss)/profit before tax    (10.8)   9.1
Tax 13   20.0   2.2
Profit for the year    9.2   11.3
Basic and diluted earnings per share 15   3.4p   4.4p
All activity arose from continuing operations and the profit in each year is fully attributable to the owners of the Company.
The notes on pages 79 to 127 form part of these financial statements.      Year ended  Year ended 
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
    Note £m £m
Profit for the period      9.2 11.3
Other comprehensive income   
Foreign exchange translation differences     24 (2.7) (0.8)
Actuarial gain/(loss) on pension liabilities     29 3.9 (12.0)
Change in fair value of equity securities available-for-sale    24 (0.1)  –
Other comprehensive income for the year     1.1 (12.8)
Total comprehensive income for the year     10.3 (1.5)
The notes on pages 79 to 127 form part of these financial statements.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
 75
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials      31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
    Note £m £m
ASSETS   
Non-current assets   
Goodwill    16 59.2 30.3
Intangible assets    17 271.0 152.7
Property, plant and equipment    18 24.8 10.6
Other investments    20 2.7 3.7
Deferred tax asset    13 0.9 0.6
Biological assets     0.3  –
     358.9 197.9
Current assets   
Inventories    21 20.0 9.6
Trade and other receivables    22 32.7 20.4
Taxation    13 1.0 0.5
Derivative instruments    26 2.0  –
Held to maturity financial assets    23 10.2  –
Cash and cash equivalents    23 63.7 82.6
     129.6 113.1
Total assets     488.5 311.0
EQUITY   
Share capital    24 32.7 25.8
Share premium account    24 188.2 188.1
Merger reserve    24 317.8 158.1
Other reserves    24 (3.7) (0.9)
Retained earnings    24 (142.7) (155.9)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent     392.3 215.2
LIABILITIES    
Non-current liabilities   
Trade and other payables    25 6.9 8.5
Borrowings    27 2.9  –
Obligations under finance leases    28 0.2 0.6
Employee benefits    29 2.0 9.2
Deferred taxation    13 30.7 33.4
Provisions    32 1.2 0.7
     43.9 52.4
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables    25 49.8 40.8
Obligations under finance leases    28 0.4 0.7
Derivative instruments    26  – 0.8
Taxation    13 0.3  –
Provisions      32 1.8 1.1
     52.3 43.4
Total liabilities     96.2 95.8
Total equity and liabilities     488.5 311.0
The notes on pages 79 to 127 form part of these financial statements. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board on 24 May 2011 and were signed on its behalf by:
Dr Louise Makin Rolf Soderstrom
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Registered No: 2670500
Consolidated statement of financial position
76
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011      Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
    Note £m £m
Profit after tax for the year     9.2 11.3
Tax     (20.0) (2.2)
Financial income     (3.1) (7.1)
Financial expense     0.1 0.1
Operating (loss)/profit     (13.8) 2.1
 
Adjustments for:    
 Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments     (1.5) (1.1)
 Amounts written off investments     1.4  –
 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets     21.5 9.9
 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment     2.4 2.5
 Share-based payments     0.6 1.1
 Pension scheme funding     (3.3) (2.8)
 Costs of acquisition recognised in equity     (0.6)  –
 Other     (0.3) 0.3
 Share of associates’ losses      – 0.3
Cash from operations before movements in working capital     6.4 12.3
 
(Increase)/decrease in inventories     (5.4) 1.2
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables     (6.7) 9.4
(Decrease) in trade and other payables     (5.0) (8.5)
(Decrease) in provisions      – (6.1)
Cash from operations     (10.7) 8.3
 
Interest expense      – (0.1)
Taxation paid     (1.3) (2.4)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities     (12.0) 5.8
 
Investing activities   
Interest received     0.4 0.6
Purchases of intangible assets     (10.1) (1.2)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment     (11.2) (1.5)
Net proceeds from disposal of investments and intangible assets    1.5 (0.3)
Net expenditure on investments     (0.5) (0.2)
Net cash acquired from acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc   38 14.4  –
Net cash outflow from investing activities     (5.5) (2.6)
 
Cash flows from financing activities   
Repayment of borrowings      – (0.2)
Repayment of finance leases     (0.7) (0.8)
Proceeds of share issues     0.1 2.4
Net cash from financing activities     (0.6) 1.4
 
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents     (18.1) 4.6
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year     82.6 78.2
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held     (0.8) (0.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year    23 63.7 82.6
The notes on pages 79 to 127 form part of these financial statements. 
Consolidated statement of cash flows
 77
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials  Share Share Merger Other Retained Total 
 capital premium reserve reserves earnings equity 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2009 25.5 187.3 156.5 (0.1) (156.6) 212.6
Profit for the year  –  –  –  – 11.3 11.3 
Foreign exchange translation differences  –  –  – (0.8)  – (0.8) 
Actuarial (loss) on pension liabilities  –  –  –  (12.0) (12.0)
Total comprehensive income for the year  –  –  – (0.8) (0.7) (1.5) 
 
Transactions with owners:
Issue of BTG plc ordinary shares 0.3 0.8 1.6  –  – 2.7 
Movement in shares held by the Trust  –  –  –  – 0.3 0.3 
Share-based payments  –  –  –  – 1.1 1.1
At 31 March 2010 25.8 188.1 158.1 (0.9) (155.9) 215.2
 Share Share Merger Other Retained Total 
 capital premium reserve reserves earnings equity 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2010 25.8 188.1 158.1 (0.9) (155.9) 215.2
Profit for the year  –  –  –  – 9.2 9.2 
Foreign exchange translation differences  –  –  – (2.7)  – (2.7) 
Actuarial gain on pension liabilities  –  –  –  3.9 3.9 
Change in fair value of equity securities available-for-sale  –  – – (0.1)  – (0.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year  –  –  – (2.8) 13.1 10.3 
 
Transactions with owners: 
Issue of BTG plc ordinary shares  – 0.1  –  –  – 0.1 
Issued on acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc 6.9  – 159.7  –  – 166.6 
Movement in shares held by the Trust  –  –  –  – (0.5) (0.5) 
Share-based payments  –  –  –  – 0.6 0.6
At 31 March 2011 32.7 188.2 317.8 (3.7) (142.7) 392.3
The notes on pages 79 to 127 form part of these financial statements. 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
78
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 1 General information
BTG plc (the Company) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom and listed on the London Stock 
Exchange. The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2011 comprise the results  
of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings (together referred to as the Group) and the Group’s interest in associates.
The financial statements were approved for issue by the Board on 24 May 2011.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies as approved by the Board  
and described below.
Accounting standards adopted in the year
The following accounting standards have been adopted in the year:
IFRS3 revised – Business Combinations 
The adoption of IFRS3 revised has resulted in £3.0m of transaction costs being recognised through the Group’s consolidated 
income statement in relation to the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc as detailed in notes 7 and 38. The costs 
were incurred with professional advisers directly in relation to the acquisition and reduce basic and diluted earnings per share  
by 1.1p.
IAS41 – Biological Assets
As part of the acquisition of land in Australia on which the Group manages sheep, a breeding flock of sheep was purchased. 
These have been accounted for in accordance with IAS41 and are held at fair value. At 31 March 2011 the carrying value of  
this breeding flock was £0.3m. As in previous periods the Group continues to account for its production flock of sheep within 
property, plant and equipment in accordance with IAS16. 
Other accounting standards adopted in the year
The following amendments and standards have also been adopted, but have had no significant effect on the reported results  
or financial position of the Group:
 — IFRS1 (Revised) – simplification of the structure of IFRS1 without making any technical changes;
 — Amendments to IFRS2 – Group cash-settled share-based payments transactions;
 — IAS27 – this requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests where there is no change in control to be 
recorded in equity;
 — IFRIC18 – clarification of the accounting for arrangements where an item of property, plant and equipment, provided by the 
customer, is used to provide an ongoing service;
 — IAS38 Intangible Assets – additional consequential amendments arising from revised IFRS3; and
 — Improvements to IFRS – various standards amended.
Accounting standards issued but not yet effective
The Group does not consider that any of the other standards or interpretations issued but as yet not effective will have a 
significant impact on the financial statements.
Accounting policies adopted as a result of the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc
As a result of the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc, the Group has adopted additional accounting policies in 
relation to areas that were not previously relevant to the Group:
 — Held to maturity financial assets – see 2(l);
 — Revenues received in relation to development programmes – see 2(r)(iv); and
 — Borrowings – see 2(z).
Going concern basis
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
This conclusion has been reached having considered the effect of liquidity risk on the Group’s ability to operate effectively. 
Currently, liquidity risk is not considered a significant business risk to the Group given its level of net cash and cash flow 
projections. The Group does not currently require significant levels of debt financing to operate its business. Further details  
of the Group’s policies and objectives around liquidity risk are given in note 33 to the Accounts. The key liquidity risks faced  
by the Group are considered to be the failure of banks where funds are deposited and the failure of key licensees or insurers.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
 79
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials 1 General information continued
In addition to the liquidity risks considered above, the directors have also considered the following factors when reaching  
the conclusion to continue to adopt the going concern basis:
 — The Group’s principal licensees are global industry leaders in their respective fields and the Group’s royalty-generating 
intellectual property consists of a broad portfolio of both licensees and industries;
 — The Group’s Marketed Products are life-saving in nature, providing some protection against an uncertain economic  
outlook; and
 — The purchase of Biocompatibles International plc in January 2011 resulted in a net cash inflow of £10.8m plus held  
to maturity financial assets of £10.2m and a further diversification of market and development risk for the Group as  
a whole.
Acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs
The consolidated income statement includes a separate column to disclose significant acquisition adjustments and 
reorganisation costs arising on corporate acquisitions. Adjustments relate to the acquisitions of:
 — Biocompatibles International plc in January 2011; and
 — Protherics PLC in December 2008.
The costs relate to the following:
 — The release of the fair value uplift of inventory acquired;
 — Amortisation arising on intangible assets acquired;
 — Transaction costs incurred with professional advisers in relation to the completion of the acquisition; and
 — Reorganisation costs comprising acquisition related redundancy programmes, property costs, and asset impairments.
2 Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have 
been consistently applied to all years presented unless otherwise stated.
(a) Basis of accounting and preparation of financial statements
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (Adopted IFRSs). The consolidated financial statements also comply fully with IFRSs 
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. 
The Group financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest £0.1m except where 
otherwise indicated and have been prepared on the historical cost basis modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain 
financial instruments and business combination assets as set out below.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to 
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial 
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from 
those estimates. Judgements made by the directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect 
on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 3.
(b)  Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiary undertakings
Subsidiary undertakings are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, 
to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, 
potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The financial statements of subsidiary 
undertakings are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that 
control ceases.
(ii) Associates
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating 
policies. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s proportionate share of the total recognised gains and losses 
of associates on an equity-accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant 
influence ceases. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds the carrying value of its interest in an associate, the Group’s 
carrying amount is reduced to nil and no further losses are recognised except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or 
constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
80
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2 Accounting policies continued
(iii) Acquisition accounting
The purchase method is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition is measured 
as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. 
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed are measured initially at their fair values on the 
date of acquisition, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value  
of the Group’s share of identifiable net assets, including intangible assets acquired, is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of 
acquisition is less than the fair value of the Group’s share of net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised 
directly in the income statement.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies used into line 
with those used by the Group.
(iv) Merger reserve
A merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes  
the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006.
(v) Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements  
of foreign operations that are not integral to the operations of the Company.
(vi) Fair value reserve
The fair value reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments. If an investment 
suffers impairment due to a prolonged or significant decline in the fair value below acquisition cost, its share of the reserve is 
recycled to the income statement and any further declines in fair value of that investment are no longer charged to the reserve 
but immediately taken to the income statement.
(vii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are 
eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are 
eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the entity. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised 
gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
(c)  Operating segments
An operating segment is defined as a component of the Group (i) that engages in business activities from which it may earn 
revenues and incur expenses; (ii) whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Group’s chief operating decision maker 
(the Leadership Team) to make resource allocation decisions and monitor its performance; and (iii) for which discrete financial 
information is available.
(d)  Foreign currency
(i)  Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate 
ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary 
assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate  
at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair  
value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined. Exchange gains/losses on 
retranslation of foreign currency transactions and balances within trading intercompany balances are recognised in the income 
statement within ‘Operating expenses’.
(ii)  Financial statements of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are 
translated into Sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are 
translated into Sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange 
differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in the translation reserve.
 81
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  2 Accounting policies continued
(iii)  Net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to the translation 
reserve. They are released into the income statement upon disposal of the investment.
(e)  Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value and are designated as being measured at fair value through the 
income statement on inception. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income 
statement through ‘Financial income’ or ‘Financial expense’ as appropriate. 
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of 
the quoted forward price.
(f)  Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. Goodwill represents amounts arising on the 
acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and associates. In respect of business combinations that have occurred since 1 April 
2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable assets, 
including intangible assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested 
annually for impairment (see 2(m)). In respect of associates, the carrying value of goodwill is included in the carrying value of the 
investment in the associate.
(g)  Intangible assets 
(i)  Initial recognition
Intangible assets acquired as a result of a business combination are initially recognised at their fair value in accordance with 
IFRS3 – ‘Business Combinations’.
Other intangible assets are initially recognised at cost. Cost includes the cost of obtaining patent protection for intellectual 
property rights, the cost of acquisition of patents and the costs of the internal patent attorney specific to obtaining the initial 
grant of a patent. Income from patents is derived through licensing and other agreements.
(ii)  Amortisation
Intangible assets are amortised in a manner calculated to write off the cost, on a straight-line basis, over the effective life of the 
asset. In determining the appropriate life of the asset, consideration is given to the expected cash generating life of the asset or 
remaining patent life if different.
The effective life of each class of asset is determined as follows:
 — Developed technology: expected cash generating life, taking into account specific product and market characteristics for each 
developed technology;
 — Contractual relationships: period to expiry of the contract;
 — In-process research and development: amortisation is not charged until the asset is generating an economic return, at which 
point the effective life is assessed by reference to the remaining patent life;
 — Computer software: the shorter of the licence period and three years; and
 — Patents: period to patent expiry.
In the event that an intangible asset is no longer used or a patent is abandoned, the balance of unamortised expenditure is 
written off immediately. 
The following useful economic lives are applied:
Developed technology  2 to 25 years 
Contractual relationships  2 to 15 years 
In-process research and development  12 to 25 years 
Computer software  3 years 
Patents  20 years
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
82
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2 Accounting policies continued
(iii)  Income statement disclosure
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets is included within operating expenses in the income statement.
(iv)  Subsequent expenditure
Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic 
benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
(v)  Impairment
If an intangible asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value it is written down to its estimated recoverable amount 
in accordance with the Group’s policy on impairment (see note 2(m)). 
(h)  Property, plant and equipment
(i)  Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (see note 
2(m)). 
(ii)  Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis to write assets down to their residual value using the 
following useful economic lives:
Buildings and improvements 10 to 20 years 
Leasehold improvements 2 to 10 years 
Plant and machinery 5 to 15 years 
Furniture and equipment 2 to 15 years 
Motor vehicles 5 years 
Computer hardware 3 to 5 years 
Depreciation is not charged until the asset is brought into use. The residual value is reassessed annually. 
(iii)  Income statement disclosure
Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets is included within Operating expenses in the income statement.
Profits and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with the carrying amount. These are included in  
profit/loss on sale of tangible assets in the income statement. 
(iv)  Subsequent expenditure
Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of a tangible fixed asset is capitalised only when it is probable that the Group 
will realise future economic benefits from the asset.
(v)  Impairment
If a tangible asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value, it is written down to its estimated recoverable amount in 
accordance with the Group’s policy on impairment (see note 2(m)).
(i)  Investments
Investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group, classified as being available-for-sale, are stated at fair value, with 
any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity, except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items 
such as debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses which are taken to the income statement. When these investments 
are no longer recognised as assets, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in the 
income statement. Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method is 
recognised in the income statement.
(j)  Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The first in, first out method of valuation is used. Cost 
comprises materials, direct labour and a share of production overheads appropriate to the relevant stage of production. 
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate. Net realisable value is determined at the 
balance sheet date on commercially saleable products based on estimated selling price less all further costs to completion  
and all relevant marketing, selling and distribution costs. 
 83
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  2 Accounting policies continued
Inventories relating to research and development projects are fully written down in the income statement unless the Group 
considers it probable to realise economic value from their sale or use. If the circumstances that previously caused these 
inventories to be written down below cost subsequently change and there is clear evidence of an increase in realisable value,  
the write down is reversed.
(k)  Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables do not carry interest and are stated at amortised cost less impairment losses (see 2(m)).
(l)  Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and  
form an integral part of the Group’s cash management and for which the Group has a legal right of set-off are included as a 
component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Cash deposits with a maturity of greater than three months are classified as held to maturity financial assets.
(m)  Impairment
Impairment testing is performed for all assets when there is an indicator of impairment.
In addition, for goodwill and unamortised intangible assets, impairment testing is performed both in the year of acquisition and 
annually at each balance sheet date. An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-
generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Other specific categories of asset are treated as follows:
(i) Equity investments
Impairment is deemed to arise when there is a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the equity instrument. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
(ii) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date and whenever there are events  
that indicate that an impairment may have occurred. An impairment loss is recognised if an asset’s carrying amount exceeds  
the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell. Impairment losses are recognised within operating expenses  
in the income statement.
(iii) Amortised intangible assets
Amortised intangible assets are also tested for impairment whenever there are indications that the carrying value may  
not be recoverable. Intangible assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.  
Any impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement. When assessing the recoverable amount  
of an intangible asset the Group uses a risk adjusted discounted cash flow model.
(iv) Available-for-sale assets
When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective 
evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income 
statement. The amount of the cumulative loss that is recognised in the income statement is the difference between the 
acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income 
statement.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale is not reversed through 
the income statement. If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be 
objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss 
shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in the income statement.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
84
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2 Accounting policies continued
(n)  Government grants
Government grants towards staff re-training costs are recognised as income over the periods in which the related costs are 
incurred and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income 
statement over the useful lives of the assets concerned.
(o)  Employee benefits
(i)  Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as 
incurred. Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with in the same manner as payments to 
defined contribution plans where the Group’s obligations under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution retirement 
benefit plan. The funds of the schemes are independent of the Group’s finances.
(ii) Defined benefit plan
For the Group’s defined benefit pension plan, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, 
with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Allowance is made in the assessment of the defined 
benefit obligation for future costs of administering the plan. The assumptions used to determine the valuation are shown in note 
29. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised 
outside the income statement and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits have already vested, and otherwise is amortised  
on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, 
reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. The retirement benefit obligation includes an allowance for future administrative 
costs of running the scheme. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of 
available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Assets of the pension scheme are held separately from the Group’s assets. 
(iii)  Share-based payments
In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS1 (First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards), IFRS2 
(Share-based Payments) has been applied to all share-based grants made to employees after 7 November 2002 that had not 
vested as of 1 January 2005.
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company, subject to certain criteria. The fair 
value of options granted is recognised as an expense of employment in the income statement with a corresponding increase  
in equity. The fair value is measured at the date of grant and spread over the period during which the employees become 
unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options granted is measured using a bi-nomial lattice model, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense in any year 
is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest. However if share options fail to vest due to share prices not 
achieving the designated performance threshold for vesting, no such adjustment takes place.
(p)  Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past 
event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, 
provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower 
than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
A charge for reorganisation costs is taken to the income statement when the Group has approved a detailed and formal 
reorganisation plan, and the reorganisation has either commenced or the Group has a constructive obligation, for example 
having made an announcement publicly to the employee or the Group as a whole.
 85
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  2 Accounting policies continued
(q)  Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost except for the contingent value note which is 
recognised at fair value.
(r)  Revenue recognition
Revenue represents amounts received or receivable in respect of the sale of marketed products to customers during the year, 
net of trade discounts given and value added tax, and in respect of royalty arrangements.
A description of the various elements of revenue and the associated accounting policies is given below:
(i)  Marketed products 
The Group recognises revenue for marketed product sales when each condition of IAS18, paragraph 14 is wholly-satisfied. 
Where sales arrangements specify a second element of revenue contingent upon a specified event, this revenue is not 
recognised until this event has occurred and it is certain that the economic benefit triggered by this event will flow to the Group. 
In cases where product is sold to a customer with a right of replacement, the Group views the transaction as a multi-element 
arrangement and a portion of the value from the sale is deferred and allocated to the replacement right based on the fair value 
of the replacement right. Revenue is recognised net of any trade discounts that may be given from time-to-time.
(ii)  Royalties
Revenues from the Group’s licensed programmes are generated following the grant of a licence to a third-party to undertake 
additional development and commercialisation of a research and development programme or other intellectual property rights. 
In addition to an upfront payment, BTG may be entitled to additional revenues such as milestone payments or royalties on 
revenues generated by the licensee. Revenues associated with royalty arrangements may in turn be linked to additional 
obligations on BTG. These revenues are accounted for in line with IAS18 as follows:
Upfront and milestone payments
Non-refundable upfront and milestone payments are recognised as the earnings process is completed. This may result in full 
recognition in the year in which the income is received. However, where the Group has ongoing performance obligations such  
as the delivery of products or services, upfront payments are deferred over the period in which these obligations are satisfied. 
Associated costs of performance obligations are expensed in the period to which they relate. In determining the performance 
obligations under the contract, consideration is given as to whether elements of the obligations meet the criteria for separate 
accounting. The Group applies the substantive milestone method in accounting for subsequent milestone payments. Milestone 
payments that are considered substantive are recognised into income in the year in which they are received. Milestones that do 
not satisfy the criteria to be considered as substantive are amortised over the remaining period in which the Group expects to 
fulfil its performance obligations under the agreement. The Group considers the following when assessing whether a milestone 
is considered substantive:
 — Are the milestone payments non-refundable?
 — Does the achievement of the milestone involve a degree of risk that was not reasonably assured at the inception of the 
arrangement?
 — Is substantive effort involved in achieving the milestone?
 — Is the amount of the milestone payment reasonable in relation to the effort expended or the risk associated with the 
achievement of the milestone? 
 — How does the time that passes between the payments compare to the effort required to reach the milestone?
Outlicensed product royalties 
Royalty income is generated by sales of products incorporating the Group’s proprietary technology. Royalty revenues are 
recognised once the amounts due can be reliably estimated based on the sale of underlying products and recoverability  
is assured. Where there is insufficient historical data on sales and returns to fulfil these requirements, for example in the  
case of a new product, the royalty revenue will not be recognised until the Group can reliably estimate the underlying sales. 
(iii)  Sales/assignments of IPR
Outright sales or assignments of IPR are treated as disposals of non-current assets.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
86
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2 Accounting policies continued
(iv)  Revenues received in relation to development programmes
Revenue received in relation to development programmes is recognised based on the percentage of completion of the 
programme. Where payments may be earned in such programmes, based on the achievement of uncertain milestones,  
revenue is restricted to the cumulative cash receivable for the programme.
(s)  Research and development
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred. Expenditure 
incurred on development projects (relating to the design and testing of new or improved products) is recognised as intangible 
assets when it is probable that the project will generate future economic benefit, considering factors including its commercial 
and technological feasibility, status of regulatory approval, and the ability to measure costs reliably. Other development 
expenditures are recognised as an expense as incurred. Development expenditure previously recognised as an expense is  
not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period. Development expenditure that has a finite useful life and which has been 
capitalised is amortised from the commencement of the commercial production of the product on a straight-line basis over  
the period of its expected benefit. 
No development expenditure has been capitalised in either the current or prior year.
Property, plant and equipment used for research and development is depreciated in accordance with the Group’s policy and the 
cost is included within ‘Research and development’ in the income statement.
(t)  Cost of sales
Cost of sales includes the direct costs incurred in manufacturing and bringing products to sale in the market and revenue 
sharing costs.
Revenue sharing costs represent amounts due under royalty arrangements to licensors or assignees of technology and similar 
directly attributable items. Amounts are recognised upon recognition by the Group of amounts due from a licensee. They are 
recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the individual agreements relating to the relevant technology, in line with 
revenue recognition.
(u)  Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present  
value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor  
is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and 
reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance 
charges are charged directly against income. Such assets are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the 
length of the lease. Assets purchased under hire purchase agreements are accounted for similarly, except that these assets are 
depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease 
within the appropriate functional expenditure heading.
(v)  Financial income
Net financial income comprises interest income less interest payable during the year, calculated using the effective interest rate 
method, and fair value adjustments relating to foreign exchange forward contracts.
(w)  Income tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income 
statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at 
the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
 87
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  2 Accounting policies continued
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying value 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary 
differences are not provided for: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting 
profit nor taxable profit or loss; and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries  
and associates, where it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying value of 
assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against  
which the asset can be utilised.
(x)  BTG Employee Share Trust
Included within the Group’s financial results are those of the BTG Employee Share Trust, the costs of which are expensed  
within the financial statements of the Trust as incurred.
In the Company accounts the cost of BTG shares held by the Trust is deducted from shareholders’ funds.
(y)  Financial guarantees
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within  
its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect,  
the Company treats the guarantee contracts as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the  
Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
(z)  Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried at 
amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised  
in the statement of comprehensive income over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate.
3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
Critical accounting judgements
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, described in note 2, management and the Audit Committee 
discussed and agreed the selection, application and disclosure of the Group’s critical accounting policies and the estimates 
used in the preparation of the accounts.
Revenue recognition
As described in note 2, it is the Group’s policy to recognise non-refundable upfront payments over the period in which any 
performance obligations are satisfied. In December 2008, the Group acquired Protherics which had received £16.3m from 
AstraZeneca UK Ltd in a Patent and Know How Licence Agreement for CytoFab™. The Group considers that its obligations under 
the licence agreement consist of the licence, provision of development services, regulatory support and steering committee 
participation. The Group considers that the development services and the regulatory support it can supply will cease with the 
approval of CytoFab™ by the FDA and while the steering committee continues to operate after product approval by the FDA, the 
Group has received confirmation that its participation after this date would become voluntary. Based on the clinical development 
plan to be undertaken by AstraZeneca, the Group currently estimates that its performance under the agreement will be 
completed over the period to 31 December 2015 and, therefore, is recognising the £16.3m on a straight-line basis, over the 
estimated performance period. 
In determining the revenue recognition period, management considered the detailed criteria for the recognition of revenue per 
IAS18, Revenue, and is satisfied that all requirements have been met by the Group.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
88
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
Acquisitions
Judgements have been made in respect of the identification of intangible assets made on acquisitions based on pre-acquisition 
forecasts, analysis and negotiations. In addition to the judgements and estimates made in establishing the intangible assets 
acquired and their value, in certain instances these assets are in development and are only amortised once the development 
phase has been completed, although these assets are subjected to impairment review in accordance with the accounting policy 
described in note 2(m).
In addition to significant fair value adjustments in relation to intangible assets, the Group has recognised other fair value 
adjustments on assets and liabilities acquired. Each adjustment has been calculated in line with the requirements of IFRS3 
(revised). The most significant of these relate to:
 — Inventory: where inventory acquired has been uplifted in value to be held at estimated selling price less costs to complete, 
costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance; and
 — Deferred tax: where estimates of deferred tax liabilities arising on acquired intangible assets have been recognised. Where 
appropriate an associated deferred tax asset, representing management’s estimation of the value of tax losses that would be 
available to the Group to offset the deferred tax liability (see below) has also been recognised.
Deferred tax asset
The Group recognised an additional deferred tax asset of £18.6m in relation to brought-forward US tax losses during the year 
ended 31 March 2011. In accordance with IAS12, this asset has been set off against the Group’s aggregate US deferred tax 
liability. The asset was recognised following the completion of a tax-free reorganisation of certain of the Group’s US taxable 
entities on 31 March 2011. As a result of this, when performing its annual assessment of the probability of utilising such losses, 
management concluded that there was now sufficient certainty over the future utilisation of the losses to recognise a deferred 
tax asset.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have 
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, 
are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles
Determining whether goodwill and other intangibles are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-
generating units to which goodwill or other intangible assets have been allocated. The value in use calculation requires 
estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate 
present value. There is a risk of a material adverse impact on the income statement should an impairment adjustment be 
required to be reflected in the financial statements. See note 2(m) for further details.
Fair value of listed and unlisted investments 
Note 20 explains the basis for estimating the fair value of listed and unlisted investments. 
Pension assumptions
Note 29 details the key actuarial assumptions used to establish the pension funding position. These are the best estimates 
chosen based on historic experience and future expectations. Should the discount rate used to establish scheme liabilities  
or the long-term expected rate of return on investment vary significantly then the pension fund valuation would be impacted.
Deferred tax
The Group has significant deferred tax assets principally in relation to losses in the US and the UK. The assets have been 
recognised on the basis that management estimates demonstrate that it is more likely than not that future taxable profit will 
arise in the jurisdictions in which the losses are available. If actual events differ from management’s estimates or the estimates 
are changed in the future this could have a significant effect on the balance sheet net asset position of the Group. In recognising 
deferred tax assets and liabilities, management has taken into account expected changes in tax rates in each relevant 
jurisdiction.
 89
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  4 Operating segments
The Group’s operating segments, as identified and reported in line with the requirements of IFRS8, have been updated during  
the course of the year to reflect the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc in January 2011. There are no inter-segment 
transactions that are required to be eliminated on consolidation.
Period through to the acquisition of Biocompatibles
All significant decisions are made by the Leadership Team (which is BTG’s chief operating decision-making body as defined  
by IFRS8), with implementation of that decision on a Group-wide basis then being the responsibility of each member of the  
team or of cross-functional global teams where appropriate. The sales, manufacturing, business development, research and 
development and support functions are managed and operate on a global basis and are not dedicated to individual product, 
marketing or therapy areas.
In assessing performance and making resource allocation decisions, the Leadership Team reviews gross profit by segment, 
reflecting the two distinct routes available to it in realising commercial value from its assets. All other financial information, 
including assets, is presented on a consolidated basis for the Group as a whole, substantially in the form of, and on the same 
basis as, the Group’s IFRS financial statements. Gross profit is generated from marketed products, such as CroFab® and 
DigiFab® , or from royalty arrangements such as Factor IX, Campath® (alemtuzumab) and Two-Part Hip-Cup. Royalty revenues  
are receivable on a broad portfolio of underlying intellectual property rights, covering amongst other things pharmaceutical 
products, medical devices and electronic components.
Research and development is an essential upstream activity of the Group, without which there could be no royalty or marketed 
product revenues. Research and development activities are managed on a consolidated, Group-wide basis and are not managed 
by reference to the Group’s operating segments. 
Effect of acquisition of Biocompatibles
The Group completed the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc (note 38) on 27 January 2011. The Group’s 
consolidated results for the financial year ended 31 March 2011 therefore contain approximately two months of trading  
in respect of Biocompatibles.
As a result of this acquisition, representatives from the Biocompatibles business joined the Leadership Team, the Group’s  
chief operating decision-maker. The proximity of the acquisition to the year end, however, meant that existing operating  
segments were not changed. Financial performance of the Biocompatibles business in the period since acquisition has  
been monitored by the Leadership Team on a stand-alone basis. Resource decisions have, to date, also been made having 
regard to the Biocompatibles business as a stand alone entity; though the full Leadership Team is involved in the decision-
making process.
The Biocompatibles business has therefore been identified and disclosed as a separate operating segment. Acquisition and 
reorganisation costs are not allocated to specific operating segments.
As the Group continues its integration of the recent Biocompatibles acquisition the management structure and reporting of 
results within the Company may change in the future to be more closely aligned to the three focus areas outlined in the Chief 
Executive Officer’s review on pages 16 to 19, being ‘Specialty Pharmaceuticals’, ‘Interventional Medicine’ and ‘Licensing and 
Biotechnology’. No decision has yet been made or implemented.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
90
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 4 Operating segments continued
 Year ended 31 March 2011
 
     Acquisition 
     adjustment and 
 Marketed    reorganisation 
 products Royalties Sub-total Biocompatibles costs Total 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 35.4 70.0 105.4 6.0  – 111.4
Cost of sales (8.8) (22.3) (31.1) (1.3) (1.7) (34.1)
Gross profit 26.6 47.7 74.3 4.7 (1.7) 77.3
 
Operating expenses:      
Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles   (8.2)  – (1.8) (10.0)
Amortisation of repurchase of contractual rights   (9.6)  –  – (9.6)
Foreign exchange losses   (2.1) 0.1  – (2.0)
Other   (31.1) (2.6)  – (33.7)
Operating expenses: total   (51.0) (2.5) (1.8) (55.3)
Research and development   (30.6) (1.5)  – (32.1)
Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments   1.5  –  – 1.5
Acquisition and reorganisation costs    –  – (3.8) (3.8)
Amounts written off investments   (1.4)  –  – (1.4)
Operating (loss)/profit   (7.2) 0.7 (7.3) (13.8)
Financial income      3.1
Financial expense      (0.1)
(Loss) before tax      (10.8)
Tax      20.0
Profit for the year      9.2
Unallocated assets      488.5
 91
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  4 Operating segments continued
 Year ended 31 March 2010
 
    Marketed  
    products Royalties Total 
    £m £m £m
Revenue    34.3 64.2 98.5
Cost of sales*    (15.2) (17.6) (32.8)
Gross profit    19.1 46.6 65.7
Operating expenses:       
Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles      (9.1) 
Foreign exchange losses      (4.0) 
Other      (25.3)
Operating expenses: total      (38.4) 
Research and development      (27.0) 
Profit on disposal of investments and intangible assets      1.1 
Acquisition and reorganisation costs      0.7
Operating profit      2.1
Financial income      7.1 
Financial expense      (0.1)
Profit before tax      9.1
Tax      2.2
Profit for the year      11.3
Unallocated assets      311.0
 *2010 includes a £0.3m adjustment within marketed products representing the reversal of a fair value uplift of inventory 
purchased on acquisition of Protherics PLC recognised through the income statement when the product was sold.
Geographical revenue analysis
Geographical analysis of revenue, based on the geographical location of customers:
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
US     96.2 82.9
UK     9.3 8.3
Europe (excluding UK)     5.0 5.9
Other regions     0.9 1.4
     111.4 98.5
Major customers
Products that utilise the Group’s intellectual property rights are sold by licensees. Royalty income is derived from over 70 
licences. Two licences individually generated royalty income in excess of 10% of Group revenue, being £28.7m and £12.4m 
respectively (2010: One licence generated £26.6m).
The Group’s marketed products are sold both directly and also through several distribution agreements in the US, Europe  
and Asia Pacific. One distribution agreement individually generated income in excess of 10% of Group revenue, being £12.4m 
(2010: One distribution agreement generated £27.9m).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
92
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5 Research and development expenses
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Expenditure on internal development programmes     32.1 26.7
Share of results of research associates      – 0.3
     32.1 27.0
6 Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments 
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Profit on disposal of patents     1.5 1.1
Profit is shown net of £1.8m (2010: £0.4m) to be shared with the inventive source.
Loss relief has absorbed the tax due in respect of the profit on disposals.
7 Acquisition and reorganisation costs 
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
BTG plc and Biocompatibles International plc costs     3.8  –
BTG plc and Protherics PLC costs      – (0.7)
     3.8 (0.7)
The Group considers ‘acquisition and reorganisation costs’ to include transaction costs of completing the acquisition (in line 
with IFRS3 revised) and those costs resulting directly from decisions to rationalise both operating sites and business 
operations. Transaction costs of £3.0m (2010: nil) have been expensed in relation to the acquisition of Biocompatibles 
International plc. A further £1.1m has been debited directly to merger reserve (note 24).
8 Amounts written off investments
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Amounts written off investments      1.4  –
An impairment charge of £1.4m has been recognised in the consolidated income statement in relation to one of the Group’s 
equity investments in an unlisted drug development company. The impairment charge was triggered by a funding round 
conducted by the investee company at a price per share significantly below previous funding rounds. It is the Group’s policy to 
hold unlisted equity investments at fair value, which is deemed to be the most recent funding round price. The magnitude of the 
reduction in price per share has resulted in an impairment charge reflected in the consolidated income statement rather than 
through the Group’s fair value reserve within equity.
 93
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  9 Operating (loss)/profit
 Year ended 31 March 2011 Year ended 31 March 2010
  
 Existing  Continuing Existing  Continuing
 operations Acquisitions  operations operations Acquisitions operations
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 105.4 6.0 111.4 98.5  – 98.5
Cost of sales*  (31.1) (3.0) (34.1) (32.8)  – (32.8)
Gross profit 74.3 3.0 77.3 65.7  – 65.7
 
Operating expenses (52.8) (2.5) (55.3) (38.4)  – (38.4)
Research and development  (30.6) (1.5) (32.1) (27.0)  – (27.0)
Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments 1.5  – 1.5 1.1  – 1.1
Acquisition and reorganisation costs (3.8)  – (3.8) 0.7  – 0.7
Amounts written off investments (1.4)  – (1.4)  –  –  –
Operating (loss)/profit (12.8) (1.0) (13.8) 2.1  – 2.1
 *In accordance with IFRS3 Revised, Business Combinations, inventory acquired upon corporate acquisitions has been adjusted  
to fair value to reflect the profit earned based on the stage of manufacture at the date of acquisition (see note 38). In the year 
ended 31 March 2011, £1.7m (31 March 2010: £0.3m) of fair value adjustments was incorporated within the cost of sales as 
the inventory was sold to customers.
Operating (loss)/profit has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Depreciation and other amounts written off property, plant and equipment (note 18)   2.4 2.5
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (note 17)     21.5 9.9
Amounts written off investments (note 8)     1.4  –
Net foreign exchange losses     2.0 4.0
Research and development expenses (note 5)     32.1 27.0
Staff costs (note 10)     26.8 19.5
Operating lease rentals payable on property     1.3 1.6
Operating lease rentals receivable on property     (0.3) (0.3)
Reorganisation costs, including release of onerous lease provision (note 7)    3.8 (0.7)
The analysis of the auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £’000 £’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual consolidated accounts  123 85
The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation     325 155
Other services pursuant to legislation     43 37
Tax services     47 54
Services relating to due diligence upon corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to  
  be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates    380 131
Other services     12 110
Fees in respect of the audit of the Group’s pension funds     9 24
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance statement on pages 44 to 51 and 
includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided  
by the auditor.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
94
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 10 Staff costs 
Staff costs (including directors’ emoluments and reorganisation costs)
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Salaries     21.6 13.9
Social security costs     2.1 1.8
Defined contribution pension costs     1.3 1.6
Defined benefit pension costs     0.7 1.1
Equity-settled transactions     1.1 1.1
     26.8 19.5
Staff costs in the year ended 31 March 2011 include those relating to Biocompatibles International plc for the period from 
acquisition to the end of the financial year, being approximately two months. 
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the remuneration 
report on pages 57 to 68. In addition to the disclosures in the remuneration report, the charge to income in respect of equity-
settled transactions of key management personnel, in accordance with IFRS2, was £0.6m (2010: 0.5m).
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year (including executive directors), analysed by category, was 
as follows:
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Management     36 39
Research and production     213 194
Administration and business support     82 59
     331 292
Staff numbers in the year ended 31 March 2011 include those relating to Biocompatibles International plc for the period from 
acquisition to the end of the financial year, being approximately two months. 
11 Financial income
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Interest receivable on money market and bank deposits     0.4 0.6
Fair value changes of foreign exchange forward contracts     2.7 6.5
Financial income       3.1  7.1
12 Financial expense
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Interest payable on finance lease and hire purchase borrowings     0.1 0.1
 95
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  13 Tax
An analysis of the tax charge/(credit) for the year, all relating to current operations, is as follows:
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Current tax  
UK corporation tax charge/(credit)      – (0.6)
US income tax charge     0.2  –
Overseas tax on royalties     1.4 0.1
Adjustments in respect of prior years:     
 UK income tax      – (0.5)
 US income tax      –  –
Total current taxation     1.6 (1.0)
 
Deferred taxation  
Deferred tax asset recognised in the period following US reorganisation    (18.6)  –
(Increase)/decrease in estimate of recoverable deferred tax asset    (0.2) 0.2
Release of deferred tax liability      (2.8) (1.4)
Tax credit for the year     (20.0) (2.2)
Reconciliation of the effective tax rate
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
(Loss)/profit before tax     (10.8) 9.1
Tax using UK corporation tax rate of 28% (2010: 28%)     (3.0) 2.5
Differences in effective overseas tax rates     (1.2)  –
Foreign tax paid     1.4  –
Timing differences      (0.8) (3.5)
Non-deductible expenses     1.5  –
Additional tax credit for research and development expenditure incurred    (0.6) (0.5)
Adjustments to tax in respect of prior years      – 0.6
Deferred tax assets (recognised)/not recognised     (19.4) 4.1
Adjustment to tax rates     2.8  –
Estimated utilised losses     (0.7) (5.4)
Tax credit for the year     (20.0) (2.2)
An analysis of amounts included in the consolidated statement of financial position in respect of income taxes is shown below:
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Current assets   
UK Corporation tax receivable     1.0 0.5
Current liabilities   
US Income tax payable     0.2  –
Overseas tax payable on royalties      0.1  –
     0.3  –
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
96
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13 Tax continued
Deferred taxation
The movements in the deferred tax asset and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as 
permitted by IAS12, Income Taxes) during the year are as shown below. The deferred tax asset and liabilities are only offset 
where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balance net.
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 30% (2010: 30%).  
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below:
Deferred tax asset (Australia)
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Deferred tax asset recognised at 1 April     0.6 0.7
Income statement credit/(debit)      0.2 (0.2)
Exchange differences     0.1 0.1
Deferred tax asset recognised at 31 March     0.9 0.6
The deferred tax asset, which relates to trading losses incurred in Australia, has been recognised in the financial statements 
following the development of the Group’s products in prior years and the directors are of the opinion, based on recent and 
forecast trading, that the level of profits in Australia in the forthcoming years will lead to the realisation of this asset.
Deferred tax liability
The deferred tax liability of £30.7m (2010: £33.4m) represents the net position after taking into account the offset of deferred 
tax assets against deferred tax liabilities in each jurisdiction. Deferred tax liabilities arise on intangible assets recognised on 
acquisitions and deferred tax assets relate to brought forward trading losses. The table below summarises the gross and net 
position at each balance sheet date:
    Deferred  Deferred Net deferred 
    tax assets tax liabilities tax liability 
    £m £m £m
At 1 April 2009    (17.6) 52.8 35.2
At 1 April 2010    (15.0) 48.4 33.4
At 31 March 2011    (55.4) 86.1 30.7
The table below reconciles the movement in the deferred tax liability in the period:
Deferred tax liability
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
At 1 April     33.4 35.2
Acquisitions (note 38)     20.4  –
Deferred tax asset recognised in the period following US reorganisation    (18.6)  –
Adjustment to tax rate     2.8  –
Released during the period     (3.4) (2.8)
(Increase)/decrease in tax losses available for offset     (2.2) 1.4
Exchange differences     (1.7) (0.4)
At 31 March     30.7 33.4
 97
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  13 Tax continued
The Group recognised an additional deferred tax asset of £18.6m in relation to brought forward US tax losses during the year 
ended 31 March 2011. In accordance with IAS12, this asset has been set off against the Group’s aggregate US deferred tax 
liability. The asset was recognised following the completion of a tax-free reorganisation of certain of the Group’s US taxable 
entities on 31 March 2011. As a result of this, when performing its annual assessment of the probability of utilising such losses, 
management concluded that there was now sufficient certainty over the future utilisation of the losses to recognise a deferred 
tax asset.
Deferred tax of £1.7m (2010: £0.4m) has been recognised directly in equity, representing the impact of exchange rate 
fluctuations on deferred tax balances.
Unrecognised tax losses
In addition to the losses on which the deferred tax asset has been recognised, the Group has additional taxable losses and 
other timing differences in the UK and the US which arose as a result of the research and development incurred during the 
start-up of the Group’s activities. These losses, which total £180.4m, are available for offset against future taxable profits in 
these territories. Tax losses of £133.8m in the UK can be carried forward indefinitely. Tax losses of £46.6m in the US can be 
carried forward for 20 years. The first year in which losses will expire if remaining unutilised is 2016. A deferred tax asset has 
not been recognised in respect of these losses and other temporary differences of £12.2m since there is uncertainty as to how 
quickly such losses and temporary differences would be utilised and consequently the recoverability of the deferred tax asset is 
uncertain. The total amount of deferred tax asset not recognised, measured at 26%, is approximately:
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Tax losses     46.9 54.2
Deductible temporary differences     3.2 10.0
     50.1 64.2
14 Dividends
The Directors do not propose to declare a dividend for the year (2010: nil).
15 Earnings per share
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
Profit for the financial year (£m)     9.2 11.3
 
Profit per share (p) 
 Basic and diluted     3.4 4.4
Number of shares (m)   
 
Weighted average number of shares – basic     268.5 255.9
Effect of share options on issue     2.5 1.9
Weighted average number of shares – diluted      271.0 257.8
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
98
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15 Earnings per share continued
The basic and diluted earnings per share from underlying earnings is based on the following data:
     Year ended Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
Profit for the financial year (£m)     9.2 11.3
 
Add back:   
 Fair value adjustment on acquired inventory     1.7 0.3
 Amortisation of acquired intangible fixed assets     6.6 7.7
 Acquisition and reorganisation costs     3.8 (1.6)
 Reorganisation of US corporate structure     (18.6)  –
Underlying earnings     2.7 17.7
Profit per share (p)   
 Basic and diluted     1.0 6.9
Adjustments to profit are shown after taking into account the tax effect of such adjustments on the results as shown in the 
consolidated income statement as follows:
 — No tax adjustment is required on the fair value of acquired inventory;
 — The release of deferred tax liability of £3.4m (2010: £1.4m) as shown in note 13 has been deducted from the amortisation 
and impairment of acquired intangible assets of £10.0m (2010: £9.1m) as shown in the consolidated income statement;
 — A reorganisation cost of £3.8m in the consolidated income statement has not been adjusted for tax as there is no 
expectation of the costs being deductible for tax in this financial year. In the year ended 31 March 2010, £0.9m of tax effect 
of reorganisation costs has been adjusted on the basis that the tax charge would have been £0.9m higher had it not been for 
deductions available against reorganisation costs paid in that financial year; and
 — An adjustment has been made for the one-off deferred tax credit recognised as a result of the completion of a tax-free 
reorganisation in the year.
16 Goodwill
      £m
At 1 April 2009       30.0 
Additions       0.3
At 1 April 2010      30.3 
Additions      28.9
At 31 March 2011      59.2
Accumulated impairment losses 
At 1 April 2009, 1 April 2010 and 31 March 2011       –
Net book value at 31 March 2011      59.2
Net book value at 1 April 2010      30.3
Net book value at 1 April 2009      30.0
Additions of £28.9m in the year ended 31 March 2011 relate to the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc in January 
2011 (see note 38).
 99
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  16 Goodwill continued
Impairment review – goodwill and intangible assets
An impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill and unamortised intangible assets was conducted as at 31 March 2011. 
Goodwill arose on the acquisitions of Protherics PLC and Biocompatibles International plc (see note 38). This has been allocated 
across the Group’s cash generating units, being its operating segments (see note 4). Goodwill recognised on acquisition of 
Protherics PLC has been allocated across operating segments in proportion to the anticipated benefits of that goodwill on the 
operating segment, having regard for the assets and liabilities acquired. The carrying value of goodwill in relation to the 
Protherics PLC acquisition has been allocated as relating to marketed products, £15.6m (2010: £15.6m), and in relation to 
royalties, £14.7m (2010: £14.7m). All goodwill, being £28.9m (2010: £nil), arising on the acquisition of Biocompatibles 
International plc has been allocated to that operating segment. 
The impairment review required the estimation of the recoverable amount based on the value in use of the underlying cash 
generating unit. Near-term projections are based on the Group’s approved three-year plan. Longer-term projections through  
to the end of an asset’s estimated useful economic life are included due to the long-term nature of pharmaceutical product 
development and product life cycles. 
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were based include market share and gross margin for the marketed 
products, individual probability-adjusted cash flow models for all in-process R&D and an assessment of the net present value  
of future net royalty income for licensed patents. 
Cash flow projections for all assets were included for a period equal to the estimated useful economic life of the assets.  
No terminal values were applied. All cash flows were discounted back to present value using a pre-tax discount rate of between 
7% (2010: 7%) for net royalty income and 28% (2010: 24%) for in-process R&D, which takes into account the individual risk 
characteristics of each particular asset and related income stream.
For developed technology, near-term sales projections are based on past experience, adjusting for expected changes in future 
conditions, including those anticipated as a result of our knowledge of competitor activity and our assessment of future changes 
in the pharmaceutical industry. Long-term sales projections assume near-term growth of 2% per annum for the first eight years 
and then a 20% per annum reduction thereafter through to the end of the asset’s estimated useful life. 
For contractual relationships, the Group uses the same basic methodology as for developed technology but limits the projection 
period to the appropriate useful economic life of the contractual relationship.
For in-process R&D the key assumptions are the chance of product launch, market share and overall market size. Industry 
average statistics are used to assess the chance of product launch, taking into account the stage of development of the asset, 
the therapeutic area targeted and any known specific characteristics of the asset. Market share and overall market size are 
assessed by reference to independent industry market reports.
In assessing whether there has been an impairment, the net present value of future cash flows is compared to the carrying  
value in the accounts.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
100
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17 Intangible assets
   In-process   Repurchase 
 Developed Contractual research and Computer  of contractual 
 technology relationships development software Patents  rights Total 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost       
At 1 April 2009 120.3 36.1 7.7 0.5 14.7  – 179.3 
Additions  –  –  –  – 1.2  – 1.2 
Disposals  –  –  – (0.5) (2.8)  – (3.3) 
Currency movements (2.9) (0.9)  –  – (0.1)  (3.9)
At 1 April 2010 117.4 35.2 7.7  – 13.0  – 173.3 
Additions  –   –  – 0.4 9.7 10.1 
Acquired with Biocompatibles 118.8 6.7 11.0 0.3  –  – 136.8 
Disposals  –  –   – (0.1)  – (0.1) 
Currency movements (6.0) (1.9) 0.1  – (0.1) (0.2) (8.1)
At 31 March 2011 230.2 40.0 18.8 0.3 13.2 9.5 312.0
Amortisation       
At 1 April 2009 1.6 1.4  – 0.5 10.0  – 13.5 
Provided during the year 4.5 3.8  –  – 0.8  – 9.1 
Impairments  –  – 0.8  –  –  – 0.8 
Writeback on disposals  –  –  – (0.5) (2.5)  – (3.0) 
Currency movements 0.2 0.2  –  – (0.2)  – 0.2
At 1 April 2010 6.3 5.4 0.8  – 8.1  – 20.6 
Provided during the year 6.2 3.8 0.1  – 0.6 9.6 20.3 
Impairments  –  –  –  – 1.2  – 1.2 
Writeback on disposals  –  –  –  – (0.1)  – (0.1) 
Currency movements (0.5) (0.4)  –  –  – (0.1) (1.0)
At 31 March 2011 12.0 8.8 0.9  – 9.8 9.5 41.0
Net book value       
At 31 March 2011 218.2 31.2 17.9 0.3 3.4  – 271.0
At 1 April 2010 111.1 29.8 6.9  – 4.9  – 152.7
At 1 April 2009 118.7 34.7 7.7  – 4.7  – 165.8
Amortisation relating to acquired intangibles is shown on the face of the income statement within ‘amortisation of acquired 
intangibles’. All other amortisation and impairment are shown within ‘Other’ in ‘Operating expenses’.
 101
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  17 Intangible assets continued
Developed technology
Developed technology relates to both the antidote assets acquired in Protherics PLC comprising principally of the rights to 
CroFab® and DigiFab® ; and the bead assets acquired in Biocompatibles International plc, comprising principally of the rights  
to the DC/LC Beads. The carrying value of individually significant assets within developed technology is: 
      Remaining 
      amortisation  
    31 March 31 March period at
    2011 2010 31 March
    £m £m 2011
CroFab®    75.9 83.8 22.7 years
DigiFab®    24.5 27.1 22.7 years
DC/LC Beads    105.4  – 14.8 years
Contractual relationships
Contractual relationships relate to contracts acquired in Protherics PLC and Biocompatibles International plc. The carrying value 
and remaining amortisation period of individually significant contracts is: 
      Remaining 
      amortisation  
    31 March 31 March period at
    2011 2010 31 March
    £m £m 2011
Licence agreement with AstraZeneca for AZD9773 (CytoFab™)     24.9 28.6 11.7 years
Repurchase of contractual rights
On 27 August 2010 BTG signed an agreement with Nycomed US Inc. concerning the accelerated transition to BTG on 1 October 
2010 of marketing rights to CroFab® and DigiFab® . Under the terms of the agreement, BTG purchased the exclusive rights to sell 
the products for which a consideration of £9.7m was paid in October 2010. The purchase price was capitalised and amortised 
over the six-month period ending 31 March 2011 representing the length of the exclusive period.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
102
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 18 Property, plant and equipment
    Plant and 
    machinery, Assets in the 
  Leasehold Freehold land furniture and course of 
  improvements and buildings  equipment construction  Total 
  £m £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation     
At 1 April 2009  2.5 1.1 12.2  – 15.8 
Additions  0.3 0.1 1.1  – 1.5 
Disposals  (0.9)  – (1.5)  – (2.4) 
Currency movements  0.5  – 1.0  – 1.5
At 1 April 2010  2.4 1.2 12.8  – 16.4 
Additions  0.1 9.3 1.7 0.1 11.2 
Acquired with Biocompatibles  0.3  – 1.2 3.1 4.6 
Transfers  (1.6) 1.6  –  –  – 
Disposals   –  – (0.7)  – (0.7) 
Currency movements   – 0.8 0.3 0.1 1.2
At 31 March 2011  1.2 12.9 15.3 3.3 32.7
Depreciation     
At 1 April 2009  0.8 0.1 3.8  – 4.7 
Provided during the year  0.3 0.2 2.0  – 2.5 
Disposals  (0.7)  – (1.5)  – (2.2) 
Currency movements  0.3  – 0.5  – 0.8
At 1 April 2010  0.7 0.3 4.8  – 5.8 
Provided during the year  0.2 0.4 1.8  – 2.4 
Transfers  (0.7) 0.7  –  –  – 
Disposals   –  – (0.7)  – (0.7) 
Currency movements   – 0.1 0.3  – 0.4
At 31 March 2011  0.2 1.5 6.2  – 7.9
Net book value at 31 March 2011  1.0 11.4 9.1 3.3 24.8
Net book value at 1 April 2010  1.7 0.9 8.0  – 10.6
Net book value at 1 April 2009  1.7 1.0 8.4  – 11.1
The net book value of plant and machinery and furniture, fixtures and equipment includes £1.8m (2010: £2.3m) in respect  
of assets held under finance lease and hire purchase agreements. Depreciation for the year on those assets was £0.3m  
(2010: £0.3m).
 103
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  19 Investments in associates
Investments which represent a holding greater than 20% are as follows:
     31 March 31 March
   Class of  2011 2010
   Share Country % held % held
Mesophotonics Ltd   Preferred UK 29.3 29.3
Senexis Ltd   Preferred UK 48.0 48.0
The Group’s share of post-acquisition total recognised losses in the above associates for the year ended 31 March 2011  
was nil (2010: £0.3m). Each of these companies is engaged in research and development activities. The Group’s share of 
post-acquisition total unrecognised losses in the above associates for the year ended 31 March 2011 was £0.5m (2010: nil).
     2011 2010
     £m £m
At 1 April      – 0.3
Share of losses       – (0.3)
At 31 March      –  –
Summary financial information in respect of the Group’s investments held in associates as at 31 March in each year under 
review is set out below:
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Total assets     0.6  0.3
Total liabilities     (0.1) (0.1)
Net assets     0.5 0.2
Revenues      –  –
Losses for the year     (0.9) (0.8)
20 Other investments
     2011 2010
     £m £m
At 1 April     3.7 3.2
Additions     0.5 0.5
Fair value movements     (0.1)  –
Impairment charge     (1.5)  –
Disposals and loan repayments      –  –
Currency movements     0.1  –
At 31 March     2.7 3.7
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale that are recorded at fair value at each 
balance sheet date. The fair value of unlisted investments is estimated to be the valuation following the latest round of equity 
funding. In the absence of specific market data the Group determines that cost is equal to fair value.
Where the fair value of an available-for-sale asset is impaired, the impairment charge is recognised in the income statement 
together with any amounts recycled from the fair value reserve (see note 24). These impairments initially arise from the 
prolonged or significant decline in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any 
further decline in fair value is immediately taken to the income statement. £0.1m (2010: nil) has been recycled from the fair 
value reserve on the sale or impairment of investments. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
104
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 Inventories
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Raw materials and consumables     4.4 2.7
Work in progress     11.1 6.6
Finished goods     4.5 0.3
     20.0 9.6
During the period a fair value adjustment of £1.7m (2010: £0.3m) was recognised through cost of sales (see note 38) leaving 
£2.1m of fair value uplift on the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc remaining.
22 Trade and other receivables
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Due within one year  
Investment in associates classified as held for sale     0.1 0.1
Revenues receivable, net of provisions     15.8 15.5
Other debtors     4.4 2.1
Prepayments and accrued income     12.4 2.7
     32.7 20.4
Managing credit risk:
‘Revenues receivable, net of provisions’ represents accrued royalty income for the period to 31 March 2011 and certain other 
amounts receivable under licence agreements. 
The ageing of these amounts was as follows:
 2011 2010
  
   Gross Provision Gross Provision
   £m £m £m £m
Not past due   14.3  – 14.8  –
0 to 30 days   0.4  – 0.2  –
31 to 90 days    –  – 0.2  –
> 90 days   1.8 (0.7) 1.2 (0.9)
Total   16.5 (0.7) 16.4 (0.9)
Provisions for bad debts of £0.7m (31 March 2010: £0.9m) have been made to write down the value of doubtful receivables  
to estimated recoverable amounts. The charge to income for the year to 31 March 2011 in respect of provisions for bad debts 
was nil (2010: £0.5m).
Investment in associates classified as held for sale
Mesophotonics Ltd is in a Members’ Voluntary Liquidation (MVL). BTG has estimated the fair value of its investment in 
Mesophotonics to be £0.1m at 31 March 2011 (31 March 2010: £0.1m) based on the expectation of likely returns from  
the MVL.
 105
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  22 Trade and other receivables continued
Summary financial information in respect of the Group’s investments accounted for as investments in associates held for sale 
(see note 19) is set out below:
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Total assets     0.1 0.1
Total liabilities      –  –
Net assets     0.1 0.1
Revenues      –  –
Losses of associate for the year      –  –
BTG recognised no loss for the year ended 31 March 2011 (31 March 2010: nil).
23 Cash and cash equivalents and held to maturity financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Bank balances     63.7 73.0
Call deposits      – 9.6
Cash and cash equivalents in statement of cash flows     63.7 82.6
Held to maturity financial assets
Cash deposits with a maturity of greater than three months are classified as held to maturity financial assets.
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Bank deposits     10.2  –
The effective interest rate on bank deposits was 2.4% and these deposits had an average maturity of seven months.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
106
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 24 Equity
 Share Share Merger Other Retained Total 
 capital premium reserve reserves earnings equity 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2009 25.5 187.3 156.5 (0.1) (156.6) 212.6
Profit for the year  –  –  –  – 11.3 11.3 
Foreign exchange translation differences  –  –  – (0.8)  – (0.8) 
Actuarial (loss) on pension liabilities  –  –  –  (12.0) (12.0)
Total comprehensive income for the year  –  –  – (0.8) (0.7) (1.5) 
 
Transactions with owners:
Issue of BTG plc ordinary shares 0.3 0.8 1.6  –  – 2.7 
Movement in shares held by the Trust  –  –  –  – 0.3 0.3 
Share-based payments  –  –  –  – 1.1 1.1
At 1 April 2010 25.8 188.1 158.1 (0.9) (155.9) 215.2
Profit for the year  –  –  –  – 9.2 9.2 
Foreign exchange translation differences  –  –  – (2.7)  – (2.7) 
Actuarial gain on pension liabilities  –  –  –  3.9 3.9 
Change in fair value of equity securities available-for-sale  –  – – (0.1)  – (0.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year  –  –  – (2.8) 13.1 10.3 
 
Transactions with owners: 
Issue of BTG plc ordinary shares  – 0.1  –  –  – 0.1 
Issued on acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc 6.9  – 159.7  –  – 166.6 
Movement in shares held by the Trust  –  –  –  – (0.5) (0.5) 
Share-based payments  –  –  –  – 0.6 0.6
At 31 March 2011 32.7 188.2 317.8 (3.7) (142.7) 392.3
Other reserves are analysed as follows:
    Translation Fair value Total other 
    reserve reserve reserves 
    £m £m £m
At 1 April 2009    (0.3) 0.2 (0.1) 
Total comprehensive income    (0.8)  – (0.8)
At 1 April 2010    (1.1) 0.2 (0.9) 
Total comprehensive income    (2.7) (0.1) (2.8)
At 31 March 2011    (3.8) 0.1 (3.7)
The merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes  
the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006.  
The balance on the merger reserve has arisen through the acquisitions of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011 
(see note 38) and Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008 and includes directly attributable costs of issuing shares of £1.1m 
relating to the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc, of which £0.6m had been paid before 31 March 2011.
 107
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  24 Equity continued
The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company is shown below:
Ordinary shares of 10p each
 2011 2010
  
 Number £m Number  £m
At 1 April 257,637,576 25.8 255,337,900 25.5
Issued for cash 365,086 – 1,006,668 0.1
Issued in consideration of Biocompatibles acquisition (note 38) 68,723,244 6.9 – –
Issued in consideration of Protherics acquisition –  – 1,293,008 0.2
At 31 March 326,725,906 32.7 257,637,576 25.8
The share issues in the year were as a result of the acquisition of the Biocompatibles Group and the exercise of share options. 
In the prior year 4,443,333 Protherics share options were exercised by current and former employees of the Protherics Group.  
These shares were exchanged in the ratio 0.291 BTG shares for each Protherics share, resulting in the issue of 1,293,008  
BTG shares. The balance of 1,006,668 share options were exercised under BTG share option schemes. All shares rank pari 
passu in all respects with existing ordinary shares.
Share options and warrants
Details of outstanding share options are set out in note 30. 
At 31 March 2011, there were unexercised warrants for 100,000 ordinary shares in Enact Pharma Limited, a subsidiary of 
Protherics which was acquired by the Company in December 2008. These warrants expire on 9 July 2012 and are exercisable  
at 30p per ordinary share of Enact Pharma Limited. Should these be exercised, the Company is entitled to repurchase these 
shares for consideration of 19,846 ordinary shares in BTG plc which creates an equivalent exercise price of 151.2p per ordinary 
BTG share.
25 Trade and other payables
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year  
Trade payables     8.2 7.4
Accruals and deferred income     38.8 33.0
Other creditors     2.8 0.4
     49.8 40.8
Amounts falling due after more than one year  
Accruals and deferred income     5.4 8.4
Contingent value note (note 38)     1.1  –
Other creditors     0.4 0.1
     6.9 8.5
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
108
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 26 Derivative financial instruments
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Contracts with positive fair values:  
Forward foreign exchange contracts     2.0  –
Derivative instrument assets     2.0  –
Contracts with negative fair values:  
Forward foreign exchange contracts      – 0.8
Derivative instrument liabilities      – 0.8
The Group utilises foreign currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows. 
At 31 March 2011 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$49m in the period to March 2012 at rates in the range £1:$1.44 
to £1:$1.60 and €1m in the period to August 2011 at rates in the range of £1:€1.1982 to £1:€1.1987. The fair value of these 
derivative financial instruments was marked to market at 31 March 2011 at £2.0m.
At 31 March 2010 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$41m in the period to February 2011 at rates in the range 
£1:$1.49 to £1:$1.61. The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was marked to market at 31 March 2010  
at £0.8m. 
The fair value gain/loss for the year associated with these forward contracts was included within ‘Financial income’.
A 5% weakening of the US dollar as at 31 March 2011, all other variables being unchanged, would result in an additional £1.0m 
gain within ‘Financial income’ in the income statement and a fair value asset of £3.0m within ‘Derivative instruments’ within 
current assets. A 5% strengthening of the US dollar would result in a £1.1m reduction within ‘Financial income’ and a decrease 
in ‘Derivative instruments’ to £0.9m within current assets. A 5% movement of the Euro as at 31 March 2011, all other variables 
being unchanged, would not result in a significant impact.
27 Borrowings
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Amounts falling due after more than one year     2.9  –
The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings are denominated in Euros and are equal to fair value. Borrowings are  
unsecured and accrue interest annually at 5%. A repayment plan is in place such that the loan will be satisfied in full at the  
later of (i) 31 March 2018 or (ii) seven years post FDA approval of a specific long-term product.
The Group had no undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 March 2011 (2010: nil).
 109
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  28 Finance leases
 Minimum lease Present value of 
 payments minimum lease payments
  
   31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
   2011 2010 2011 2010
   £m £m £m £m
Group    
Amounts payable under finance leases:     
 Within one year   0.4 0.8 0.4 0.7
 In the second to fifth years inclusive   0.2 0.6 0.2 0.6
   0.6 1.4 0.6 1.3
Less: future finance charges    – (0.1)  –  –
Present value of lease obligations   0.6 1.3 0.6 1.3
Less: Amounts due for settlement within one year  
 (shown within current liabilities)   (0.4) (0.7) (0.4) (0.7)
Amount due for settlement after one year   0.2 0.6 0.2 0.6
The average lease term on inception is three to five years with an option to purchase equipment for a nominal amount at the 
conclusion of the lease agreement. 
For the year ended 31 March 2011, the average effective borrowing rate for the Group was 8.4% (2010: 8.3%). Interest rates are 
fixed at the contract date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent 
rental payments.
The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations approximates to their carrying amount.
The Group’s lease obligations are denominated in Sterling and Australian dollars.
The obligations under hire purchase agreements for the Group are secured by a charge over the leased assets.
29 Retirement benefit plans
Defined benefit plan
For eligible UK employees the Group operates a funded pension plan providing benefits based on final pensionable emoluments. 
The plan was closed to new entrants as of 1 June 2004. The assets of the plan are held in a separate trustee administered 
fund. The plan has a history of granting increases to pensions in line with price inflation, and these increases are reflected in  
the measurement of the obligation. 
The preliminary results of the formal valuation of the plan as at 31 March 2010 were updated to the accounting date by an 
independent qualified actuary in accordance with IAS19.
In July 2010, the government announced its intention that future statutory minimum pension indexation would be measured by 
the Consumer Prices Index, rather than the Retail Prices Index (RPI). The Group continues to value its pension fund liability on 
the basis of RPI. This reflects its view that its legal obligation is generally to pay RPI-linked increases and that it has a 
constructive obligation to pay RPI-linked increases in all other cases, given its past practice of treating all members the same.
The expected rate of return on assets for the financial year ending 31 March 2011 was 5.6% pa (2010: 5.6% pa). This rate is 
derived by taking the weighted average of the long-term expected rate of return on each of the asset classes that the plan was 
invested in at 31st March 2011, based on the plan’s long-term investment strategy at that date.
The estimated amount of total employer contributions expected to be paid to the plan during the year ended 31 March 2012  
is £3.8m (year ended 31 March 2011 actual: £4.0m). The estimate is based on agreed contributions at the balance sheet date. 
A revised schedule of contributions is being discussed with the plan trustees as part of the formal valuation of the plan as at  
31 March 2010, which is due to be completed by 30 June 2011.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
110
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29 Retirement benefit plans continued
The following table sets out the key IAS19 assumptions used for the plan:
    31 March 31 March 31 March
    2011 2010 2009
Retail price inflation     3.7% p.a. 3.9% p.a. 3.2% p.a.
Discount rate    5.5% p.a. 5.5% p.a. 6.9% p.a.
Pension increases in deferment – inflation    3.7% p.a. 3.9% p.a. 3.2% p.a.
Pension increases in payment – inflation    3.7% p.a. 3.9% p.a. 3.2% p.a.
Pension increases in payment – inflation capped at 2.5%    2.3% p.a. 2.4% p.a. 2.2% p.a.
General salary increases    3.7% p.a. 3.9% p.a. 4.2% p.a.
Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 60 at the accounting date   87.3 88.2 88.1
Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 40 at the accounting date   88.8 90.4 90.3
The amount included in the statement of financial position arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of the plan is 
as follows:
      31 March  31 March  31 March
    2011 2010 2009
    £m £m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligation    (96.8) (98.3) (74.9)
Fair value of plan assets    94.8 89.1 74.9
Net liability recognised in the statement of financial position    (2.0) (9.2)  –
This amount is presented in the statement of financial position within non-current liabilities.
The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the plan are as follows:
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Employer’s part of current service cost     0.4 0.2
Interest cost     5.3 5.0
Expected return on plan assets     (5.0) (4.1)
Total expense included in income statement     0.7 1.1
The expense has been included in ‘Operating expenses: other’. 
The allocation of the plan’s assets is as follows:
     31 March  31 March  31 March
    2011 2010 2009
    % % %
Equity instruments    17 19 25
Diversified growth funds    14 14  –
Debt instruments    68 66 70
Cash/net current assets    1 1 5
    100 100 100
 111
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  29 Retirement benefit plans continued
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Defined benefit obligation at 1 April      98.3 74.9
Employer part of current service cost     0.4 0.2
Interest cost     5.3 5.0
Contributions from plan members     0.1 0.1
Actuarial (gain)/loss on plan liabilities     (3.0) 22.4
Benefits paid     (4.3) (4.3)
Defined benefit obligation at 31 March     96.8 98.3
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows:
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Fair value of plan assets at 1 April     89.1 74.9
Expected return on plan assets     5.0 4.1
Actuarial gains on plan assets     0.9 10.4
Contributions by the employer     4.0 3.9
Contributions by plan members     0.1 0.1
Benefits paid     (4.3) (4.3)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 March     94.8 89.1
The actual return on the plan’s assets over the year was a gain of £5.9m (2010: £14.5m).
The amount recognised outside profit and loss in other comprehensive income for 2011 is an actuarial gain of £3.9m  
(2010: actuarial loss of £12.0m). The cumulative amount recognised outside profit and loss as at 31 March 2011 is  
a loss of £7.8m (2010: £11.7m)
The history of experience adjustment is as follows:
  31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
  2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
  £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligations   (96.8) (98.3) (74.9) (81.8) (80.6)
Fair value of plan assets   94.8 89.1 74.9 76.9 74.9
Deficit in the plan  (2.0) (9.2)  – (4.9) (5.7)
  31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
  2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Experience adjustments on plan assets     
 Amount of (gain)/loss (£m)  (0.9) (10.4) 7.4 (0.4) 1.2
 Percentage of plan assets (%)  1 12 10 – 2
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities     
 Amount of loss/(gain) (£m)  3.4 (2.5)  – 6.3  –
 Percentage of the present value of plan liabilities (%)  4 (3)  – 8  –
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
112
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29 Retirement benefit plans continued
Defined contribution plans
The Group offers defined contribution pension plans for its UK, US, European and Australian employees. The total income 
statement charge in relation to these plans was £1.3m (2010: £1.6m).
The Group’s defined contribution plans are operated by external providers. The only obligation of the Group with respect  
to these plans is to make the specified contributions.
30 Share-based payments
Share options
The Group makes awards under an equity-settled share option plan that entitles employees to purchase shares in the  
Company. In accordance with the rules of the plan, options are granted at the market price of the shares on the date of grant 
with a vesting period of generally three years. They may only be exercised upon the attainment of certain performance criteria.  
If the performance criteria are not met by the date specified at the time of grant, the options do not vest and will lapse. If the 
options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. Furthermore, options are 
forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest unless the conditions under which they leave are such that 
they are considered to be a ‘good leaver’. In this case their options remain exercisable for a limited period of time. For further 
details of current awards, see the remuneration report on pages 57 to 68.
Option pricing
For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the share-based compensation charge, a binomial lattice option pricing model 
has been used. The assumptions used in the model are as follows.
 31 March  31 March
 2011  2010
Risk-free interest rate 1.4% to 5.8% 2.0% to 5.8%
Dividend yield Nil Nil
Volatility 41% to 73% 41% to 73%
Expected lives of options and awards granted under:   
– Share option plan 5 years 5 years
– Sharesave plan 3.25 years 3.25 years
– Stock purchase plan 2.25 years 2.25 years
– Restricted share awards 2 to 3 years 2 to 3 years
– Performance share plan 2 to 3 years 2 to 3 years
– Deferred share bonus plan 3 years 3 years
Weighted average fair value for share option plan grants in the year 119.8p 58.9p
Weighted average fair value for sharesave grants in the year 86.6p 78.0p
Weighted average fair value for stock purchase plan grants in the year 65.6p 61.7p
Weighted average fair value for performance share awards in the year 119.8p 50.9p
Weighted average fair value for deferred share bonus awards in the year 181.4p 174.0p
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share 
options, restricted or performance shares), adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly-available 
information.
Share options are granted under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition. Service and non-market 
conditions are not taken into account in calculating the fair value measurement of the services received. 
Performance shares are awarded under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition. Service and 
non-market conditions are not taken into account in calculating the fair value measurement of the services received.
 113
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  30 Share-based payments continued
Awards of share options and performance share awards made in 2009, 2010 and 2011 have a market condition based on a 
TSR measure using the FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts, companies in the financial services sector (banking, 
insurance, broking, fund management, etc.) and companies in the consumer discretionary sector (non-food retail, media, leisure, 
gambling). Earlier share options and performance shares used the FTSE SmallCap (excluding Investment Trusts) index. If the 
Company’s share price at least matches the performance of the relevant index over the vesting period, the market-based 
performance condition will be considered to have been achieved. The fair value of an award of shares under the share option  
and performance share plans have been adjusted to take into account this market-based performance condition using a  
pricing model based on expectations about volatility and the correlation of share price returns in the relevant index and which 
incorporates into the valuation the inter-dependency between share price and index performance. This adjustment increases the 
fair value relative to the share price at the date of grant. See the remuneration report on pages 57 to 68 for further information. 
Restricted shares are awarded to certain management employees under a service condition and a non-market performance 
condition. There are no market conditions related to the restricted share awards.
Details of options and awards under the Group’s share plans are shown in the tables below.
 2011 2010
  
   Number Weighted Number Weighted
   of share average of share average
    options exercise price  options exercise price
   (000) (p) (000)  (p)
Share options    
Outstanding at 1 April   597 157.3 882 128.0
Granted during year   358 201.3 379 179.3
Lapsed during year   (6) 106.3 (108) 146.6
Exercised during year   (22) 106.3 (556) 127.8
Outstanding at 31 March   927 175.8 597 157.3
Exercisable at 31 March   190 120.9 218 119.0
Sharesave plan    
Outstanding at 1 April   301 134.9 202 106.7
Granted during year   90 146.7 217 146.7
Lapsed during year   (26) 145.6 (30) 114.1
Exercised during year   (56) 94.2 (88) 106.4
Outstanding at 31 March   309 144.9 301 134.9
Exercisable at 31 March    –  –  –  –
Stock purchase plan    
Outstanding at 1 April   30 162.2 30 106.1
Granted during year   30 173.2 22 154.3
Lapsed during year   (11) 175.1 (3) 77.6
Exercised during year    –  – (19) 77.6
Outstanding at 31 March   49 166.0 30 162.2
Exercisable at 31 March    –  –  –  –
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
114
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 30 Share-based payments continued
Options outstanding at 31 March 2011
      Latest 
     Weighted exercise date 
    Number exercise year ended 
    (000) price (p) 31 March
Share options granted in year ended 31 March   
2002    2 776.5 2012 
2005    133 102.3 2015 
2007    55 143.5 2017 
2010    379 179.3 2020 
2011    358 201.3 2021
    927  
Sharesave plan options granted in year ended 31 March   
2009    32 129.2 2012 
2010    191 146.7 2013 
2011    86 146.7 2014
    309  
Stock purchase plan options granted in year ended 31 March   
2010    19 154.3 2012 
2011    30 173.2 2013
    49  
Restricted share awards
The Company established a restricted share scheme for the purpose of making awards to selected members of senior 
management below Board level. The vesting period is either two or three years. Awards are forfeited if the employee leaves  
the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a  
‘good leaver’; in which case their award is released following their departure. For further details see the remuneration report  
on pages 57 to 68.
Movement in the number of restricted shares awarded is as follows.
     2011 2010
     Number of Number of
     share awards share awards
     (000) (000)
Outstanding at 1 April     200 240
Exercised during year     (183) (40)
Lapsed during year     (17)  –
Outstanding at 31 March      – 200
Exercisable at 31 March      –  –
Performance share awards
Following approval of the Performance Share Plan by shareholders at the 2006 AGM, the Company has made awards to the 
executive directors and other employees with a vesting period of two or three years. Awards are forfeited if the director or  
other employee leaves the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they  
are considered to be a ‘good leaver’; in which case their award is released following their departure. If the Remuneration 
Committee decide that a departing beneficiary of an award is a ‘good leaver’ so their award may be released early, the award  
will only be released subject to the achievement of the performance conditions set out at the time of the granting of the award 
and may be subject to proration for time, at the discretion of the Committee. For further details see the remuneration report  
on pages 57 to 68.
 115
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  30 Share-based payments continued
Movement in the number of performance share awards is as follows.
     2011 2010
     Number of Number of
     share awards share awards
     (000) (000)
Outstanding at 1 April     1,971 1,446
Granted during year     945 1,188
Lapsed during year     (11) (119)
Exercised during year     (284) (544)
Outstanding at 31 March     2,621 1,971
Exercisable at 31 March      –  –
Deferred share bonus plan
The Company established a deferred share bonus plan. The executive directors, members of the Leadership Team and certain 
other senior staff have part of their annual bonus awarded in shares. The shares will vest on the third anniversary of the grant 
date. Awards are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave 
are such that they are considered to be a ‘good leaver’; in which case their award is released following their departure, though it 
may be pro-rated for time at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. For further details see the remuneration report on 
pages 57 to 68.
Movement in the number of deferred bonus shares awarded is as follows.
     2011 2010
     Number of Number of
     share awards share awards
     (000) (000)
Outstanding at 1 April     380 300
Granted during year     378 196
Exercised during year     (167) (116)
Outstanding at 31 March     591 380
Exercisable at 31 March      –  –
The Biocompatibles Group had a number of share schemes prior to the date of acquisition by the Company. With the exception 
of the Share Incentive Plan (SIP), all share schemes ceased just prior to that date and share awards under the various schemes 
vested and/or exercised to the extent to which performance conditions had been achieved. No grants or awards remained 
outstanding at the date of acquisition.
Shares invested in the SIP were exchanged for BTG shares in the same ratio as other shareholders received in the acquisition: 
1.6733 BTG shares for each Biocompatibles share plus 10p cash. Whilst no further contributions may be invested in the SIP 
post the date of acquisition, shares already held in the SIP may remain until the date of closure of the Plan in 2016.
As at 31 March 2011 788,297 ordinary shares in BTG plc, issued and subscribed for by the Biocompatibles International plc 
Share Incentive Plan Trust, had not vested unconditionally.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
116
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 BTG Employee Share Trust
The Group includes an employee share trust, the BTG Employee Share Trust (the Trust), which was established in Guernsey in 
1992. It holds shares for the general benefit of all employees who may eventually become legally entitled to them. At 31 March 
2011 the Trust held 1,308,793 (31 March 2010: 1,113,613) shares in BTG plc and a further 12,596 (31 March 2010: 12,596) 
shares in Torotrak plc. The Trust may distribute these shares to employees of the Group on the recommendation of the Company. 
These distributions may be as a result of awards under the Restricted Share Scheme or the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
At 31 March 2011 the Trust has 590,635 shares set aside under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
32 Provisions 
 2011 2010
  
 Leases Reorganisation Total Leases Reorganisation Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 1.1 0.7 1.8 4.3 4.0 8.3
Acquired with Biocompatibles 1.3  – 1.3  –  –  –
Provisions utilised during year (0.4) (0.9) (1.3) (1.6) (3.2) (4.8)
Provisions made during year  – 1.2 1.2  – 0.5 0.5
Provisions released during year  –  –  – (1.5) (0.3) (1.8)
Difference on exchange  –  –  – (0.1) (0.3) (0.4)
At 31 March 2.0 1.0 3.0 1.1 0.7 1.8
Balance due within one year 0.8 1.0 1.8 0.4 0.7 1.1
Balance due after more than one year 1.2  – 1.2 0.7  – 0.7
 2.0 1.0 3.0 1.1 0.7 1.8
Lease provisions relate to onerous leases and represent the net present value of future obligations and where relevant, not 
covered by income from tenants (see 2(m)).
The provision for reorganisation costs arose as a result of the Group’s rationalisation activities following the acquisition of 
Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011 and Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008 (note 38). The provision 
principally comprises redundancy and other site closure costs.
 117
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  33 Financial risk management objectives and policies
Overview
The Group has exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks from its use of financial instruments. This note sets out the Group’s 
key policies and processes for managing these risks.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a licensee fails to meet its contractual obligations or a customer fails to pay 
for goods and services received. The Group’s primary objective with respect to credit risk is to minimise the risk of default by 
licensees or customers.
A substantial element of the Group’s revenue is derived from royalties which are only payable if a licensee is generating income 
from sales of licensed products. In such instances the Group’s exposure to credit risk is considered to be inherently relatively 
low, although is influenced by the unique characteristics of individual licensees. The Group’s policy is to provide against bad 
debts on a specific licence by licence basis.
Following the transition from a distribution agreement to direct sales during the year, the majority of the marketed product 
revenues are currently generated from sales to several key wholesalers in the US. Management maintains regular 
communication with the customers and monitors both sales to and payments from customers to minimise the credit risk 
exposure.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s approach to 
managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due, 
under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation.
The Group has limited debt facilities in the form of borrowings (see note 27) and assets held under finance leases (note 28) but 
has substantial cash balances to fund its operations.
The Group’s policy is to place surplus cash resources on short-term fixed interest deposits, to the extent that cash flow can be 
reasonably predicted. Term deposits are denominated in Sterling with institutions rated as A or higher by both Moody’s and 
Standard & Poor’s.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect 
the Group’s income or the value of its holdings in financial instruments. The Group has little exposure to interest rate risk other 
than that returns on short-term fixed interest deposits will vary with movements in underlying bank interest rates. The Group’s 
principal market risk exposure is to movements in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency risk
The Group has several overseas subsidiary undertakings, the revenues and the expenses of which are denominated in local 
currencies being US dollars, Euros and Australian dollars. As a result the Group’s Sterling income statement, balance sheet and 
cash flows may be affected by movements in Sterling exchange rates with these currencies. The Group’s primary objective with 
respect to managing foreign exchange risk is to provide certainty over the value of future cash flows.
A significant element of the Group’s revenue is denominated in US dollars with the remainder split between Sterling, Euros, Yen 
and other currencies. The majority of the Group’s operating expenses are in Sterling along with smaller elements in US dollars, 
Euros and Australian dollars. Where possible, anticipated foreign currency operating expenses are matched to foreign currency 
revenues. The excess exposure over and above this natural hedge, to the extent that cash flows are predictable, is managed 
using forward contracts (see note 26).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
118
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Sensitivity analysis
A 5% weakening of the US dollar at 31 March 2011 would have resulted in the following increases/(decreases) in equity and 
profit or loss: 
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Profit or loss     (5.7) 1.3
Equity     0.9 (5.2)
Interest rate risk
The Group seeks to mitigate partially against increased interest rates whilst maintaining a degree of flexibility to benefit from 
decreasing rates of interest by holding a mix of fixed and floating rate financial liabilities. The Group seeks to maximise the 
amount of interest income from its cash balances by using a variety of short-term, fixed high-interest deposit and money-market 
accounts. The Group does not consider the impact of interest rate risk to be material to its results or operations and accordingly 
no sensitivity analysis is shown.
Market price risk
It is, on occasion, deemed appropriate to take equity stakes in early-stage companies utilising the Group’s technology as part  
of the overall licensing arrangement and small loans may be granted to these companies to further technology development. 
These investments will be realised at an appropriate time in the development cycle. Regular reports are made to the Board  
on the status of investments. These investments form part of the Group’s overall technology portfolio and do not materially 
affect liquidity.
Capital management
The Group defines the capital that it manages as the Group’s total equity. The Group’s objectives when managing capital are: 
 — To safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern;
 — To provide an adequate return to investors based on the level of risk undertaken;
 — To have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver future benefits  
for inventive sources and returns to investors; and
 — To maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.
The Group believes it has sufficient ongoing cash and cash equivalents to meet its stated capital management objectives.  
The Group’s capital and equity ratio are shown in the table below.
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Total equity – capital and reserves attributable to BTG shareholders    392.3 215.2
Total assets     488.5 311.0
Equity ratio     80.3% 69.2%
The Group is not subject to regulatory capital adequacy requirements as known in the financial services industry.
 119
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  33 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial instruments comprise cash, short-term deposits, foreign currency forward contracts, contingent value 
notes and various items such as trade debtors and creditors which arise directly from operations. In addition, a number of debt 
and equity investments, both quoted and unquoted as shown in notes 19 and 20, are held in technology-based companies along 
with borrowings including obligations under finance leases.
Fair values
The fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying values shown in the statement of 
financial position, are as follows:
  Forward   Total
 Designated contracts at Available Amortised carrying Fair
 at fair value fair value for sale cost value value
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
31 March 2010      
Cash and cash equivalents  –  –  – 82.6 82.6 82.6
Forward contracts  – (0.8)  –  – (0.8) (0.8)
Other investments 3.7  –  –  – 3.7 3.7
Trade and other receivables  –  – 0.1 20.3 20.4 20.4
Trade and other payables  –  –  – (49.3) (49.3) (49.3)
31 March 2011      
Cash and cash equivalents  –  –  – 63.7 63.7 63.7
Held to maturity financial assets  –  –  – 10.2 10.2 10.2
Forward contracts  – 2.0  –  – 2.0 2.0
Other investments 2.7  –  –  – 2.7 2.7
Trade and other receivables  –  – 0.1 32.6 32.7 32.7
Trade and other payables (1.1)  –  – (55.6) (56.7) (56.7)
Borrowings (note 27)  –  –  – (2.9) (2.9) (2.9)
 The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, 
grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
Level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities; 
Level 2 – observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities; 
Level 3 – unobservable inputs.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
120
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities
   Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 
   £m £m £m £m
At 31 March 2010
Financial assets recognised at fair value
Investments    – 3.7  – 3.7
Financial liabilities recognised at fair value
Forward contracts    – (0.8)  – (0.8)
At 31 March 2011     
Financial assets recognised at fair value
Investments    – 2.7  – 2.7 
Forward contracts    – 2.0  – 2.0
Financial liabilities recognised at fair value
Contingent value notes    –  – (1.1) (1.1)
Level 1 –  financial assets and liabilities represent forward foreign exchange contracts to sell US dollars and Euros which are 
marked-to-market at each balance sheet date.
Level 2 –  financial assets represent other investments held at fair value (see note 20).
Level 3 –  financial liabilities represent the contingent loan note upon acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc (see note 38). 
No gain or loss for the year related to this liability has been recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
Contractual maturity analysis of financial liabilities
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Forward foreign exchange contracts that mature within:
0 to 3 months     0.8  –
3 to 6 months     0.4 (0.8)
6 to 12 months     0.8  –
     2.0 (0.8)
Net gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities
Foreign exchange losses of £2.0m (2010: losses of £4.0m) were recognised within operating profit in relation to settlement of 
trade receivables and payables.
The Group recognised a fair value gain of £2.7m (2010: gain of £6.5m) relating to forward foreign exchange contracts within 
‘Financial income’.
Fair value gains of £0.1m (2010: nil) were recycled from the fair value reserve within equity in relation to investments impaired 
during the year. 
Estimation of fair values
The following summarises the methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in 
the table.
Other investments
These comprise both listed and unlisted investments, available-for-sale. The figure recorded in the statement of financial 
position (note 20) is the best estimate of fair value.
 121
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  33 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Borrowings and finance leases
The fair values of such balances are estimated by discounting the future cash flows at the market rate.
Trade receivables, trade payables and cash and cash equivalents
Trade payables and receivables have a remaining life of less than one year so their value recorded in the statement of  
financial position is considered to be a fair approximation of fair value. The contingent value notes are fair valued at  
each reporting period.
34 Operating leases
Total non-cancellable operating lease rentals are due in the following periods:
 31 March 2011 31 March 2010
  
    Vehicles, plant  Vehicles, plant
   Property and equipment Property and equipment
   £m £m £m £m
Within one year   1.7  – 0.7  –
Between two and five years   5.3  – 1.3  –
Greater than five years   1.1  –  –  –
   8.1  – 2.0  –
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable for certain of its office properties, vehicles, plant and equipment under 
non-cancellable operating lease agreements. 
The Group leases a number of offices and facilities in the UK, the US, Germany, and Australia. These leases have terms of  
up to eight years.
The leases contain options to extend for further periods. In the event of renewal, the lease contracts contain market review 
clauses. None of the property leases provide the Group with an option to purchase the leased asset at the expiry of the  
lease period.
The Group has entered into sub-leasing agreements with third-parties for space in some of its UK and US offices. Rental of 
£0.3m was receivable under these agreements in the year ended 31 March 2011 (2010: £0.3m). No minimum future lease 
payments will be received over the respective terms of the sub-leases (2010: £0.2m).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
122
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35 Other financial commitments
The Group has entered into agreements with a number of early-stage companies and venture capital funds. At 31 March 2011 
the Group is committed to invest £0.4m under these agreements (2010: £0.7m). 
As with any business whose core assets are intellectual property, the Group will from time-to-time resort to litigation or threats  
of litigation, or other legal processes, to defend its rights. Litigation costs are regarded as a cost of doing business and will  
vary from year-to-year. In the current year the Group incurred £4.0m in litigation costs (2010: £1.4m).
The Company has entered into an agreement to guarantee payments under the lease of a US subsidiary undertaking.
The Company has provided a guarantee to certain subsidiary undertakings in respect of the BTG Pension Fund to make 
payments to the Fund up to a maximum amount equal to the lowest non-negative amount which, when added to the assets of 
the Fund would result in the Fund being at least 105% funded on the date on which any liability arose, calculated on the basis 
set out in section 179 of the Pensions Act 2004, were a valuation to be conducted at that date.
36 Related parties
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related-party relationship with its subsidiary undertakings (see note 2(b)), its associates (see note 2(b)) and its 
directors. During the year the Group invested a further £0.5m in its investments (see note 20). No dividends were received from 
associates in the years ended 31 March 2011 or 2010.
In relation to the related-party relationship identified on page 49 concerning Giles Kerr, payments made by BTG to Oxford 
University and Isis Innovations Ltd under the relevant licence agreements were £1.8m during the year ended 31 March 2011. 
There were no amounts still outstanding and payable by BTG under these agreements as at 31 March 2011.
In relation to the related-party relationship identified on page 49 concerning Melanie Lee, payments made by BTG to Cancer 
Research Technology Ltd under the relevant licence agreements were £0.1m during the year ended 31 March 2011. There  
were no amounts still outstanding and payable by BTG under these agreements as at 31 March 2011.
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the remuneration 
report on pages 57 to 68.
Dr Peter Geigle, although not considered key management personnel, is a director of CellMed AG. Dr. Geigle is also an executive 
board member of Geigle Verwaltungs GmbH, a company that leases the premises to CellMed AG. The rental cost for the two 
months since acquisition was £0.1m. This arrangement is on an arms-length basis at a commercial rate. There were no 
amounts outstanding as at 31 March 2011 under this agreement.
 123
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  37 Group entities
The significant subsidiary undertakings of BTG plc at 31 March 2011 are all wholly owned, incorporated in the UK and registered 
in England and Wales, unless shown otherwise. All subsidiary undertakings operate in their country of incorporation and are 
consolidated in the Group’s financial statements.
 Class of capital Principal activity
BTG International (Holdings) Ltd* Ordinary Investment in IPR management companies
Provensis Ltd* Ordinary Development and commercialisation of IPR
BTG International Ltd  Ordinary  Development, management and 
commercialisation of IPR
BTG Employee Share Schemes Ltd  Ordinary Trustee company
Guernsey 
BTG Investment (Holdings) Ltd  Ordinary Investment in IPR management companies
BTG International Inc. Common stock Development, management and
Delaware US and paid in capital commercialisation of IPR
British Technology Group Ordinary Development, management and
Inter-Corporate Licensing Ltd**  commercialisation of IPR
BTG Management Services Ltd  Ordinary Investment and management
(formerly Protherics Limited)*  of group companies
Protherics Medicines Development Limited Ordinary  Development, management and 
commercialisation of IPR
Protherics Inc. Common stock Research, development, manufacture and sale 
Delaware US  of pharmaceutical products and potential drugs
Enact Pharma Limited Ordinary  Development, management and 
commercialisation of IPR
Protherics UK Limited Ordinary  Research, development, manufacture and sale 
of pharmaceutical products and potential drugs
BTG Australasia Pty Limited Ordinary Manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products
(formerly Protherics Australasia Pty Limited)  and potential drugs 
Australia
Protherics Utah Inc. Common stock Research, development, manufacture and sale
Tennessee US  of pharmaceutical products and potential drugs
Protherics Salt Lake City Inc. Common stock Development, management and
Utah US  commercialisation of IPR
Biocompatibles International Limited* Ordinary Investment and management of group companies
Biocompatibles UK Limited Ordinary Commercialisation of Bead products
Biopolymerix Inc. Common stock Research and development
Delaware US 
Biocompatibles Inc. Common stock Commercialisation of Brachytherapy products
Delaware US  
CellMed AG No par value shares Research and development
Germany
 *Indicates direct subsidiary of BTG plc.
 **British Technology Group Inter-Corporate Licensing Ltd incorporates a US branch.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued
124
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 38 Acquisition of business operations
On 27 January 2011, the Company acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Biocompatibles International plc (subsequently 
re-registered as Biocompatibles International Limited), a listed UK Group. Biocompatibles International Limited is the parent 
company of the Biocompatibles Group, a leading international medical technology company in the field of drug device 
combination products. The acquisition provides an excellent opportunity to combine Biocompatibles’ fast growing specialist 
products with BTG’s existing commercial infrastructure. The enhanced resources of the enlarged Group will allow accelerated 
investment in Biocompatibles’ products and development pipeline. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase 
method of accounting.
The acquisition was settled by the issuance of 68,723,244 new BTG plc ordinary share of 10 pence each plus either 10 pence 
in cash for each Biocompatibles share or a contingent value note. 
Equity settled consideration
The fair value of equity settled consideration was £167.7m, based on the share price of £2.44 in existence at the time of the 
acquisition. 
Cash consideration
Shareholders owning 30,349,200 Biocompatibles shares (73.9% of all Biocompatibles shares acquired) opted to receive  
10 pence in cash per share, resulting in a cash payment of £3.0m.
Contingent value vote (CVN)
As an alternative to 10 pence cash consideration, Biocompatibles shareholders could elect to receive an entitlement to a 
contingent right to payment of the Sterling equivalent of €0.56 per Biocompatibles share in cash by participating in the value 
that may potentially be achieved from part of Biocompatibles’ programme to develop the GLP-1 Compound which it has 
partnered with AstraZeneca. Shareholders owning 10,722,465 Biocompatibles shares (26.1% of all Biocompatibles shares 
acquired) opted to receive the CVN. The CVN will be paid in full if, prior to 31 December 2012, either:
 — AstraZeneca exercises an option to license the GLP-1 compound on agreed terms; or
 — BTG, otherwise than on the agreed terms of the option, enters into any other licence, sale or other disposal or other 
arrangement with similar effect with AstraZeneca with respect to the rights of the GLP-1 compound
The liability will be paid in full or not at all. The fair value of each CVN has been assessed at acquisition date as being 10 pence 
per Biocompatibles share, based on probability adjusted net present value calculations of AstraZeneca exercising its option to 
license the GLP-1 compound. This fair value is also supported by the alternative offer to shareholders of 10 pence in cash.  
The fair value of the CVN is shown in note 25 to the accounts at £1.1m.
Subsequent to the year end the Company received notification from AstraZeneca of its termination of the option agreement  
(note 39). The carrying value of the CVN will be adjusted during the financial year ended 31 March 2012.
 125
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
126
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
38 Acquisition of business operations continued
Net assets acquired
Details of the net assets acquired arising from the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc are set out in the table below:
      Fair value  
    Book value  adjustment Fair value 
    £m £m £m
Non-current assets:   
 Intangible assets     9.5 127.3 136.8 
 Goodwill    2.8 (2.8)  – 
 Property, plant & equipment    4.6  – 4.6 
Current assets:   
 Inventories    0.9 3.8 4.7 
 Trade and other receivables    6.0  – 6.0 
 Cash and cash equivalents     17.4  – 17.4 
 Held to maturity financial assets    10.2  – 10.2 
Current liabilities:    
 Trade and other payables    (3.7)  – (3.7) 
 Deferred income    (9.3) 0.3 (9.0) 
Non-current liabilities:   
 Trade and other payables    (0.9)  – (0.9) 
 Borrowings    (2.8)  – (2.8) 
 Deferred tax liabilities    (1.1) (19.3) (20.4)
Total assets acquired    33.6 109.3 142.9 
Goodwill       28.9
Total consideration      171.8 
Settled by equity      (167.7) 
Contingent consideration      (1.1)
Cash paid      3.0
Cash and cash equivalents included in undertaking acquired      17.4 
Cash consideration paid      (3.0)
Net cash inflow per cash flow statement      14.4 
Directly attributable costs settled*      (3.6)
Net cash inflow arising on acquisition      10.8
 * Total costs relating to the acquisition were £4.1m, of which £3.6m had been paid by 31 March 2011. The remainder was  
settled in April 2011. Of the total costs of £4.1m, £3.0m have been included in ‘Acquisition and reorganisation costs’ in  
the consolidated income statement (note 7) and £1.1m have been debited to merger reserve (note 24).
The goodwill arising on acquisition resulted from assets which could not be recognised separately including early-stage pipeline 
products and a highly skilled workforce. The fair value adjustments are considered final.
The main elements of the significant fair value adjustments are described below:
 — Intangible assets in respect of the marketed products, in-process research and development and contractual relationships  
in accordance with IFRS3 Revised – Business Combinations;
 — Revaluation of inventory reflecting profit accrued up to the stage of production at the time of the transaction; and
 — Deferred tax liabilities in relation to the acquired intangible assets over and above £21.2m of deferred tax assets in 
recognition of acquired accumulated tax losses. 38 Acquisition of business operations continued
Profit forecast
The following profit forecast statement was made in the acquisition Prospectus: “The BTG Directors and the Biocompatibles 
Directors are of the view that Biocompatibles will achieve adjusted operating profit for the year ending 31 December 2010 of  
not less than £2.0 million.” In accordance with Listing Rule 9.2.18 the Company can confirm that the actual adjusted operating 
profit achieved by Biocompatibles for the year ending 31 December 2010 was £2.2m.
Revenue and profit impact of the acquisition
As disclosed in the consolidated income statement, the Biocompatibles Group contributed revenue of £6.0m and operating 
profit of £0.7m in the period since acquisition.
If the acquisition had taken place on 1 April 2010, the first day of the reporting period under review, revenue and profit after  
tax of the combined entity would have been £139.3m and £11.8m respectively.
39 Post balance sheet event
On 13 May 2011 the Group announced that they had been informed by AstraZeneca that AstraZeneca had terminated the 
development and option agreement relating to CM-3, a GLP-1 analogue being developed by BTG’s CellMed subsidiary for use  
in type 2 diabetes and other indications.
As part of BTG’s acquisition of Biocompatibles in January 2011, 487 Biocompatibles shareholders elected to receive in 
aggregate 10,722,465 contingent value notes (CVNs) providing a right to a payment of the Sterling equivalent of €0.56 per 
Biocompatibles share if AstraZeneca exercised its option to enter a licence agreement relating to CM-3 on the pre-agreed terms. 
As a result of AstraZeneca’s decision to terminate the development and option agreement, it is highly unlikely that any payment 
will be made in relation to the CVNs. The payment obligation would only now arise if BTG enters into another form of licence, sale 
or other disposal of the GLP-1 asset to AstraZeneca prior to 31 December 2012. In light of AstraZeneca’s decision to terminate 
the development and option agreement, the BTG Board does not believe that there is any realistic possibility that this will occur.
At 31 March 2011 the carrying value of the intangible asset associated with the GLP-1 asset was £8.8m. In addition, the Group 
had recognised a liability of £1.1m in relation to the CVNs. Accordingly, in its consolidated income statement for the year ended 
31 March 2012, the Group will recognise an impairment charge of £8.8m and will derecognise the £1.1m liability in respect  
of the CVNs. 
 
 127
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials      31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
    Note £m £m
ASSETS    
Non-current assets   
Investment in subsidiaries    5 364.4 192.0
     364.4 192.0
Current assets   
Trade and other receivables    6 218.4 231.9
Cash and cash equivalents     – 0.2
     218.4 232.1
Total assets     582.8 424.1
EQUITY   
Share capital    7 32.7 25.8
Share premium account    7 188.2 188.1
Merger reserve    7 317.8 158.1
Retained earnings    7 39.8 42.5
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent    7 578.5 414.5
LIABILITIES   
Non-current liabilities   
Trade and other payables    8 1.1 –
     1.1 –
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables    8 2.3 9.5
Taxation     0.1 0.1
Provisions     0.8 –
     3.2 9.6
Total liabilities     4.3 9.6
Total equity and liabilities     582.8 424.1
The financial statements were approved by the Board on 24 May 2011 and were signed on its behalf by:
Dr Louise Makin Rolf Soderstrom
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Registered No: 2670500
Company statement of financial position
128
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011      31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
(Loss)/profit after tax for the year     (2.8) 0.4
Decrease in trade and other receivables     10.5 6.3
(Decrease) in trade and other payables     (6.1) (9.9)
Increase in provisions     0.8 –
Costs of acquisition recognised in equity     (0.6) –
Other items     0.9 1.0
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities     2.7 (2.2)
 
Investing activities   
Costs relating to acquisition of Biocompatibles     (3.0) –
Net cash (outflow) from investing activities     (3.0) –
 
Cash flows from financing activities   
Proceeds of share issue     0.1 2.4
Costs relating to acquisition of Protherics     – (0.2)
Net cash from financing activities     0.1 2.2
 
Increase in cash and cash equivalents     (0.2) –
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year     0.2 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year     – 0.2
Company statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 March 2011
 129
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials   Share Share Merger Retained Total 
  capital premium reserve earnings equity 
  £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2009  25.5 187.3 156.5 40.7 410.0
Profit for the year  – – – 0.4 0.4 
Other comprehensive income  – – – – –
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – – 0.4 0.4
Transactions with owners:     
Issue of BTG plc ordinary shares  0.3 0.8 1.6 – 2.7 
Movement in shares held by the Trust  – – – 0.3 0.3 
Share-based payments  – – – 1.1 1.1
At 31 March 2010  25.8 188.1 158.1 42.5 414.5
  Share Share Merger Retained Total 
  capital premium reserve earnings equity 
  £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2010  25.8 188.1 158.1 42.5 414.5
Profit for the year  – – – (2.8) (2.8) 
Other comprehensive income  – – – – –
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – – (2.8) (2.8) 
 
Transactions with owners:     
Issue of BTG plc ordinary shares  – 0.1 – – 0.1 
Issued on acquisition of Biocompatibles*  6.9 – 159.7 – 166.6 
Movement in shares held by Trust  – – – (0.5) (0.5) 
Share-based payments  – – – 0.6 0.6
At 31 March 2011  32.7 188.2 317.8 39.8 578.5
The notes on pages 131 to 134 form part of these financial statements. 
 *See note 38 to the Group financial statements.
Company statement of changes in equity
130
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 1 Accounting policies
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these Company financial statements are the same as those set out in 
note 2 to the Group financial statements with the addition of the following:
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment. 
Share-based payments
The Company has elected to apply IFRS2 to all share-based awards and options granted post 7 November 2002 that had not 
vested by 1 January 2005. The carrying amount of an investment in a subsidiary is increased to the extent that share-based 
payments relate to employees of that subsidiary. Share-based payment expenses relating to employees of the Company are 
expensed within the income statement.
These policies have been applied consistently to the periods presented.
The functional currency of the Company is Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest £0.1m except where otherwise 
indicated.
2 Profit for the period
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own income statement  
for the year. The loss after tax of the Company amounted to £2.8m (2010: profit of £0.4m).
The auditor’s remuneration for audit services to the Company, payable to KPMG Audit Plc, was £123,000 (2010: £85,000).  
In addition, the Company made payments for services relating to due diligence related to corporate finance transactions  
entered into or proposed to be entered into by the Company of £380,000 and additional payments of £64,000 (2010: 
£212,000) in relation to other services, being the review of the interim accounts, other accounting advice and advice on 
employee benefit matters.
3 Staff costs
The employees are based in the UK.
Disclosures of individual directors remuneration and associated costs required by the Companies Act 2006 and specified by  
the Financial Services Authority are on pages 57 to 68 within the remuneration report and form part of these audited accounts.
The employees of the Company are members of the Group pension plans as detailed in note 29 of the Group financial 
statements. The Company receives a charge based upon the employer contribution to the Group’s defined benefit pension plan. 
No additional contributions are paid by the Company.
4 Dividend
The directors do not propose to declare a dividend for the year (2010: nil).
Notes to the company financial statements
 131
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials Notes to the company financial statements continued
132
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
5 Investment in subsidiary undertakings
      £m
Cost
At 1 April 2009      189.6 
Acquisition of Protherics PLC       2.0 
Share-based payments      0.4
At 1 April 2010      192.0 
Acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc       171.8 
Share-based payments      0.6
At 31 March 2011      364.4
A list of the Company’s principal subsidiary undertakings is shown in note 37 to the Group financial statements. The acquisition 
of Biocompatibles International plc is outlined in note 38 of the Group financial statements.
6 Trade and other receivables
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Due within one year  
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings     218.4 231.9
     218.4 231.9
7 Capital and reserves
  Share Share Merger Retained 
  capital premium reserve earnings Total 
  £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2009  25.5 187.3 156.5 40.7 410.0
Profit for year  – – – 0.4 0.4
Total comprehensive income for the year  – – – 0.4 0.4 
Movement in shares held by Trust  – – – 0.3 0.3 
Issued on acquisition of Protherics*  0.2 – 1.6 – 1.8 
Other share capital issued  0.1 0.8 – – 0.9 
Share-based payments  – – – 1.1 1.1
At 31 March 2010  25.8 188.1 158.1 42.5 414.5
(Loss) for year  – – – (2.8) (2.8)
Total comprehensive income gains for the year  – – – (2.8) (2.8) 
Movement in shares held by Trust  – – – (0.5) (0.5) 
Issued on acquisition of Biocompatibles*  6.9 – 159.7 – 166.6 
Other share capital issued  – 0.1 – – 0.1 
Share-based payments  – – – 0.6 0.6
At 31 March 2011  32.7 188.2 317.8 39.8 578.5
 *See note 38 to the Group financial statements. 7 Capital and reserves continued
The merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes  
the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006.  
The balance on the merger reserve has arisen through:
1  The acquisition of Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008 and includes directly attributable costs of issuing the shares  
of £0.4m.
2  The acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011 and includes directly attributable costs of issuing  
of shares of £1.1m.
Details of Company share capital are disclosed in note 24 to the Group financial statements. Details of share options granted by 
the Company are set out in note 30 to the Group financial statements. Details of shares in the Company held by subsidiaries are 
shown in note 31 to the Group financial statements.
8 Trade and other payables
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year  
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings     – 7.9
Accruals and deferred income     2.3 1.6
     2.3 9.5
Amounts falling due after more than one year  
Contingent value notes     1.1 –
Amounts owing to subsidiary undertakings are repayable on demand. The directors consider the fair value to be equal to the 
book value.
9 Financial assets and liabilities 
   Designated Amortised Total carrying  
   at fair value cost value Fair value 
   £m £m £m £m
31 March 2010     
Cash and cash equivalents   – 0.2 0.2 0.2 
Trade and other receivables   – 231.9 231.9 231.9 
Trade and other payables   – (9.6) (9.6) (9.6)
31 March 2011    
Cash and cash equivalents   – – – –
Trade and other receivables   – 218.4 218.4 218.4
Trade and other payables   (1.1) (2.3) (3.4) (3.4)
Financial liabilities classified as designated at fair value comprise the contingent value notes details of which are disclosed in 
note 33 of the Group financial statements.
 133
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  9 Financial assets and liabilities continued
Credit risk
The Company’s credit risk is the risk that one of its subsidiaries is unable to repay intercompany amounts owing. The recoverability 
of the Company’s intercompany receivable is considered at each balance sheet date.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Company does not 
hold significant cash balances as Group cash is managed centrally within its subsidiaries. Accordingly the Company is funded by 
its subsidiaries as its liabilities fall due.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect 
the Group’s income or the value of its holdings in financial instruments. As holding company of the BTG Group, the Company 
does not have significant exposure to movements in market prices and accordingly no additional disclosure is provided. 
Capital management
Details of the Company’s objectives with respect to managing capital are disclosed in note 33 to the Group financial statements.
10 Guarantees and contingent liabilities
The Company has entered into an agreement to guarantee payments under the lease of its US subsidiary undertaking. 
The Company has provided a guarantee to certain subsidiary undertakings in respect of the BTG Pension Fund up to a maximum 
amount equal to the lowest non-negative amount which, when added to the assets of the Fund, would result in the Fund being at 
least 105% funded on the date on which any liability arose, calculated on the basis set out in section 179 of the Pensions Act 
2004, were a valuation to be conducted as at that date. 
The Company has also provided a guarantee to the same subsidiary undertakings for a maximum amount of £12.7m being the 
deficit repair contributions agreed with the Trustees of the Scheme following the finalisation of the last actuarial valuation. The 
Guarantee reduces as payments are made and expires on 31 January 2013.
11 Related-party transactions
The Company has a related-party relationship with its subsidiary undertakings and its directors.
In relation to the related-party relationship identified on page 49 concerning Giles Kerr, payments made by BTG to Oxford 
University and Isis Innovations Ltd under the relevant licence agreements were £1.8m during the year ended 31 March 2011. 
There are no amounts still outstanding and payable by BTG under these agreements as at 31 March 2011.
In relation to the related-party relationship identified on page 49 concerning Melanie Lee, payments made by BTG to Cancer 
Research Technology Ltd under the relevant licence agreements were £0.1m during the year ended 31 March 2011. There  
are no amounts still outstanding and payable by BTG under these agreements as at 31 March 2011.
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the remuneration 
report on pages 57 to 68.
Notes to the company financial statements continued
134
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Appendix 1 – Unaudited pro-forma consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 March 2011
 135
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
      Year ended  Year ended
     31 March 31 March
     2011 2010
     £m £m
Royalties     70.0 64.2
Marketed products     35.4 34.3
Biocompatibles     33.9 26.9
Revenue     139.3 125.4
 
Cost of sales: royalties     (22.4) (17.6)
Cost of sales: marketed products     (8.8) (15.2)
Biocompatibles     (7.7) (5.6)
Gross profit     100.4 87.0
Operating expenses: foreign exchange (losses)     (1.7) (4.0)
Operating expense : other     (52.4) (39.4)
Operating expenses: total     (54.1) (43.4) 
Research and development     (41.8) (40.5) 
Profit on disposal of assets and investments     1.5 1.1 
Amounts written off associates and investments     (1.4) –
Operating profit     4.6 4.2 
Financial income     3.5 7.7
Financial expense     (0.2) (0.3)
Profit before tax     7.9 11.6
Tax     (0.4) 1.8
Profit for the year     7.5 13.4
Basic earnings per share     2.3p 4.2p
Diluted earnings per share     2.3p 4.4p
All activity arose from continuing operations.    
Basis of preparation
The financial information contained in this appendix is pro-forma and does not constitute full statutory accounts within the 
meaning of section 435 of the Companies Act 2006. The information has been extracted from the records of BTG plc and 
Biocompatibles International plc, combining the results of both companies for the years ended 31 March 2011 and 31 March 
2010. The information has been prepared using the accounting policies and basis of preparation set out in note 2 to the Group 
financial statements, except that, for comparative purposes, the following items have been excluded from the pro-forma 
information:
 — Amortisation of business combination intangibles;
 — Effect of fair value adjustments on inventory arising from IFRS3 – Business Combinations;
 — One-off transaction related expenses and reorganisation costs;
 — Impact of deferred tax asset and liabilities recognised upon acquired intangible assets;
 — Impact of US tax-free reorganisation, which resulted in a one-off deferred tax asset of £18.6m being recognised in the year 
ended 31 March 2011.
Financials Consolidated income statement
  2011 
1
 2010 2009 
2
 2008 2007
  £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue  111.4 98.5 84.8 75.0 45.7
Cost of sales  (34.1) (32.8) (37.1) (32.1) (18.9)
Gross profit  77.3 65.7 47.7 42.9 26.8
Operating and administrative expenses  (45.3) (29.3) (20.6) (13.8) (18.9)
Restructuring costs  (3.8) 0.7 (10.9) (8.1) 1.0
Operating expenses  (49.1) (28.6) (31.5) (21.9) (17.9)
Research and development  (32.1) (26.7) (21.2) (12.2) (9.0)
Share of results of associates  – (0.3) (0.4) (0.7) (0.7)
Research and development expenses  (32.1) (27.0) (21.6) (12.9) (9.7)
Profit on disposal of assets and investments  1.5 1.1 2.6 0.4 2.7
Amounts written off associates and investments  (1.4) – (3.4) – (1.0)
Amortisation and impairment of business combination intangibles (10.0) (9.1) (3.0) – –
Operating (loss)/profit  (13.8) 2.1 (9.2) 8.5 0.9
Net financial income  3.0 7.0 (2.1) 2.2 1.7
(Loss)/profit before tax  (10.8) 9.1 (11.3) 10.7 2.6
Tax  20.0 2.2 (1.8) (1.9) (0.2)
Profit/(loss) after tax for the year   9.2 11.3 (13.1) 8.8 2.4
Basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per share   3.4p 4.4p (7.1p) 5.9p 1.6p
Gross profit
  2011 
1
 2010 2009 
2
 2008 2007
  £m £m £m £m £m
Royalties from launched products  43.2 38.0 32.1 24.9 24.2
Income from new agreements and milestone payments  4.5 8.6 11.0 18.0 2.6
Gross profit from marketed products  26.6 19.1 4.6 – –
Gross profit from Biocompatibles  3.0 – – – –
Gross profit  77.3 65.7 47.7 42.9 26.8
1 The results for the year ended 31 March 2011 include the results of Biocompatibles from the date of acquisition, being 27 January 2011.
2 The results for the year ended 31 March 2009 include the results of Protherics from the date of acquisition, being 4 December 2008.
Five-year financial record
for the year ended 31 March
136
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Consolidated statement of financial position
  2011 
1
 2010 2009 
2
 2008 2007
  £m £m £m £m £m
Goodwill  59.2 30.3 30.0 – –
Intangible assets  271.0 152.7 165.8 6.8 7.6
Property, plant and equipment  24.8 10.6 11.1 0.8 8.7
Investment in associates  – – 0.3 0.7 1.2
Other investments  2.7 3.7 3.2 5.8 5.0
Deferred tax asset  0.9 0.6 0.7 – –
Biological assets  0.3 – – – –
Total non-current assets  358.9 197.9 211.1 14.1 22.5
Current assets  129.6 113.1 118.3 72.2 53.5
Total assets  488.5 311.0 329.4 86.3 76.0
Equity
Share capital  32.7 25.8 25.5 15.1 15.1
Share premium account  188.2 188.1 187.3 187.0 187.0
Merger reserve  317.8 158.1 156.5  
Reserves  (3.7) (0.9) (0.1) (1.4) (0.9)
Retained earnings  (142.7) (155.9) (156.6) (145.5) (153.9)
Total equity  392.3 215.2 212.6 55.2 47.3
Total non-current liabilities  43.9 52.4 47.1 6.9 6.8
Total current liabilities  52.3 43.4 69.7 24.2 21.9
Total liabilities  96.2 95.8 116.8 31.1 28.7
Total equity and liabilities  488.5 311.0 329.4 86.3 76.0
1 The statement of financial position for 31 March 2011 includes the assets and liabilities acquired from Biocompatibles during the year.
2 The statement of financial position for 31 March 2009 includes the assets and liabilities acquired from Protherics during the year.
Consolidated cash flow statement
  2011 
1
 2010 2009 
2
 2008 2007
  £m £m £m £m £m
Net cash (used in)/from operating activities  (12.0) 5.8 (1.8) 13.4 (3.1)
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities  (5.5) (2.6) 21.8 0.8 (5.4)
Net cash from financing activities  (0.6) 1.4 (0.1) – 0.8
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents  (18.1) 4.6 19.9 14.2 (7.7)
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held  (0.8) (0.2) 1.3 (0.2) (0.3)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year  82.6 78.2 57.0 43.0 51.0
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  63.7 82.6 78.2 57.0 43.0
1 The results for the year ended 31 March 2011 include the results of Biocompatibles from the date of acquisition, being 27 January 2011.
2 The results for the year ended 31 March 2009 include the results of Protherics from the date of acquisition, being 4 December 2008.
 137
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
  Financial calendar 
Circulation of Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2011 20 June 2011 
Annual General Meeting 20 July 2011 
Announcement of interim results for the six months ended 30 September 2011 November 2011 
Preliminary announcement of annual results for the year ended 31 March 2012 May 2012
Shareholders
At 31 March 2011 there were 12,080 holders of ordinary shares in the Company. Their shareholdings are analysed as follows:
   Percentage  
   of total Number Percentage 
  Number of number of of ordinary of ordinary 
Size of shareholding shareholders shareholders shares shares
1 to 5,000 11,148 92.3 7,651,914 2.3 
5,001 to 50,000 677 5.6 9,972,464 3.1 
50,001 to 100,000 82 0.7 5,859,618 1.8
100,001 to 500,000 97 0.8 24,160,376 7.4 
Over 500,000 76 0.6 279,081,534 85.4
Total  12,080 100.0 326,725,906 100.0
Shareholders are further analysed as follows:
   Percentage  
   of total Number Percentage 
  Number of number of of ordinary of ordinary 
Type of owner shareholders shareholders shares shares
Bank and nominee companies 1,159 9.6 299,969,861 91.8 
Private shareholders 10,832 89.6 18,915,616 5.8 
Limited companies 80 0.7 3,453,588 1.1 
BTG Employee Share Trust 1 – 1,308,793 0.4 
Insurance companies and pension funds 8 0.1 3,078,048 0.9
  12,080 100.0 326,725,906 100.0
Mutual funds and other institutions, and private shareholders holding their shares within PEPs and ISAs, are included within 
‘Bank and nominee companies’.
Capita share dealing services
A quick and easy share dealing service is available from Capita Registrars, to either buy or sell more shares. An online  
and telephone dealing facility is available providing shareholders with an easy-to-access and simple-to-use service. For  
further information on this service, or to buy and sell shares, please contact: www.capitadeal.com (online dealing) or  
+44 (0) 871 664 0446 (telephone dealing – calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras). Full terms, conditions and  
risks apply and are available on request or by visiting www.capitadeal.com. 
This is not a recommendation to buy or sell shares. The price of shares can go down as well as up, and you are not  
guaranteed to get back the amount that you originally invested.
Shareholder change of address
The Company offers the facility, in conjunction with Capita Registrars, our Registrars, to conduct a number of routine matters  
via the web including the ability to notify any change of address. If you are a shareholder and are either unable or would prefer 
not to use this facility, please do not send the notification to the Company’s registered office. Please write direct to Capita 
Registrars, at their address shown opposite, where the register is held. 
Shareholder information
138
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011  139
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financials
Financials
 
BTG plc
Registered office and head office
5 Fleet Place 
London 
EC4M 7RD 
Tel: +44 (0)20 7575 0000 
Fax: +44 (0)20 7575 0010 
info@btgplc.com 
www.btgplc.com 
Registered number 2670500
Advisers
Stockbrokers   
JP Morgan Cazenove 
10 Aldermanbury 
London EC2V 7RF 
Tel: +44 (0)20 7742 4000
Deutsche Bank AG London 
Winchester House 
1 Great Winchester Street 
London EC2N 2DB 
Tel: +44 (0)20 7545 8000
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc 
15 Canada Square 
London E14 5GL 
Tel: +44 (0)20 7311 1000
Registrars
Capita Registrars 
The Registry 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU
Callers from the UK: Tel +44 (0)871 664 0300 
(please note that calls cost 10p per minute,  
plus network extras).
Callers from outside the UK:  
Tel: +44 (0)208 639 3399 This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to BTG’s business, performance and prospects. 
Statements and other information included in this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. Words 
such as ‘expects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘believes’, ‘seeks’, ‘estimates’ and ‘potential’, variations of these words  
and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current 
expectations and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances which may or  
may not occur in the future. There are a number of factors which could cause actual results or developments to differ materially 
from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Current principal risks and uncertainties are described 
on pages 25 to 29 of this report. Any of the assumptions underlying these forward-looking statements could prove inaccurate  
or incorrect and therefore any results contemplated in the forward-looking statements may not actually be achieved. BTG 
undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future 
events or otherwise.
Cautionary statement
140
Financials  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 10
Report from the directors on 
the key strategic, financial and 
operational developments  
during the year.
36
The report from the directors,  
our governance and 
remuneration reports. 
72
The financial statements  
and accompanying notes. 
 
12 Group highlights
14 Chairman’s statement
16 Chief Executive Officer’s review
20 Business review
25 Principal risks and uncertainties
30 Corporate responsibility report
38 Board of directors
40 Directors’ report
44 Corporate governance
52 Audit Committee report
56 Nomination Committee report
57 Remuneration report
69  Statement of directors’ responsibilities
70  Independent auditor’s report to the 
members of BTG plc
74 Consolidated income statement
75 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
76 Consolidated statement of financial position
77  Consolidated statement of cash flows
78 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
128 Company statement of financial position
129  Company statement of cash flows
130  Company statement of changes in equity
131 Notes to the company financial statements
135  Appendix 1: Unaudited pro-forma consolidated 
income statement
136  Five-year financial record
138  Shareholder information
140  Cautionary statement
01 
We are
Business review
Directors and governance
Financials
02 
Expanding
04 
Developing
06 
Partnering
08 
Delivering
Printed in the UK using soya-based 
inks and water sealants; the paper  
manufacturing mill is accredited with 
ISO 14001 Environmental Management  
systems and is Forest Stewardship  
Council certified. 
Designed and produced by 
Bostock and Pollitt Limited, London
Printed by 
Quadracolor www.btgplc.com
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Because people depend on us
