 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Because people
depend on us. Business review
02 At a glance
06 Chairman’s statement
08 Chief Executive Officer’s review
16 Business review
22 Financial review
26 Principal risks and uncertainties
30 Corporate responsibility report
Directors and governance
36 Board of directors
38 Directors’ report
43 Corporate governance
54 Audit Committee report
59 Nomination Committee report
61 Remuneration Committee report
76 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
77  Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of BTG plc
Financials 
80 Consolidated income statement
81 Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
82 Consolidated statement of financial position
83  Consolidated statement of cash flows
84 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
131 Company statement of financial position
132  Company statement of cash flows
133  Company statement of changes in equity
134 Notes to the Company financial statements
138  Appendix 1: Unaudited pro-forma consolidated 
income statement
139  Five-year financial record
141  Shareholder information
143  Cautionary statement
144  Trade marks
Contents Business review
BTG is a growing international specialist 
healthcare company. Our mission is to 
bring to market medical products that 
meet the needs of specialist physicians 
and their patients.
We are focused on three business areas: 
Specialty Pharmaceuticals, Interventional 
Medicine and Licensing & Biotechnology.
Our products include a treatment for 
snakebites, antidotes to treat toxicity 
associated with medicines used for heart 
conditions and cancer, and interventional 
oncology products that are used to treat 
patients with liver or prostate tumours.
We develop our own products and we 
in-license or acquire them from others. 
We sell direct to our customers 
in the US and elsewhere principally 
through partners.
In everything we do, we are guided by 
our core values and our Code of Conduct. 
We believe that by doing the right thing 
every time, we will deliver enduring value 
to all our stakeholders.
01
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 At a glance
02
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Highlights
We have delivered a strong 
financial performance during the 
2011/12 year. The increase in 
revenue reflects the transition to 
direct sales in the US of our Specialty 
Pharmaceuticals products and a full 
year of Biocompatibles sales. 
Revenues were also boosted by 
higher than expected royalties 
from BeneFIX® (Factor IX) and 
Zytiga® (abiraterone acetate).
Below we summarise the key financial metrics we use to monitor business 
performance. 
11/12 10/11
Revenue £197.0m £111.4m
Gross profit £140.7m £77.3m
Underlying operating profit
1
£54.0m £1.7m
Profit/(loss) before tax for the year £23.0m (£10.8m)
Underlying basic earnings per share
1
11.4p 1.0p
Cash and cash equivalents
2
£111.9m £73.9m
Total revenue
£197.0m
11/12 £197.0m
10/11 £111.4m
09/10 £98.5m
08/09 £84.8m
07/08 £75.0m
Underlying operating profit
1
£54.0m
11/12 £54.0m
10/11 £1.7m
09/10 £10.8m
08/09 £7.0m
07/08 £16.6m
Gross margin
71.4%
11/12 71.4%
10/11 69.4%
09/10 66.7%
08/09 56.3%
07/08 57.2%
Cash and cash equivalents
2
£111.9m
11/12 £111.9m
10/11 £73.9m
09/10 £82.6m
08/09 £78.2m
07/08 £57.0m
Total revenue by business area
1. Licensing & Biotechnology £91.6m
2. Specialty Pharmaceuticals £76.7m
3. Interventional Medicine £28.7m
3
2
1
Contribution by business area
1. Licensing & Biotechnology £45.6m
2. Specialty Pharmaceuticals £39.4m
3. Interventional Medicine £6.8m
3
2
1
1  Operating profit and EPS excluding acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs.
2 Including held to maturity financial assets. Focus areas
03
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Commercial sales
CroFab® (crotalidae polyvalent 
immune fab (ovine))
The only approved treatment for bites 
by North American pit vipers.
DigiFab® (digoxin immune fab (ovine))
The only available treatment for 
toxicity associated with the use 
of the heart medicine digoxin.
Voraxaze® (glucarpidase)
Approved in the US for treating 
life-threatening toxicity that can 
occur in cancer patients with renal 
impairment who are receiving 
high-dose methotrexate therapy.
Late-stage development
Uridine triacetate
Under development by Wellstat 
Therapeutics Corporation as a 
treatment for toxicity associated 
with use of the chemotherapeutic 
5-fluorouracil. BTG has acquired 
US and EU commercial rights.
Growth strategy
We are seeking to in-license or 
acquire additional antidotes, as well 
as other products used by acute care 
and other specialist physicians.
Commercial sales
LC Bead™, DC Bead® and Bead Block®
Embolisation and drug-eluting beads 
that are used to treat patients with 
hypervascularised tumours.
Brachytherapy implants
Low-dose radioactive seeds used 
primarily to treat early-stage prostate 
cancer.
Late-stage development
Varisolve® (polidocanol endovenous 
microfoam (PEM))
A non-surgical product that has 
completed Phase III development in 
the US as a potential comprehensive 
treatment to improve both the 
symptoms and appearance of 
varicose veins.
Growth strategy
We plan to continue investing in 
clinical development of the bead 
products to expand their indicated 
uses and geographic availability. We 
are also seeking to acquire additional 
products used by interventional 
radiologists, medical oncologists 
and vascular surgeons.
Commercial sales
Existing royalty streams include 
Zytiga® (abiraterone acetate), a 
treatment for advanced prostate 
cancer marketed by the Janssen 
Pharmaceutical Companies of 
Johnson & Johnson, and the 
Two-Part Hip Cup, licensed to 
most major hip-replacement 
technology manufacturers.
Late-stage development
Lemtrada™ (alemtuzumab)
In Phase III development by Sanofi 
as a potential treatment for relapsing-
remitting multiple sclerosis.
AZD9773 (CytoFab™)
In Phase IIb development by 
AstraZeneca as a potential treatment 
for severe sepsis and/or septic 
shock.
Growth strategy
We are currently assessing options 
for the CellMed platforms and 
early-stage programmes we acquired 
with Biocompatibles. We are not 
actively seeking to develop or acquire 
products for out-licensing.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals
See page 8
The current focus within Specialty 
Pharmaceuticals is on antidote 
products that are used within 
hospitals. We market and sell our 
products directly in the US, and 
elsewhere we work with distribution 
partners.
Interventional Medicine
See page 11
Our key products are embolisation 
and drug-eluting beads used primarily 
to treat patients with liver tumours 
and brachytherapy products used 
mainly for early-stage prostate 
cancer. We assumed direct sales 
responsibility in the US for LC Bead™ 
in January 2012.
Licensing & Biotechnology
See page 13
This business area comprises 
licensed products and programmes 
and generates significant royalties for 
BTG. We out-license assets that we 
do not intend to market ourselves.
Business review Voraxaze® (glucarpidase)
Specialty Pharmaceuticals
Approved and launched in the US, 
this is the only drug which can break 
down methotrexate in the blood 
following cancer treatment. Hundreds 
of patients a year may benefit from 
this new treatment, many of whom 
are children with cancers such as 
lymphoma. Varisolve® (polidocanol 
endovenous microfoam (PEM))
Interventional Medicine
A non-surgical experimental 
treatment for varicose veins, 
that has completed Phase III 
development in the US. If approved, 
PEM could potentially transform 
this underserved market as a 
comprehensive single-product 
treatment for symptomatic and/or 
visible varicose veins.
Business review Chairman’s statement
In this, my first statement to 
shareholders as Chairman, I am pleased 
to report that BTG is in a strong position 
and is delivering on its strategy and its 
objectives. We have made significant 
progress on a number of fronts over the 
last year and are at an exciting time in 
our development. We approach the 
future with confidence. 
The Group’ s strategy of selling its own 
specialist products is working. In 
Specialty Pharmaceuticals, a strong 
performance from CroFab® and DigiFab® 
has been supplemented by cost-recovery 
and named patient sales of Voraxaze® , 
which was approved by the FDA in 
January 2012 and launched nationally 
in the US at the end of April 2012. 
Similarly, the creation of a dedicated 
sales function in Interventional Medicine 
has enabled us to bring in-house the 
US sales responsibility for our beads 
business. 
Our Licensing & Biotechnology revenues 
benefited from significant post-patent-
expiry royalties from Pfizer on BeneFIX® 
and first royalties from Johnson & 
Johnson on Zytiga® , which has had 
a strong start. 
Product development has also 
progressed well during the year. In 
addition to the Voraxaze®approval, we 
have announced positive US Phase III 
results for PEM, a potential treatment 
for varicose veins, and we continue to 
progress our bead chemoembolisation 
studies.
I have been very impressed with the 
quality of the people at BTG; it has a 
high-calibre management group and 
a strong teamwork culture. I should 
like to acknowledge the excellent work 
of my predecessor, Dr John Brown, in 
overseeing this and in successfully 
steering the Group through its 
transformation. I would like formally 
to thank him on behalf of the Board 
and to wish him well for the future.
As we look to the future, our focus 
remains on our clearly articulated and 
deliverable strategy and objectives. 
We will also continue to be guided 
by our core values, which are embedded 
throughout the Group, and which we 
believe contribute to the generation 
of shareholder value.
We are well placed to become 
increasingly cash-generative over the 
medium term, driven by the transition to 
direct sales in the US, the US approval of 
Voraxaze® , underlying double-digit growth 
in our Interventional Medicine business 
and a continuing strong royalty stream 
from our Licensing & Biotechnology 
business.
The cash we generate is available to 
continue development of PEM and our 
bead products and to invest in acquiring 
or in-licensing new products and 
late-stage programmes. The Board 
believes that reinvesting shareholder 
funds in this way will generate most 
value over the longer term, and it does 
not recommend payment of a dividend.
BTG has made strong progress over the 
past year, and I look forward to working 
with my Board colleagues and our wider 
team to continue to develop BTG into a 
leading specialist healthcare business.
We are delivering on our strategy 
and are well placed to be increasingly 
cash-generative over the medium term.
Cash generated from operations
£47.2m
11/12 £47.2m
10/11 (£12.0m)
09/10 £5.8m
08/09 (£1.8m)
07/08 £13.4m
Garry Watts
Chairman
06
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Zytiga® (abiraterone acetate)
Licensing & Biotechnology
Launched in the US and Europe 
by the Janssen Pharmaceutical 
Companies of Johnson & Johnson 
during the last year. Approved for the 
treatment of patients with late-stage 
prostate cancer. We benefit from a 
royalty on all global sales of this new 
oral, once-daily medication.
Business review Chief Executive Officer’s review
Louise Makin
Chief Executive Officer
08
Business review
When we set out several years ago to 
transform our business from an early-
stage development company into a 
specialist healthcare business selling its 
own products, we defined a set of core 
values that would guide us. These values 
continue to be fundamental to how we 
go about our business.
Ultimately, they are about building trust 
with all our stakeholders: customers, 
patients, payers, regulators, partners, 
shareholders and colleagues. We are 
proud to be part of a company whose 
products improve health and can save 
lives. We also recognise our corporate 
responsibilities, and we believe that 
always living our values will help us be a 
responsible business that is capable of 
delivering sustainable, profitable growth.
All of our values are equally important 
though one that stands out when 
reflecting on the past year is delivery. 
This is about doing what we say we will 
do at an individual, team, segmental and 
Group level. Thanks to the commitment 
and professionalism of our employees, 
we have had an excellent year and made 
strong progress towards delivering our 
key medium-term business goals.
The following section should be 
read in conjunction with the financial 
statements and related notes on 
pages 80 to 130.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals
Our Acute Care sales force 
performed well in its first full year 
selling CroFab® and DigiFab® directly 
in the US. Revenues of £76.7m 
resulted in a contribution of £39.4m. 
The team commenced selling 
Voraxaze® on 30 April 2012 following 
its US approval in January 2012.
The Acute Care sales team performed 
strongly, delivering 117% growth in 
revenues from CroFab® , DigiFab® and 
Voraxaze® . This resulted principally from 
the transition to direct sales in the US, 
and was further enhanced by increased 
end market volumes and price growth. 
The benefits of selling directly were also 
reflected in a substantial increase in 
profit contribution.
The reported revenues from Voraxaze® 
result from its availability under a 
treatment investigational new drug (IND) 
in the US and from named patient sales 
elsewhere. A key achievement during the 
year was the US approval of Voraxaze® in 
January 2012 following a priority review 
by the FDA. This product addresses a 
real unmet need: there is no other 
approved treatment for life-threatening 
high-dose methotrexate toxicity due to 
impaired renal function. Around half the 
patients who experience toxicity with 
high-dose methotrexate are children.
We estimate the US peak sales potential 
for Voraxaze® to be approximately $15m 
per annum, on the basis of commercial 
pricing rather than cost-recovery. 
Although modest, this unique product 
delivers a good margin and exemplifies 
our strategy of leveraging the investment 
we have made in creating a US 
commercial infrastructure. It will be sold 
by the existing Acute Care team so 
requires only modest incremental sales 
and marketing expenditure.
Our partner Wellstat Therapeutics 
Corporation continues to make good 
progress with the development of uridine 
triacetate (UTA), a potential antidote to 
toxicity associated with 5-fluorouracil 
(5-FU), a common chemotherapeutic. 
Wellstat anticipates submitting a US 
regulatory application during the second 
half of 2013. If approved, UTA would be 
sold by our Acute Care sales team. In 
May 2012, we also acquired rights to 
distribute UTA on a named patient supply 
basis in Europe for an upfront payment 
of $3.0m, together with an option to 
market UTA following EU regulatory 
approval, under pre-agreed financial 
terms including a multi-million dollar 
exercise fee and transfer pricing 
payments based on manufacturing costs 
and a significant percentage of net sales.
We have the team, capabilities and 
financial resources to continue 
implementing our strategy to be a 
leading specialist healthcare business.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals revenue
£76.7m 11/12
£35.4m 10/11
Specialty Pharmaceuticals contribution
£39.4m 11/12
£10.8m 10/11
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 DigiFab® (digoxin immune fab (ovine))
Specialty Pharmaceuticals
Approved for sale in the US, Canada, 
UK and Switzerland for the treatment 
of digoxin toxicity and marketed 
in the US through our Acute Care 
team. The only available product for 
the treatment of digoxin toxicity.
Business review Brachytherapy Implants
Interventional Medicine
Our brachytherapy business 
develops, manufactures and markets 
unique delivery systems containing 
radioactive seeds as well as ancillary 
equipment used principally in the 
treatment of early-stage prostate 
cancer. Our strategy within Specialty 
Pharmaceuticals is to expand our 
portfolio of marketed products and 
late-stage programmes through 
in-licensing and acquisition. We have 
a growing antidote franchise and are 
looking for similar products that are 
used in emergency situations in 
hospitals and in other specialist centres. 
We are also exploring opportunities 
to expand our portfolio with products 
used by other specialist physicians 
within and outside the hospital setting. 
Interventional Medicine
Revenues were £28.7m in the first 
full year following our acquisition 
of Biocompatibles, delivering a 
contribution of £6.8m. In January 
2012, we commenced direct sales 
of our bead products in the US. 
The full financial impact of this 
transition will be evident in our 
2012/13 results.
We estimate, based on our analysis of 
public information, that the global annual 
aggregate sales of loco-regional 
treatments for liver tumours grew from 
$87m at the end of 2008 to $193m at 
the end of 2011, with our market share 
growing from 20% to 27% during that 
period. We anticipate continued double-
digit overall market growth through 
2020, driven by expanding the approved 
uses of the products, geographic 
expansion and product innovation.
Our strategy to expand this business 
is to: sell directly in the US; expand 
geographically through working with 
partners; invest in clinical studies 
to expand the indicated uses of our 
products; develop line extensions; 
and acquire additional products used 
by interventional radiologists, clinical 
oncologists and oncology surgeons.
During the second half of 2011 
we set up our second field force, 
an Interventional Medicine team of 
24 Account Managers (AMs) and 
Medical Science Liaisons (MSLs). 
As planned, the AMs assumed 
direct control of selling LC Bead™ in 
the US from January 2012, following 
expiry of the distribution contract 
with AngioDynamics, Inc.
The transition has gone well. 
We expect the financial benefits of 
selling directly to start this financial year. 
Less immediately obvious, but equally 
important, are the benefits of being 
able to get close to our customers. 
This helps us fully understand their 
needs and the pressures that they 
face, so that we can respond in terms 
of our product and service offering.
In Japan, where we are partnered with 
Eisai, the regulatory application for 
DC Bead® is being reviewed by the 
Japanese regulatory authorities. 
In China, our partner SciClone completed 
a 40-person study and is engaging with 
the Chinese regulator about the further 
steps required in order for them to 
accept a submission for review. In South 
Korea, qualified reimbursement was 
achieved and in Taiwan we are awaiting 
reimbursement approval.
Later this year we expect first results 
from the PARAGON exploratory studies, 
in which DC Bead® loaded with irinotecan 
is being investigated as a treatment for 
metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). 
These include PARAGON II, which is 
evaluating the safety and efficacy of the 
irinotecan bead used prior to surgical 
resection of metastatic liver tumours. 
A second study (PARAGON Louisville) 
is evaluating the effectiveness of 
chemoembolisation with LC Bead™ 
loaded with irinotecan, both with and 
without systemic chemotherapy, in 
the treatment of unresectable liver 
metastases in patients with 
colorectal cancer.
We plan to initiate a formal Phase II 
study in mCRC, the design of which 
will be informed by these exploratory 
studies. We are also exploring other 
indications such as metastatic ocular 
cancer and cholangiocarcinoma, orphan 
indications which may not require 
extensive studies to gain marketing 
approvals.
11
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Interventional Medicine revenue
£28.7m 11/12
£5.6m
1
10/11
Interventional Medicine contribution
£6.8m 11/12
£0.2m
1
10/11
1  Includes approximately two months of trading 
following the Biocompatibles acquisition.
Chief Executive Officer’s review AZD9773 (CytoFab™)
Licensing & Biotechnology
In Phase IIb clinical development 
with partner AstraZeneca as a 
treatment for severe sepsis. 
Manufactured by BTG using the same 
polyclonal antibody manufacturing 
platform used to make our approved 
antidotes, CroFab® and DigiFab® . At present, when DC Bead® is loaded 
with a chemotherapeutic, this is done in 
the pharmacy at the hospital where the 
procedure is to take place. We are 
developing the PRECISION Bead® and 
PARAGON Bead® , which are pre-loaded 
with drug and, if approved, would be a 
significant step forward for interventional 
medicine.
In January and April 2012, we reported 
positive results from VANISH-1 and 
VANISH-2 our two US pivotal Phase III 
trials of PEM, which are designed to 
support its approval as a comprehensive 
treatment to reduce the symptoms and 
improve the appearance of varicose 
veins. The primary endpoint was a 
reduction in symptoms, as measured by 
a novel patient-reported outcomes tool. 
Improvement in appearance, the 
secondary endpoint, was measured 
using novel patient and physician tools. 
PEM achieved all the study endpoints 
with a high degree of statistical 
significance. In a smaller study, VV017, 
patients were treated first with heat 
ablation of the great saphenous vein 
followed by PEM for the remaining visible 
varicosities. Statistical significance was 
reached for one of two co-primary 
endpoints, the blinded independent 
panel review of photographs, but not for 
the patient-reported measure.
We are completing manufacturing and 
chemistry, manufacturing and controls 
(CMC) activities and preparing our 
regulatory application, which we aim to 
submit at the end of 2012. If approved, 
we intend to market PEM ourselves in 
the US reimbursed sector. We estimate 
the global peak sales potential of PEM 
to be up to $500m per annum.
Licensing & Biotechnology
Revenue of £91.6m delivered a 
contribution of £45.6m. Revenues 
benefited from higher than expected 
post-patent-expiry royalties on 
BeneFIX® and a strong start from 
Zytiga® following US and EU 
regulatory approvals during 2011.
This part of our business derives from 
BTG’ s history as an IP commercialisation 
organisation. It comprises licensed 
assets together with assets acquired 
with Protherics and Biocompatibles 
that we do not intend to take to market 
ourselves but which may have value to 
partners. We have retained the required 
IP and other commercial skills to 
commercialise these assets, as those 
skills remain core to our ongoing 
business activities.
Although not an active area of focus 
in terms of new opportunities, our 
Licensing & Biotechnology segment is 
expected to continue to provide a solid 
financial underpin for BTG for many years 
to come. While some licensed assets 
will cease to deliver revenues following 
patent expiries, others are starting to 
generate new revenue streams and 
have the potential to deliver royalties 
beyond 2020.
Following patent expiry in March 2011, 
revenues from BeneFIX® , for several 
years our largest individual royalty 
contributor, are expected to end during 
our 2012/13 year.
A new revenue stream emerged during 
the 2011/12 year with the US and EU 
approvals of Zytiga® , marketed by the 
Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of 
Johnson & Johnson. This was approved 
to treat men with castration resistant 
prostate cancer (CRPC) who have 
previously received docataxel. The 
approvals resulted in two milestone 
payments and our first royalties.
Importantly, a second Phase III trial 
in men who had not yet received 
chemotherapy was unblinded after an 
interim analysis in March 2012 because 
of clear evidence of clinical benefits in 
men receiving Zytiga® compared with 
those receiving placebo. Johnson & 
Johnson intends to start submitting 
regulatory applications to extend the 
approved uses of Zytiga® into this 
chemo-naïve patient population. 
If approved, this could significantly 
expand the number of patients who may 
benefit from treatment with this product.
In April 2012, Sanofi presented positive 
Phase III data and indicated it would 
submit US and EU regulatory 
13
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Licensing & Biotechnology revenue
£91.6m 11/12
£70.4m 10/11
Licensing & Biotechnology contribution
£45.6m 11/12
£32.6m 10/11 applications for the approval of 
alemtuzumab as a treatment for 
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis 
during the second quarter 2012. The 
application is expected to receive priority 
review in the US. If approved, this would 
result in another new revenue stream 
for BTG.
AstraZeneca’ s Phase IIb study of 
AZD9773 completed recruitment of 
around 300 patients with severe sepsis 
in March 2012. Top-line data are 
anticipated in the second half of 2012, 
together with a decision by AstraZeneca 
on whether to progress into Phase III 
development. 
After disappointing data from a Phase IIa 
study in patients with relapsing-remitting 
multiple sclerosis, we discontinued 
development of BGC20-0134 and 
ceased commercial activities. 
We are continuing to explore options for 
partnerships with CellMed, our German 
subsidiary acquired with Biocompatibles. 
CellMed has a number of early-stage 
programmes and platform technologies 
that are not in our core focus areas but 
may be of interest to other companies.
There is good momentum across 
our three business areas and we 
look forward to another busy year 
with confidence. We have the team, 
capabilities and financial resources 
to continue implementing our strategy 
to be a leading specialist healthcare 
business focused on Specialty 
Pharmaceuticals and Interventional 
Medicine.
14
Business review
Chief Executive Officer’s review
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CroFab® (crotalidae polyvalent 
immune fab (ovine))
Specialty Pharmaceuticals
The only approved treatment 
for the management of patients 
with North American pit viper 
envenomation. Of the 3,000 
to 5,000 venomous snakebites 
treated in US emergency 
departments each year, 97% 
are from pit vipers.
Business review Business review
Overview and business model
BTG is a specialist healthcare company 
that is focused on bringing to market 
medical products that meet the needs of 
specialist physicians and their patients. 
We operate through three business 
areas: Specialty Pharmaceuticals, 
Interventional Medicine and Licensing 
& Biotechnology. 
Our core activities are:
Sales and marketing: We sell our 
products directly in the US and primarily 
through partners in other countries. In 
the US we sell CroFab® , DigiFab® and 
Voraxaze® through our Acute Care sales 
force, and Bead Block® , LC Bead™ and 
our brachytherapy products through our 
Interventional Medicine sales force. 
DigiFab® , Voraxaze® , Bead Block® and 
DC Bead® are sold through distributors 
outside the US, where approved, and 
through named patient programmes 
where permitted.
Research and development: We conduct 
non-clinical and clinical studies to 
assess factors including the safety 
and efficacy of our pharmaceutical 
and medical device product candidates. 
We liaise with regulators over the 
development pathways for our products 
and their approvability. Current 
development programmes include PEM, 
a potential non-surgical treatment for 
varicose veins, and a number of 
exploratory studies using our drug-eluting 
beads to treat patients with primary and 
metastatic tumours in the liver. Our 
research and development personnel 
manage these activities and oversee 
the contract research organisations we 
utilise to conduct many of our studies.
Research and development activities 
are managed on a Group-wide basis. 
Revenues generated through successful 
commercialisation of programmes are 
included within the relevant operating 
segments.
Manufacturing: We manufacture the 
ovine polyclonal antibodies CroFab® , 
DigiFab® and AZD9773, which is 
partnered with AstraZeneca and is 
under development to treat severe 
sepsis. We also manufacture our 
embolisation and drug-eluting beads 
and our brachytherapy products. 
We will conduct the final manufacture 
of PEM at our Farnham facility.
Business development: We in-license 
or acquire products and late-stage 
programmes from other companies. 
We are seeking products and 
programmes that we can sell directly in 
the US through our existing commercial 
infrastructure. We are also opportunity-
driven and consider products that may 
require separate sales forces to call on 
specialist physicians other than those 
who are currently our customers.
Our strategy
Our strategy to deliver long-term value is 
to be a focused, integrated, international 
specialist healthcare business. We 
focus on niche medical areas in which 
we can build a leading market position. 
By integrating our research and 
development, manufacturing, sales and 
marketing and business development 
activities, we can capture the full value 
of our marketed products. We operate 
internationally to expand the geographic 
use of our products, selling directly in 
the US and working elsewhere with local 
partners. We target the needs of 
specialist physicians and their patients, 
which means our sales forces are small 
and we can develop strong relationships 
with our customers.
During the year, BTG developed a new 
annual strategic planning cycle that 
commences with “horizon scanning” 
activities. These seek to understand 
trends in the global healthcare 
environment and changes in the 
competitive landscape, so that 
opportunities and challenges to our 
business can be identified. The Board 
and Leadership Team review corporate 
strategy and plans in light of this 
information. Strategic corporate 
priorities are defined for the short- and 
medium-term, which are cascaded into 
divisional, team and individual goals 
and used for budget development.
16
Business review
R&D expenditure
£39.7m
11/12 £39.7m
10/11 £32.1m
09/10 £27.0m
08/09 £21.6m
07/08 £12.9m
16 Business review
22 Financial review
26 Principal risks and uncertainties
30 Corporate responsibility report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our marketplace
We choose to operate in niche markets 
and selected geographies within the 
global healthcare market, which share 
certain characteristics:
— The physician customer groups are 
relatively small and can be serviced 
by small sales forces and support 
functions.
— Market sizes for particular 
specialisms are generally modest 
and competition is often more 
limited.
— Products often address relatively 
small patient populations; hence 
the size and cost of clinical trials 
to gain approval are manageable 
for a company of BTG’ s scale and 
resources.
— Reimbursement can usually be 
achieved as the products often 
address unmet needs.
Our current focus areas are Specialty 
Pharmaceuticals, principally antidote 
products, and Interventional Medicine, 
principally interventional oncology 
products for treating patients with 
tumours in the liver and prostate.
Within Specialty Pharmaceuticals, we 
have three marketed products: CroFab® , 
which is the only approved treatment 
for bites from North American pit viper 
snakes; DigiFab® , which is the only 
approved and available product for 
treating life-threatening toxicity resulting 
from treatment with digoxin; and 
Voraxaze® , which is the only approved 
treatment for life-threatening toxicity 
due to renal impairment resulting from 
treatment with high-dose methotrexate.
The market opportunity for these 
products relates to the number of 
incidents that occur – the number of 
snakebites for CroFab® and the number 
of toxic events associated with digoxin 
and high-dose methotrexate use. Annual 
revenue growth is anticipated to be in 
the mid to high single digit range. Higher 
growth in this franchise would result 
from the addition of new approved 
products. A potential future product 
addition is uridine triacetate (UTA). 
This is under development for treating 
toxicity associated with use of the 
chemotherapeutic 5-FU. There is no 
currently approved product in this 
indication.
BTG has acquired US and EU 
commercial rights from Wellstat 
Therapeutics Corporation, which 
is developing UTA.
Within Interventional Medicine, our 
marketed products are: Bead Block® 
and LC Bead™, both used for 
embolising hypervascularised tumours 
and arteriovenous malformations; 
DC Bead® , used for chemoembolisation 
of hypervascularised tumours; and 
brachytherapy products, primarily 
implantable seeds used to deliver 
low-dose radiation to localised 
prostate tumours.
We estimate, based on our own sales 
and published data from other 
manufacturers of interventional oncology 
products, that the global annual 
aggregate sales of these products have 
experienced double-digit growth between 
2007 and 2011 and reached about 
$193m at the end of 2011. We believe 
the global market has the potential to 
reach $400m to $800m by 2020, with 
growth driven by: clinical data leading 
to extended approved uses for the 
products; geographic expansion, in 
particular into important Asian markets 
where penetration rates are currently 
very low; and product innovations that 
increase their usefulness to 
interventional radiologists.
BTG seeks to differentiate itself from 
competitors in the implantable oncology 
device market in a number of ways. 
We have designed our beads to have 
technical advantages over competing 
products. For example, we are developing 
beads that are pre-loaded with 
chemotherapeutic agents that will 
eliminate the need for the pharmacist to 
load the beads in situ. We recognise that 
data from high-quality clinical studies is 
important to the physicians who manage 
patients with liver tumours, so we are 
continuing to invest in such studies to 
generate data and to expand the 
approved indications for our products. 
We also aim to provide the best customer 
service and follow-up in our sector .
17
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
BTG bead revenues 
£20.4m 11/12
£4.3m
1
10/11
BTG brachytherapy revenues
£8.3m 11/12
£1.3m
1
10/11
1  Includes approximately two months of trading 
following the Biocompatibles acquisition. 
Business review The US remains one of the world’ s 
largest markets for healthcare products 
and go-to-market costs are lower than 
in other fragmented markets such as 
Europe. Around 85% of BTG’ s total 
revenues are currently denominated in 
US dollars, making it our most important 
geographic market (although a proportion 
of our dollar-denominated revenues, 
for example royalties on BeneFIX® and 
Zytiga® , derive from worldwide sales, 
these are presented to BTG in dollars 
by a US-based licensee). 
For these reasons our strategy is to sell 
our products directly in the US, where 
we now have sales forces in Specialty 
Pharmaceuticals and Interventional 
Medicine. Elsewhere, we currently sell 
through distributors, but we will review 
this as we build our product portfolio and 
our revenues outside of the US increase.
While CroFab® is used only in the 
US, DigiFab® and Voraxaze® have the 
potential for worldwide sales. We have 
recently gained approval for DigiFab® 
in Canada, Switzerland and the UK and 
following the US approval of Voraxaze® , 
we will work with other regulators to seek 
to make Voraxaze® available in a range 
of territories.
We believe there is significant scope 
to expand the geographic use of our 
bead products. In Asia, the underlying 
incidence of primary liver cancer is seven 
times higher than in Western countries, 
reflecting the higher incidence in Asia of 
hepatitis B and C, a major cause of liver 
cancer. Penetration of beads into Asian 
markets is currently very low. 
BTG is working with partners in key 
Asian markets to gain approvals and 
reimbursement. In Japan, we are 
partnered with Eisai and a marketing 
application is currently under review 
by the Japanese regulator . In China our 
partner is SciClone; a 40-patient study 
using the DC Bead® loaded with 
doxorubicin has been completed, and 
we are in discussion with the Chinese 
regulator about additional requirements 
before we can submit a marketing 
authorisation application. In South Korea, 
limited reimbursement has been 
achieved and in T aiwan we are seeking 
reimbursement approval.
Our relationships
We operate in a highly regulated 
environment and are required to adhere 
to specific regulations in addition to the 
legal and regulatory frameworks that 
apply to most businesses. Some of 
these relate to our relationships with 
stakeholders in the medical supply chain 
including doctors, government officials 
and agencies, patients, trade bodies, 
suppliers and the worldwide media.
BTG’ s policy is straightforward in that 
we will uphold the law and all regulations 
in territories where we work, and we will 
act with transparency and integrity in our 
dealings with all our stakeholders. Our 
Code of Conduct describes our approach 
in detail. 
Our people
BTG’ s success relies on attracting 
and retaining talented people. It is as 
important for us to employ people who 
adhere to our values as it is that they 
have the right technical skills and 
experience. We aim to foster a high-
performance culture and have built 
performance monitoring systems and 
reward programmes to support that goal. 
We employ around 525 people in the UK, 
US, Australia and Germany, the majority 
of whom are engaged in sales and 
marketing, research and development, 
manufacturing, corporate and support 
roles. 52% of our employees are female.
For more information on our human 
resources policies see our corporate 
responsibility report on pages 30 to 34 
and our remuneration report on pages 
61 to 75.
Sustainability
We are building a business that we 
believe is capable of delivering 
sustainable, profitable growth. Our 
strategy for this is to continue to develop 
our business as a specialist healthcare 
company focused on leadership in 
Specialty Pharmaceuticals and 
Interventional Medicine.
Sustainability is being achieved through: 
strategic planning, so we can respond to 
opportunities and challenges; research 
and development, to bring new products 
to market and to expand the use of 
18
Business review
Business review
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 existing products; business development, to acquire or in-license new products 
and programmes; financial discipline, to make efficient use of our resources 
to drive profitable growth and deliver shareholder value; and strong governance, 
so we conduct all our affairs in a responsible way.
Performance in 2011/12
We use financial and non-financial indicators to monitor company performance. 
The key financial indicators are: revenue; gross margin; underlying operating profit; 
and cash management. Similar financial indicators are used in the Group’ s annual 
bonus scheme (see the Remuneration report on pages 61 to 75).
Each year the Board sets a number of corporate objectives which are cascaded 
into divisional, team and individual goals for the year.
Our progress against the objectives set for 2011/12 is as follows.
2011/12 objectives Performance
Financial management
— Achieve revenue, gross margin, profit 
and cash targets
— Deliver acquisition synergies
— Delivered revenue of £197.0m 
(10/11: £111.4m); gross margin of 
71.4% (10/11: 69.4%); underlying 
operating profit of £54.0m (10/11: 
£1.7m); closing cash and equivalents 
£111.9m (10/11: £73.9m)
— Delivered acquisition synergies 
of £3.0m
Specialty Pharmaceuticals
— Deliver production, revenue 
and profit targets
— Submit Voraxaze® BLA
— Achieved overall; contribution of 
£39.4m
— Voraxaze® US BLA submitted in June 
2011 and approved in January 2012
Interventional Medicine
— Deliver production, revenue and profit 
targets for beads and brachytherapy 
products
— Ensure readiness to sell LC Bead™ 
directly in the US from 2012
— Progress beads expansion 
in Asian markets
— Complete all treatments 
in PEM Phase III trials
— Achieved overall; contribution 
of £6.8m
— Achieved; commenced selling 
LC Bead™ directly in the US in 
January 2012
— Partially achieved; 40-person 
study completed in China; limited 
reimbursement achieved in 
South Korea
— Achieved; all studies completed
 Licensing & Biotechnology
— Deliver targets from sale/out-
licensing of pipeline assets
— Develop CellMed R&D/partnering 
plans
— Meet R&D programme timelines
— Not achieved
— Ongoing
— Achieved
Corporate
— Audit quality systems
— Audit global health and safety 
and environmental policies and 
procedures
— Grow company through product 
acquisitions
— Achieved
— Achieved
— Achieved; UTA licensed from Wellstat
19
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Revenue 
£197.0m 11/12
£111.4m 10/11
Gross profit
£140.7m 11/12
£77.3m 10/11 Business review
Corporate priorities
BTG’ s corporate medium-term goals are grouped into four categories: financial; 
delivering products for our customers and other stakeholders; enhancing internal 
processes and capabilities; learning and growth. Many of the objectives span 
a number of annual reporting periods. We will report progress against each 
goal annually.
Corporate objectives
Financial management
— Achieve revenue, gross margin, profit and cash targets
Delivering products for our key stakeholders
— Submit PEM NDA and prepare for commercial launch
— Build a leading position in the interventional oncology space
— Maintain leadership in antidote/rescue therapies and expand Specialty 
Pharmaceuticals business
— Identify and acquire new products to complement existing franchises
Internal processes/capabilities
— Focus R&D activities to best support growth in Interventional Medicine 
and Specialty Pharmaceuticals businesses
— Be an excellent corporate citizen by embedding Compliance, Quality 
and Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) in all activities
Learning and growth
— Enhance capabilities and capacity to support growth plans
— Define and implement global manufacturing strategy to support 
current business efficiently and deliver on growth strategy
20
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Uridine triacetate
Specialty Pharmaceuticals
This antidote is in clinical 
development for the treatment 
of accidental overexposure to 
5-fluorouracil (5-FU). We have 
acquired US and EU commercial 
rights from Wellstat Therapeutics 
Corporation.
Business review Financial review
This has been another transformative 
year for BTG operationally and the 
step-change in the financial results 
reflect this. Revenue has grown by 77% 
to £197.0m as a result of direct selling 
CroFab®and DigiFab® , the acquisition of 
Biocompatibles in January 2011 and a 
strong performance from the Group’s 
royalty revenue streams. Gross margin, 
at 71%, is slightly ahead of prior year, 
generating gross profit of £140.7m in 
the period, £63.4m higher than in the 
prior year.
Operating profit of £19.9m compares to 
an operating loss of £13.8m in the prior 
year. Operating profit before acquisition 
adjustments and reorganisation costs 
has grown to £54.0m compared to 
£1.7m in the prior year.
The Group generated £38.0m of 
cash, resulting in cash and deposits of 
£111.9m at 31 March 2012 (31 March 
2011: £73.9m).
Specialty Pharmaceuticals
Revenue of £76.7m is more than twice 
the prior year comparative of £35.4m. 
This reflects the impact of the first full 
year of BTG direct sales of CroFab®
and DigiFab®in the US. In the prior year 
these products were sold through a 
distributor for the first six months of 
the financial year, with BTG direct 
sales effective from 1 October 2010. 
Underlying sales volumes into the end 
market have also shown growth over 
the prior year.
Gross margin at 76% (10/11: 75%) is in 
line with expectations for this operating 
segment, generating £58.0m gross 
profit (10/11: £26.6m). After deducting 
selling, general and administrative 
expenses (SG&A) of £18.6m (10/11: 
£15.8m) this segment generated a 
profit contribution of £39.4m (10/11: 
£10.8m) reflecting a 51% operating 
margin (10/11: 31%).
Interventional Medicine
The Interventional Medicine segment 
represents the portfolio of beads and 
brachytherapy products acquired with 
Biocompatibles. The acquisition of 
Biocompatibles was completed at the 
end of January 2011, meaning that the 
year to 31 March 2012 was the first 
full year of ownership. The prior year 
comparative figures for Interventional 
Medicine include only two months of 
post-acquisition trading from this 
business.
Revenue of £28.7m (10/11: £5.6m) 
generated gross profit of £20.1m 
(10/11: £2.7m), representing a gross 
margin of 70% (10/11: 48%). Cost of 
sales includes the final release of a fair 
value uplift adjustment to inventory 
recognised upon acquisition of £2.1m 
(10/11: £1.7m). Excluding this 
adjustment, gross margin is 77% 
(10/11: 79%).
SG&A of £13.3m (10/11: £2.5m) 
includes some set-up costs and around 
half a year of direct sales force costs in 
relation to the sale of LC Bead™ in the 
US. The full run-rate of sales force costs 
will be reflected in the results of the 
current financial year.
Overall profit contribution margin from 
this segment was 24% (31% excluding 
fair value acquisition adjustments) and 
our expectation is that a full year benefit 
of direct sales in the US should see this 
increase in the current financial year.
Licensing & Biotechnology
The Licensing & Biotechnology operating 
segment includes revenues from BTG’ s 
licensed portfolio of intellectual property 
as well as income from the acquired 
Biocompatibles business.
Revenue of £91.6m is £21.2m ahead of 
last year. Revenue consists of recurring 
royalties of £79.2m (10/11: £60.3m), 
milestones and one-offs of £11.1m 
(10/11: £9.9m) and sales of CellMed 
products of £1.3m (10/11: £0.2m). 
The principal contributors to recurring 
royalties are: BeneFIX® at £29.4m 
(10/11: £28.7m), the Two-Part Hip Cup 
at £13.0m (10/11: £12.4m) and for the 
first time this financial year, Zytiga®at 
£18.6m (10/11: nil).
The final Factor IX patent expired in 
March 2011 and BTG continues to 
22
Business review
Rolf Soderstrom
Chief Financial Officer
Our strong financial position enables 
us to continue to invest in the business 
to drive further profitable growth.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 receive royalties on sales of inventory 
held by Pfizer at the patent expiry date. 
Further receipts in 2012/13 are yet to 
be confirmed by Pfizer, but BTG expects 
that it has now received the majority of 
royalties due. 
The approval of Zytiga®triggered two 
milestone payments. Other contributors 
within milestones include the continued 
release of AZD9773 deferred income 
and the final release of deferred income 
in relation to the GLP-1 licence that was 
terminated by AstraZeneca in May 2011. 
In the prior year, the main contributors 
to milestones were a patent settlement 
over the MLC technology, the release 
of deferred income on AZD9773 and 
a milestone on submission of the US 
regulatory application for Zytiga® .
The gross margin of 68% (10/11: 68%) 
reflects the mix of licences contributing 
to revenue, as each of the royalty 
streams has its own onward obligation 
to the original inventors. This is expected 
to reduce in the current financial year 
as income from the BeneFIX® patents 
falls away.
SG&A includes the overheads specific to 
the management of the royalty business 
but also most centrally managed 
support functions and corporate costs. 
This has shown an increase of £1.6m 
to £17.0m in the period, principally 
reflecting the addition of the CellMed 
business.
Overall, this segment generated a 
profit contribution of £45.6m (10/11: 
£32.6m), reflecting a contribution 
margin of 50% (10/11: 46%).
Research and development
Expenditure on research and 
development increased to £39.7m 
(10/11: £32.1m). This increase 
principally reflects a full year of 
investment in the Biocompatibles R&D 
portfolio. The other major components 
of expenditure in the period were the PEM 
US Phase III trials and associated CMC 
and product development expenditures, 
the Voraxaze® BLA submission and 
associated work streams, the 
BGC20-0134 Phase IIa study and 
continued work in support of AZD9773.
Operating profit
Before acquisition adjustments 
and reorganisation costs
The Group achieved an underlying 
operating profit of £54.0m (10/11: 
£1.7m), reflecting additional profit 
contributions from the three operating 
segments offset by the increased 
investment in R&D. Foreign exchange 
gains of £2.6m were recorded in the 
year compared to losses of £2.0m in 
the prior year. An impairment charge 
of £3.0m has also been taken against 
the property, plant and equipment 
associated with the Novabel®product.
Acquisition adjustments and 
reorganisation costs
Costs of £34.1m (10/11: £15.5m) 
were recorded in the period, including 
amortisation and impairment of acquired 
intangible assets of £30.7m (10/11: 
£10.0m). Impairment charges totalling 
£12.4m (10/11: nil) are included in the 
total £30.7m (10/11: £10.0m). These 
were taken against the Group’ s carrying 
values of GLP-1 and Novabel®– two 
assets acquired with Biocompatibles. 
In the prior year, acquisition and 
reorganisation costs of £3.8m were 
incurred in relation to the acquisition 
of Biocompatibles.
Net financial income
Net financial income of £3.1m (10/11: 
£3.0m) includes the write-back of two 
financial liabilities in the period. A loan 
of £2.8m from Merz in relation to 
Novabel®manufacturing fixed assets 
has been written back as the directors 
have no current expectation of repaying 
it, based on an agreement termination 
letter received from Merz. Also included 
within net financial income is £1.1m in 
relation to the Contingent Value Note 
issued to certain Biocompatibles 
shareholders upon acquisition. This is 
included in the acquisition adjustments 
and reorganisation costs column. The 
termination by AstraZeneca of their 
interest in the GLP-1 asset means that 
the directors have no current expectation 
of this amount being paid.
23
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Underlying operating profit 
£54.0m 11/12
£1.7m 10/11
Profit/(loss) before tax
£23.0m 11/12
(£10.8m) 10/11 Financial review
The mark-to-market of foreign exchange 
forward contracts has resulted in a loss 
of £1.5m (10/11: profit of £2.7m) being 
recorded in the period.
Profit before tax
Group profit before tax has increased 
to £23.0m from a loss of £10.8m in the 
prior year. The principal drivers of this 
increase are the improved operating 
performance of the business segments 
offset by increased investment in R&D 
and asset impairments.
Tax
A tax charge of £8.4m has been 
included in the accounts (10/11: 
£20.0m credit). This reflects an effective 
tax rate of 37%. Current tax is £3.9m 
(10/11: £1.6m). Deferred tax is £4.5m 
(10/11: credit of £21.6m). The prior 
year’ s figure includes a one-off credit of 
£18.6m in relation to the recognition of 
a deferred tax asset in the US following 
a corporate restructuring that provided 
us with increased certainty over the 
future utilisation of these losses. The 
utilisation of the losses results in a 
deferred tax charge in each year that 
they are utilised.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share was 4.5p 
(10/11: 3.4p) on profit after tax of 
£14.6m (10/11: £9.2m). Adjusting for 
acquisition adjustments, restructuring 
costs and the one-off deferred tax credit 
recognised in the prior year, underlying 
EPS increased by 10.4p to 11.4p.
Balance sheet
Non-current assets have reduced 
from £358.9m at 31 March 2011 to 
£331.5m at 31 March 2012. The 
principal movements are amortisation, 
impairments and depreciation of 
£38.1m, and additions of £10.5m, 
including £5.4m in respect of 
distribution rights to Wellstat’ s uridine 
triacetate (UTA) development asset of 
which £0.7m is contingent 
consideration.
The Group’ s defined benefit pension 
fund liability, as measured under IAS19 
– Employee Benefits, has reduced from 
a liability of £2.0m at 31 March 2011 
to a liability of £0.1m at 31 March 2012. 
The principal movements are total 
contributions by the Company of £5.2m 
offset by actuarial losses of £2.9m and 
an income statement charge of £0.4m. 
The actuarial deficit at 31 March 2010, 
the date of the last formal valuation and 
measured in accordance with guidelines 
set by the Pensions Regulator, was 
£13.9m.
Current assets have increased by 
£44.7m since 31 March 2011 to 
£174.3m at 31 March 2012. The 
principal movements relate to cash 
and deposits (increase of £38.0m) 
and an increase in receivables of 
£7.4m reflecting accrued royalties 
on Zytiga® and direct sales of bead 
products for which there was no 
prior year comparative.
Current and non-current liabilities, at 
£99.6m are broadly in line with the 
position as at 31 March 2011. The 
principal movements relate to an 
increase of £4.5m in deferred tax 
liability following utilisation of losses 
recognised as a deferred tax asset, 
a net increase of £3.1m in trade and 
other payables offset by reductions in 
provisions of £1.2m, borrowings of 
£2.9m and pension liability of £1.9m.
Cash flow
The Group’ s cash and deposits have 
increased by £38.0m from £73.9m 
at 31 March 2011 to £111.9m at 
31 March 2012.
Operating profit of £19.9m (10/11: 
operating loss of £13.8m) has 
generated £48.3m of operating cash 
flow (10/11: operating cash outflow 
of £10.7m). Non-cash charges for 
depreciation, amortisation, impairments 
and share-based payments of £40.7m 
(10/11: £25.9m) have been offset by 
contributions to the Group’ s defined 
benefit pension fund of £4.8m (10/11: 
£3.3m) and an increase in working 
capital of £7.5m (10/11: £17.1m). 
The increase in working capital is a 
result of a number of factors. We have 
taken the decision as part of our risk 
management strategy to build Specialty 
Pharmaceuticals inventory; new royalty 
accruals in relation to Zytiga® increase 
receivables and direct selling of 
24
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 LC Bead™ in the US results in an 
increase in receivables as we retain 
100% of revenue whereas the balance 
at 31 March 2011 was only that due 
from our distributor.
The Group’ s investing activities include 
the purchase of US commercial rights 
to Wellstat’ s UTA for an initial payment 
of US$7.5m and capital expenditure 
around the Group’ s manufacturing sites 
of £3.7m. Capital expenditure includes 
initial work at the Farnham site to which 
we have transferred PEM development 
and CMC activities.
Tax payments of £1.1m have been 
made, principally in the UK, as profits in 
this jurisdiction have arisen in statutory 
entities with insufficient tax losses.
Overall, the Group ends the year in a very 
strong financial position, with £111.9m 
of cash and deposits.
Summary and outlook
This has been another successful 
year for BTG. Operational progress 
has continued at pace, with the first 
full year of direct CroFab®and 
DigiFab®sales generating increases 
in end-market volumes; the launch 
of our second direct field force on 
1 January 2012 for LC Bead™ in 
the US; the approval from the FDA 
of Voraxaze®and positive results 
from the PEM Phase III clinical trials.
Biocompatibles has been successfully 
integrated and we have met our cost 
savings and earnings enhancement 
commitments in the first full year of 
acquisition.
Looking ahead, the Specialty 
Pharmaceuticals operating segment 
is expected to see benefits from the 
commercial launch of Voraxaze® in 
the current financial year as we look 
to leverage the existing infrastructure 
to support this potentially life-saving 
product.
The Interventional Medicine business 
will benefit from the first full year of 
direct sales of LC Bead™ in the US.
Within the Licensing & Biotechnology 
portfolio, the commercial launch of 
Zytiga®is expected to result in a 
significant new royalty stream that will 
partially replace the BeneFIX® income 
stream from which BTG has benefited 
over the past 15 years.
Overall, we anticipate that revenue for 
the year ended 31 March 2013 will be 
in the range £180m to £190m.
Investments in our R&D portfolio 
will continue at a similar level, focusing 
on the development of PEM and studies 
designed to explore additional uses for 
our bead products.
BTG has entered the new financial 
year in a strong position, confident of 
continuing to deliver further profitable 
growth in the medium term.
25
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Profit after tax
£14.6m 11/12
£9.2m 10/11
Basic underlying earnings per share
11.4p 11/12
1.0p 10/11 Principal risks and uncertainties
Interruption to product supply
Risk:
BTG relies on third-party contractors for 
the supply of many key materials and 
services, such as filling and freeze-drying 
of end products. These processes carry 
risks of failure and loss of product. 
Problems at contractors’ facilities 
may lead to delays and disruptions in 
supplies. Some materials and services 
may be available from one source only 
and regulatory requirements make 
substitution costly, time-consuming or 
commercially unviable. BTG’ s polyclonal 
antibody products rely on serum 
produced from our sheep flocks in 
Australia, which could be subject to 
disease outbreaks or fire. BTG relies 
on its single site in Wales for supply of 
manufactured antibody products, with 
the consequent possibilities for 
disruption to supplies.
BTG manufactures its own bead and 
brachytherapy products at single sites 
in Farnham, UK, and Oxford, CT , USA, 
respectively, with the consequent 
possibilities for disruption to supplies. 
BTG plans to undertake the manufacture 
of PEM at its Farnham site, requiring the 
establishment of new manufacturing 
facilities to meet the requirements of 
Good Manufacturing Practice. This site 
will require regulatory approval and a 
licence to support the commercialisation 
of PEM. Any delay in establishing this 
facility or obtaining the necessary 
manufacturing licences may result in a 
delay in the approval of PEM reducing 
future earning potential. The continuity 
of potential PEM revenues will also be 
subject to single source risk.
Controls and mitigating actions: 
Rigorous monitoring of suppliers; 
dual sourcing implemented where 
practicable; inventories maintained and 
monitored through sales and operational 
planning process and production 
changes implemented where needed 
to ensure continued product supply; 
rigorous quality control procedures in 
place; regular checks made on sheep 
flock health; disaster recovery plans 
under regular review.
Patent invalidity, patent infringement 
litigation and changes in patent laws
Risk:
BTG can be subject to patent challenge 
at any time. Challenges can relate to the 
validity of BTG’ s patents or to alleged 
infringement by BTG of intellectual 
property rights of others, which might 
result in litigation costs and/or loss of 
earnings. BTG might be obliged to sue 
third parties for their infringement of its 
patents in order to protect revenue 
streams. Failure by BTG to maintain or 
renew key patents might lead to losses 
of earnings and liabilities to licensees or 
licensors. BTG may not be able to secure 
the necessary intellectual property rights 
in relation to products in development, 
limiting the potential to generate value 
from these products. Changes in patent 
laws and other intellectual property 
regulations in territories where BTG or 
its licensees conduct business that 
make it more difficult or time-consuming 
to prosecute patents, or which reduce 
the term of granted patents or periods 
of market exclusivity protection, could 
adversely impact the Group’ s financial 
performance. BTG’ s patent portfolio is 
currently subject to several challenges. 
Controls and mitigating actions: 
Dedicated internal resource 
supplemented by external expertise 
monitors patent portfolios, third-party 
patent applications and intellectual 
property rights; development and 
implemention filing, defence and 
enforcement IP strategies; robust 
processes in place to automate patent 
renewals; internal controls established 
to avoid disclosure of patentable 
material prior to filing patent 
applications.
26
Business review
Our performance and prospects may 
be affected by risks and uncertainties 
relating to our business and 
operating environment. Our internal 
controls include a risk management 
process to identify key risks and, 
where possible, manage the risks 
through systems and processes 
and by implementing specific 
mitigation strategies. 
The most significant risks identified 
in an annual update of the Group’ s 
risk register that could materially 
affect the Group’ s ability to achieve its 
financial and operating objectives are 
summarised in this section. Other risks 
are unknown or deemed less material.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Patent expiry, competition may reduce 
current revenues
Risk:
BTG’ s key current royalty-generating 
products are expected to continue to 
provide royalty revenues until their 
patents or licence agreements expire. 
Any unforeseen patent loss, supply, 
safety or compliance issues with these 
products could result in premature 
cessation of the revenues.
BTG earns revenues from sales of its 
acute care products CroFab® , DigiFab® 
and Voraxaze® . CroFab®is patent 
protected but DigiFab®and 
Voraxaze®have no patent protection 
at this time; CroFab® and DigiFab® 
are protected by significant know-how 
and complex manufacturing processes 
and BTG expects revenues to continue 
regardless of patent protection. However, 
future competition cannot be ruled out 
and competing products could materially 
adversely impact BTG’ s financial results.
Instituto Bioclon have announced the 
completion of a Phase III clinical trial of a 
potential competitor product to CroFab® .
BTG also earns revenues from sales 
of its bead and brachytherapy products, 
all of which are subject to competition. 
While these medical devices benefit from 
patent protection certain patents are 
subject to challenge.
Controls and mitigating actions:
New royalty streams may emerge. 
For example, regulatory approval 
in the US and elsewhere of Zytiga® 
as a treatment for men with advanced 
prostate cancer has resulted in new 
revenues during 2011/12; additional 
future royalty streams would result if 
alemtuzumab is approved to treat 
multiple sclerosis and from AZD9773 
if approved to treat severe sepsis. BTG 
acquired US commercial rights to uridine 
triacetate from Wellstat Therapeutics 
Corporation in July 2011, and EU named 
patient supply rights in May 2012 which 
may lead to a new revenue stream if 
approved. Mitigations with respect 
to the bead products include product 
development, geographic expansion, 
appropriate IP lifecycle management and 
the conduct of clinical studies to expand 
their indicated uses and sales.
Failure to comply with regulations 
may result in product delays, failures, 
regulatory actions and financial penalties
Risk:
The pharmaceutical industry is highly 
regulated and the Group must comply 
with a broad range of regulations relating 
to the development, approval, 
manufacturing and marketing of its 
products. This is particularly true in the 
US, from which the Group derives most 
of its revenues and where the Group has 
established its own sales and marketing 
operations. Specific requirements 
relating to quality assurance apply to 
the Group’ s manufacture of products, 
particularly in the pharmaceutical area. 
Regulatory regimes are complex and 
dynamic, and alterations to the 
regulations may result in delays in 
product development, approval or 
withdrawal. Ensuring compliance with 
such regulations necessitates allocation 
of significant financial and operating 
resources.
Failure to comply with certain rules, laws 
and regulations may result in criminal 
and civil proceedings against the Group. 
Significant breaches could result in large 
financial penalties, which could 
materially adversely impact the Group’ s 
financial performance and prospects. 
Moreover, failure by BTG or a BTG 
partner company to comply with 
regulations may result in a product 
being withdrawn from the market with 
a subsequent loss of revenues.
Controls and mitigating actions:
A Code of Conduct has been 
established, supported by a mandatory 
training programme; robust compliance 
systems are in place to ensure sales 
and marketing activities comply 
with regulations in the US and other 
territories; standard operating 
procedures are in place to ensure 
compliance with good clinical and 
manufacturing practice and to manage 
pharmacovigilance requirements, 
monitored through quality control 
systems. Internal expertise is 
maintained to manage these risks.
Product liability and other key risks may 
not be capable of being adequately 
insured
Risk:
The manufacturing, testing, marketing 
and sale of BTG’ s products involve 
significant product liability and business 
interruption risks. As the developer, 
manufacturer and/or seller of certain 
products, BTG may be held liable for 
death or personal injury to persons 
receiving the products during 
development or after the product is 
approved.
Controls and mitigating actions:
BTG maintains product liability insurance 
and operates quality systems relating 
to the manufacture of its products 
and a pharmacovigilance system to 
monitor safety events arising with 
respect to products sold. It may not 
be commercially viable to adequately 
insure against the occurrence of 
other key risks.
27
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review Principal risks and uncertainties
The success of development activities 
and market acceptance is uncertain
Risk:
The development of medical products is 
inherently uncertain and the timelines 
and costs to approval may vary 
significantly from budget or expectation. 
The product may not demonstrate the 
expected safety and efficacy benefits 
and may not be approved by regulatory 
bodies, such as the US Food and Drug 
Administration. Manufacturing 
difficulties or patent litigation may cause 
programmes to be delayed or halted or 
products withdrawn. Failure of a late-
stage programme such as PEM would 
materially adversely impact the Group’ s 
financial prospects. Regulatory approval 
requirements may change, resulting in 
further uncertainty. Even if a product is 
approved that is no assurance of 
commercial success.
Controls and mitigating actions:
Experienced development team in 
place; focus is on acquiring late-stage 
programmes that have already 
demonstrated proof of concept and 
potentially have lower-risk development 
pathways; development programmes 
monitored to identify risks and 
challenges and recommend mitigating 
and corrective actions. Certain products 
are licensed to other companies who 
may have greater resources to support 
product development. Regulatory team 
in place, consultation undertaken with 
applicable regulatory authorities.
Inability to access new products and 
programmes may limit 
future growth
Risk:
BTG conducts limited fundamental 
research to generate its own 
development programmes but instead 
seeks to acquire new products and 
late-stage development programmes 
from other organisations. There is 
significant competition from other 
companies also seeking to acquire 
new products and programmes who 
may have greater financial resources 
and sales and marketing reach than 
BTG. BTG may not be able to acquire 
suitable products and programmes, 
which will materially adversely impact 
the Group’ s financial future performance 
and growth prospects.
Controls and mitigating actions:
Dedicated product acquisition team 
in place; strategy is to focus on niche 
opportunities that leverage BTG’ s US 
commercial operations and those that 
may be a better fit with BTG than with 
other organisations. Development teams 
working to develop follow-on products 
from existing technology platforms 
such as embolisation beads.
28
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pricing and reimbursement pressures 
are increasing
Risk:
There is increasing pressure on 
healthcare budgets causing payers 
to demand increasing treatment and 
economic benefits before agreeing to 
reimburse product suppliers at all or 
at appropriate prices. In March 2010, 
healthcare reform legislation was 
adopted in the US, requiring 
manufacturers to increase the rebates 
or discounts they give on products 
reimbursed or paid for by public payers 
including Medicaid and Medicare. The 
purpose of the reform is to increase 
healthcare coverage in the US 
population and to manage treatment 
of chronic conditions efficiently and 
cost effectively. Management of acute 
conditions is generally not affected. 
BTG’ s acute care and implantable 
oncology products treat serious medical 
conditions and the impact of existing 
healthcare reform on current Group 
revenues is not expected to be material 
to the Group’ s financial position. 
Approval and commencement of sales in 
the US of PEM, a potential treatment for 
varicose veins, may result in the Group 
increasing the discounts or rebates 
given on its other reimbursed products 
in the US. If BTG acquires products in 
future that are more impacted by 
healthcare reforms, revenue 
expectations could be lower. Failure of 
a product to qualify for government or 
health insurance reimbursement or the 
failure to achieve an appropriate sales 
price could adversely impact the Group’ s 
financial performance. Future healthcare 
reforms may become more onerous and 
may have a negative impact on Group 
revenues.
Controls and mitigating actions:
BTG focuses primarily on niche 
products that address serious 
unmet needs; early on in a product’ s 
development, the Group conducts 
pricing and reimbursement studies; the 
assessments of potential new products 
will include an assessment of healthcare 
reforms on pricing and reimbursement. 
Currency and treasury effects can 
adversely impact results
Risk:
Many of BTG’ s revenues and receipts 
are denominated in US dollars and 
movements in foreign exchange rates 
could adversely impact results. 
Controls and mitigating actions:
BTG actively manages its exchange 
risks where feasible, using short-term 
hedging transactions guided by market 
expectations and economic forecasts 
to seek to match actual receipts and 
payments over a rolling 12-month period 
to those forecast. This policy can result 
in both exchange gains and losses but 
provides a level of certainty over 
cash receipts.
29
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Competition may erode revenues
Risk:
The Group operates in competitive 
markets. The products on which BTG 
currently earns revenues, or from which 
it anticipates earning revenues once on 
the market, face competition from other 
products that are already approved or in 
development. Competing products may 
have superior efficacy and side effect 
profiles, cost less to produce or be 
offered at a lower price than BTG’ s 
products; such competition could 
materially adversely impact Group 
revenues.
Controls and mitigating actions:
BTG focuses on niche opportunities 
addressing specialist markets where 
there is limited competition and high 
barriers to entry; CroFab®and 
DigiFab®have no current competitors; 
both products are complex to 
manufacture. We differentiate the 
embolisation and drug-eluting bead 
products from competitors by supporting 
a range of clinical studies to generate 
safety and efficacy data to expand their 
indicated uses. Corporate responsibility report
Our strategy is to grow our business 
both organically and by acquisition, 
retaining our focus on serving the needs 
of specialist healthcare physicians 
operating in niche markets. 
Our corporate responsibility (CR) 
reporting criteria, listed below, have been 
chosen as the most relevant to us and 
our stakeholders, following a review of 
our business impacts and a comparison 
with those of our peers.
1. Business ethics
2. Research and development
3. Suppliers and customers
4. Community
5. Environment
In this report we focus on the key 
activities during the last year. A 
comprehensive report on all of our 
ongoing CR activities, together with key 
policies and procedures, is accessible 
in the Responsibility section of our 
corporate website at www.btgplc.com.
1. Business ethics
Code of Conduct
Our Code of Conduct describes the 
principles, policies and procedures 
that we have developed to promote the 
ethical behaviours that we expect from 
all our employees globally. The core 
principle is that every one of us must 
take individual responsibility for 
behaving ethically and compliantly and 
that we are each accountable for our 
actions. It is regularly updated to reflect 
changes in legislation and best practice 
and Code of Conduct training is a 
mandatory requirement for all 
employees. 
Anti-bribery and corruption 
In July 2011 the UK Bribery Act came 
into effect. Our expanding commercial 
activities sometimes mean that we find 
ourselves operating in parts of the world 
where bribery and corruption are more 
prevalent. We take a zero-tolerance 
approach to illegal activity and we are 
committed to implementing and 
enforcing effective systems to counter 
it. We recently engaged the services 
of an agency to assist us with global 
anti-bribery compliance assessments. 
We have also launched a new anti-
bribery and anti-corruption policy 
and provided training for all of our 
employees.
Human rights and anti-slavery 
In January 2012, the “California 
Transparency in Supply Chain Act” came 
into effect requiring companies doing 
business in the state of California, and 
having annual worldwide gross receipts 
in excess of $100m, to disclose their 
efforts to eradicate slavery and human 
trafficking from their direct supply chain. 
BTG recognises numerous international 
standards including the United Nations 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
and its subsequent changes. We are 
developing a human rights policy, 
defining a companywide standard for 
human rights, that is consistent with 
internationally recognised standards. 
We are also in the process of developing 
a business partner Code of Conduct 
founded upon the Pharmaceutical 
Supply Chain Initiative’ s (PSCI) 
Principles, the United Nations Global 
Compact Principles, our Code of Conduct 
and Values. We aim to finalise these key 
initiatives within the 2012/13 financial 
year.
Employee well-being
We operate a number of programmes 
designed to protect and enhance 
employee satisfaction, mental and 
physical health. This contributes both 
to retention and productivity of our 
employees. In early 2012 we launched a 
number of independent and confidential 
Employee Assistance Programmes 
(EAP) in all countries where we have 
operations. These free services provide 
employees and their families with 
practical information and advice 
concerning a range of topics affecting 
health, family, money matters and work.
Training and development
Continuous learning is one of our core 
company values. We recently launched 
an annual learning and development 
plan for all employees, encompassing 
a range of core skills and mandatory 
training, IT training, Environment, 
Health and Safety (EHS) training, and 
management development. Employees 
also receive annual values training to 
help them recognise the importance our 
Our business can only be a success 
if we implement our strategy, behave 
ethically, care for the environment, 
and foster stronger relationships in 
the communities where we operate. 
This makes good business sense, 
building reputation and trust with our 
customers and driving more efficient 
business processes.
BTG is also a constituent of the Kempen 
SNS SRI Universe, which indicates that 
we have passed stringent criteria and 
can be considered a company that 
demonstrates a clear strategy towards 
corporate responsibility.
BTG is a member of the FTSE4Good 
index series, designed to measure 
objectively the performance of 
companies that meet globally 
recognised corporate responsibility 
standards.
30
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
values play in building a strong 
business. We incentivise and reward 
values-based behaviour by including a 
values-based assessment as part of 
our annual employee appraisal process.
Status of targets for 2011/12
— Complete compliance training 
for our new colleagues at former 
Biocompatibles sites and roll out 
a compliance certification process 
for all employees. Completed.
— Complete Horizons 2, the second 
companywide leadership training 
programme. Completed.
Targets for 2012/13
— Responsible and ethical 
commercialisation: Further 
standardise and embed the 
processes we use to review and 
approve promotional materials 
and external requests for financial 
support.
— Transparency of business practices: 
Provide visibility of our interactions 
with healthcare professionals and 
utilise robust monitoring and auditing 
techniques to identify areas of non-
compliance with our policies.
— Ensuring our business partners 
share our values, fighting corruption: 
Continue to complete due diligence, 
per our policies, on third-parties who 
conduct business on behalf of BTG.
2. Research and development
We completed a number of clinical 
trials during the last year including 
some pivotal Phase III trials of PEM in 
development as a treatment for varicose 
veins. We perform our clinical trials in 
accordance with the applicable 
directives/laws and the global standards 
of good practice, full details of which are 
on our website. During the last year, we 
launched online annual Good Clinical 
Practices (GCP) certification training 
for relevant employees and we aim to 
expand this training during next year.
We obtain written informed consent 
from trial subjects by providing fair 
and balanced information to help them 
understand the potential risks and 
benefits associated with participation 
in a given trial. The rights, safety and 
well-being of trial subjects are 
paramount and prevail over any 
commercial or business interests. We 
always protect the confidentiality of trial 
subjects and abide by data protection 
laws. We have set in place procedures to 
monitor and report any adverse events 
during trials to the relevant regulatory 
authorities and we regularly update and 
reissue these to reflect changes in 
legislation and best practice and provide 
training for all relevant employees.
Status of targets for 2011/12
— Launch online annual Good Clinical 
Practices (GCP) certification training 
companywide. Completed.
— Launch a new process to invite, 
evaluate, approve and implement 
independent programmes (grants, 
investigator-initiated studies, 
continuing medical education, etc.)
that deserve our support. Ongoing.
A new policy on investigator-initiated 
studies is due to be launched shortly.
Targets for 2012/13
— Ensure we continue to meet our 
ethical obligations to clinical trial 
subjects: Update and relaunch our 
internal procedures to evaluate and 
respond to any serious adverse 
events in our clinical trials.
— Launch and complete mandatory 
training for all relevant employees on 
Good Practices (GxP), including Good 
Laboratory Practices (GLP), Good 
Clinical Practices (GCP) and Good 
Manufacturing Practices (GMP).
— Enhance processes for responding to 
investigator-initiated studies: Finalise 
new investigator-initiated study policy 
and standard operating procedure, 
and provide improved transparency 
on grant support process.
3. Suppliers and customers
Suppliers
This year, as part of a new screening 
process conducted when selecting new 
suppliers of services or materials used 
in the manufacture of our products, we 
have started to complete an ethical 
assessment. We aim to make this a 
requirement over the longer term. The 
results of the assessment are used by 
us to help identify slavery-related human 
rights concerns, and to inform the 
business partner selection process. 
 “Our business is all about people, the 
business partners we execute deals 
with, the colleagues with whom we work 
every day, and the investors who support 
our growth. Most of all, it’s about our 
customers, the patients who are treated 
with our medicines and the specialist 
healthcare physicians who serve them.
All of these people depend on us and 
we recognise our responsibility to them. ”
Louise Makin
Chief Executive Officer We provide information, instruction 
and training to our employees directly 
involved in the selection of new suppliers 
and ongoing management of existing 
suppliers. This training covers 
responsibilities for ensuring ethical 
business practices. Our business 
partner contracts ensure that all work 
conducted by business partners on 
our behalf is in accordance with all 
applicable laws, regulations, 
governmental requirements and 
industry guidelines.
Customers
Sales and marketing compliance is 
essential for all companies working in 
the healthcare industry and mandatory 
compliance training is given annually to 
all employees. We also recognise our 
obligation to ensure that all adverse 
events are reported, so during the year 
we harmonised pharmacovigilance 
procedures across the Company for our 
marketed and named patient products. 
We pride ourselves on the close 
relationships we forge with the specialist 
physicians who prescribe our products. 
During the last year we completed a 
number of educational initiatives aimed 
at supporting their treatment of patients. 
We commissioned an educational video 
on the management of North American 
pit viper envenomation and a treatment 
protocol to provide guidance on using 
CroFab® . 
During the year our brachytherapy 
business provided over 4,200 kits 
(including the loading service) to 
patients in North America, Europe and 
Australia for the treatment of early-stage 
prostate cancer. This business also 
operates an indigent patient programme 
to decrease the burden poorer patients 
may bear in the cost of their treatment. 
In certain circumstances, we provide 
financial assistance to patients who 
have no insurance coverage and no 
other source of reimbursement.
Status against targets for 2011/12
— Consolidate our different supplier 
questionnaires incorporating CR 
questions to provide evidence of 
the level of ethical, quality and 
compliance practices of BTG’ s 
contractors. Not completed. BTG has 
separate supplier questionnaires/
processes in place for ethics/
compliance and quality. Each has 
different objectives so after a 
review the CR team decided that 
consolidation was not merited.
— Launch the new quality policy manual 
and provide training and development 
for UK employees to emphasise the 
importance of quality throughout the 
organisation. Completed.
Targets for 2012/13
— Taking responsibility for our supply 
chain: Formation of a responsible 
supply chain policy, including written 
supplier requirements.
— Ensuring patients have fair access 
to our products: Finalise standard 
operating procedure to make 
unlicensed medicinal products 
available for compassionate use 
in the situation where there is no 
distributor in place.
4. Community
Charitable giving
Our global Charitable Giving Policy, 
launched in early 2012 aims to ensure 
that our approach to charitable giving is 
fair and in line with our company values. 
We give to charities which principally 
either support diseases or conditions in 
which we are therapeutically focused as 
a business or that benefit the local 
communities in which we operate. In 
addition, we encourage employees to 
support events to raise money for their 
chosen charities and we may match 
individual donations up to a cap 
of £250.
In the UK we operate a Give As You Earn 
scheme. This enables employees to 
donate efficiently, so money that would 
normally be given in tax goes to their 
chosen charity instead.
32
Business review
Corporate responsibility report
Employees from our Nashville office, 
together with family members, 
participated in Light the Night Walk, 
the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society’s 
annual fundraising walk to raise funds 
for life-saving research and patient 
services.
Charitable contributions made 
by the Group during the year
£5,989 11/12
£12,921
1
10/11
1  Included a €10,000 donation to the Red 
Cross Japanese tsunami appeal.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 In October 2011 a number of employees 
from our Nashville office, together with 
family members, participated in Light 
the Night Walk, the Leukemia and 
Lymphoma Society’ s annual fundraising 
walk to raise funds for life-saving 
research and patient services and bring 
hope to people battling cancer. This is 
particularly relevant to BTG as in early 
2012 we received US regulatory 
approval of Voraxaze® , used in the 
treatment of methotrexate toxicity. 
Methotrexate chemotherapy is often 
used as a treatment for lymphoma.
Our London office organised Hunt Your 
London during the year, a team based 
treasure hunt around the City of London. 
This was a fun team-building exercise 
and also raised money for one of our 
corporate charities, Contact the Elderly.
During the last year we made donations 
to a number of charities and more 
information on these is available on
our corporate website.
Status of targets for 2011/12
— Launch a new global Charitable 
Giving Policy to provide guidance to 
our employees and to ensure we are 
fair in our approach to giving and do 
so in line with our company values. 
Completed.
— Organise community/charitable 
activities at each site to raise money 
for our local corporate charities. 
Ongoing. Activities took place in 
some but not all sites. To be rolled 
out fully for the next financial year. 
Targets for 2012/13
— Organise community/charitable 
activities and initiatives at each of 
our sites to raise money for our local 
corporate charities.
— Review equivalent options to extend 
our Give As You Earn scheme to other 
territories.
5. Environment
Health and safety
In November 2011, we launched an 
updated global Environment, Health 
and Safety policy and provided training 
for all employees. It states that in line 
with our values we are committed to 
taking all reasonable measures to 
implement the following fundamental 
principles throughout all aspects of 
our business and in all regions where 
we operate:
— We will protect the health and safety 
of all employees, customers and 
others who come into contact with 
us through our business activities.
— We will protect the environment 
and our communities by minimising 
any potential adverse effects of our 
operations.
— We will seek to support the long-term 
growth of our business by reducing 
our environmental impacts and 
increasing our use of renewable 
resources.
An internal monitoring and auditing 
system for all sites commenced in 
2012. Audits will be undertaken 
periodically, against this Health and 
Safety policy and the underpinning 
standards.
This year we have started to report a lost 
time accident rate for our employees, 
the number of lost days per 100,000 
hours worked and average length of time 
off during the year. 
Sustainability
We recognise that managing our 
resources is an essential part of 
our commitment to becoming more 
sustainable. We have always monitored 
and measured water consumption at 
each of our production sites and this 
year we have started reporting the figure 
publicly. Water has always been a 
valuable resource in Australia and it has 
become a valuable resource at all of our 
production sites in recent years as 
global demand increases.
We recycle as much of our waste as we 
can. This year we have started reporting 
landfill from each of our production sites 
as a quantitative reflection of our 
non-recyclable waste.
33
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Lost time accident rate 2011/12
1.29 days
per 100,000 hours worked
1
1  This includes all accidents where one or 
more days are lost. UK companies usually 
only report when three or more days are lost. 
Water consumption at 
production sites 2011/12 
21,430m
3
Waste from each of our 
production sites 2011/12
3
2
1
1. Recycled 345t (40%)
2. Hazardous waste
(incineration) 200t (23%)
3. Landfill 327t (37%) Corporate responsibility report
Energy efficiency 
We regularly assess the environmental 
impact of our business to ensure 
that we are taking advantage of all 
opportunities to improve our 
performance and efficiency. 
We operate an international supply chain 
for the manufacture of our acute care 
products which involves international 
transportation over long distances. 
We aim to transport in bulk where 
possible and use the most efficient 
transportation to save money for the 
Company and reduce our carbon 
emissions. We have a number of 
initiatives underway to evaluate whether 
there are any manufacturing cost 
savings or other efficiencies to be made 
and aim to report progress during the 
coming financial year.
We monitor electricity and gas 
consumption at manufacturing sites 
and offices which employ more than 
20 people, and we try to reduce carbon 
emissions and increase energy 
efficiency wherever possible. This year 
we have rebased our reported figures 
providing a new base year for 
comparison going forwards. We 
participate in the Carbon Disclosure 
Project. We currently fall below the 
threshold for participation in the UK 
government’ s Carbon Reduction 
Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Status of targets for 2011/12
— Review and restructure Environment, 
Health and Safety policies across all 
sites, ensuring common policies are 
in place and in use. Completed.
— Drive use of common metrics and 
reporting standards across all sites. 
Completed.
Targets for 2012/13
— Build a global environmental 
management system.
— Apply an appropriate intensity metric 
to our energy consumption figures 
for 2012/13.
— Evaluate and set quantative 
environmental targets for 2012/13.
Electricity consumed during 2011/12
6,441 MWh
1
1  Data from all operational sites with more 
than 20 employees, excludes transport.
CO2 equivalent emissions generated 
during 2011/12
1
3
2
1
1. Purchased electricity 3,274t (72%)
2. Oil heating 676t (14%)
3. Gas heating 623t (14%)
1  Conversion factors used: 
UK electricity, Gas & Oil UK Environment 
Agency 2009.
Australia & Germany Electricity EA 2008.
US Electricity 2007.
34
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 DC Bead®
Interventional Medicine
An embolic drug-eluting bead for the 
treatment of liver tumours, which are 
particularly prevalent in the Far East 
due to the high incidence of hepatitis. 
Business review Directors and governance
36 Board of directors
38 Directors’ report
43 Corporate governance
54 Audit Committee report
59 Nomination Committee report
61 Remuneration Committee report
76  Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities
77  Independent auditor’s report 
to the members of BTG plc
Board of directors
Garry Watts
Chairman 
1
Garry Watts, FCA, MBE, joined the Board of 
BTG as non-executive Chairman in January 
2012. 
Garry is Chairman of Spire Healthcare 
and of The GADA®Group. He is the senior 
independent director of Stagecoach 
Group plc and a non-executive director of 
Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. Until December 
2010, he was for seven years CEO of 
SSL International plc and before that CFO. 
Garry is a former partner at KPMG. He was 
previously an executive director of Celltech 
plc and of Medeva plc and a non-executive 
director of Protherics PLC. Other roles have 
included 17 years as a member of the UK 
Medicines and Healthcare Products 
Regulatory Agency Supervisory Board.
Rolf Soderstrom
Chief Financial Officer
Rolf Soderstrom, BA, ACA, joined BTG as 
Chief Financial Officer in December 2008 
from Protherics PLC, where he was Finance 
Director from August 2007.
From 2004, he was a Divisional Finance 
Director of Cobham plc, managing a portfolio 
of businesses across Europe and the USA. 
From 2000 he was a Director of Corporate 
Finance at Cable & Wireless plc. Prior to 
this, he worked in the Corporate Recovery 
and Corporate Finance Department of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers after qualifying 
as a Chartered Accountant.
Louise Makin
Chief Executive Officer
Louise Makin, MA, PhD (Cantab), MBA, joined 
BTG as Chief Executive Officer in October 
2004 and she is a non-executive director of 
Premier Foods plc. 
From 2001, she was President, 
Biopharmaceuticals Europe of Baxter 
Healthcare, where she was responsible for 
Europe, Africa and the Middle East. Louise 
joined Baxter Healthcare in 2000 as Vice 
President, Strategy & Business Development 
Europe. Before joining Baxter, she was 
Director of Global Ceramics at English China 
Clay and prior to that she held a variety of 
roles at ICI between 1985 and 1998. 
Peter Chambré 
Non-executive director
Peter Chambré joined BTG as a non-executive 
director in September 2006. Peter is 
Chairman of Xellia Pharmaceuticals AS, 
OneMed AB, Cancer Research Technology 
Ltd and 7TM Pharma A/S. He is also a 
non-executive director of Spectris plc, the 
precision instrumentation and controls 
company.
Peter was Chief Executive Officer of 
Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc 
from 2002 until its acquisition by 
AstraZeneca plc in 2006. Previously he was 
Chief Operating Officer of Celera Genomics 
Group and Chief Executive of Bespak plc.
36
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Key to Committees
Audit Committee
Remuneration Committee
Nomination Committee
1
Committee chairman
Giles Kerr 
1
Non-executive director
Giles Kerr, FCA, joined BTG as a non-executive 
director in October 2007 and is the 
Company’ s Senior Independent Director. 
Giles is currently the Director of Finance with 
the University of Oxford, UK. He is also a 
non-executive director of Victrex plc, Elan 
Corporation plc and Isis Innovation Ltd. 
Previously Giles was the Group Finance 
Director and Chief Financial Officer of 
Amersham plc, acquired by GE Healthcare 
in 2004. Prior to his role at Amersham, he 
was a partner with Arthur Andersen in the UK. 
He is a graduate of the University of York.
Ian Much 
1
Non-executive director
Ian Much joined BTG as a non-executive 
director in August 2010.
Ian is currently a non-executive director and 
the senior independent director of Chemring 
Group PLC and Senior plc. Ian was Chief 
Executive of De La Rue plc between 1998 
and 2004 and Chief Executive of T&N plc 
between 1996 and 1998. Previous non-
executive director appointments include 
Manchester United plc, Camelot plc and 
Admiral plc.
Melanie Lee 
Non-executive director
Melanie Lee, PhD, CBE, FMedSci, DSc (Hons), 
joined BTG as a non-executive director in 
November 2010. 
Melanie is the Chief Executive Officer of 
Syntaxin Limited, a Founder and director of 
the pharmaceutical consultancy Think10, and 
a non-executive director of H Lundbeck A/S. 
Melanie was previously the Chair of Cancer 
Research Technology and a Trustee and 
Deputy-Chair of Cancer Research UK. During 
her career Melanie has held a number of 
positions at Glaxo, GlaxoWellcome, Celltech 
and UCB. In 2008, Melanie was honoured 
with a CBE for her services to Medical 
Science.
Jim O’Shea 
Non-executive director
Jim O’Shea joined BTG as a non-executive 
director in April 2009. He is a director of 
Zalicus Inc., Trevi Therapeutics, Inc. and MAP 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and a former Chairman 
of the US National Pharmaceuticals Council.
From 2007 to 2008, he was Vice Chairman 
of Sepracor, Inc., where he was also 
President and Chief Operating Officer from 
1999 to 2007. Previously Jim was Senior 
Vice President of Sales & Marketing and 
Medical Affairs for Zeneca Pharmaceuticals 
(US), a business unit of Zeneca Inc. While at 
Zeneca, he held several management 
positions of increasing responsibility in 
international sales and marketing in the 
US and the UK.
Directors and governance
37
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors’ report
38
Directors and governance
The directors present their report together with the financial statements and the 
independent auditor’ s report for the year ended 31 March 2012.
Principal activities and business review
The principal activity of the Group is as an international specialist healthcare 
company, focusing on three business areas: Specialty Pharmaceuticals, 
Interventional Medicine and Licensing & Biotechnology. The mission of the Group is 
to bring to market medical products that meet the needs of specialist physicians and 
their patients. The results of the Group are set out in detail on pages 80 to 84 and 
the accompanying notes.
The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set out a fair and balanced 
review of the business, including the performance and development of the Company 
during the year and at the year end and a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties it faces. This information is contained in the following statements and 
reports, which are incorporated into this report by reference:
— The Chairman’ s statement on page 6, the Chief Executive Officer’ s review on 
pages 8 to 14 and the business review on pages 16 to 20 provide details of the 
Group’ s principal activities and strategy, its performance during the year and its 
prospects for future development opportunities. 
— Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out on 
pages 26 to 29. 
— Information relating to the environment, employees and stakeholders is set out in 
the corporate responsibility report on pages 30 to 34. 
This information is prepared solely to assist shareholders to assess the Company’ s 
strategies and the potential for those strategies to succeed. The directors’ report 
should not be relied upon by any other party or for any other purpose. Forward-
looking statements have been made by the directors in good faith based on the 
information available to them up to the time of their approval of this report and such 
statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, 
including economic and business risk factors. 
Further information on the Group is available on the Company’ s website: 
www.btgplc.com. Notwithstanding the references made in this Annual Report to 
the Company’ s website, none of the information made available on the website 
constitutes part of this Annual Report or shall be deemed to be incorporated by 
reference herein.
Results and dividends
The results for the year and the financial position at 31 March 2012 are shown in 
the consolidated income statement on page 80 and the consolidated statement of 
financial position on page 82. The directors do not recommend the payment of a 
dividend for the year (10/11: nil). The results of the Group for the year are explained 
further on pages 22 to 25. 
Directors and their powers and interests
The directors of the Company at the date of this report, together with their 
biographical details and dates of appointment, are shown on pages 36 and 37. 
The Board confirms that each of the directors who served during the year, with the 
exception of the Chairman, have been formally appraised during the period and that 
they continue to demonstrate commitment to the Group, the Board and to their role. 
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
John Brown, who joined the Board in January 2008 and became Chairman in March 
2008, retired from the Board on 31 December 2011. Garry Watts, who joined the 
Board on 1 January 2012, was appointed Chairman in his place as from that date. 
As Garry Watts had only recently joined the Company, it was considered too early to 
undertake a formal appraisal process. His performance will be appraised in the 
coming year.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors of the Company 
will stand for election or re-election annually. The Board is proposing the election of 
Garry Watts, who has been appointed to the Board since the last AGM, and the 
re-election of all the other directors.
In accordance with the Company’ s articles of association, throughout the year the 
Company has maintained cover for its directors and officers and those of its 
subsidiary companies under a directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy as 
permitted by sections 232 to 235 of the Companies Act 2006. The Company has 
entered into separate Deeds of Indemnity in favour each of its directors to the extent 
permitted by law. Neither the insurance nor the indemnities provide cover where the 
relevant director or officer has acted fraudulently or intentionally breached the law.
Information on directors’ remuneration, contracts, options and their beneficial 
interests, including those of their immediate families, in the shares of the Company 
are shown in the remuneration report on pages 61 to 75. None of the directors had 
an interest in any contract of significance to which the Company or any of its 
subsidiaries was party during the year. 
Corporate governance
A report on corporate governance can be found on pages 43 to 53.
Corporate responsibility
Information on the Company’ s social, environmental, health and safety and ethical 
considerations, charitable donations and policies regarding its employees may be 
found in the corporate responsibility report on pages 30 to 34.
Share capital and shareholders
As at 31 March 2012 the issued share capital of the Company was £32,729,287, 
divided into 327,292,865 shares of 10p each. During the year the share capital 
increased by 566,959 shares due to the exercise and vesting of share awards by 
employees and former employees under the Company’ s employee share schemes. 
The Company has only one class of shares and there are no restrictions on voting 
rights or on the holding or transfer of these securities.
Details of the movements in the Company’ s share capital are shown in note 21 to 
the financial statements on page 111. At 31 March 2012, the Company had 10,727 
shareholders (10/11: 12,080). Further details of shareholdings and Company 
reporting dates may be found on page 141. 
Under the terms of the acquisition of the Biocompatibles Group in January 2011, 
shareholders were entitled to receive 1.6733 new shares in the Company and either 
10p cash or a Contingent Value Note (CVN). The CVN entitled the recipient to 
participate in value that potentially could have been achieved from Biocompatibles’ 
programme to develop a GLP-1 analogue product known as CM-3 in the area of 
diabetes, which it had partnered with AstraZeneca. If that programme had been 
successful, the holder would have been entitled to receive the sterling equivalent 
of €0.56 in cash for each CVN held. 
Directors and governance Directors’ report
40
Directors and governance
The Company announced on 13 May 2011 that AstraZeneca had terminated the 
development and option agreement relating to CM-3. As a result of AstraZeneca’ s 
decision, the Company believes it is highly unlikely that any payment will be made in 
relation to the CVNs. The payment obligation would only now arise if the Group 
entered into another form of licence, sale or other disposal of the CM-3 asset to the 
AstraZeneca Group prior to 31 December 2012. In light of AstraZeneca’ s decision to 
terminate the development and option agreement, the BTG Board does not believe 
that there is any realistic possibility that this will occur.
The BTG Employee Share Trust holds shares in the Company which may be used for 
the benefit of employees. The shares held by the Trust have the same rights as 
those held by all other shareholders. Further details of the Trust are set out in note 
27 to the financial statements on page 120. 
Details of outstanding share options and awards are set out in note 26 to the 
financial statements on pages 116 to 120.
As at 31 March 2012, and at the date of this report, the Company had been notified 
of the following interests held, directly or indirectly, in 3% or more of the Company’ s 
issued share capital.
Shareholding % holding
Invesco Asset Management 96,330,688 29.4
M&G Investment Management Ltd 44,089,248 13.5
AXA Framlington Investment Management Ltd 13,606,525 4.2
Standard Life Investments Ltd 12,190,096 3.7
Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 11,255,782 3.4
Aviva Investors 11,154,064 3.4
Articles of association
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions 
of relevant statutes, the Company’ s articles of association (the Articles) and any 
directions given by a special resolution of the shareholders. The Articles, for 
instance, contain certain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the 
Company’ s power to borrow money. Powers relating to the issuing and buying back 
of shares are included in the Articles and are subject to such authorities being 
approved annually by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM). There is no 
current intention of requesting the authority to buy back shares of the Company. The 
rules for the election and re-election of directors are set out in the Articles however, 
as reported on page 48 of the corporate governance report, the directors will stand 
for annual re-election at the AGM, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code.
Change of control
There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or terminate upon, a change 
of control of the Company, such as commercial contracts, bank facility agreements, 
guarantees, property agreements and employee share plans. None of these are 
considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the 
Group as a whole. Furthermore, the directors are not aware of any agreements 
between the Company and its directors or employees that provide for compensation 
for loss of office or employment following a takeover of the Company.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Research and development
Research and development (R&D) is an important part of the Group’ s activities. 
The Group focuses in the areas of Specialty Pharmaceuticals and Interventional 
Medicine and developing and bringing new products to market is a very important 
part of the Group’ s business. The Group spent £39.7m (10/11: £32.1m) on R&D 
during the year. See pages 16 and 23 for more information on the Group’ s R&D 
activities and areas of focus.
Policy on payment of creditors
It is the Group’ s policy to abide by the terms of payment agreed with suppliers. 
In many cases, the terms of payment are as stated in the supplier’ s own literature. 
In other cases, the terms of payment are determined by specific written or oral 
agreement.
At 31 March 2012 the total owed to trade creditors by the Group was equivalent to 
38 days average purchases (10/11: 33 days). The Company had no trade creditors 
at that date (10/11: nil). 
Treasury management
The Group’ s policy on the use of financial instruments and the management of 
financial risks is set out in note 29 to the accounts on pages 121 to 126.
Going concern
The Group’ s business activities and the factors affecting its performance, position 
and future development are set out in the Chief Executive’ s review on pages 8 to 14 
and the business review on pages 16 to 20. 
The directors have reviewed the current and projected financial position of the Group, 
making reasonable assumptions about future performance and taking into account 
the Group’ s cash balances. On the basis of this review, and after making due 
enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the 
Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 2.00pm on 17 July 2012 
at the offices of Stephenson Harwood LLP , 1 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7SH. 
Matters to be considered at the meeting include resolutions to receive the Annual 
Report and Accounts, to re-appoint the auditor and elect or re-elect the directors.
The Notice convening the meeting, together with the special business to be 
considered and explanatory notes for each resolution, is distributed separately to 
shareholders. It is also available on the Company’ s website: www.btgplc.com, where 
a copy can be viewed or downloaded in ‘PDF’ format by following the link to Investor 
Relations and then Report and Accounts.
Directors and governance Directors’ report
42
Directors and governance
Disclosure of information to the auditor
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report confirm that, 
so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’ s auditor is unaware; and each director has taken all the steps that they 
ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’ s auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor
Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, to 
re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to authorise the directors to determine 
its remuneration.
By order of the Board
Dr Paul Mussenden
Company Secretary
18 May 2012
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance
43
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present the corporate governance report on behalf of the Board. 
The corporate governance landscape continues to evolve and the financial crisis 
in 2008/09 triggered a widespread reappraisal of corporate governance systems. 
Following the Walker report issued last year recommending changes to the 
governance of financial institutions, the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) produced 
an updated code relating to governance in other listed companies.
The new UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) came into force for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010 and we comply with the Code from this 
year’ s reporting period although we implemented some provisions early, in particular 
those relating to the annual re-election of directors.
Significant changes brought in by the Code include an emphasis on the role 
of the Chairman, his responsibility for leadership of the Board and ensuring its 
effectiveness; the annual re-election of directors and an emphasis on the diversity 
of the Board, particularly in relation to gender diversity; the time commitment 
required from directors; the requirement for external evaluation of boards at least 
every three years; and an emphasis on the responsibility of boards for identifying 
and monitoring risk.
Following the Davies Report recommendation that FTSE 350 companies should set 
out the percentage of women they aim to have on their Boards in 2013 and 2015, 
my predecessor, John Brown, issued a statement at last year’ s AGM stating that we 
already meet the recommended target (albeit for FTSE 100 boards) of 25% of the 
members of the Board being women. We will continue to monitor the position to 
ensure we have an appropriately diverse board, not just by way of gender but also in 
a wider sense, to ensure the Board continues to be fit for purpose.
The Board believes that it is important to maintain an open dialogue with our 
shareholders. During the year Louise Makin, our CEO, held over 30 meetings with 
institutional investors and Rolf Soderstrom, our CFO, met with over 20 institutional 
investors. In addition Louise Makin gave presentations at a number of conferences 
which were attended by existing and potential shareholders as well as industry 
representatives. My predecessor, John Brown and I both believe that it is important 
for the Chairman to meet investors, along with other members of the Board, and so 
have always sought to make ourselves available to meet any who wish to see us. 
At the Company’ s AGM on 17 July, all directors will attend and be available to meet 
investors as usual for face-to-face discussions.
The following pages explain in detail how the Company applies the Code in its 
day-to-day operations.
Garry Watts
Chairman
Directors and governance The Board believes it is important that the Company does not just follow the new 
Code as a mechanical exercise but that it actively embeds an appropriate 
governance culture throughout the organisation in order to continually improve 
standards and build a successful company. This report explains how the Company 
applies the principles of the Code. More information on the Code can be found on 
the FRC website, www.frc.org.uk.
Board composition, responsibilities and balance
Board composition
The Board comprises six non-executive directors, including the Chairman, and two 
executive directors. The Board was chaired by John Brown until his resignation on 
31 December 2011. He was succeeded by Garry Watts, who joined the Board as 
non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2012. The Chairman is responsible for leading 
the Board and ensuring the effectiveness on all aspects of its role. The Chief 
Executive Officer, Louise Makin, is primarily responsible for the running of the Group. 
Rolf Soderstrom, Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for all financial reporting, tax 
and financial control aspects of the Group, providing support to the CEO and the 
wider business activities of the Group.
Giles Kerr has been the Company’ s Senior Independent Director (SID) since July 
2008. His principal role as SID is to support the Chairman in his role; to work with 
the Chairman and other directors to resolve any significant issues that may arise; to 
lead non-executive directors in the oversight of the Chairman and to ensure there is 
a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. 
He is also available to shareholders to express concerns which the normal channels 
have failed to resolve or which would be inappropriate. 
The names and brief biographical details of all the directors are set out on pages 
36 to 37. The table below details the composition of the Board, its Committees, 
together with their attendance at meetings since the last annual report and the 
Company’ s assessment of the independence of the directors. Following the 
appointment of Garry Watts, Committee membership was reviewed and various 
changes were made, as shown in the table below.
Committee Committee
Board and committee memberships memberships Board Nomination Audit Remuneration
composition and attendance to 31 December 2011 from 1 January 2012 Independent meetings Committee Committee Committee
Total number of meetings  9 3 3 5
Executive directors   
Louise Makin (CEO)  No 9/9 N/A N/A N/A
Rolf Soderstrom (CFO)  No 8/9 N/A N/A N/A
Non-executive directors   
John Brown
1
Nom
4
N/A No
3
 4/5 0/2 N/A N/A
Garry Watts
2
N/A Nom
4
No
3
 4/4 1/1 N/A N/A
Peter Chambré Aud, Rem, Nom Aud, Nom Yes 9/9 3/3 3/3 2/2
Giles Kerr Aud
4
, Rem, Nom Aud
4
, Rem, Nom Yes 9/9 3/3 3/3 5/5
Melanie Lee Rem Rem Yes 9/9 N/A N/A 3/5
Ian Much Aud, Rem
4
Aud, Rem
4
, Nom Yes 9/9 2/2 3/3 5/5
James O’Shea Rem, Nom Nom Yes 9/9 2/3 N/A 2/2
1  John Brown resigned from the Board and Nomination Committee with effect from 31 December 2011.
2  Garry Watts joined the Board on 1 January 2012 as Chairman of the Company and Chairman of the Nomination Committee. 
3  John Brown and Garry Watts are excluded from the determination of independence by virtue of their role as Chairman of the Company.
4 Committee Chairman.
5  Following the rescheduling of one of the Remuneration Committee meetings, Melanie Lee was unable to attend due to a pre-existing commitment that could not 
be changed. John Brown, Garrry Watts and Rolf Soderstrom did not attend meetings where their own position was being discussed. James O’Shea did not 
attend one meeting of the Nomination Committee, being a selection sub-committee of which he was not a member, being US-based.
6  Directors who are not committee members may attend meetings by invitation. Details are not included in the table. 
7  The external auditor usually attends the Audit Committee meetings and the remuneration advisers usually attend the Remuneration Committee meetings.
8 Table shows, for each director, number of meetings attended/number of meetings eligible to attend.
Corporate governance
44
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy itself that its non-executive 
directors remain independent. The Board reviews the independence of the non-
executive directors every year, using its own judgement when applying the criteria in 
the Code. Having undertaken this review, the Board confirms that all the non-
executive directors are considered to be independent in character and judgement. In 
line with the recommendations of the Code, at least half the Board, excluding the 
Chairman, are independent non-executive directors. Both John Brown and Garry 
Watts were considered to be independent at the time of their appointment although, 
in accordance with the Code, they are excluded from the determination of whether at 
least half the Board are independent non-executive directors thereafter.
Board responsibilities and balance
The Board has a number of matters specifically reserved for its decision or approval. 
These include the approval of the interim and annual financial statements, the 
interim management statements and major public announcements, setting strategic 
direction, budgets and long-term plans. Other areas include the approval of major 
investments and disposals, major capital expenditure, decisions relating to major 
litigation, significant financing, dividend policy and senior executive remuneration 
and appointments.
The Board as a whole monitors operating performance, the performance of 
management, succession planning, health, safety and environmental performance 
and standards of ethical and social behaviour. It is also responsible for developing 
robust corporate governance, legal compliance and risk management procedures 
aimed at safeguarding the Company’ s reputation and assets and the integrity of its 
financial information and business conduct.
While the executive and non-executive directors are collectively responsible for the 
success of the Company and have fiduciary duties towards shareholders, their roles 
are strictly delineated. The executive directors have direct responsibility for the 
business operations of the Company, the non-executive directors have a 
responsibility to bring independent and objective judgement to Board decisions and 
the Chairman’ s primary responsibility is for the effective running of the Board. The 
non-executive directors’ duties include helping to develop the Company’ s strategy 
and constructively challenging the executive directors where they consider it 
appropriate. 
Roles and responsibilities
The Board
The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company and specifically 
to:
— Set the Company’ s strategic objectives.
— Ensure the necessary financial and human resources are in place to support 
strategy.
— Determine the significant risks that the Company is willing to take to achieve its 
strategic aims and ensuring effective risk management controls are in place.
— Review management and Company performance.
— Monitoring and review of financial reporting.
— Ensure the proper discharge of the Company’ s statutory and other legal and 
regulatory responsibilities.
45
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors and governance The Chairman
The Chairman is responsible for creating conditions for overall Board and individual 
director effectiveness and for ensuring the following:
— The Board devotes adequate time to the right agenda issues such as its role in 
shaping strategy.
— Appropriate high-quality information is made available to the Board in a timely 
manner.
— The Board discharges its responsibilities with respect to risk management.
— Board Committees are properly structured with appropriate terms of reference.
— Necessary relationships of mutual respect and open communication are fostered 
between the executive and non-executive directors, providing support and advice 
while respecting the executive responsibility.
— Effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Senior Independent Director
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for:
— Supporting the Chairman’ s delivery of objectives, and leading his evaluation.
— Working with the Chairman, other directors and shareholders at times of conflict 
or stress to resolve significant issues.
Executive directors
The executive directors are responsible for leading, overseeing and managing the 
whole business, they are also responsible for:
— Communicating to the Board their views on business issues to improve the 
standard of Board discussion and, prior to final decision on an issue, explain 
in a balanced way any divergence of view in the executive team.
— Encouraging the non-executive directors to thoroughly test proposals put forward 
to the Board in the light of their wider experience.
— Providing input to the strategy formulation process to enable an effective and 
evidence based approach and to ensure that the Board is well informed about all 
aspects of the business and its operation which bear on its strategy.
— Delivering high-quality information to the Board to enable it to monitor the 
performance of the whole business including the management of risk, and to 
make critical decisions, e.g. on remuneration and investments.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
To address the effect of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 (directors’ conflicts 
of interest), the Company’ s Articles enable the Board to authorise situations that 
might give rise to directors’ conflicts of interest. Directors complete a declaration 
form in order to determine whether any actual or potential conflicts need 
authorisation. The forms are reviewed annually to ensure that the information 
provided is up to date and includes any disclosures made during the past year. 
At the March 2012 Board meeting all directors were asked to review and make any 
necessary amendments to their existing declarations. The Company Secretary has 
reviewed the latest declarations and has confirmed that no conflicts have arisen. 
Board members are reminded at regular intervals to disclose any conflicts should 
they arise. 
All such notifications are kept in a conflicts register maintained by the Company 
Secretary. Any director who considers they may have a potential conflict of interest 
should report this to the Chairman in the first instance, who may consult the 
Nomination Committee and report their findings to the Board.
Corporate governance
46
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional advice, 
if necessary, at the Company’ s expense. Directors have direct access to the advice 
and the services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that 
Board procedures are followed. The Company arranges appropriate directors’ and 
officers’ liability insurance. The removal of a director or of the Company Secretary is 
a matter for the Board as a whole. 
Information and training, performance evaluation and re-election of directors
Information and training
The directors are sent an agenda and a full set of papers for each item to be 
discussed, in advance of each Board or Committee meeting. Additional information 
is provided as appropriate and senior executives regularly make presentations at 
Board meetings on the results and strategies in their areas of responsibility. Board 
meetings are sometimes held at different office locations enabling non-executive 
directors an additional opportunity to visit other Company sites.
Upon joining the Company, each director receives a comprehensive induction 
package, including written information and opportunities to meet key and relevant 
members of staff. All directors refresh their knowledge regularly through publications 
and conferences and through information provided by the Company and its advisers.
Performance evaluation
The CEO is responsible for appraising the performance of the CFO. The Chairman 
and non-executive directors review the performance of the CEO. The non-executive 
directors, led by the Senior Independent Director and following input from the 
executive directors, normally evaluate the performance of the Chairman each year. 
However, as Garry Watts only joined the Company in January 2012 it was considered 
too early to perform a formal evaluation. This will take place during the current year. 
The Committees also reviewed their performance and reported the results to the 
Chairman and the Board as a whole. The non-executive directors meet at least once 
a year without the executive directors in order to discuss the performance of the 
executive directors and any concerns over their management of the Company’ s 
affairs.
In previous years, the Board has carried out an annual evaluation of its own 
effectiveness and that of its Committees, both through measuring performance 
against annual objectives and through an individual appraisal process. With the 
requirement introduced by the Code for an external evaluation at least every three 
years, it was decided to appoint external consultants, SCT Consultants Ltd, to assist 
with the review. This was considered a valuable exercise particularly in light of the 
continued growth of the business.
The process confirmed that the Board provided effective leadership of the Group and 
proposed a number of recommendations for the coming year, including:
— To increase the strategic focus and content of Board discussions to contribute to 
the ongoing transformation of the Group.
— To re-evaluate the membership and operation of the Board Committees to 
streamline activities and allow additional focus where needed.
— To enhance the risk management process to ensure sound management controls 
are in place.
— To ensure the information flows from the Board down through the organisation, 
to give clarity, accountability and oversight of the effective implementation of key 
decisions.
— To focus on the development needs of the organisation as a whole, having regard 
to the capacity and capabilities needed in order for the organisation to deliver on 
its existing objectives and future strategic objectives.
— To develop a stakeholder management plan which would define the basis of 
communication and increase Board interaction with all stakeholders.
47
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors and governance Board membership and election of directors
The Board reviews its constitution regularly and continues to refresh its members. 
John Brown retired from the Board as non-executive Chairman on 31 December 
2011, having served since 2008 and Garry Watts joined the Board as non-executive 
Chairman on 1 January 2012. Following this change the Board comprised a non-
executive Chairman, five independent non-executive directors and two executive 
directors. As reported in the Nomination Committee report on pages 59 and 60, the 
Committee reviews the composition of the Board on a regular basis to ensure that, 
as the business evolves, the Board continues to have the necessary skills to 
support the development of the business. 
Amongst the provisions in the Code is a proposal that the directors of all FTSE 350 
companies should stand for election every year rather than every third year as 
required previously. Along with many of other FTSE 350 companies, the Board 
adopted that proposal last year.
Garry Watts, having been appointed to the Board since the last AGM is standing for 
election for the first time while all the other directors are standing for re-election at 
this year’ s AGM. Having served three years on the Board, James O’Shea’ s 
appointment has been extended for a further three years, subject to re-election at 
the AGM. Following a formal evaluation process, the Chairman is satisfied that each 
of the directors continues to perform effectively and demonstrates commitment to 
their role, including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings and 
their other duties.
Further information on the directors is shown in their biographies on pages 36 to 37.
Financial reporting and internal control
The statement of directors’ responsibilities in relation to the preparation of the 
financial statements is set out on page 76 and the auditor’ s statement on the 
respective responsibilities of directors and the auditor is included within its report 
set out on pages 77 and 78. 
Communications with shareholders, be they results announcements, interim reports, 
annual reports or AGM and trading updates, are reviewed carefully and approved by 
the Board, or a sub-committee thereof, in order to ensure they are transparent and 
balanced in the view they give of the Company’ s progress and prospects.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an 
adequate system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes the detailed 
monitoring of the controls, at least annually, and reports to the Board on its findings. 
The Board has reviewed the system of internal controls including financial controls 
for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and 
Accounts. Such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of 
failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Corporate governance
48
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The criteria applied by the directors, in judging the effectiveness of these controls, 
are that they allow the maximisation of shareholder value by exploiting business 
opportunities whilst ensuring that risks are properly identified and managed. The 
controls are regularly reviewed to ensure that they enable the proper management of 
business risks without so restricting efficiency and entrepreneurial nature that they 
inhibit proper running of the business. 
As a result of the increasing complexity of the Group, a dedicated full-time internal 
auditor has been appointed to strengthen the control framework of the business. 
Further information can be found in the Audit Committee report on pages 54 to 58.
Structure and reporting
The Group has a management structure with clear lines of responsibility and 
accountability, staffed by appropriate personnel. 
The Board is responsible for setting the overall strategy and reviewing the 
performance of the Group. 
The Company’ s Leadership Team, chaired by the CEO, is responsible for the day-to-
day running of Group operations. Other team members include the CFO and senior 
staff members from the business. The team is also responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board on the Company’ s strategy and subsequent 
implementation. Other responsibilities include ensuring that appropriate internal 
controls are in place to manage and assess risk, and that they are fully complied 
with. The fundamental elements of the Group’ s internal control and risk 
management framework are described below.
The Group has well defined management structures and processes for the 
acquisition, assessment and evaluation of business opportunities, and development 
and execution of commercialisation strategies. A number of committees that 
monitor various parts of the business report to the Leadership Team on a regular 
basis:
— Development Leadership Team: Evaluates new technology opportunities, and is 
intimately involved in the definition and execution of development strategies.
— Operational Leadership Team: Responsible for ensuring that the manufacturing 
and supply chain are tightly controlled and their operations are optimised, (as far 
as practicable), meeting all regulatory requirements.
— Performance Management Review: Monthly meeting of the Leadership Team and 
senior staff to review progress against business plans and targets, both financial 
and operational.
— Risk Committee: Responsible for monitoring risks throughout the organisation 
and reporting findings to the Audit Committee twice yearly.
— Compliance Committee: Responsible for maintaining a complete compliance 
system to ensure that the Group is fully compliant with all applicable laws 
(including US Federal and State requirements) that relate to the commercial 
operations of the Group, including its US sales and marketing teams. This 
Committee reports to the Audit Committee at least twice yearly.
49
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors and governance — Corporate Responsibility Committee: Ensures the Group maintains high 
standards in this area.
— Integration Committee: Following the acquisition of the Biocompatibles group 
in January 2011, the Company set up an Integration Committee to manage all 
aspects of bringing the two businesses together. The Committee completed its 
work during the year.
The Leadership Team meets formally at least once each month to review business 
performance measured against annual budgets, longer-term plans, an agreed set of 
objectives and performance criteria for each business unit. Forecasts are monitored 
monthly on the basis of detailed reviews of progress and prospects. Reporting to the 
Board is based on the information provided to and reviewed by the Leadership Team. 
The reports include non-financial as well as financial information and a review of 
progress within the development portfolio. 
Compliance and the review of risk and risk management are embedded throughout 
the Group. The Audit Committee has reviewed the detailed reports of the Risk and 
Compliance Committees and reported its findings to the whole Board. For further 
details see the Audit Committee report on pages 54 to 58. The Board has reviewed 
the risk management process and confirms that ongoing processes and systems 
ensure that the Group continues to be compliant with the guidance on internal 
control issued by the Code.
The Group has a system for supporting the protection and maintenance of patents 
and other intellectual property rights. The Group also actively monitors its royalty 
revenue streams and from time-to-time audits its major licensees to ensure 
compliance with the terms of the relevant agreements. 
Approval procedures
The Group has delegated authority structures that ensure that decisions are taken at 
an appropriate level, with an appropriate level of input by internal and external expert 
advisers. The delegated authority structure prescribes financial limits of approval at 
each level and requires decisions with significant financial, legal or reputational 
impact for the Group to be approved by the Board.
Corporate policies, values and compliance
Last year a new Code of Conduct was issued and all employees within the Group 
received appropriate training on its key requirements. The Code of Conduct covers 
all aspects of ethics, business practices and compliance, including an updated 
whistle-blowing policy, an anti-bribery and corruption policy and policies related to the 
ethical conduct of research and development and interactions with doctors and 
other healthcare professionals. Relevant employees meet regularly to discuss 
external changes in the regulatory, legal and financial environments in which the 
Group operates to ensure it remains fully compliant with new legislation and best 
practice. The Group also runs periodic ‘lunch and learn’ sessions updating staff on 
key issues affecting the business.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the 
internal controls of the Group. The controls described above operate and are 
embedded within the day-to-day business. There is an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group. A reporting 
structure has been in place throughout the year, up to the date of approval of the 
financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the directors in accordance with the 
Code. Further information is given in the Audit Committee report on pages 54 to 58.
Corporate governance
50
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Related parties and conflicts of interest
The Group maintains robust procedures to ensure that related party transactions 
and potential conflicts of interest are identified, disclosed and managed. Directors 
declare interests in other businesses on appointment to the Board and thereafter 
complete an annual self-certification. Where it is identified that a related party 
relationship exists, the Board agrees specific additional procedures to ensure the 
effective management of potential conflicts of interest.
Giles Kerr, a non-executive director of the Board, is also the Director of Finance for 
Oxford University and a director of Isis Innovations Limited, a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Oxford University. Wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company entered 
into technology commercialisation and revenue sharing agreements with these 
organisations prior to Giles Kerr joining the Board. The Group has licensed the 
intellectual property rights covered by these agreements to independent third-party 
companies that are developing and/or selling the licensed products. Under these 
licence agreements, the Group is entitled to receive milestone payments and/or 
royalties on sales of the products sold by the third-party licensees. 
Under the various revenue sharing agreements, the Group pays a share of any 
income it receives to Oxford University or Isis Innovations, depending on the specific 
technology that generated the income. As the revenue sharing agreements do not 
permit these organisations to have any input over the commercialisation of the 
licensed products or the amount payable under the relevant revenue sharing 
agreement, Giles Kerr is not able to influence the amounts received in his position 
outside the Group. Because he has no influence over any aspect of these 
agreements in his role outside the Group, the Company considers that his 
independence in relation to the BTG Group is not compromised.
Within the BTG Group, to avoid any possible conflict of interest, it has been agreed 
that Giles Kerr will not participate in any discussions or decisions concerning the 
relevant agreements either within the Board or in any other discussions or meetings 
with the executives of its subsidiaries.
The Board has considered, and is satisfied with, this separation of duties. 
See note 32 on page 127 for additional related party disclosures.
Market abuse directive
The Company has a Disclosure Committee, as required by the Market Abuse 
Directive, comprising the CEO, CFO and the Director of Investor Relations. The 
Committee reviews all significant items of business within the Group regularly, and 
on an ad hoc basis if required, and maintains an Insider List recording both those 
employed within the Group and at external advisers who may have access to inside 
information. Whenever individuals are placed on or removed from the List they are 
notified accordingly and advised of their responsibilities.
Relations with shareholders and constructive use of the AGM
Relations with shareholders
The Group endeavours to maintain good communications with shareholders through 
formal and informal dialogue. The Company formally reports its results twice a year 
with full year results announced in May and interim results in November. The CEO 
and CFO give presentations of these results to the Company’ s institutional 
shareholders, analysts and the media. The presentations are broadcast live on the 
internet for the information of all shareholders. The presentations are available, 
thereafter, as an archive on the Company’ s website and a webcast of the event 
remains on the website for approximately a year. In addition, the Company prepares 
interim management statements in January and July that are released to a 
regulatory news service and are available on the Company’ s website.
51
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors and governance The CEO and CFO meet regularly with institutional investors with support from the 
Investor Relations department. The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and 
other directors are available to meet with major shareholders on request. As part of 
his role as the Senior Independent Director, Giles Kerr is available to shareholders 
when contact with the executive directors or the Chairman may not be appropriate. 
No requests have been received from major shareholders to meet with the 
Chairman, Senior Independent Director or other non-executive directors during the 
year. The Investor Relations department acts as a contact point for investors 
throughout the year.
The directors receive a report from the Investor Relations department at each Board 
meeting giving information on the changes in shareholdings and any feedback from 
the Company’ s brokers and investors. Following the twice-yearly results 
announcements and any subsequent shareholder meetings held by management, 
detailed feedback from external advisers and brokers is provided to the Board, 
outlining the views and reactions of investors and analysts. This enables the Board 
to develop an understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
The Annual Report contains a full business review and the Interim Report, which is 
available on the Company’ s website, gives an update at the half year. Extensive 
information, including annual and interim reports, interim management statements 
and all press releases, is published on the Group’ s website (www.btgplc.com) for 
access by all shareholders. In addition, through the website, individuals can register 
to receive electronic copies of all Company announcements on the day they are 
issued. 
Annual General Meeting
The AGM is the principal opportunity for private shareholders to meet and discuss 
the Group’ s business with the directors and other senior management. A full 
business presentation is given and there is an open question and answer session 
during which shareholders may ask questions both about the resolutions being 
proposed and the business in general. The directors are available after the meeting 
for an informal discussion with shareholders.
The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on 17 July 2012, at the offices of Stephenson 
Harwood LLP , 1 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7SH. The Notice convening the 
meeting is distributed separately to shareholders at least 20 working days before 
the meeting. It is also available on the Company’ s website: www.btgplc.com, where 
a copy can be viewed or downloaded in ‘PDF’ format by following the link to Investor 
Relations and then Report and Accounts. The letter accompanying the AGM Notice 
includes details of the resolutions and explanatory notes thereon. 
Members of the Company unable to attend the meeting may elect to vote 
electronically or using the proxy form accompanying the Notice. In order 
to vote electronically, members should log on to Capita Registrar’ s website 
(www.capitashareportal.com) and follow the instructions on the screen. Crest 
members may send their proxy votes to the Company’ s registrars electronically. 
At the AGM the number of proxy votes cast in favour, against and withheld in 
respect of each resolution will be disclosed and subsequently published in a 
market announcement and on the Company’ s website. The Chairmen of the 
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be present at the AGM 
to answer shareholders’ questions.
Corporate governance
52
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Audit Committee and auditor
The Company has an established Audit Committee with the principal responsibilities 
of overseeing financial reporting and internal control matters and maintaining 
appropriate relations with the Company’ s auditor. A report on the work of the 
Committee is set out on pages 54 to 58.
Appointments to the Board
The Company has a Nomination Committee with responsibilities that include 
reviewing the size and composition of the Board; making recommendations to 
the Board on the appointment of executive and non-executive directors, and the 
re-appointment of non-executive directors when their terms of appointment expire; 
and for ensuring that succession planning is in place. The Committee also advises 
the Board on matters generally relating to Board appointments and meets as 
required but at least twice a year. A report on the work of the Committee is 
set out on pages 59 and 60.
Compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code)
The Board considers that the Company complied in full with the principles set 
out in the Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2012. Details of directors’ 
remuneration, as required by the Code and Schedule 8 to the Large- and Medium-
Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, are 
set out in the remuneration report on pages 61 to 75.
The Company’ s auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is required to review whether this corporate 
governance statement reflects the Company’ s compliance with nine of the Code’ s 
provisions as specified in the Listing Rules of the FSA, relating to Accountability and 
Audit. Having conducted such a review KPMG is obliged to report if it considers this 
statement of corporate governance does not reflect such compliance. The Company 
confirms that no such report has been made.
53
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors and governance Dear Shareholder
The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor and enhance the integrity of the 
Group’ s internal controls and financial reporting. The increasing complexity of the 
business and the current economic climate presents continuing challenges to the 
Committee which it is required to address.
A major part of the Committee’ s time is spent reviewing the financial reports, internal 
controls and risks to the Group. Another area of particular focus during the year was 
the impact of the UK anti-bribery legislation and the procedures being put in place to 
ensure compliance throughout the Group and third-parties with which the Group 
interacts. As reported last year, with the increasing size and complexity of the 
business a dedicated full time internal auditor has been appointed which has 
strengthened the internal control framework of the business.
The following report sets out the activities of the Committee over the past year 
and how it has discharged its functions.
Giles Kerr
Chairman of the Audit Committee
The Committee and its membership
The Committee, established by the Board, is responsible for monitoring all aspects 
of financial reporting and management of risk. The Committee’ s full terms of 
reference, reviewed and updated during the year, are available on the Company’ s 
website, or from the Company on request, and are summarised below:
Summary of the Committee’s terms of reference
— Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’ s financial reporting, internal control 
policies and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
— Monitoring the integrity of the Group’ s financial statements.
— Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
— Monitoring the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function.
— Approving an annual programme of internal audit work.
— Considering and making recommendations to the Board on the appointment 
of the auditor.
— Agreeing the scope of the auditor’ s annual audit programme and reviewing 
the output.
— Keeping the relationship with the auditor under review, including terms 
of engagement, fees, their independence and expertise, resources and 
qualifications; and assessing the effectiveness of the audit process.
— Developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the auditor 
to supply non-audit services.
Members
Members Committee member since
Giles Kerr (Committee Chairman) 6 November 2007
Peter Chambré 1 November 2010
Ian Much 1 November 2010
Details of attendance at meetings are shown in the table on page 44.
Audit Committee report
54
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Committee members’ qualiﬁcations
Giles Kerr is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and Director of 
Finance at Oxford University. He is considered by the Board to have the necessary 
significant recent and relevant financial experience to qualify him to be the Chairman 
of the Committee. He receives additional remuneration to compensate him for his 
additional responsibilities, as set out on page 69. Other members bring substantial 
experience in the pharmaceutical and international business areas as well as 
financial expertise to the deliberations of the Committee. For further information, 
see the directors’ biographies on pages 36 and 37.
Other attendees at Audit Committee meetings
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Director of Finance, Group 
Financial Controller and Internal Auditor normally attend meetings. The external 
auditor usually attends the meetings.
The Company Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee.
Activities
A summary of matters considered at the Committee since the last Annual Report 
and actions taken is shown below:
— Review of the Group’ s half-year results to 30 September 2011 and full-year 
results to 31 March 2012.
— Review of the reports from the external auditor on the half-year and full-year 
results.
— Review of Internal Auditor’ s work plan and results of site visits.
— Consideration of accounting issues, changes in accounting standards and their 
impact on Group reporting.
— Review of the scope, nature, resource planning and fee estimate for the full-year 
audit.
— Review of trading updates issued by the Group and amendments thereto.
— Assessment of the going concern basis.
— Review of risk management systems, internal controls and fraud procedures.
— Review of the Group’ s compliance systems and policies and the results of 
internal compliance monitoring and auditing.
— Review of the Group’ s whistle-blowing policy.
— Review of the impact of the UK Bribery Act on the operations of the Group 
and adoption of a new anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy.
— Review of the disclosures relating to material risks in the business review.
— Review and amendment of Committee terms of reference.
— Completion of an effectiveness review.
Financial results review
A key role of the Committee is to undertake detailed monitoring of the interim and 
annual financial statements. As part of this review it discusses the audit findings 
and auditor’ s report with management and the external auditor and considers 
significant judgements and issues contained in them, whether the financial 
statements comply fully with the relevant statutes and accounting standards 
and if they present a balanced assessment of the Company’ s financial position 
and prospects. Following this discussion the Chairman of the Committee reports 
the results of its review to the full Board. The external auditor meets with the 
non-executive directors in the absence of management at the time when the 
half- and full-year results are discussed.
55
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors and governance Internal control and risk review
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an 
adequate system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. The Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertakes the detailed 
monitoring of the controls and reports to the Board on its findings twice-yearly. 
The Committee has reviewed the system of internal controls including financial, 
operational, compliance and risk for the year under review and up to the date 
of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts. Such a system is designed to 
appropriately manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.
The criteria applied by the directors, in judging the effectiveness of these controls, 
are that they allow the maximisation of shareholder value by exploiting business 
opportunities while ensuring that risks are properly identified and managed. The 
controls are regularly reviewed to ensure that they enable the proper management 
of business risks without so restricting efficiency and entrepreneurial nature that 
they inhibit proper running of the business.
The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the material controls of the Group, 
which are embedded within the day-to-day business. The Committee with the Board 
has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks 
faced by the Group. A reporting structure has been in place throughout the year and 
up to the date of approval of the financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the 
directors in accordance with the Code.
The Risk Committee, chaired by the CFO and including staff from all sections of the 
business, reviews the risks throughout the business and identifies and evaluates 
risks which may impact on the Group’ s strategic and business objectives. The Risk 
Committee maintains a risk management plan that identifies and evaluates the key 
risks. The plan is designed to assess the probability of those risks occurring, the 
impact should they occur, how such risks may be mitigated and monitored and the 
actions and individuals responsible for managing the risks and delivering the 
mitigations. The Committee continues to monitor all areas of risk and the progress 
of actions designed to mitigate such risks, including a consideration of what 
comprises an acceptable level of risk in key areas and the optimal mitigation 
strategy, having regard to the costs, timelines and likelihood of success of the 
mitigation options. The Committee reports its findings twice-yearly through the 
Audit Committee to the Board. 
The Audit Committee received the latest report at its May 2012 meeting, and 
was satisfied with actions being taken to control and mitigate risks identified. 
The Group also has a Compliance Committee, which is responsible for maintaining 
a compliance system to ensure that the Group is compliant with all applicable 
laws (such as US Federal and State requirements) that relate to the commercial 
operations of the Group including its US sales and marketing teams. The results are 
reported to the Audit Committee alongside the twice-yearly risk management report. 
For details of principal risks and uncertainties that may affect the business, see 
pages 26 to 29 in the business review.
Following the decision last year to establish an internal audit function in the Group, 
a full-time auditor has been appointed and an external consultant has also been 
employed to provide additional guidance and insight in the formation of the 
department. The Internal Auditor has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, in addition to a reporting line within the Head Office finance function. 
Audit Committee report
56
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 In the initial period the Internal Auditor is concentrating on internal financial reviews 
and visits to all major sites are taking place. This work is in addition to the 
responsibility of each local finance function for internal control compliance in their 
part of the organisation. The Committee approved the proposed work plan of the 
Internal Auditor and received reports on the results of work carried out during the 
year. The Committee noted that the work carried out by the Internal Auditor did not 
identify any material weaknesses in internal control but approved proposals to 
enhance control procedures. The Committee proposed that the internal audit work 
plan should be expanded to increase the focus on key control risks and sales 
compliance audit in the coming year in addition to the current work on financial 
controls.
Whistle-blowing
The Committee is responsible for ensuring that arrangements under which 
employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in 
matters of financial performance or other matters are operating effectively and that 
appropriate follow-up action takes place. Included within the Code of Conduct are 
details of the Group’ s whistle-blowing policy and there are posters and pamphlets 
prominently displayed at each site giving details of what employees should do if they 
have concerns regarding any aspect of the business. Employees are encouraged to 
report any concerns without fear of recrimination and an independent telephone line 
is available should staff wish to use it. The arrangements were reviewed by the 
Committee during the year.
UK Bribery Act
The UK Bribery Act, 2010 (Act) came into force on 1 July 2011, introducing 
significant changes in UK anti-bribery and anti-corruption law. In response to the 
Act, the Group has implemented enhanced policies and procedures to seek to 
prevent bribery and corruption, both within the Group and by third parties with which 
it works. The Group’ s response to the Act is consistent with its corporate values and 
is intended to be proportionate and practical yet ensure a significant reduction in the 
risk of potential liabilities under the Act. The Group’ s revised policies and procedures 
take into account the guidance issued by the UK Ministry of Justice with respect to 
what would constitute ‘adequate procedures’ for the purposes of establishing a 
defence to the strict liability provisions of the Act in the event of the occurrence 
of bribery or corruption within the Group or by third-party companies acting on its 
behalf. These procedures, which are embedded in the delegated authority process, 
require the Group to categorise the risk (‘high’, ‘medium’ or ‘low’) associated with 
certain activities, relationships or territories, and apply more rigorous procedures 
where there is a perception of increased risk. This process includes the conduct 
of appropriate due diligence on third parties that will act on behalf of the Group, 
especially in countries, or with respect to activities that are perceived to have 
a higher bribery and corruption risk.
57
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors and governance Review of external auditor
The Committee reviews the overall performance of the auditor annually and approves 
its terms of engagement and remuneration. The Committee discussed the auditor’ s 
proposed work plan prior to the commencement of the audit of the results for the 
year to 31 March 2012 and also reviews the non-audit work carried out by the 
Company’ s auditor, KPMG Audit Plc (KPMG), to ensure that such services do not 
impair its independence or objectivity. The Committee agreed a new process for 
approving the use of the auditor for non-audit work detailing areas where the 
auditors may not be used, areas where they may be used subject to the agreement 
of the Committee and areas where prior approval is not required. Areas where prior 
approval is not required include audit-related services as specified in the APB Ethical 
Standards for Auditors and other services, that are routine in nature, where the fee 
is not significant in the context of the audit fee and where the conduct of such 
services will not adversely impact auditor independence or objectivity. The 
Committee will receive a written annual report describing the fees paid to the 
auditors for non-audit work and whether such services were pre-approved or 
specifically approved by the Committee.
The auditor was employed to carry out the following non-audit work during the year:
Fees
Audit Committee approval Task £’000
Pre-approval required Preparation of corporate tax returns for overseas Group undertakings 46
Total fees paid to the Company’ s auditor, KPMG, are shown in note 8 on page 99. 
The Committee believes that the use of KPMG was appropriate and efficient in the 
circumstances and that independence was preserved as a partner other than the 
audit partner was responsible for the work and the fees paid were insignificant in the 
context of the size of KPMG as a whole. 
The auditor is appointed by the shareholders at the AGM to ensure its independence. 
The Committee regularly discusses the independence of the auditor and whether 
there should be a need to rotate audit firms. Given the relative size of the Group to 
that of KPMG and that the lead audit partner is changed on a regular basis (at least 
every five years), the Committee is presently satisfied that KPMG is independent in 
its reporting on the audit of the Group and rotation of firms is not necessary. The 
current lead audit partner took over the audit as from the year ended 31 March 
2009. The Group has noted the proposals relating to the rotation of auditors 
included in proposed EU legislation and will take the appropriate action once any 
legislation has been passed.
As part of corporate governance, the Committee also carried out a review of its 
effectiveness and reported the results and its recommendations for improvement to 
the Board.
Audit Committee report
58
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Committee, established by the Board, is responsible for appointments and 
reviewing the structure of the Board and its Committees. The Committee’ s full terms 
of reference, updated during the year, are available on the Company’ s website, or 
from the Company on request, and are summarised below:
The Committee and its membership
Summary of the Committee’s terms of reference
— To review regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board and make 
recommendations to the Board on any appropriate changes.
— To identify and nominate, for the Board’ s approval, suitable candidates to fill 
any vacancies for non-executive directors and, with the assistance of the Chief 
Executive Officer, executive directors.
— To plan for the orderly succession of directors to the Board.
— To recommend to the Board the membership and chairmanship of the Audit and 
Remuneration committees.
Members
Members Committee member since
John Brown (Committee Chairman)
1
17 March 2008
Garry Watts (Committee Chairman) 1 January 2012
Peter Chambré 22 May 2007
Giles Kerr 16 July 2008
Ian Much 1 January 2012
James O’Shea 13 May 2009
1  John Brown resigned from the Committee and the Board on 31 December 2011 and was succeeded as Chairman of the Committee and the Board 
by Garry Watts.
2 Details of attendance at meetings are shown in the table on page 44.
Other attendees at Nomination Committee meetings
— The Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings by invitation.
— The Company Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee.
Activities
The principal activities during the year related to the recruitment of a new Chairman 
and the commencement of a search for a new Chief Financial Officer, as outlined 
below.
At the start of the process for appointing new directors, the Committee prepares 
a full description of the role, desired skills and capabilities required for the 
appointment. External search consultants are usually appointed to assist with 
finding suitable candidates. The Committee interviews candidates and then 
produces a shortlist for a subsequent interview by all Board members. In assessing 
candidates for board roles, the Committee has regard to the objective of ensuring 
appropriate diversity (including gender diversity) of Board composition.
Following the decision of John Brown to resign, the Committee commenced a search 
for a new Chairman led by Giles Kerr, Senior Independent Director. The Committee 
instructed Zygos LLP to find suitable candidates for interview. The Committee carried 
out a rigorous interview and selection process and their shortlisted candidates were 
also interviewed by the other non-executive directors and the Chief Executive Officer. 
The Committee, taking into account the views of the other directors, then 
recommended to the Board that Garry Watts be appointed to succeed John Brown as 
Chairman. The Board accepted the recommendation and Garry Watts was appointed 
to the Board with effect from 1 January 2012.
Nomination Committee report
59
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors and governance Following the announcement of the intended resignation of Rolf Soderstrom as 
Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer on 1 November 2011, the Committee 
commenced the search for a replacement by engaging Egon Zehnder. This search 
was terminated following agreement that Rolf Soderstrom would stay with the 
Company and continue in his current role.
Following the appointment of new non-executive directors, the Committee ensures 
that they receive a full induction programme. As part of the induction process the 
new director is given a full briefing on the financial history of the Company and 
details of its strategy, operating plans, budgets and forecasts for future years. 
Arrangements are also made for the new director to meet with the heads of the 
various business units and functions for an in-depth briefing on the areas in which 
the Company is involved. A briefing on corporate governance and directors’ 
responsibilities may also be given and the opportunity to attend external courses is 
also available.
The Committee reviews succession plans and plans for emergency cover of key 
managers and directors on a regular basis.
As part of corporate governance, the Committee also carried out a review of its 
effectiveness and reported the results and its recommendations for improvement to 
the Board.
Garry Watts
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
60
Directors and governance
Nomination Committee report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Dear Shareholder
The Committee has made few changes to the remuneration arrangements for the 
Executive Directors during the 2011/12 financial year. When making salary 
increases for 2012/13 the Committee has been mindful of the prevailing economic 
environment. While Rolf Soderstrom, CFO has received a one-off uplift in salary as 
from 1 April 2012, the salary increase for the Chief Executive Officer is in line with 
those for the wider workforce.
The Company performed very well against the targets set for the 2011/12 annual 
bonus, which reflected the Company’ s focus on delivering a balance between 
profitability, growth and cash flow while ensuring the Company is laying the 
foundations for longer term success. Reflecting this, the bonuses awarded to 
executive directors in respect of 2011/12 were near the maximum levels. 
During 2012/13 the Committee intends to undertake a detailed review of its 
remuneration policy for the executive directors, to ensure that it remains appropriate 
as the Company develops. If the Committee proposes to make substantive changes 
to the executive director remuneration policy it will, as part of the review process, 
consult with shareholders. Any changes to the policy will be explained to 
shareholders in next year’ s report.
Ian Much
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Introduction and compliance
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee on behalf of the 
Board in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 8 to the Large- and Medium-
Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 
(Regulations), and explains how the Company has applied the principles of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the Code) in respect of directors’ remuneration. The 
report has been divided into two sections: Part A, which describes the Company’ s 
policy for the remuneration of executive and non-executive directors for the coming 
year and which is not subject to audit; and Part B, subject to audit, which provides 
details of the directors’ emoluments, shareholdings, long-term incentive awards and 
pensions.
In accordance with the Regulations, a resolution inviting shareholders to approve the 
report will be put to the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 17 July 2012.
Part A: About the Remuneration Committee and its advisers
The Remuneration Committee has been established by the Board and is responsible 
for executive remuneration. During the year the Committee reviewed and updated its 
terms of reference, which are available in full on the Company’ s website or from the 
Company on request, and are summarised below:
Summary of the Committee’s terms of reference
— To make recommendations to, and determine on behalf of the Board, 
remuneration packages for each of the executive directors in accordance with 
current best practice.
— To give advice and make recommendations on the framework and broad policy for 
all aspects of the remuneration of senior management and on the overall policy 
for total compensation for all other employees. 
— To determine policy and advise on equity participation schemes, employee share 
trust matters, pensions and other benefits. 
61
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Remuneration Committee report
Directors and governance Members
Members Committee member since
Ian Much (Chairman) 28 September 2010
Peter Chambré
1
26 September 2006 
Giles Kerr 3 November 2009
Melanie Lee 23 March 2011
James O’Shea
2
13 May 2009
1 Peter Chambré resigned from the Committee on 31 December 2011.
2 James O’Shea resigned from the Committee on 31 December 2011.
3 Details of attendance at meetings are shown in the table on page 44.
Other attendees at Remuneration Committee meetings
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Head of HR & IT 
may attend meetings by invitation, other than when their own remuneration is being 
considered. 
The Company Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee. 
Committee advisers
The Committee appoints its own advisers as it sees fit and has appointed New 
Bridge Street (NBS) (a brand of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc) to act as 
advisers to the Committee and a representative usually attends the meetings. NBS 
advises the Committee on all remuneration issues including the vesting of long-term 
incentive arrangements. 
The Group continues to use NBS to advise on other matters including remuneration 
matters in general. The firm also assists with the total shareholder return (TSR) 
performance measurement and the implementation of employee share schemes 
and, through Aon plc’ s Radford brand, provides the Company with advice on matters 
specific to the US employment market. The Group also uses Mercer Ltd and 
PricewaterhouseCoopers to advise on remuneration issues, particularly in relation 
to pension schemes.
Remuneration policy
The policy for remuneration for executive directors is to enable the Company to offer 
a package of rewards that:
— Is sufficiently competitive to enable the Company to attract and retain the 
management talent it needs to ensure the Group is successful;
— Supports the achievement of the Company’ s strategy by providing the potential to 
receive significant rewards linked to the long-term performance of the Company;
— Aligns executives with shareholders and helps to retain them by delivering a 
significant element of remuneration in shares; and
— Is flexible enough to cope with the Company’ s changing needs as it grows and the 
strategy evolves.
The Committee believes that the bonus opportunity aligned with the deferral into 
shares and forfeiture provisions, together with other elements of the long-term 
incentive plans, provides a balanced market-competitive package for the executive 
team. However the Committee keeps such targets under regular review in order to 
ensure they remain appropriate. 
62
Directors and governance
Remuneration Committee report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Committee’ s specific policy for each element of remuneration is as follows:
Element Policy
Fixed pay — Provides market competitive fixed remuneration that takes account of individual responsibilities. 
Base salary — Set at a broadly mid-market level and reviewed annually taking account of the incumbent’ s 
responsibilities and performance.
— Remuneration levels for executive directors are benchmarked using data from NBS on levels of 
remuneration among two comparator groups as well as on level of salary increases in the wider 
economy. 
— The two comparator groups used comprise a general industry group of companies selected on 
the basis of market capitalisation and a sector group of companies within the pharmaceutical and 
biotechnology sectors.
— Increases are determined by the Committee taking account of planned increases and bonus levels for 
the rest of the Group.
Benefits — Chiefly comprise medical benefits and permanent health insurance. 
Pension — Louise Makin is a member of the Company’ s contributory defined benefit pension scheme under 
which she receives benefits up to the HMRC Earnings Cap. In addition, she makes additional pension 
contributions to a separate defined contribution Executive Pension Scheme. 
— Following changes to pension legislation, the Company ceased making employer contributions 
to Louise Makin’ s defined contribution scheme. Additional cash payments were made to her to 
compensate her for the loss of employer pension contributions. See the table on page 69 for further 
information.
— The Company makes a contribution to a defined contribution pension scheme on behalf of Rolf 
Soderstrom equal to 20% of base salary. Following changes to pension legislation, part of the 
Company’ s contribution was made in the form of an additional cash payment to him as set out in the 
table on page 69.
Variable pay — Enables significant rewards to be earned for achieving the Company’ s short- and long-term aims.
— Intended to be a significant proportion of overall remuneration with a greater emphasis on long-term 
rather than short-term remuneration.
— Subject to demanding performance conditions and the intention is that around 50% of executive 
directors’ remuneration should be fixed and 50% variable. 
Annual bonus — Purpose: link reward to the Company’ s short-term aims.
— All employees including the executive directors participate.
— Maximum of 100% of salary for executive directors with 50% payable for on-target performance.
1
— Performance targets for the executive directors for 2012/13 focus on growth in revenue, trading profit, 
operating cash and individual objectives.
Deferred Share 
Bonus Plan (DSBP)
— Purpose: deferral of part of bonus provides an element of lock-in and alignment with shareholders.
— 50% of any bonus paid is deferred under the Company’ s DSBP . Once the director has achieved a 
shareholding in excess of 100% of salary, executives will normally only be required to defer any bonus 
earned above the target bonus level.
1
 A lower percentage may be deferred for those senior staff who 
also participate.
— DSBP awards are structured as conditional awards over shares, to be held for three years. 
— Other than in ‘good leaver’ circumstances, awards will normally lapse should the recipient leave the 
Company during the deferral period.
1 Amended as from 2011/12 bonus year.
63
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors and governance Element Policy
Long-term 
incentives
— Purpose: support the strategy to transition the business from an R&D-focused specialty pharma 
company to an earnings-driven international specialist healthcare company and ensure that packages 
for the executive directors include a strong emphasis on the absolute growth in shareholder value 
(by the use of share option grants) and also reward the delivery of superior shareholder returns and 
sustained financial performance. As such, long-term incentive awards to executive directors are granted 
as a mix of awards under the Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP) and the Performance Share Plan 
(PSP), the vesting of which are subject to the achievement of relative TSR and cumulative profit targets. 
— Maximum PSP award of 100% of salary.
— Maximum ESOP award of 100% of salary (150% in exceptional circumstances).
— Performance measured over three years.
— 2012/13 performance conditions are as follows:
— 50% of awards: TSR versus companies in a specific FTSE 250 index (described in more detail later). 
Measured over the three years from grant by NBS.
— 50% of awards: cumulative trading profit over the three financial years from the most recent year 
ending prior to the grant of awards.
— The Company believes that broad-based employee participation in share schemes is an important tool 
in delivering value for shareholders. Other senior staff are also able to receive awards of long-term 
incentives at a lower maximum percentage of salary. In addition, BTG operates all-employee share 
arrangements in which all other employees can participate. 
Shareholding 
guidelines
— Executive directors are required to build significant shareholdings of 100% of base salary in the 
Company to increase alignment with shareholders.
Clawback — For all awards granted post 1 July 2011, awards made under the DSBP , PSP and ESOP are subject 
to clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the financial results of the Company for the 
financial year to which an award relates is discovered, an error in the calculation of performance for an 
award or individual misconduct resulting in dismissal.
Alterations to 
plans and takeover 
situations
— No changes may be made to plans by the Committee without shareholder approval, other than for minor 
alterations to benefit the administration of plans or changes to performance conditions which will, in 
the opinion of the Committee, be no less materially difficult to satisfy than those they replace.
— In the event of a takeover of the Company, performance conditions will continue to apply to the release 
of share awards and the extent to which they have been achieved will be decided by the Committee on 
such reasonable basis as it decides.
Risk — In line with the Association of British Insurers’ Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the 
Committee will ensure that the incentive structure for executive directors and senior management will 
not raise environmental, social or governance (ESG) risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible 
behaviour. More generally, the Committee will ensure that the overall remuneration policy does not 
encourage inappropriate operational risk-taking. NBS reports to the Committee towards the end of each 
year on risks associated with the executive directors’ remuneration policy.
Summary of each executive director’s package for 2012/13
Louise Makin Rolf Soderstrom
Base salary as at 1 April 2012 £472,032 £350,000
Base salary as at 1 April 2011 £458,275 £297,879
Percentage increase in salary
1
3% 17.5%
On-target bonus (% of salary) 50% 50%
Maximum bonus (% of salary) 100% 100%
PSP award (% of salary) 100% 100%
ESOP award (% of salary) 100% 100%
Shareholding guidelines – target (% of salary) 100% 100%
Value of current shareholding at 31 March 2012 (% of salary) 348% 102%
Contract 12-month rolling contract 12-month rolling contract
1  The increase for Louise Makin is broadly in line with the level of increases awarded in the rest of the Group, which were generally in the range of 3 to 5% on 
average. Rolf Soderstrom’ s salary was rebased to £350,000, effective from 1 April 2012, following his decision to withdraw his resignation. The Company’ s 
search for a replacement Chief Financial Officer had established that a salary of £350,000 represented the market rate for this role.
64
Directors and governance
Remuneration Committee report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The balance of fixed and variable remuneration is illustrated below for the two 
executive directors. The chart is a theoretical model showing the on-target value 
of annual bonus and the fair value of PSP and ESOP awards (assuming PSP 
awards have a fair value of 60% of salary and ESOP awards have a fair value 
of 30% of salary):
On-target mix of pay for executive directors
1. Fixed 46%
2. Annual bonus 19%
3. LTI 35%
3
2
1
Annual bonus for the year to 31 March 2012
For the year ended 31 March 2012 bonuses were subject to a maximum of 100% 
of base salary for executive directors and up to 75% for other senior staff. 
Bonus targets were set at the start of the financial year for both Louise Makin and 
Rolf Soderstrom based on the achievement of certain objectives. These were the 
achievement of targets for a trading profit measure, cash generation and growth in 
the business. The Committee set threshold, intermediate and stretch levels for the 
various targets. The bonus is calculated on base salary with a percentage pay out of 
between 20% and 100% dependent on performance levels attained. Pay out 
between these levels is calculated on a straight line basis.
The trading profit measure, used for both bonuses and long-term incentives, 
is a normalised measure relating to earnings before amortisation of intangibles, 
restructuring and acquisition costs, group foreign exchange movements and 
movements in derivatives. They are calculated as follows:
Trading profit Cash flow
£m £m
Profit before tax/cash flow 23.0 43.1
Adjustments:
Forward exchange contracts and derivatives 1.5 –
Amortisation of business intangibles 30.7 –
Restructuring and other acquisition costs 2.3 –
Reduction in long-term bank deposits – (5.2)
Trading profit/cash flow for bonus purposes 57.5 37.9
65
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors and governance The performance achieved against the bonus targets are summarised as follows:
Pay out
Weighting Threshold Stretch Actual (% of 
(% of total bonus) (£m) (£m) (£m) maximum)
Trading profit 35% 9.3 25.0 57.5 35%
Operating cash (outflow)/inflow 35% (2.1) 10.2 37.9 35%
Growth in the business 30% N/A N/A N/A 25%
Total 95%
1 The above table shows the financial targets set for the threshold and stretch levels.
Long-term incentive performance targets for 2011/12
Trading profit targets for the awards made during 2011/12 were based on 
cumulative targets measured over a three-year period with a range of performance 
levels between threshold and stretch. Trading profit will be measured on a 
normalised basis over the three-year period.
Cumulative trading profit Percentage of trading profit element that vests
Less than £56.8m 0%
£56.8m 20%
£66.8m 50%
£76.8m 80%
£96.8m 100%
Pay outs for performance between each point 
calculated on a straight line basis
Long-term incentive performance targets for 2012/13
Executive directors and senior managers, together with all other employees, 
are eligible to participate in the Company’ s share schemes as operated from 
time to time.
The Committee’ s current policy for executive directors is that awards of long-term 
incentives should be made annually and consist of a mix of performance shares and 
share options. These are granted under the Performance Share Plan 2006 (PSP) and 
the Executive Share Option Plan 2009 (ESOP), respectively. The executive directors 
will receive awards under each of the plans equal to 100% of salary. Members of the 
Leadership Team will also receive awards under either one or both of the plans equal 
to 100% of salary in total.
Vesting of the awards granted in 2012/13 will be subject to achievement of 
performance conditions based on a combination of a trading profit target (as 
described on page 65) (50%) and total shareholder return (TSR) (50%) measured 
over three financial years. 
The Company’ s TSR will be compared with that of a peer group comprising FTSE 250 
companies excluding investment trusts, companies in the financial services sector 
(banks, life and non-life insurance, equity and non-equity investment trusts, financial 
services, real estate investment and services, and real estate investment trusts 
etc.) and companies in the consumer discretionary sector (general retailers, media, 
travel and leisure, and leisure goods) with opening and closing TSR values averaged 
over three months prior to the start and end of the performance period. The 
performance scale for this award is shown in the table opposite.
66
Directors and governance
Remuneration Committee report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 TSR performance against the comparators Percentage of TSR element that vests
Below median 0%
Median 25%
Between median and upper quartile 25% – 100% on a straight line basis 
Above upper quartile 100%
Other share plans
The Company operates other shares plans as follows:
— An HMRC-approved save-as-you-earn scheme, open to all eligible employees 
(including executive directors), with a 36 month savings period enabling UK 
employees to acquire shares at a price not less than 80% of the market value 
of the shares at the date of grant. The Scheme provides an international 
section to allow for the participation of Australian and German employees; 
— A US Internal Revenue Service 423 Plan with a 24 month savings period under 
which its US employees are able to acquire shares at not less than 85% of the 
market value of the shares at the date of grant; and
— A new Senior Management Performance Share Plan was approved by the Board 
during the year in order to award nil paid shares to certain senior employees 
below board level where it is not appropriate to make awards under the PSP . 
Awards under this plan can be made over market purchase shares only and are 
normally subject to different performance criteria to awards made under the PSP .
External appointments
The Board believes that it may be beneficial to the Company for executives to hold 
non-executive directorships outside the Group. Any such appointments are subject 
to approval by the Board and the director may retain any fees payable. Louise Makin 
received fees from her position at Premier Foods plc of £67,500 during the year to 
31 March 2012 (10/11: £67,500). Rolf Soderstrom does not currently hold any 
outside directorships. 
67
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors and governance Service contracts
The Company’ s policy on directors’ service contracts is that, in line with the best 
practice provisions of the Code, they should be terminable by the Company on a 
maximum of one year’ s notice, and contracts do not provide for predetermined 
compensation in the event of termination or provision for enhanced payments 
in the event of a takeover of the Company. The Company may terminate the 
contracts of the executive directors with immediate effect by making a payment 
in lieu of notice. Any payments made would be determined by reference to normal 
contractual principles with mitigation being applied as wherever relevant or 
appropriate. The directors’ contracts do not provide for automatic entitlement 
to bonus or share-based payments.
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts, but have letters of 
appointment for an initial period of three years, which may be renewed by mutual 
agreement, normally for a further three-year term. The terms of appointment provide 
for a notice period in the event of early termination of six months for the Chairman 
and three months for other non-executive directors, other than if they are not 
re-elected at an AGM.
Details of contracts and letters of appointment, for directors serving at the date of 
this report, are as set out below.
Date of Notice Date of expiry
appointment period of current contract
Executive
Louise Makin 19 October 2004 12 months N/A
Rolf Soderstrom 4 December 2008 12 months N/A
Non-executive
Garry Watts 1 January 2012 6 months 31 December 2014
Peter Chambré 26 September 2006 3 months 25 September 2012
Giles Kerr 1 October 2007 3 months 30 September 2013
Ian Much 1 August 2010 3 months 31 July 2013
Melanie Lee 29 November 2010 3 months 28 November 2013
James O’Shea 2 April 2009 3 months 1 April 2015   
1
1  Having served three years on the Board, James O’Shea’ s appointment has been extended for a further three years, subject to re-election at the AGM.
Non-executive directors’ fees
The Chairman, in consultation with the executive directors, is responsible for 
proposing changes to the non-executive directors’ fees. The Senior Independent 
Director, in consultation with the executive directors, is responsible for proposing 
changes to the Chairman’ s fees. In each case this follows advice on appropriate fee 
levels supplied by NBS. In proposing such fees, account is also taken of the time 
commitments of the Company’ s non-executive directors. The decision on fee 
changes is taken by the Board as a whole. Individual non-executive directors do not 
take part in discussions on their remuneration. Non-executive directors do not 
receive benefits or pension contributions from the Group and do not participate in 
any Group incentive scheme. 
68
Directors and governance
Remuneration Committee report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Set out in the table below are the annual fees for the year ended 31 March 2012 
and proposed fees for the year ended 31 March 2013.
As from Year ended
1 April 2012 31 March 2012
Director £ £
Chairman
1
175,000 175,000
Non-executive director 39,264 38,110
Senior independent director fee 3,000 3,000
Audit Committee chairmanship fee 6,000 6,000
Remuneration Committee chairmanship fee 6,000 6,000
1  The Chairman’ s fee relates to Garry Watts who receives a fee of £175,000 pa as from the date of his appointment on 1 January 2012. John Brown received a 
fee of £115,000 pa for the period from 1 April 2011 to his resignation on 31 December 2011.
The increase in the Chairman’ s fee followed a review of the scope of the role as part 
of the recruitment process and reflects the increasing complexity of the business 
and the amount of time Garry Watts is expected to devote to the Company. The fee is 
fixed for the first three years of his appointment. Fees for the other non-executive 
directors were increased by 3% from 1 April 2012.
Part B (audited): Directors’ emoluments, shareholdings and long-term 
incentive awards
Directors’ emoluments
Bonus Bonus Cash    2012 2011
Salary/ paid in deferred in in lieu of 2012 2011 DC pension DC pension
fees cash shares
1
pension
2
Benefits
9
Total Total contributions contributions 
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive directors        
Louise Makin
3
458 229 206 66 2 961 765 – 42
Rolf Soderstrom
4
298 149 134 24 2 607 484 43 57
Non-executive directors        
Garry Watts
5
44 –––– 44 – – –
Peter Chambré 38 – – – – 38 37 – –
Giles Kerr 47 – – – – 47 46 – –
Melanie Lee 38 – – – – 38 13 – –
Ian Much 44 – – – – 44 26 – –
James O’Shea 38 – – – – 38 37 – –
Ex-directors         
John Brown
6
144 –––– 144 100 – –
Colin Blakemore
7
–– – – – – 18 – –
William Jenkins
8
–– – – – – 43  
1,149 378 340 90 4 1,961 1,569 43 99
1 Element of bonus deferred into the DSBP .
2  The additional payments represent a cash supplement in lieu of employer pension contributions following the changes to pension legislation.
3  Pension contributions shown for Louise Makin represent amounts paid to an Executive Pension Plan for her benefit.
4  Pension contributions shown for Rolf Soderstrom represent amounts paid to a defined contribution pension scheme for his benefit.
5 Fees were paid to Garry Watts for the period from his appointment to the Board on 1 January 2012.
6  Fees were paid to John Brown for the period to his retirement from the Board on 31 December 2011. Included in his fees for 2011/12 was an additional 
sum of £57,500 paid in lieu of notice.
7  Fees were paid to Colin Blakemore for the period to his retirement from the Board on 13 July 2010.
8 Fees were paid to William Jenkins for the period to his retirement from the Board on 4 February 2011.
9  Benefits shown above for Louise Makin and Rolf Soderstrom relate principally to the provision of life assurance and medical benefits.
 10 All directors’ fees, salaries and bonuses are subject to UK income tax.
 11  As disclosed last year, in 2010/11 an administrative error was found in respect of payments made under the defined benefit pension fund to Rusi Kathoke, 
a former director. The overpayment of benefits for 2011/12 was £5,993. The additional payments will cease when he attains 65 years in December 2012. 
The additional payments are covered by contributions to the fund by the Company.
69
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors and governance Louise Makin is a member of the BTG Pension Fund. The Fund is a contracted-out 
defined benefit arrangement which provides a pension based on an accrual rate of 
either one sixtieth or one eightieth of basic salary (up to the HMRC Earnings Cap), 
depending on the level of contributions paid by members of 7% or 5% respectively. 
Members are able to retire at any time from age 60 without any actuarial reduction 
to the pension payable. Under current legislation, if members continue to work 
beyond age 60, they may continue to pay contributions and enhance their pension 
entitlement, subject to a maximum of 40 years pensionable service. Pension 
payments post retirement are increased annually by inflation for pensionable service 
earned up to 5 April 2006 and inflation subject to a ceiling of 2.5% for pensionable 
service earned after that date. Members may take early retirement, once they have 
reached 55 years of age, although any pension paid will be subject to an actuarial 
reduction. Ill-health retirements may be permitted from an earlier age subject to 
meeting certain medical conditions. In the event of the death of a member, the Fund 
provides for a spouse’ s pension to be payable equal to two-thirds of the deceased 
member’ s pension. For current active members, a lump sum death benefit equal to 
four times basic salary (up to the earnings cap) plus refund of the member’ s 
contributions is also payable.
During the year Louise Makin contributed £9,072 (10/11: £8,652) to the Fund, 
representing 7% of her salary up to the earnings cap and the Company contributed 
£26,827 (10/11: £21,136). In addition, she made contributions of £11,000 to a 
separate defined contribution Executive Pension Scheme to which the Company did 
not contribute during the year (10/11: £41,713). 
Details of the value of her individual pension entitlement and information relating to 
defined benefits available as required under the Regulations and the Listing Rules, 
are shown below:
Transfer value
of the increase
Increase Increase in accrued
in accrued in accrued pension
pension during pension during (excluding 
year ended Transfer value Transfer value year ended RPI inflation)
Accrued 31 March of accrued of accrued Increase in 31 March at 31 March
pension 2012 benefits benefits transfer value 2012 2012 less
at 31 March (including at 31 March at 31 March less directors’ (excluding RPI director’s
2012
1
inflation)
2
2012 2011 contributions
3
inflation) contributions
£££ £ ££ £
Louise Makin 15,526 p.a. 2,522 p.a. 300,671 207,968 83,631 1,793 p.a. 24,140 p.a.
1  The accrued pension at 31 March 2012 is the leaving service benefit to which Louise Makin would have been entitled to if she had left the BTG Pension Fund 
at that date.
2  This equals the accrued pension as at 31st March 2012 less the equivalent pension as at 31st March 2011 disclosed in the 2011 Annual Report.
3  This is the transfer value as at 31 March 2012 less the transfer value as at 31 March 2011 less the contributions paid by the director in the year.
70
Directors and governance
Remuneration Committee report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors’ share awards
The directors have the following interests in BTG plc shares under the Company’ s 
various plans. Full details of their holdings at the start and end of the financial year 
and at 21 May 2012 are set out below.
Louise Makin
Exercise
  price (p)/market Exercise Share
  price on date of At 1 April Granted At 31 March period/ price on
Date of grant/award award (p) 2011 in year Exercised Lapsed 2012 vesting date exercise (p)
Share options
11 Nov 2004
1
92.00 32,608 – 32,608 – – 11 Nov 2007 – 274.65
        10 Nov 2014
31 Jul 2009
2
179.25 233,974 – – – 233,974 31 Jul 2012 –
        30 Jul 2019
13 Jul 2010 201.30 216,816  – – 216,816 13 Jul 2013 – 
        12 Jul 2017
6 Jul 2011 298.90 – 163,356 – – 163,356 6 Jul 2014 –
        5 Jul 2021
Sharesave
15 Jul 2008
3
129.20 1,455 – 1,455 – – 1 Sep 2011 – 265.00
        28 Feb 2012
2 Sep 2009 146.70 2,474 – – – 2,474 1 Oct 2012 –
        31 Mar 2013
1 Sep 2010 146.67 2,454  – – 2,454 1 Sep 2013 –
        1 Mar 2014
4 Jul 2011 219.52 – 822 – – 822 1 Sep 2014 –
        1 Mar 2015
Total option awards      619,896
Performance share awards
28 May 2008
1
121.25 316,824 – 281,973 34,851 – 28 May 2011 274.65
22 Jul 2009
2
174.00 246,633 – – – 246,633 22 Jul 2012
13 Jul 2010 201.30 218,751  – – 218,751 13 Jul 2013
6 Jul 2011 286.60 – 149,831 – – 149,831 6 Jul 2014
Deferred share awards
28 May 2008
1
121.25 85,185 – 85,185 – – 28 May 2011 274.65
22 Jul 2009 174.00 105,808 – – – 105,808 22 Jul 2012
13 Jul 2010 201.30 98,386 – – – 98,386 13 Jul 2013
22 Jul 2011 286.60 – 53,288 – – 53,288 22 Jul 2014
Total other awards      872,697
Total awards      1,492,593
1  PSP awards made prior to March 2009 are subject to cumulative pre-tax profit and relative TSR performance conditions with each determining the vesting of 
50% of an award. The total gain on the exercise or vesting of share options and PSP awards in the year was £833,997.
2  Following measurement of the TSR performance condition by NBS (which placed BTG in the 4th decile against the comparators) and the measurement of the 
performance against the profit measure, the Committee approved the exercise or vesting of 187,179 shares to Louise Makin under the 2009 ESOP award and 
197,306 under the 2009 PSP award, the balance of 96,122 shares will lapse. The shares are due to vest on 22 July 2012. 
3 The aggregate gain on the exercise of sharesave options in the year was £1,976.
4 See table on page 73 for details of performance conditions for share awards.
71
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors and governance Rolf Soderstrom
Exercise
  price (p)/market Exercise Share
  price on date of At 1 April Granted At 31 March period/ price on
Date of grant/award award (p) 2011 in year Exercised Lapsed 2012 vesting date exercise (p)
Share option awards
31 Jul 2009
1
179.25 145,048 – – – 145,048 31 Jul 2012 –
        30 Jul 2019
13 Jul 2010 201.30 140,930 – – – 140,930 13 Jul 2013 –
        12 Jul 2020
6 Jul 2011 298.90 – 99,658 – – 99,658 6 Jul 2014 –
        6 Jul 2021
Total option awards      385,636
Performance share awards
22 Jul 2009
1
174.00 152,896 – – – 152,896 22 Jul 2012
13 Jul 2010 201.30 142,188  – – 142,188 13 Jul 2013
6 Jul 2011 286.60 – 103,913 – – 103,913 6 Jul 2014
Special award under LR9.4.2 R
22 Jul 2009
2
174.00 76,448 – 22,934 53,514 – 22 Jul 2011 291.60
Deferred share awards
22 Jul 2009 174.00 45,476 – – – 45,476 22 Jul 2012
13 Jul 2010
3
201.30 60,954 – – – 60,954 13 Jul 2013
22 Jul 2011 286.60 – 34,637 – – 34,637 22 Jul 2014
Total other awards      540,064
Total awards      925,700
1  Following measurement of the TSR performance condition by NBS (which placed BTG in the 4th decile against the comparators) from NBS on the TSR 
performance and the measurement of the performance against the profit measure, the Committee approved the release of 116,037 shares under the 2009 
ESOP award and 122,316 shares under the 2009 PSP award, the balance of 59,593 shares will lapse. The shares are due to vest on 22 July 2012.
2 The total gain on the release of the special award in the year was £66,875.
3 See table opposite for details of performance conditions for share awards.
72
Directors and governance
Remuneration Committee report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Performance conditions for share awards
Plan Date of award Performance measure Percentage Parameters
PSP 28 May 2008 Cumulative pre-tax profit 40% Three-year normalised pre-tax profit period 
between threshold and stretch; range 
£54m–£88m.
TSR (FTSE Small Cap) 60% Three-year comparison with index between 
median and 30% outperformance of index.
Option
PSP
31 July 2009
22 July 2009
EBITDA and TSR Combined matrix 
measure
Three-year normalised EBITDA period 
between threshold and stretch; range 
£38m–£76m and TSR range between 
1st and 10th decile.
Special 22 July 2009 EBITDA and TSR Combined matrix 
measure
Two-year normalised EBITDA period between 
threshold and stretch; range £24m–£41m 
and TSR range between 1st and 10th decile.
Option
PSP
13 July 2010
13 July 2010
Cumulative trading profit 50% Three-year normalised trading profit period 
between threshold and stretch; range 
£24m–£60m.
TSR 50% Three-year comparison with index between 
median and upper quartile.
Option
PSP
6 July 2011
6 July 2011
Cumulative trading profit 50% Three-year normalised trading profit period 
between threshold and stretch; range 
£56m–£97m.
TSR 50% Three-year comparison with index between 
median and upper quartile.
Unless otherwise stated the Company’ s TSR will be compared with that of a peer group comprising FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts, companies 
in the financial services sector (banks, life and non-life insurance, equity and non-equity investment trusts, financial services, real estate investment and services, 
and real estate investment trusts etc.) and companies in the consumer discretionary sector (general retailers, media, travel and leisure, and leisure goods.
Share options and performance shares were granted for nil consideration. The price 
used for calculating the number of shares awarded under the PSP and DSBP was 
based on average of the closing share prices over the five days immediately prior to 
the award date. Share options are awarded using the closing mid-market price on the 
date before grant. Sharesave options were granted on the condition that participants 
agreed to enter into a monthly savings contract.
Awards other than DSBP awards are normally satisfied using new issue shares. 
The Company’ s share plans comply with recommended guidelines on dilution limits 
and the Company has always operated within these limits. Assuming none of the 
extant options lapse and will be exercised and, having included all exercised options, 
the Company has utilised 3.6% of the 10% in ten years and 3.3% of the 5% in ten 
years in accordance with the Association of British Insurers (ABI) guidance on 
dilution limits.
The Committee, with advice from NBS, is responsible for assessing whether the 
relevant performance conditions have been achieved. 
73
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors and governance Directors’ shareholdings
The directors’ beneficial interests, including interests of connected persons, in the 
shares of the Company at the end of the financial year and at 18 May 2012 are 
shown below. None of the directors had any non-beneficial interest at any time in the 
period 1 April 2011 to 18 May 2012. None of the directors who held office at the 
end of the financial period had any beneficial interest in the shares of other Group 
companies.
Interest at Interest at
31 March 2012 31 March 2011
Ordinary shares 10p Ordinary shares 10p
Louise Makin 478,308 376,853
Rolf Soderstrom 90,823 79,857
Peter Chambré 3,000 3,000
The executive directors have a beneficial interest in ordinary shares of the Company 
by direct holdings and by virtue of their entitlements in the Company’ s employee 
share option schemes. As employees of the Group, all executive directors also have 
an interest in any unallocated shares held on behalf of all employees in the BTG 
Employee Share Trust, which at 31 March 2012 amounted to 715,129 ordinary 
shares in the Company. The non-executive directors are not entitled to participate 
in any of the Company’ s employee share schemes.
Alignment with shareholders
The Committee operates shareholding guidelines requiring executives to build 
and maintain a holding of Company shares worth at least 100% of salary.
Based on the shares, share options and awards held at 31 March 2012 (assuming 
full vesting and having taken account of any relevant exercise costs), the following 
table illustrates the value each executive director has at risk and how this has 
fluctuated during the year, using the lowest, highest and closing share prices for 
the year of 217.1p, 372.4p and 333.8p respectively, for illustrative purposes.
  LowestHighestClosing
  217.1p372.4p333.8p
Executive director Type of holding Number £’000 £’000 £’000
Louise Makin Shareholding 478,308 1,038 1,781 1,597
Options/awards 1,492,593 2,021 4,206 3,629
1,970,901 3,059 5,987 5,226
Rolf Soderstrom Shareholding 90,823 197 338 303
Options/awards 925,700 1,250 2,606 2,248
1,016,523 1,447 2,944 2,551
The Committee has approved the introduction of a trading plan to enable the 
executive directors to sell shares from their holdings from time-to-time. Provided 
that executive directors have achieved and continue to maintain the minimum 
level of holding required under the shareholding guidelines of 100% of basic salary, 
executive directors will be permitted to sell shares in addition to those required 
to meet their tax liabilities within a 30 day period from the announcement of the 
Company’ s results and completion of investor roadshows for any period or on 
vesting if later.
74
Directors and governance
Remuneration Committee report
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Total shareholder return
The performance of the Company’ s ordinary shares compared with the FTSE 250 
(excluding Investment Trusts) (the Index) for the five-year period ended on 31 March 
2012 is shown in the graph below.
300
31 March
2007
BTG plc
Value (£)
31 March
2008
31 March
2009
31 March
2010
31 March
2011
31 March
2012
280
260
220
200
180
240
100
120
60
80
140
160
40
FTSE 250 (excl. Investment Trusts)
Source: Thomson Reuters
This graph shows the value at 31 March 2012 of £100 invested in BTG plc on 
31 March 2007 compared with £100 invested in the Index. The other points 
plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
The Company has chosen the Index as a comparator as it believes that it gives 
shareholders a reasonable comparison with the total shareholder return (TSR) of 
other equity investments in companies of a broadly similar size across all sectors. 
The TSR performance has been measured by NBS. 
The middle market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2012 was 333.8p. 
During the year the share price ranged from a low of 217.1p to a high of 372.4p.
Directors’ interests in contracts
Except as described in note 32 on page 127 to the financial statements, ‘Related 
party transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no director or connected 
person had any material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the 
Group’ s business with a third party.
This report was approved by the Board on 18 May 2012 and signed on its behalf by
Ian Much
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
75
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors and governance The directors are responsible for 
preparing the Annual Report and 
the Group and Company financial 
statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to 
prepare Group and Company financial 
statements for each financial year. 
Under that law they are required to 
prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted 
by the EU and applicable law and have 
elected to prepare the Company financial 
statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must 
not approve the financial statements 
unless they are satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Group and Company and of their 
profit or loss for that period. In preparing 
each of the Group and Company financial 
statements, the directors are required 
to:
— Select suitable accounting policies 
and then apply them consistently;
— Make judgements and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent;
— State whether they have been 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU; and
— Prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Group and the Company will continue 
in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that 
are sufficient to show and explain the 
Company’ s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that its 
financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They have general 
responsibility for taking such steps 
as are reasonably open to them to 
safeguard the assets of the Group and 
to prevent and detect fraud and other 
irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, 
the directors are also responsible for 
preparing a compliant directors’ report, 
directors’ remuneration report and 
corporate governance statement. 
Legislation in the UK governing the 
preparation and dissemination of 
financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information 
included on the Company’ s website.
Directors’ responsibility statement 
pursuant to DTR4
We confirm that to the best of our 
knowledge:
— The financial statements, prepared 
in accordance with the applicable set 
of accounting standards, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of 
the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken 
as a whole; and
— The directors’ report includes a 
fair review of the development and 
performance of the business of the 
Group and the position of the issuer 
and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole, 
together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.
By order of the Board 
Dr Louise Makin
Chief Executive Officer
Rolf Soderstrom
Chief Financial Officer
18 May 2012 
76
Directors and governance
Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities in respect 
of the Annual Report and 
the financial statements
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 We have audited the financial 
statements of BTG plc for the year 
ended 31 March 2012 set out on 
pages 80 to 137. The financial 
reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable 
law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
EU and, as regards the Parent Company 
financial statements, as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the 
Company’ s members, as a body, in 
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of 
the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work 
has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the Company’ s members those 
matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’ s report and for no other 
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted 
by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the 
Company and the Company’ s members, 
as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have 
formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors 
and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
Responsibilities Statement set out on 
page 76, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view. Our 
responsibility is to audit, and express 
an opinion on, the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and 
International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’ s (APB’ s) Ethical Standards for 
Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial 
statements
A description of the scope of an audit of 
financial statements is provided on the 
APB’ s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/
scope/private.cfm.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
— The financial statements give a 
true and fair view of the state of the 
Group’ s and of the Parent Company’ s 
affairs as at 31 March 2012 and of 
the Group’ s profit for the year then 
ended;
— The Group financial statements have 
been properly prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
— The Parent Company financial 
statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU and as applied 
in accordance with the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006; and
— The financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006 and, as regards the Group 
financial statements, Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed 
by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
— The part of the directors’ 
remuneration report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006;
— The information given in the 
directors’ report for the financial year 
for which the financial statements 
are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements; and
— Information given in the corporate 
governance statement set out on 
pages 43 to 53 in BTG plc’ s Annual 
Report and Accounts 2012 with 
respect to internal control and risk 
management systems in relation 
to financial reporting processes 
and about share capital structures 
is consistent with the financial 
statements.
77
Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Independent auditor’s report
to the members of BTG plc
Directors and governance Matters on which we are required 
to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect 
of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our 
opinion:
— Adequate accounting records 
have not been kept by the Parent 
Company, or returns adequate for our 
audit have not been received from 
branches not visited by us; or
— The Parent Company financial 
statements and the part of the 
directors’ remuneration report to be 
audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
— Certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or
— We have not received all the 
information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
— A corporate governance statement 
has not been prepared by the 
Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required 
to review:
— The directors’ statement, set out on 
page 41, in relation to going concern;
— The part of the corporate governance 
statement on pages 43 to 53 in BTG 
plc’ s Annual Report and Accounts 
2012 relating to the Company’ s 
compliance with the nine provisions 
of the June 2010 UK Corporate 
Governance Code specified for our 
review; and
— Certain elements of the report 
to shareholders by the Board on 
directors’ remuneration. 
David Bills
(Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, 
Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
18 May 2012
78
Directors and governance
Independent auditor’s report
to the members of BTG plc
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 79
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financials
Financials
80 Consolidated income statement
81 Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income
82 Consolidated statement 
of financial position
83  Consolidated statement 
of cash flows
84 Consolidated statement 
of changes in equity
85 Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
131 Company statement 
of financial position
132  Company statement 
of cash flows
133  Company statement 
of changes in equity
134 Notes to the Company 
financial statements
138  Appendix 1: Unaudited 
pro-forma consolidated 
income statement
139  Five-year financial record
141  Shareholder information
143  Cautionary statement
144 Trade marks Consolidated income statement
Year ended 31 March 2012 Year ended 31 March 2011
Results before Acquisition Results before Acquisition
acquisition adjustments acquisition adjustments
adjustments and and adjustments and and
reorganisation reorganisation reorganisation reorganisation
costs costs Total costs costs Total
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 4 197.2 (0.2) 197.0 111.4 – 111.4
Cost of sales (54.2) (2.1) (56.3) (32.4) (1.7) (34.1)
Gross profit 4 143.0 (2.3) 140.7 79.0 (1.7) 77.3
Operating expenses:
Amortisation and impairment of acquired 
intangible assets – (30.7) (30.7) – (10.0) (10.0)
Amortisation of purchase of contractual rights 15 ––– (9.6) – (9.6)
Foreign exchange gains/(losses) 2.6 – 2.6 (2.0) – (2.0)
Selling, general and administrative expenses  (48.9) – (48.9) (33.7) – (33.7)
Operating expenses: total (46.3) (30.7) (77.0) (45.3) (10.0) (55.3)
Research and development (39.7) – (39.7) (32.1) – (32.1)
Profit on disposal of intangible assets 
and investments 5 0.2 – 0.2 1.5 – 1.5
Amounts written off property, 
plant and equipment 16 (3.0) – (3.0) –– –
Acquisition and reorganisation costs 6 – (1.1) (1.1) – (3.8) (3.8)
Amounts written off investments 7 (0.2) – (0.2) (1.4) – (1.4)
Operating profit/(loss) 8 54.0 (34.1) 19.9 1.7 (15.5) (13.8)
Financial income 10 3.6 1.1 4.7 3.1 – 3.1
Financial expense 11 (1.6) – (1.6) (0.1) – (0.1)
Profit/(loss) before tax 23.0 (10.8)
Tax (charge/credit) 12 (8.4)   20.0
Profit for the year 14.6 9.2
Basic earnings per share 13 4.5p   3.4p
Diluted earnings per share 13 4.4p   3.4p
All activity arose from continuing operations.
The notes on pages 85 to 130 form part of these financial statements. 
80
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
Note £m £m
Profit for the year 14.6 9.2
Other comprehensive income   
Foreign exchange translation differences  21 (0.3) (2.7)
Actuarial (loss)/gain on defined benefit pension plan 25 (2.9) 3.9
Change in fair value of equity securities available-for-sale  21 – (0.1)
Other comprehensive income for the year     (3.2) 1.1
Total comprehensive income for the year 11.4 10.3
The notes on pages 85 to 130 form part of these financial statements. 
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Financials
81
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 March 31 March
2012 2011
Note £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill 14 59.2 59.2
Intangible assets 15 246.0 271.0
Property, plant and equipment 16 22.0 24.8
Other investments 17 3.0 2.7
Deferred tax asset 12 1.0 0.9
Biological assets 0.3 0.3
331.5 358.9
Current assets
Inventories 18 21.8 20.0
Trade and other receivables 19 40.1 32.7
Taxation 12 – 1.0
Derivative instruments 23 0.5 2.0
Held to maturity financial assets 20 5.0 10.2
Cash and cash equivalents 20 106.9 63.7
174.3 129.6
Total assets 505.8 488.5
EQUITY
Share capital 32.7 32.7
Share premium account 188.3 188.2
Merger reserve 317.8 317.8
Other reserves 21 (4.0) (3.7)
Retained earnings (128.6) (142.7)
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent     406.2 392.3
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 5.0 7.1
Borrowings 24 – 2.9
Employee benefits 25 0.1 2.0
Deferred taxation 12 35.2 30.7
Provisions 28 1.0 1.2
41.3 43.9
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 22 55.4 50.2
Taxation 12 2.1 0.3
Provisions   28 0.8 1.8
58.3 52.3
Total liabilities 99.6 96.2
Total equity and liabilities 505.8 488.5
The notes on pages 85 to 130 form part of these financial statements. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board on 18 May 2012 and were signed on its behalf by:
Dr Louise Makin Rolf Soderstrom
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Registered No: 2670500
Consolidated statement of financial position
82
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
Note £m £m
Profit after tax for the year 14.6 9.2
Tax 8.4 (20.0)
Financial income (4.7) (3.1)
Financial expense 1.6 0.1
Operating profit/(loss) 19.9 (13.8)
Adjustments for:
  Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments  (0.2) (1.5)
Amounts written off investments 0.2 1.4
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 15 31.9 21.5
Amounts written off property, plant and equipment 16 3.0 –
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 16 3.2 2.4
Share-based payments 2.4 0.6
Pension plan funding (4.8) (3.3)
Costs of acquisition recognised in equity – (0.6)
Other 0.2 (0.3)
Cash from operations before movements in working capital  55.8 6.4
Increase in inventories (1.8) (5.4)
Increase in trade and other receivables (7.5) (6.7)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 3.0 (5.0)
Decrease in provisions (1.2) –
Cash from operations 48.3 (10.7)
Taxation paid (1.1) (1.3)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities     47.2 (12.0)
Investing activities
Interest received 0.8 0.4
Purchases of intangible assets (6.0) (10.1)
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (3.7) (11.2)
Net proceeds from disposal of investments and intangible assets  0.3 1.5
Net expenditure on investments (0.5) (0.5)
Net cash acquired from acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc  34 – 14.4
Net inflow from held to maturity financial assets 20 5.2 –
Net cash outflow from investing activities     (3.9) (5.5)
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of finance leases (0.3) (0.7)
Proceeds of share issues 0.1 0.1
Net cash from financing activities (0.2) (0.6)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 43.1 (18.1)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 63.7 82.6
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 0.1 (0.8)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year    20 106.9 63.7
The notes on pages 85 to 130 form part of these financial statements. 
Consolidated statement of cash flows
Financials
83
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Share Share Merger Other Retained Total
capital premium reserve reserves earnings equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2010 25.8 188.1 158.1 (0.9) (155.9) 215.2
Profit for the year – – – – 9.2 9.2
Foreign exchange translation differences – – – (2.7) – (2.7)
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension scheme – – – – 3.9 3.9
Change in fair value of equity securities available-for-sale – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (2.8) 13.1 10.3
Transactions with owners:
Issue of BTG plc ordinary shares – 0.1 – – – 0.1
Issued on acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc 6.9 – 159.7 – – 166.6
Movement in shares held by the Trust – – – – (0.5) (0.5)
Share-based payments – – – – 0.6 0.6
At 31 March 2011 32.7 188.2 317.8 (3.7) (142.7) 392.3
Share Share Merger Other Retained Total
capital premium reserve reserves earnings equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2011 32.7 188.2 317.8 (3.7) (142.7) 392.3
Profit for the year – – – – 14.6 14.6
Foreign exchange translation differences – – – (0.3) – (0.3)
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme – – – – (2.9) (2.9)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (0.3) 11.7 11.4
Transactions with owners:
Issue of BTG plc ordinary shares – 0.1 – – – 0.1
Share-based payments – – – – 2.4 2.4
At 31 March 2012 32.7 188.3 317.8 (4.0) (128.6) 406.2
The notes on pages 85 to 130 form part of these financial statements. 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
84
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1 General information
BTG plc (the Company) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom and listed on the London Stock 
Exchange. The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2012 comprise the results 
of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings (together referred to as the Group) and the Group’ s interest in associates.
The financial statements were approved for issue by the Board on 18 May 2012.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Group’ s accounting policies as approved by the Board 
and described below.
Accounting standards adopted in the year
No accounting standards adopted in the year have had a significant effect on the financial statements. Other amendments 
and standards have been adopted, but have had no significant effect on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
Accounting standards issued but not yet effective
The Group does not consider that any of the other standards or interpretations issued but as yet not effective will have 
a significant impact on the financial statements.
Going concern basis
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis 
in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
This conclusion has been reached having considered the effect of liquidity risk on the Group’ s ability to operate effectively. 
Currently, liquidity risk is not considered a significant business risk to the Group given its level of net cash and cash flow 
projections. The Group does not currently require significant levels of debt financing to operate its business. Further details 
of the Group’ s policies and objectives around liquidity risk are given in note 29 and are discussed in the business review on 
pages 16 to 20. The key liquidity risks faced by the Group are considered to be the failure of banks where funds are deposited 
and the failure of key licensees, distribution partners, wholesalers or insurers.
In addition to the liquidity risks considered above, the directors have also considered the following factors when reaching 
the conclusion to continue to adopt the going concern basis:
— The Group’ s principal licensees are global industry leaders in their respective fields and the Group’ s royalty-generating 
intellectual property consists of a broad portfolio of both licensees and industries;
— The Group’ s marketed products are life-saving in nature, providing some protection against an uncertain economic 
outlook; and
— The Group remains in a cash generative position for the year with cash, cash equivalents and held to maturity financial 
assets totalling £111.9m as at 31 March 2012.
Acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs
The consolidated income statement includes a separate column to disclose significant acquisition adjustments and 
reorganisation costs arising on corporate acquisitions. Adjustments relate to the acquisitions of:
— Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011; and
— Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008.
The costs relate to the following:
— The release of the fair value uplift of inventory acquired;
— Amortisation and impairment arising on intangible assets acquired;
— Transaction costs incurred with professional advisers in relation to the completion of the acquisition;
— Reorganisation costs comprising acquisition related redundancy programmes, property costs, and asset impairments; and
— Fair value adjustments to contingent consideration on corporate acquisitions.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Financials
85
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2 Significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies 
have been consistently applied to all years presented unless otherwise stated.
(a) Basis of accounting and preparation of financial statements
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (Adopted IFRSs). The consolidated financial statements also comply fully with IFRSs 
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. 
The Group financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest £0.1m except where 
otherwise indicated and have been prepared on the historical cost basis modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain 
financial instruments and business combination assets as set out below.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management 
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial 
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from 
those estimates. Judgements made by the directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect 
on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 3.
(b) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiary undertakings
Subsidiary undertakings are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, 
to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing control, 
potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The financial statements of subsidiary 
undertakings are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that 
control ceases.
(ii) Associates
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating 
policies. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’ s proportionate share of the total recognised gains and losses 
of associates on an equity-accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant 
influence ceases. When the Group’ s share of losses exceeds the carrying value of its interest in an associate, the Group’ s 
carrying amount is reduced to nil and no further losses are recognised except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or 
constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
(iii) Acquisition accounting
The purchase method is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition is measured 
as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. 
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed are measured initially at their fair values on the 
date of acquisition, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value 
of the Group’ s share of identifiable net assets, including intangible assets acquired, is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of 
acquisition is less than the fair value of the Group’ s share of net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised 
directly in the income statement.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies used into line 
with those used by the Group.
(iv) Merger reserve
A merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes 
the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006.
(v) Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements 
of foreign operations that are not integral to the operations of the Company.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
86
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2 Significant accounting policies continued
(vi) Fair value reserve
The fair value reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments. If an investment 
suffers impairment due to a prolonged or significant decline in the fair value below acquisition cost, its share of the reserve is 
recycled to the income statement and any further declines in fair value of that investment are no longer charged to the reserve 
but immediately taken to the income statement.
(vii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are 
eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are 
eliminated to the extent of the Group’ s interest in the entity. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised 
gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
(c) Operating segments
An operating segment is defined as a component of the Group (i) that engages in business activities from which it may earn 
revenues and incur expenses; (ii) whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Group’ s chief operating decision maker 
(the Leadership Team) to make resource allocation decisions and monitor its performance; and (iii) for which discrete financial 
information is available.
(d) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary 
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate 
ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary 
assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate 
at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair 
value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined. Exchange gains/losses on 
retranslation of foreign currency transactions and balances within trading intercompany balances are recognised in the income 
statement within ‘Operating expenses’.
(ii) Financial statements of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are 
translated into sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations 
are translated into sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions. Foreign 
exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in the translation reserve.
(iii) Net investment in foreign operations
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to the translation 
reserve. They are released into the income statement upon disposal of the investment.
(e) Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value and are designated as being measured at fair value through the 
income statement on inception. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income 
statement through ‘Financial income’ or ‘Financial expense’ as appropriate. 
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value 
of the quoted forward price.
(f) Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method. Goodwill represents amounts arising on the 
acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and associates. In respect of business combinations that have occurred since 1 April 
2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable assets, 
including intangible assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested 
annually for impairment (see 2(m)). In respect of associates, the carrying value of goodwill is included in the carrying value of the 
investment in the associate.
Financials
87
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2 Significant accounting policies continued
(g) Intangible assets 
(i) Initial recognition
Intangible assets acquired as a result of a business combination are initially recognised at their fair value in accordance with 
IFRS3 – ‘Business Combinations’.
Other intangible assets are initially recognised at cost. Cost includes the cost of obtaining patent protection for intellectual 
property rights, the cost of acquisition of patents and the costs of the internal patent attorney specific to obtaining the initial 
grant of a patent. Income from patents is derived through licensing and other agreements.
(ii) Amortisation
Intangible assets are amortised in a manner calculated to write off the cost, on a straight-line basis, over the effective life 
of the asset. In determining the appropriate life of the asset, consideration is given to the expected cash generating life of the 
asset or remaining patent life if different.
The effective life of each class of asset is determined as follows:
— Developed technology: expected cash generating life, taking into account specific product and market characteristics 
for each developed technology;
— Contractual relationships: period to expiry of the contract;
— In-process research and development: amortisation is not charged until the asset is generating an economic return, 
at which point the effective life is assessed by reference to the remaining patent life;
— Computer software: the shorter of the licence period and three years;
— Patents: period to patent expiry; and
— Purchase of contractual rights: period to expiry of the contract.
In the event that an intangible asset is no longer used or a patent is abandoned, the balance of unamortised expenditure 
is written off immediately. 
The following useful economic lives are applied:
Developed technology 2 to 25 years
Contractual relationships 2 to 15 years
In-process research and development  12 to 25 years
Computer software 3 years
Patents 20 years
Purchase of contractual rights 2 to 10 years
(iii) Income statement disclosure
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets is included within Operating expenses in the income statement.
(iv) Subsequent expenditure
Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future 
economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
(v) Impairment
If an intangible asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value it is written down to its estimated recoverable 
amount in accordance with the Group’ s policy on impairment (see note 2(m)). 
(h) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Owned assets
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 
(see note 2(m)). 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
88
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2 Significant accounting policies continued
(ii) Depreciation
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis to write assets down to their residual value using the 
following useful economics lives:
Buildings and improvements 10 to 20 years
Leasehold improvements 2 to 10 years
Plant and machinery 3 to 15 years 
Furniture and equipment 2 to 15 years
Motor vehicles 5 years
Computer hardware 3 to 5 years
Depreciation is not charged until the asset is brought into use. The residual value is reassessed annually. 
(iii) Income statement disclosure
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment is included within Operating expenses in the income statement.
Profits and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with the carrying amount. These are included in 
profit/(loss) on sale of property, plant and equipment in the income statement. 
(iv) Subsequent expenditure
Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of a property, plant and equipment asset is capitalised only when it is probable 
that the Group will realise future economic benefits from the asset.
(v) Impairment
If a property, plant and equipment asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value it is written down to its estimated 
recoverable amount in accordance with the Group’ s policy on impairment (see note 2(m)).
(i) Investments
Investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group, classified as being available-for-sale, are stated at fair value, with 
any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity, except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items 
such as debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses which are taken to the income statement. When these investments 
are no longer recognised as assets, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in the 
income statement. Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method is 
recognised in the income statement.
(j) Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The first in, first out method of valuation is used. Cost 
comprises materials, direct labour and a share of production overheads appropriate to the relevant stage of production. 
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate. Net realisable value is determined at the 
balance sheet date on commercially saleable products based on estimated selling price less all further costs to completion 
and all relevant marketing, selling and distribution costs. 
Inventories relating to research and development projects are fully written down in the income statement unless the Group 
considers it probable to realise economic value from their sale or use. If the circumstances that previously caused these 
inventories to be written down below cost subsequently change and there is clear evidence of an increase in realisable value, 
the write down is reversed.
(k) Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables do not carry interest and are stated at amortised cost less impairment losses (see 2(m)).
Financials
89
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2 Significant accounting policies continued
(l) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and 
form an integral part of the Group’ s cash management and for which the Group has a legal right of set-off are included 
as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Cash deposits with a maturity of greater than three months are classified as held to maturity financial assets.
(m) Impairment
Impairment testing is performed for all assets when there is an indicator of impairment.
In addition, for goodwill and unamortised intangible assets, impairment testing is performed both in the year of acquisition 
and annually at each balance sheet date. An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its 
cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. 
Other specific categories of asset are treated as follows:
(i) Equity investments
Impairment is deemed to arise when there is a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the equity instrument. 
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
(ii) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date and whenever there are events that 
indicate that an impairment may have occurred. An impairment loss is recognised if an asset’ s carrying amount exceeds the 
greater of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell. Impairment losses are recognised within Operating expenses in the 
income statement.
(iii) Amortised intangible assets
Amortised intangible assets are also tested for impairment whenever there are indications that the carrying value may 
not be recoverable. Intangible assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows. 
Any impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement. When assessing the recoverable amount 
of an intangible asset the Group uses a risk adjusted discounted cash flow model.
(iv) Available-for-sale assets
When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective 
evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income 
statement. The amount of the cumulative loss that is recognised in the income statement is the difference between the 
acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income 
statement.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale is not reversed through 
the income statement. If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can 
be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment 
loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in the income statement.
(n) Government grants
Government grants towards staff retraining costs are recognised as income over the periods in which the related costs 
are incurred and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income 
statement over the useful lives of the assets concerned.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
90
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2 Significant accounting policies continued
(o) Employee benefits
(i) Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as 
incurred. Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with in the same manner as payments to 
defined contribution plans where the Group’ s obligations under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution retirement 
benefit plan. The funds of the schemes are independent of the Group’ s finances.
(ii) Defined benefit plan
For the Group’ s defined benefit pension plan, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, 
with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Allowance is made in the assessment of the defined 
benefit obligation for future costs of administering the scheme. The assumptions used to determine the valuation are shown 
in note 25. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. Actuarial gains and losses are 
recognised outside the income statement and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits have already vested, and otherwise is amortised 
on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, 
reduced by the fair value of plan assets. The retirement benefit obligation includes an allowance for future administrative costs 
of running the plan. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available 
refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Assets of the pension plan are held separately from the Group’ s assets. 
(iii) Share-based payments
In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS1 (First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards), 
IFRS2 (Share-based Payments) has been applied to all share-based grants made to employees after 7 November 2002 that 
had not vested as of 1 January 2005.
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company, subject to certain criteria. The fair 
value of options granted is recognised as an expense of employment in the income statement with a corresponding increase 
in equity. The fair value is measured at the date of grant and spread over the period during which the employees become 
unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value of the options granted is measured using a binomial lattice model, taking 
into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense in any year 
is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest. However if share options fail to vest due to share prices 
not achieving the designated performance threshold for vesting, no such adjustment takes place.
(p) Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result 
of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect 
is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current 
market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are 
lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
A charge for reorganisation costs is taken to the income statement when the Group has approved a detailed and formal 
reorganisation plan, and the reorganisation has either commenced or the Group has a constructive obligation, for example 
having made an announcement publicly to the employee or the Group as a whole.
Financials
91
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2 Significant accounting policies continued
(q) Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost except for the contingent value note 
and other contingent considerations which are recognised at fair value.
(r) Revenue recognition
Revenue represents amounts received or receivable in respect of the sale of marketed products to customers during the 
year, net of trade discounts given and value added tax, and in respect of royalty arrangements.
A description of the various elements of revenue and the associated accounting policies is given below:
(i) Marketed products 
The Group recognises revenue for marketed product sales when each condition of IAS18, paragraph 14 is wholly satisfied. 
Where sales arrangements specify a second element of revenue contingent upon a specified event, this revenue is not 
recognised until this event has occurred and it is certain that the economic benefit triggered by this event will flow to the Group. 
In cases where product is sold to a customer with a right of replacement, the Group views the transaction as a multi-element 
arrangement and a portion of the value from the sale is deferred and allocated to the replacement right based on the fair value 
of the replacement right. Revenue is recognised net of any trade discounts that may be given from time-to-time.
(ii) Royalties
Revenues from the Group’ s licensed programmes are generated following the grant of a licence to a third party to undertake 
additional development and commercialisation of a research and development programme or other intellectual property rights. 
In addition to an upfront payment, BTG may be entitled to additional revenues such as milestone payments or royalties on 
revenues generated by the licensee. Revenues associated with royalty arrangements may in turn be linked to additional 
obligations on BTG. These revenues are accounted for in line with IAS18 as follows:
Upfront and milestone payments
Non-refundable upfront and milestone payments are recognised as the earnings process is completed. This may result in full 
recognition in the year in which the income is received. However, where the Group has ongoing performance obligations such 
as the delivery of products or services, upfront payments are deferred over the period in which these obligations are satisfied. 
Associated costs of performance obligations are expensed in the period to which they relate. In determining the performance 
obligations under the contract, consideration is given as to whether elements of the obligations meet the criteria for separate 
accounting. The Group applies the substantive milestone method in accounting for subsequent milestone payments. Milestone 
payments that are considered substantive are recognised into income in the year in which they are received. Milestones that do 
not satisfy the criteria to be considered as substantive are amortised over the remaining period in which the Group expects to 
fulfil its performance obligations under the agreement. The Group considers the following when assessing whether a milestone 
is considered substantive:
— Are the milestone payments non-refundable?
— Does the achievement of the milestone involve a degree of risk that was not reasonably assured at the inception 
of the arrangement?
— Is substantive effort involved in achieving the milestone?
— Is the amount of the milestone payment reasonable in relation to the effort expended or the risk associated with 
the achievement of the milestone? 
— How does the time that passes between the payments compare to the effort required to reach the milestone?
Outlicensed product royalties 
Royalty income is generated by sales of products incorporating the Group’ s proprietary technology. Royalty revenues are 
recognised once the amounts due can be reliably estimated based on the sale of underlying products and recoverability 
is assured. Where there is insufficient historical data on sales and returns to fulfil these requirements, for example in the 
case of a new product, the royalty revenue will not be recognised until the Group can reliably estimate the underlying sales. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
92
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2 Significant accounting policies continued
(iii) Sales/assignments of IPR
Outright sales or assignments of IPR are treated as disposals of non-current assets.
(iv) Revenues received in relation to development programmes
Revenue received in relation to development programmes is recognised based on the percentage of completion of the 
programme. Where payments may be earned in such programmes based on the achievement of uncertain milestones, revenue 
is restricted to the cumulative cash receivable for the programme.
(s) Research and development
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred. Expenditure 
incurred on development projects (relating to the design and testing of new or improved products) is recognised as intangible 
assets when it is probable that the project will generate future economic benefit, considering factors including its commercial 
and technological feasibility, status of regulatory approval, and the ability to measure costs reliably. Other development 
expenditures are recognised as an expense as incurred. Development expenditure previously recognised as an expense 
is not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period. Development expenditure that has a finite useful life and which has 
been capitalised is amortised from the commencement of the commercial production of the product on a straight-line basis 
over the period of its expected benefit. 
No development expenditure has been capitalised in either the current or prior year.
Property, plant and equipment used for research and development is depreciated in accordance with the Group’ s policy 
and the cost is included within ‘Research and development’ in the income statement.
(t) Cost of sales
Cost of sales includes the direct costs incurred in manufacturing and bringing products to sale in the market and revenue 
sharing costs.
Revenue sharing costs represent amounts due under royalty arrangements to licensors or assignees of technology and similar 
directly attributable items. Amounts are recognised upon recognition by the Group of amounts due from a licensee. They are 
recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the individual agreements relating to the relevant technology, in line with 
revenue recognition.
(u) Leases
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards 
of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present 
value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liability to the lessor 
is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and 
reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance 
charges are charged directly against income. Such assets are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives 
or the length of the lease. Assets purchased under hire purchase agreements are accounted for similarly, except that these 
assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant 
lease within the appropriate functional expenditure heading.
(v) Net financial income
Net financial income comprises interest income less interest payable during the year, calculated using the effective interest 
rate method, and fair value adjustments relating to foreign exchange forward contracts, contingent considerations payable 
upon corporate and non-corporate acquisitions and borrowings.
Financials
93
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2 Significant accounting policies continued
(w) Income tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income 
statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at 
the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying value 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following temporary 
differences are not provided for: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or 
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting 
profit nor taxable profit or loss; and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries 
and associates, where it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying value 
of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against 
which the asset can be utilised.
(x) BTG Employee Share Trust
Included within the Group’ s financial results are those of the BTG Employee Share Trust, the costs of which are expensed 
within the financial statements of the Trust as incurred.
In the Company accounts, the cost of BTG shares held by the Trust is deducted from shareholders’ funds.
(y) Financial guarantees
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its 
Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the 
Company treats the guarantee contracts as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company 
will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
(z) Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently carried at 
amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognised in 
the statement of comprehensive income over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate.
(aa) Biological assets
Biological assets are recognised when the asset is controlled by the Group and it is probable future economic benefit will arise 
from activities associated with the asset. Biological assets are measured at fair value less estimated point-of-sale costs. 
Any gains or losses in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
3  Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
Critical accounting judgements
In the process of applying the Group’ s accounting policies, described in note 2, management and the Audit Committee 
discussed and agreed the selection, application and disclosure of the Group’ s critical accounting policies and the estimates 
used in the preparation of the accounts.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
94
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3  Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
Revenue recognition
As described in note 2, it is the Group’ s policy to recognise non-refundable upfront payments over the period in which any 
performance obligations are satisfied. On 4 December 2008, the Group acquired Protherics which had received £16.3m from 
AstraZeneca UK Ltd in a Patent and know-how Licence Agreement for AZD9773 (CytoFab™). The Group considers that its 
obligations under the licence agreement consist of the licence, provision of development services, regulatory support and 
steering committee participation. The Group considers that the development services and the regulatory support it can supply 
will cease with the approval of AZD9773 (CytoFab™) by the FDA and while the steering committee continues to operate after 
product approval by the FDA, the Group has received confirmation that its participation after this date would become voluntary. 
Based on the clinical development plan to be undertaken by AstraZeneca, the Group currently estimates that its performance 
under the agreement will be completed over the period to 31 December 2015 and, therefore, is recognising the £16.3m on a 
straight-line basis, over the estimated performance period. 
In determining the revenue recognition period, management considered the detailed criteria for the recognition of revenue per 
IAS18, Revenue, and is satisfied that all requirements have been met by the Group.
Acquisitions
Judgements have been made in respect of the identification of intangible assets made on acquisitions based on pre-acquisition 
forecasts, analysis and negotiations. In addition to the judgements and estimates made in establishing the intangible assets 
acquired and their value, in certain instances these assets are in development and are only amortised once the development 
phase has been completed, although these assets are subjected to impairment review in accordance with the accounting policy 
described in note 2(m).
In addition to significant fair value adjustments in relation to intangible assets, the Group has recognised other fair value 
adjustments on assets and liabilities acquired. Each adjustment has been calculated in line with the requirements of IFRS3 
(revised). The most significant of these relate to:
— Inventory; where inventory acquired has been uplifted in value to be held at estimated selling price less costs to complete, 
costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance; and
— Deferred tax; where estimates of deferred tax liabilities arising on acquired intangible assets have been recognised. Where 
appropriate an associated deferred tax asset, representing management’ s estimation of the value of tax losses that would 
be available to the Group to offset the deferred tax liability (see below), has also been recognised.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that 
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial 
year, are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles
Determining whether goodwill and other intangibles are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-
generating units to which goodwill or other intangible assets have been allocated. The value in use calculation requires 
estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order 
to calculate present value. There is a risk of a material adverse impact on the income statement should an impairment 
adjustment be required to be reflected in the financial statements. See note 2(m) for further details.
Fair value of listed and unlisted investments 
Note 17 explains the basis for estimating the fair value of listed and unlisted investments. 
Pension assumptions
Note 25 details the key actuarial assumptions used to establish the pension funding position. These represent management’ s 
best estimates and are chosen based on historic experience and future expectations. Should the discount rate used to 
establish scheme liabilities or the long-term expected rate of return on investment vary significantly then the pension fund 
valuation would be impacted.
Financials
95
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3  Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
Deferred tax
The Group has significant deferred tax assets principally in relation to losses in the US and the UK. The assets have been 
recognised on the basis that management estimates demonstrate that it is more likely than not that future taxable profit 
will arise in the jurisdictions in which the losses are available. If actual events differ from management’ s estimates or the 
estimates are changed in the future, this could have a significant effect on the balance sheet net asset position of the Group. 
In recognising deferred tax assets and liabilities, management has taken into account expected changes in tax rates in each 
relevant jurisdiction.
4 Operating segments
Following the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011, subsequent integration activities have 
resulted in a change to the Group’ s reportable segments, effective from 1 April 2011. The Group has aligned behind three 
reportable segments, being Specialty Pharmaceuticals, Interventional Medicine and Licensing & Biotechnology. 
In assessing performance and making resource allocation decisions, the Leadership Team (which is BTG’ s chief operating 
decision-making body) reviews contribution by segment. Contribution is defined as being gross profit less directly attributable 
selling, general and administrative costs (SG&A). The Licensing & Biotechnology operating segment includes SG&A relating 
to the Group’ s centrally managed support functions and corporate overheads. This reflects the management structure and 
stewardship of the business. No allocation of central overheads is made across the Specialty Pharmaceuticals or Interventional 
Medicine operating segments. Research and development continues to be managed on a global basis, with investment 
decisions being made by the Leadership Team as a whole. It is not managed by reference to the Group’ s operating segments, 
though each programme within the pipeline would ultimately provide revenues for one of the operating segments if successful.
There are no inter-segment transactions that are required to be eliminated on consolidation.
Prior period comparative numbers are presented in accordance with the new segmental reporting.
Year ended 31 March 2012
Specialty Interventional Licensing &
Pharmaceuticals Medicine Biotechnology Total
  £m £m £m £m
Revenue 76.7 28.7 91.6 197.0
Cost of sales
1
(18.7) (8.6) (29.0) (56.3)
Gross profit 58.0 20.1 62.6 140.7
Selling, general and administrative expenses (18.6) (13.3) (17.0) (48.9)
Contribution 39.4 6.8 45.6 91.8
Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles  (30.7)
Foreign exchange gains 2.6
Research and development (39.7)
Amounts written off property, plant and equipment (3.0)
Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments  0.2
Acquisition and reorganisation costs (1.1)
Amounts written off investments (0.2)
Operating profit 19.9
Financial income 4.7
Financial expense (1.6)
Profit before tax 23.0
Tax (8.4)
Profit for the year 14.6
Unallocated assets 505.8
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
96
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 4 Operating segments continued
Year ended 31 March 2011
Specialty Interventional Licensing &
Pharmaceuticals Medicine Biotechnology Total
  £m £m £m £m
Revenue  35.4 5.6 70.4 111.4
Cost of sales
1
  (8.8) (2.9) (22.4) (34.1)
Gross profit  26.6 2.7 48.0 77.3
Selling, general and administrative expenses (15.8) (2.5) (15.4) (33.7)
Contribution  10.8 0.2 32.6 43.6
Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles  (10.0)
Amortisation of repurchase of contractual rights (9.6)
Foreign exchange losses (2.0)
Research and development (32.1)
Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments  1.5
Acquisition and reorganisation costs (3.8)
Amounts written off investments (1.4)
Operating loss (13.8)
Financial income 3.1
Financial expense (0.1)
Loss before tax (10.8)
Tax 20.0
Profit for the year 9.2
Unallocated assets 488.5
1  2012 includes a £2.1m (10/11: £1.7m) release of the fair value uplift of inventory purchased on the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc on 
27 January 2011 within the Interventional Medicine segment representing the reversal of a fair value uplift of inventory purchased on acquisition recognised 
through the income statement when the product was sold.
Revenue analysis
Analysis of revenue, based on the geographical location of customers and the source of revenue is provided below:
Geographical analysis
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
USA 168.1 96.2
UK 10.0 9.3
Europe (excluding UK) 15.1 5.0
Other regions 3.8 0.9
197.0 111.4
Financials
97
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 4 Operating segments continued
Revenue from major products and services
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Product sales 106.7 41.2
Royalties 79.2 60.3
Other 11.1 9.9
197.0 111.4
Major customers
Products that utilise the Group’ s intellectual property rights are sold by licensees. Royalty income is derived from over 
70 licences. Two licences individually generated royalty income in excess of 10% of Group revenue, being £29.4m and 
£24.4m respectively (10/11: Two licences generated £28.7m and £12.4m respectively).
The Group’ s marketed products are sold both directly and through several distribution agreements in the USA, Europe and 
Asia Pacific region. Two wholesalers individually generated income in excess of 10% of Group revenue, being £22.3m and 
£21.9m respectively (10/11: One distribution agreement generated £12.4m).
5 Profit on disposal of intangible assets and investments 
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Profit on disposal of patents
1
0.2 1.5
1 The prior year profit is shown net of £1.8m to be shared with the inventive source.
Loss relief has absorbed the tax due in respect of the profit on disposals.
6  Acquisition and reorganisation costs 
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
BTG plc and Biocompatibles International plc costs 1.1 3.8
The Group considers ‘Acquisition and reorganisation costs’ to include transaction costs of completing the acquisition and those 
costs resulting directly from decisions to rationalise both operating sites and business operations. In the prior year transaction 
costs of £3.0m were expensed in relation to the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc.
7 Amounts written off investments
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Amounts written off investments 0.2 1.4
In the prior year an impairment charge of £1.4m was recognised in the consolidated income statement in relation to one of the 
Group’ s equity investments in an unlisted drug development company.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
98
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 8 Operating profit/(loss)
Year ended 31 March 2012 Year ended 31 March 2011
Existing  Continuing Existing  Continuing
operations Acquisitions operations operations Acquisitions operations
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 197.0 – 197.0 105.4 6.0 111.4
Cost of sales
1
(56.3) – (56.3) (31.1) (3.0) (34.1)
Gross profit 140.7 – 140.7 74.3 3.0 77.3
Operating expenses (77.0) – (77.0) (52.8) (2.5) (55.3)
Research and development (39.7) – (39.7) (30.6) (1.5) (32.1)
Profit on disposal of assets and investments 0.2 – 0.2 1.5 – 1.5
Amounts written off property, plant and equipment (3.0) – (3.0) –– –
Acquisition and reorganisation costs (1.1) – (1.1) (3.8) – (3.8)
Amounts written off investments (0.2) – (0.2) (1.4) – (1.4)
Operating profit/(loss) 19.9 – 19.9 (12.8) (1.0) (13.8)
1  In accordance with IFRS3 Revised, Business Combinations, inventory acquired upon corporate acquisitions has been adjusted to fair value to reflect the profit 
earned based on the stage of manufacture at the date of acquisition (see note 34). During the year £2.1m (10/11: £1.7m) of fair value adjustments was 
incorporated within the cost of sales as the inventory was sold to customers.
Operating profit/(loss) has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
Note £m £m
Depreciation and other amounts written off property, plant and equipment  16 6.2 2.4
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 15 31.9 21.5
Amounts written off investments 7 0.2 1.4
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses (2.6) 2.0
Research and development expenses 39.7 32.1
Staff costs 9 40.6 26.8
Operating lease rentals payable on property 1.9 1.3
Operating lease rentals receivable on property – (0.3)
Reorganisation costs, including release of onerous lease provision  6 1.1 3.8
The analysis of the auditor’ s remuneration is as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
The auditing of accounts of any associate of the company  418 448
Audit related assurance services 50 433
Taxation compliance services 46 47
All services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed 
to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates  – 380
All other non audit services – 21
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 54 to 58 and includes an explanation of how auditor 
objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
Financials
99
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Staff costs 
Staff costs (including directors’ emoluments and reorganisation costs) are as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Salaries 32.8 21.6
Social security costs 3.3 2.1
Defined contribution pension costs 1.7 1.3
Defined benefit pension costs 0.4 0.7
Equity-settled transactions 2.4 1.1
40.6 26.8
Staff costs in the year ended 31 March 2011 include those relating to Biocompatibles International plc for the period from 
acquisition to the end of the financial year, being approximately 2 months. 
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Remuneration 
Report on pages 61 to 75. In addition to the disclosures in the Remuneration Report, the charge to income in respect of 
equity-settled transactions of key management personnel, in accordance with IFRS2, was £0.9m (10/11: £0.6m).
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year (including executive directors), analysed by category, 
was as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
Number Number
Management 50 36
Research and production 312 213
Administration and business support 136 82
498 331
Staff numbers in the year ended 31 March 2011 include those relating to Biocompatibles International plc for the period from 
acquisition to the end of the financial year, being approximately 2 months. 
10 Financial income
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Interest receivable on money-market and bank deposits  0.7 0.4
Fair value changes on Contingent Value Notes
1
     1.1 –
Fair value changes of borrowings
2
2.9 –
Fair value changes of foreign exchange forward contracts  – 2.7
     4.7 3.1
1 Contingent Value Notes
As part of BTG’ s acquisition of Biocompatibles on 27 January 2011, 487 Biocompatibles shareholders elected to receive 
in aggregate 10,722,465 Contingent Value Notes (CVNs) providing a right to a payment of the Sterling equivalent of €0.56 per 
Biocompatibles share if AstraZeneca exercised its option to enter into a licence agreement relating to CM-3 on the pre-agreed 
terms. As a result of AstraZeneca’ s decision to terminate the development and option agreement (see note 15), it is highly unlikely 
that any payment will be made in relation to the CVNs. The payment obligation would only now arise if BTG enters into another form 
of licence, sale or other disposal of the GLP-1 asset to AstraZeneca prior to 31 December 2012. The BTG Board does not believe 
that there is any realistic possibility that this will occur . Accordingly, the Group has derecognised a liability of £1.1m in relation 
to the CVN through the income statement in financial income in the acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs column.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
100
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 10 Financial income continued
2 Borrowings
Following the withdrawal of the Novabel® product from the market, termination of the supply agreement with Merz and 
subsequent impairments recognised within property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, the Group has derecognised 
a £2.8m loan from Merz as there is no obligation for this to be repaid. The loan was received to fund the purchase of property, 
plant and equipment for use in the manufacture of Novabel® and was repayable out of revenues.
11 Financial expense
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Interest payable on finance lease and hire purchase borrowings  – 0.1
Fair value changes of foreign exchange forward contracts  1.5 –
Others 0.1 –
1.6 0.1
12  Tax
An analysis of the tax charge/(credit) for the year, all relating to current operations, is as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Current tax
UK corporation tax charge 2.8 –
Overseas corporate tax charge 0.9 0.2
Overseas income tax – 1.4
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 –
Total current tax 3.9 1.6
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax 5.3 (5.8)
Reduction in UK tax rate (0.8) 2.8
Deferred tax recognised following US reorganisation – (18.6)
Total tax charge/(credit) for the year 8.4 (20.0)
UK corporation tax is calculated at 26% (10/11: 28%) of the estimated taxable profit for the year. Taxation for other jurisdictions 
is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Financials
101
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 12 Tax continued
Reconciliation of the effective tax rate:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Profit/(loss) before tax 23.0 (10.8)
Tax using UK corporation tax rate of 26% (10/11: 28%)  5.9 (3.0)
Effect of overseas tax rates 2.9 (1.2)
Overseas withholding tax – 1.4
Unrecognised losses 0.5 (0.7)
Non-deductible expenses 0.3 1.5
Additional tax credit for research and development expenditure  (0.6) (0.6)
Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets 1.6 (20.2)
Adjustment to tax rates (0.8) 2.8
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1.4) –
8.4 (20.0)
An analysis of amounts included in the consolidated statement of financial position in respect of income taxes is shown below:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Current assets
UK corporation tax receivable – 1.0
Current liabilities
UK corporation tax payable 0.9 –
Overseas corporate tax payable 1.2 0.2
Overseas tax payable on royalties – 0.1
2.1 0.3
Deferred taxation
The movements in the deferred tax asset and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as 
permitted by IAS12, Income Taxes) during the year are as shown below. The deferred tax asset and liabilities are only offset 
where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balance net.
Deferred tax asset
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Deferred tax asset recognised at 1 April 0.9 0.6
Income statement credit 0.1 0.2
Exchange differences – 0.1
Deferred tax asset recognised at 31 March 1.0 0.9
The deferred tax asset relates to short-term timing differences in Australia. It has been recognised using a tax rate of 30% 
(10/11: 30%) because the directors are of the opinion, based on recent and forecast trading, that the level of profits in Australia 
in the forthcoming years will lead to the realisation of this asset.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
102
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 12 Tax continued
Deferred tax liability
The deferred tax liability of £35.2m (10/11: £30.7m) represents the net position after taking into account the offset of deferred 
tax assets against deferred tax liabilities in each jurisdiction. Deferred tax liabilities of £72.7m arise on intangible assets 
recognised at fair value on acquisitions and £0.4m on accelerated capital allowances. Deferred tax assets relate to brought 
forward trading losses. The table below summarises the gross and net position at each balance sheet date:
   DeferredDeferredNet deferred
tax assets tax liabilities tax liability
   £m £m £m
At 1 April 2010 15.0 (48.4) (33.4)
Acquisitions 19.1 (39.5) (20.4)
Income statement credit/(debit) 22.1 (0.7) 21.4
Exchange differences   (0.8) 2.5 1.7
At 1 April 2011 55.4 (86.1) (30.7)
Adjustments re prior years (1.4) 2.8 1.4
Income statement credit/(debit) (16.2) 9.9 (6.3)
Exchange differences 0.1 (0.1) –
Other – 0.4 0.4
At 31 March 2012 37.9 (73.1) (35.2)
In the prior year the Group recognised an additional deferred tax asset of £18.6m in relation to brought forward US tax losses. 
In accordance with IAS12, this asset was set off against the Group’ s aggregate US deferred tax liability. The asset was 
recognised following the completion of a tax-free reorganisation of certain of the Group’ s US taxable entities on 31 March 2011. 
As a result of this, when performing its annual assessment of the probability of utilising such losses, management concluded 
that there was sufficient certainty over the future utilisation of the losses to recognise a deferred tax asset.
The 2012 Budget on 21 March 2012 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 22% by 2014. A reduction in the 
rate from 26% to 25% (effective from 1 April 2012) was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011, and a further reduction to 24% 
(effective from 1 April 2012) was substantively enacted on 26 March 2012. This will reduce the Group’ s future current tax 
charge accordingly. The UK deferred tax asset and liability at 31 March 2012 has been calculated based on the rate of 24% 
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. It has not yet been possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of the 
announced further 2% rate reduction, although this will further reduce the Group’ s future current tax charge and reduce the 
Group’ s deferred tax asset and liability accordingly. 
Unrecognised tax losses
In addition to the losses on which a deferred tax asset has been recognised, the Group has additional tax losses and other 
timing differences in the UK and the US which arose as a result of the research and development incurred during the start 
up of the Group’ s activities. These losses and timing differences are shown below. The UK tax losses can be carried forward 
indefinitely. The US tax losses can be carried forward for 20 years and the first year in which they expire is 2013. A deferred 
tax asset has not been recognised in respect of the losses and timing differences shown below as there is uncertainty as 
to whether such losses and timing differences can be used. The total amount of tax losses and timing differences not 
recognised is shown below:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Tax losses 157.4 180.4
Deductible temporary differences 15.9 12.2
173.3 192.6
Financials
103
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Earnings per share
The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
Profit for the financial year (£m) 14.6 9.2
Profit per share (p)
Basic 4.5 3.4
Diluted 4.4 3.4
Number of shares (m)
Weighted average number of shares – basic 325.9 268.5
Effect of share options on issue 3.4 2.5
Weighted average number of shares – diluted 329.3 271.0
The basic and diluted earnings per share from underlying earnings are based on the following data:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
Profit for the financial year (£m) 14.6 9.2
Add back:
Fair value adjustment on acquired inventory
1
     2.1 1.7
Fair value adjustment on royalty income 0.1 –
Amortisation of acquired intangible fixed assets
2
     19.3 6.6
Acquisition and reorganisation costs including CVN write back
3
(0.1) 3.8
Reorganisation of US corporate structure
4
     1.0 (18.6)
Underlying earnings 37.0 2.7
Underlying profit per share (p)
Basic 11.4 1.0
Diluted 11.2 1.0
Adjustments to profit are shown after taking into account the tax effect of such adjustments on the results as shown in the 
consolidated income statement as follows:
1 No tax adjustment is required on the fair value of acquired inventory.
2  The release of deferred tax liability of £11.4m (10/11: £3.4m) has been deducted from the amortisation and impairment 
of acquired intangible assets of £30.7m (10/11: £10.0m) as shown in the consolidated income statement.
3  In the year ended 31 March 2012, £0.1m of tax effect of reorganisation costs has been adjusted on the basis that the 
tax charge would have been £0.1m higher had it not been for deductions available against reorganisation costs paid 
in the financial year. In the year ended 31 March 2011 a reorganisation cost of £3.8m in the consolidated income 
statement was not adjusted for tax as there was no expectation of the costs being deductible for tax in that financial year.
4  An adjustment was made for the deferred tax credit recognised as a result of the completion of a tax-free reorganisation 
in the prior year and subsequent review of such items in the current year.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
104
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14 Goodwill
£m
At 1 April 2010 30.3
Additions 28.9
At 1 April 2011 59.2
Additions –
At 31 March 2012 59.2
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 April 2010, 1 April 2011 and 31 March 2012 –
Net book value at 31 March 2012 59.2
Net book value at 1 April 2011 59.2
Net book value at 1 April 2010 30.3
Additions of £28.9m in the year ended 31 March 2011 relate to the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc on 
27 January 2011 (see note 34).
Impairment review – goodwill and intangible assets
An impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill and unamortised intangible assets was conducted as at 31 March 2012. 
Goodwill arose on the acquisitions of Protherics PLC and Biocompatibles International plc (see note 34). This has been allocated 
across the Group’ s cash generating units, being its operating segments (see note 4). Goodwill recognised on acquisitions has 
been allocated across operating segments in proportion to the anticipated benefits of that goodwill on the operating segment, 
having regard for the assets and liabilities acquired. The carrying value of goodwill has been allocated as relating to Specialty 
Pharmaceuticals, £16.4m (10/11: £16.4m), as relating to Interventional Medicine, £22.6m (10/11: £22.6m) and in relation 
to Licensing & Biotechnology, £20.1m (10/11: £20.1m). Prior period comparative numbers are presented in accordance with 
the new segmental reporting.
The impairment review required the estimation of the recoverable amount based on the value in use of the underlying cash 
generating unit. Near-term projections are based on the Group’ s approved three-year plan. Longer term projections through 
to the end of an asset’ s estimated useful economic life are included due to the long-term nature of pharmaceutical product 
development and product life cycles. 
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were based include market share and gross margin for the marketed 
products, individual probability-adjusted cash flow models for all in-process research and development and an assessment 
of the net present value of future net royalty income for licensed patents. 
Cash flow projections for all assets were included for a period equal to the estimated useful economic life of the assets. 
No terminal values were applied. All cash flows were discounted back to present value using a pre-tax discount rate of between 
7% (10/11: 7%) for net royalty income and 28% (10/11: 28%) for in-process research and development, which takes into 
account the individual risk characteristics of each particular asset and related income stream.
For developed technology, the Group uses its approved three-year plan for its near-term sales projections, adjusting for expected 
changes in future conditions, including those anticipated as a result of our knowledge of competitor activity and our assessment 
of future changes in the pharmaceutical industry for long-term projections. 
For contractual relationships, the Group uses the same basic methodology as for developed technology but limits the projection 
period to the appropriate useful economic life of the contractual relationship.
Financials
105
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14 Goodwill continued
For in-process research and development the key assumptions are the chance of product launch, market share and overall 
market size. Industry average statistics are used to assess the chance of product launch, taking into account the stage
of development of the asset, the therapeutic area targeted and any known specific characteristics of the asset. Market share 
and overall market size are assessed by reference to independent industry market reports.
In assessing whether there has been an impairment, the net present value of future cash flows is compared to the carrying 
value in the accounts.
15 Intangible assets
In-process Purchase
Developed Contractual research and Computer of contractual
technologyrelationshipsdevelopment software Patents rights Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2010 117.4 35.2 7.7 – 13.0 – 173.3
Additions – – – – 0.4 9.7 10.1
Acquired with Biocompatibles 118.8 6.7 11.0 0.3 – – 136.8
Disposals – – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Currency movements (6.0) (1.9) 0.1 – (0.1) (0.2) (8.1)
At 1 April 2011 230.2 40.0 18.8 0.3 13.2 9.5 312.0
Additions – – – 0.3 0.3 6.1 6.7
Transfers 3.9 – (3.9) – – – –
Disposals – – – – (0.2) – (0.2)
Currency movements – 0.1 (0.1) – – 0.1 0.1
At 31 March 2012 234.1 40.1 14.8 0.6 13.3 15.7 318.6
Amortisation
At 1 April 2010 6.3 5.4 0.8 – 8.1 – 20.6
Provided during the year 6.2 3.8 0.1 – 0.6 9.6 20.3
Impairments – – – – 1.2 – 1.2
Write back on disposals – – – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Currency movements (0.5) (0.4) – – – (0.1) (1.0)
At 1 April 2011 12.0 8.8 0.9 – 9.8 9.5 41.0
Provided during the year 12.3 4.7 – 0.1 0.6 0.1 17.8
Impairments 5.0 – 8.8 – 0.3 – 14.1
Write back on disposals – – – – (0.2) – (0.2)
Currency movements (0.2) – – – 0.1 – (0.1)
At 31 March 2012 29.1 13.5 9.7 0.1 10.6 9.6 72.6
Net book value
At 31 March 2012 205.0 26.6 5.1 0.5 2.7 6.1 246.0
At 1 April 2011 218.2 31.2 17.9 0.3 3.4 – 271.0
At 1 April 2010 111.1 29.8 6.9 – 4.9 – 152.7
Amortisation relating to acquired intangibles is shown on the face of the income statement within ‘Amortisation of acquired 
intangibles’. All other amortisation and impairment is shown within ‘Selling, general and administrative expenses’ in ‘Operating 
expenses’.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
106
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15 Intangible assets continued
Developed technology
Developed technology relates to both the antidote assets acquired in Protherics PLC, comprising principally of the rights 
to CroFab® and DigiFab® , and the bead assets acquired in Biocompatibles International plc, comprising principally of the rights 
to the DC Bead® and LC Bead™. The carrying value of individually significant assets within developed technology is:
     Remaining
     amortisation 
31 March 31 March period at
2012 2011 31 March
£m £m 2012
CroFab® 72.8 75.9 21.7 years
DigiFab® 23.5 24.5 21.7 years
DC Bead® and LC Bead™ 98.3 105.4 13.8 years
Contractual relationships
Contractual relationships relates to contracts acquired in Protherics PLC and Biocompatibles International plc. The carrying 
value and remaining amortisation period of individually significant contracts is:
     Remaining
     amortisation 
31 March 31 March period at
2012 2011 31 March
£m £m 2012
Licence agreement with AstraZeneca for AZD9773 (CytoFab™)  22.9 24.9 10.7 years
Purchase of contractual rights
On 6 July 2011 BTG signed an agreement with Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation to acquire the US commercial rights for 
product candidate uridine triacetate. BTG paid Wellstat an upfront fee of $7.5m and will make milestone payments upon NDA 
acceptance and approval and inventory purchase payments based on manufacturing costs and a significant percentage of net 
sales. The purchase price was capitalised at 6 July 2011 and will be amortised over the 10 year period starting from marketing 
approval, representing the length of the exclusive period and point at which BTG will begin to generate economic returns from 
the product.
On 27 August 2010 BTG signed an agreement with Nycomed US Inc. concerning the accelerated transition to BTG on 1 October 
2010 of marketing rights to CroFab® and DigiFab® . Under the terms of the agreement, BTG purchased the exclusive rights to sell 
the products for which a consideration of £9.7m was paid in October 2010. The purchase price was capitalised and amortised 
over the six-month period ending 31 March 2011 representing the length of the exclusive period.
Impairments
Impairment charges have been made within the acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs column against two acquired 
intangible assets in the period:
— On 13 May 2011 the Group announced that they had been informed by AstraZeneca that AstraZeneca had terminated 
the development and option agreement relating to CM-3, a GLP-1 analogue being developed by BTG’ s CellMed subsidiary 
for use in type 2 diabetes and other indications. The carrying value of the intangible asset associated with the GLP-1 asset 
was £8.8m which has been fully impaired in the year and is included within in-process research and development.
— A further £3.6m impairment charge has been made in the period against the Group’ s carrying value of the Novabel® 
intangible asset and is included within developed technologies. The product has been withdrawn from the market since 
June 2010 and Merz has terminated the supply agreement with the Group.
Financials
107
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 16 Property, plant and equipment
Plant and
machinery, Assets in the
Leasehold Freehold land furniture and course of
improvements and buildings equipment construction Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 1 April 2010 2.4 1.2 12.8 – 16.4
Additions 0.1 9.3 1.7 0.1 11.2
Acquired with Biocompatibles 0.3 – 1.2 3.1 4.6
Transfers (1.6) 1.6 – – –
Disposals – – (0.7) – (0.7)
Currency movements – 0.8 0.3 0.1 1.2
At 1 April 2011 1.2 12.9 15.3 3.3 32.7
Additions – 0.2 2.0 1.6 3.8
Transfers 0.2 – 0.2 (0.4) –
Disposals (0.1) – (1.6) (0.2) (1.9)
Currency movements – 0.1 – (0.1) –
At 31 March 2012 1.3 13.2 15.9 4.2 34.6
Depreciation
At 1 April 2010 0.7 0.3 4.8 – 5.8
Provided during the year 0.2 0.4 1.8 – 2.4
Transfers (0.7) 0.7 – – –
Disposals – – (0.7) – (0.7)
Currency movements – 0.1 0.3 – 0.4
At 1 April 2011 0.2 1.5 6.2 – 7.9
Provided during the year 0.2 0.6 2.4 – 3.2
Impairments – – 3.0 – 3.0
Disposals (0.1) – (1.5) – (1.6)
Currency movements – – 0.1 – 0.1
At 31 March 2012 0.3 2.1 10.2 – 12.6
Net book value at 31 March 2012 1.0 11.1 5.7 4.2 22.0
Net book value at 1 April 2011 1.0 11.4 9.1 3.3 24.8
Net book value at 1 April 2010 1.7 0.9 8.0 – 10.6
The net book value of plant and machinery and furniture, fixtures and equipment includes £0.5m (10/11: £1.8m) in respect 
of assets held under finance lease and hire purchase agreements. Depreciation for the year on those assets was £0.2m 
(10/11: £0.3m).
An impairment charge of £3.0m has been made against tangible fixed assets that would have been used exclusively for 
production of Novabel® . The product has been withdrawn from the market since June 2010 and Merz has terminated the supply 
agreement with the Group. This adjustment has not been reflected in acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs column.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
108
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 Other investments
2012 2011
£m £m
At 1 April 2.7 3.7
Additions 0.5 0.5
Fair value movements – (0.1)
Impairment charge (0.2) (1.5)
Currency movements – 0.1
At 31 March 3.0 2.7
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale that are recorded at fair value at each 
balance sheet date. The fair value of unlisted investments is estimated to be the valuation following the latest round of equity 
funding. In the absence of specific market data the Group determines that cost is equal to fair value.
Where the fair value of an available-for-sale asset is impaired, the impairment charge is recognised in the income statement, 
together with any amounts recycled from the fair value reserve (see note 21). These impairments initially arise from the 
prolonged or significant decline in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any 
further decline in fair value is immediately taken to the income statement. In the prior year £0.1m was recycled from the fair 
value reserve on the impairment of investments.
18 Inventories
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 6.6 4.4
Work in progress 12.4 11.1
Finished goods 2.8 4.5
21.8 20.0
During the period a fair value adjustment of £2.1m (10/11: £1.7m) was recognised through cost of sales (see note 34) leaving 
£nil (10/11: £2.1m) of fair value uplift recognised on the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc remaining. Inventory 
to the value of £1.5m (10/11: £nil) was written off through cost of sales.
19 Trade and other receivables
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Due within one year
Revenues receivable, net of provisions 20.4 15.8
Other debtors 3.6 4.5
Prepayments and accrued income 16.1 12.4
40.1 32.7
Financials
109
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 Trade and other receivables continued
Managing credit risk:
‘Revenues receivable, net of provisions’ represents accrued royalty income for the period to 31 March 2012 and certain other 
amounts receivable under licence agreements. 
The ageing of these amounts was as follows:
31 March 2012 31 March 2011
Gross Provision Gross Provision
£m £m £m £m
Not past due 19.8 – 14.3 –
0–30 days 0.5 – 0.4 –
31–90 days 0.1 – ––
> 90 days 0.8 (0.8) 1.8 (0.7)
Total 21.2 (0.8) 16.5 (0.7)
Provisions for bad debts of £0.8m (31 March 2011: £0.7m) have been made to write down the value of doubtful receivables 
to estimated recoverable amounts. The charge to income for the year to 31 March 2012 in respect of provisions for bad debts 
was £0.5m (10/11: £nil).
20 Cash and cash equivalents
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Bank balances 106.9 63.7
Cash and cash equivalents in statement of cash flows  106.9 63.7
Cash deposits with a maturity of greater than three months are classified as held to maturity financial assets.
Held to maturity financial assets
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Bank deposits 5.0 10.2
The effective interest rate on held to maturity financial assets was 3.5% (31 March 2011: 2.4%) and these deposits had an 
average maturity of ten months.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
110
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Equity
Other reserves are analysed as follows:
Translation Fair value Total other
   reserve reservereserves
   £m £m £m
At 1 April 2010 (1.1) 0.2 (0.9)
Total recognised income and expense (2.7) (0.1) (2.8)
At 1 April 2011 (3.8) 0.1 (3.7)
Total recognised income and expense (0.3) – (0.3)
At 31 March 2012 (4.1) 0.1 (4.0)
The merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes 
the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006. 
The balance on the merger reserve has arisen through the acquisitions of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011 
(see note 34) and Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008 and includes directly attributable costs of issuing shares of £1.1m 
relating to the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc.
The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company is shown below:
Ordinary shares of 10p each
2012 2011
Number £m Number £m
At 1 April 326,725,906 32.7 257,637,576 25.8
Issued for cash 566,959 – 365,086 –
Issued in consideration of Biocompatibles acquisition (note 34)  –– 68,723,244 6.9
At 31 March 327,292,865 32.7 326,725,906 32.7
The share issued in the current and prior year were as a result of the acquisition of the Biocompatibles Group and the exercise 
of share awards.
Share awards
Details of outstanding share awards are set out in note 26. 
Financials
111
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 22 Trade and other payables
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade payables 6.0 8.2
Accruals and deferred income 45.9 38.8
Other creditors 3.5 3.2
55.4 50.2
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Accruals and deferred income 4.7 5.4
Contingent value note (see note 34) – 1.1
Other creditors 0.3 0.6
5.0 7.1
23 Derivative financial instruments
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Contracts with positive fair values:
Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.5 2.0
Derivative instrument assets 0.5 2.0
The Group utilises foreign currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows. 
At 31 March 2012 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$25m in the period to September 2012 at rates in the range 
£1:US$1.54–£1:US$1.60. The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was marked-to-market at 31 March 
2012 at £0.5m.
At 31 March 2012 the Group had a forward contract to buy AU$1m in April 2012 at a rate of £1:AU$1.52. The fair value 
of this forward contract was marked-to-market at 31 March 2012 at £nil.
At 31 March 2011 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$49m in the period to March 2012 at rates in the range 
£1:US$1.44–£1:US$1.60 and €1m in the period to August 2011 at rates in the range of £1:€1.1982–£1:€1.1987. 
The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was marked-to-market at 31 March 2011 at £2.0m.
The fair value loss for the year associated with these forward contracts was included within ‘Financial expense’ (10/11: gain 
included within ‘Financial income’).
A 5% weakening of the US$ as at 31 March 2012, all other variables being unchanged, would result in an additional £0.8m 
gain within ‘Financial income’ in the income statement and a fair value asset increase of £1.3m within ‘Derivative instruments’ 
within current assets. A 5% strengthening of the US$ would result in a £0.8m reduction within ‘Financial income’ and a 
decrease in ‘Derivative instruments’ to £nil within current assets with the Group recognising a current liability of £0.3m within 
‘Derivative instruments’.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
112
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 24  Borrowings
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Amounts falling due after more than one year – 2.9
Following the withdrawal of the Novabel® product from the market, termination of the supply agreement with Merz and 
subsequent impairments recognised within tangible and intangible assets, the Group has derecognised a £2.8m loan from 
Merz as there is no obligation for this to be repaid. The loan was received to fund the purchase of property, plant and equipment 
for use in the manufacture of Novabel® and was repayable out of revenues. This has been recognised within Financial income 
in the consolidated income statement but not in the acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs column.
The Group had no undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 March 2012 (31 March 2011: £nil).
25 Retirement benefit plans
Defined benefit plan
For eligible UK employees the Group operates a funded pension plan providing benefits based on final pensionable emoluments. 
The plan was closed to new entrants as of 1 June 2004. The assets of the plan are held in a separate trustee administered 
fund. The plan has a history of granting increases to pensions in line with price inflation, and these increases are reflected 
in the measurement of the obligation. 
The results of the formal valuation of the plan as at 31 March 2010 were updated to the accounting date by an independent 
qualified actuary in accordance with IAS19.
In July 2010, the government announced its intention that future statutory minimum pension indexation would be measured 
by the Consumer Prices Index, rather than the Retail Prices Index (RPI). The Group continues to value its pension fund liability 
on the basis of RPI. 
The expected rate of return on assets for the financial year ending 31 March 2012 was 5.4% pa (10/11: 5.6% pa). This rate 
is derived by taking the weighted average of the long-term expected rate of return on each of the asset classes that the plan 
was invested in at 31st March 2011, based on the plan’ s long-term investment strategy at that date.
The estimated amount of total employer contributions expected to be paid to the plan during 2012/13 is £4.9m (2011/12 
actual: £5.2m). The estimate is based on the current schedule of contributions agreed as part of the formal valuation of the 
plan as at 31 March 2010.
The following table sets out the key IAS19 assumptions used for the plan:
31 March 31 March 31 March
2012 2011 2010
Retail price inflation 3.5% p.a. 3.7% p.a. 3.9% p.a.
Discount rate 4.7% p.a. 5.5% p.a. 5.5% p.a.
Pension increases in deferment – RPI inflation 3.5% p.a. 3.7% p.a. 3.9% p.a.
Pension increases in payment – RPI inflation 3.5% p.a. 3.7% p.a. 3.9% p.a.
Pension increases in payment – inflation capped at 2.5%  2.3% p.a. 2.3% p.a. 2.4% p.a.
General salary increases 3.5% p.a. 3.7% p.a. 3.9% p.a.
Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 60 at the accounting date  87.3 87.3 88.2
Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 40 at the accounting date  88.9 88.8 90.4
Financials
113
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 Retirement benefit plans continued
The amount included in the statement of financial position arising from the Group’ s obligations in respect of the plan is as follows:
31 March 31 March 31 March
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligation (108.6) (96.8) (98.3)
Fair value of scheme assets 108.5 94.8 89.1
Net liability recognised in the statement of financial position    (0.1) (2.0) (9.2)
This amount is presented in the statement of financial position within non-current liabilities.
The amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the plan are as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Employer’ s part of current service cost 0.4 0.4
Interest cost 5.2 5.3
Expected return on plan assets (5.2) (5.0)
Total expense included in income statement     0.4 0.7
The expense has been included in ‘Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses’. 
The allocation of the plan’ s assets is as follows:
31 March 31 March 31 March
2012 2011 2010
% %%
Equity instruments 15 17 19
Diversified growth funds 14 14 14
Debt instruments 70 68 66
Cash/net current assets 1 11
100 100 100
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Defined benefit obligation at 1 April 96.8 98.3
Employer part of current service cost 0.4 0.4
Interest cost 5.2 5.3
Contributions from plan members 0.1 0.1
Actuarial loss/(gain) on scheme liabilities 10.6 (3.0)
Benefits paid (4.5) (4.3)
Defined benefit obligation at 31 March 108.6 96.8
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
114
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 Retirement benefit plans continued
Changes in the fair value of the plan assets are as follows:
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Fair value of plan assets at 1 April 94.8 89.1
Expected return on plan assets 5.2 5.0
Actuarial gains on scheme assets 7.7 0.9
Contributions by the employer 5.2 4.0
Contributions by plan members 0.1 0.1
Benefits paid (4.5) (4.3)
Fair value of plan assets at 31 March 108.5 94.8
The actual return on the plan’ s assets over the year was £12.9m (10/11: £5.9m).
The amount recognised outside profit and loss in other comprehensive income for 2012 is a loss of £2.9m (10/11: gain of £3.9m). 
The cumulative amount recognised outside profit and loss as at 31 March 2012 is a loss of £10.7m (10/11: loss of £7.8m)
The history of experience adjustment is as follows:
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m
Present value of defined benefit obligations (108.6) (96.8) (98.3) (74.9) (81.8)
Fair value of plan assets 108.5 94.8 89.1 74.9 76.9
Deficit in the scheme (0.1) (2.0) (9.2) – (4.9)
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Experience adjustments on plan assets
Amount of (gain)/loss (£m) (7.7) (0.9) (10.4) 7.4 (0.4)
Percentage of plan assets (%) 7 1 12 (10) –
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities
Amount of loss/(gain) (£m) 1.5 3.4 (2.5) – 6.3
Percentage of the present value of plan liabilities (%) 1 4 (3) – 8
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the plan liabilities are:
Increase
in liabilities
  31 March 31 March
  2012 2011
Change in assumption £m £m
Discount rate Decrease of 0.1%  1.8 1.7
Defined contribution plans
The Group offers defined contribution pension plans for its UK, US, European and Australian employees. The total income 
statement charge in relation to these plans was £1.7m (10/11: £1.3m).
The Group’ s defined contribution plans are operated by external providers. The only obligation of the Group with respect 
to these plans is to make the specified contributions.
Financials
115
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 26 Share-based payments
Share options
The Group makes awards under an equity-settled share option plan that entitles employees to purchase shares in the 
Company. In accordance with the rules of the plan, options are granted at the market price of the shares on the date of grant 
with a vesting period of generally three years. They may only be exercised upon the attainment of certain performance criteria. 
If the performance criteria are not met by the date specified at the time of grant, the options do not vest and will lapse. If the 
options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire. Furthermore, options are 
forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest unless the conditions under which they leave are such that 
they are considered to be a ‘good leaver’. In this case their options remain exercisable for a limited period of time. For further 
details of current awards, see the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 75.
Option pricing
For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the share-based compensation charge, a binomial lattice option pricing model 
has been used. The assumptions used in the model are as follows:
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
Risk-free interest rate 0.8% to 2.5% 1.4% to 5.8%
Dividend yield Nil Nil
Volatility 27% to 41% 41% to 73%
Expected lives of options and awards granted under:
– Share option plan 6 years 5 years
– Sharesave plan 3.25 years 3.25 years
– Stock purchase plan 2.13 years 2.25 years
– Restricted share awards n/a 2 to 3 years
– Performance share plan 2 to 3 years 2 to 3 years
– Deferred share bonus plan 3 years 3 years
Weighted average fair value for share option plan grants in the year 119.3p 119.8p
Weighted average fair value for sharesave grants in the year 114.8p 86.6p
Weighted average fair value for stock purchase plan grants in the year 69.4p 65.6p
Weighted average fair value for performance share awards in the year 264.6p 119.8p
Weighted average fair value for deferred share bonus awards in the year 298.9p 181.4p
The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share 
options, restricted or performance shares), adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly-available 
information.
Share options are granted under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition. Service and non-market 
conditions are not taken into account in calculating the fair value measurement of the services received. 
Performance shares are awarded under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition. Service and 
non-market conditions are not taken into account in calculating the fair value measurement of the services received.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
116
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 26 Share-based payments continued
Awards of share options and performance share awards made in 2009 and later years have a market condition based on a 
TSR measure using the FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts, companies in the financial services sector (banks, 
life and non-life insurance, equity and non-equity investment trusts, financial services, real estate investment and services, 
and real estate investment trusts etc.) and companies in the consumer discretionary sector (general retailers, media, travel 
and leisure, and leisure goods). The number of shares to vest depends on the relative performance of BTG’ s share price 
against the index. Earlier share options and performance shares used the FTSE SmallCap (excluding Investment Trusts) index. 
If the Company’ s share price at least matched the performance of the relevant index over the vesting period, the market-based 
performance condition was considered to have been achieved.
The fair value of an award of shares under the share option and performance share plans have been adjusted to take 
into account this market-based performance condition using a pricing model based on expectations about volatility and the 
correlation of share price returns in the relevant index and which incorporates into the valuation the interdependency between 
share price and index performance. This adjustment increases the fair value relative to the share price at the date of grant. 
See the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 75 for further information. 
Restricted shares were awarded to certain management employees under a service condition and a non-market performance 
condition. There were no market conditions related to the restricted share awards.
Details of options and awards under the Group’ s share plans are shown in the tables below.
2012 2011
Weighted  Weighted
average  average
Number of exercise Number of exercise
share options price share options price
(000) (p) (000) (p)
Share options
Outstanding at 1 April 927 175.8 597 157.3
Granted during year 550 298.9 358 201.3
Lapsed during year (2) 776.5 (6) 106.3
Exercised during year (48) 96.6 (22) 106.3
Outstanding at 31 March 1,427 225.2 927 175.8
Exercisable at 31 March 139 120.9 190 120.9
Sharesave plan
Outstanding at 1 April 309 144.9 301 134.9
Granted during year 237 219.5 90 146.7
Lapsed during year (28) 137.9 (26) 145.6
Exercised during year (43) 134.0 (56) 94.2
Outstanding at 31 March 475 183.5 309 144.9
Exercisable at 31 March –– ––
Stock purchase plan
Outstanding at 1 April 49 166.0 30 162.2
Granted during year 43 243.1 30 173.2
Lapsed during year (6) 202.2 (11) 175.1
Exercised during year (20) 156.4 ––
Outstanding at 31 March 66 216.4 49 166.0
Exercisable at 31 March –– ––
Financials
117
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 26 Share-based payments continued
Options outstanding at 31 March 2012
Weighted Latest
exercise exercise date
Number price year ended
(000) (p) 31 March
Share options granted in year ended 31 March   
2005 85 106.3 2015
2007 55 143.5 2017
2010 379 179.3 2020
2011 358 201.3 2021
2012 550 298.9 2022
1,427
Sharesave plan options granted in year ended 31 March
2010 160 146.7 2013
2011 81 146.7 2014
2012 234 219.5 2015
475
Stock purchase plan options granted in year ended 31 March
2011 25 173.2 2013
2012 41 243.1 2014
66
Restricted share awards
The Company established a restricted share scheme for the purpose of making awards to selected members of senior 
management below Board level. The vesting period is either two or three years. Awards are forfeited if the employee leaves the 
Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a ‘good 
leaver’; in which case their award is released following their departure. For further details see the Remuneration Report on 
pages 61 to 75.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
118
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 26 Share-based payments continued
Movement in the number of restricted shares awarded is as follows.
2012 2011
Number of Number of
share awards share awards
(000) (000)
Outstanding at 1 April – 200
Exercised during year – (183)
Lapsed during year – (17)
Outstanding at 31 March – –
Exercisable at 31 March – –
Performance share awards
Following approval of the Performance Share Plan by shareholders at the 2006 AGM, the Company has made awards 
to the executive directors and other employees with a vesting period of three years. Awards are forfeited if the director or 
other employee leaves the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they 
are considered to be a ‘good leaver’; in which case their award is released following their departure. If the Remuneration 
Committee decide that a departing beneficiary of an award is a ‘good leaver’, so their award may be released early, the award 
will only be released subject to the achievement of the performance conditions set out at the time of the granting of the award 
and may be subject to proration for time, at the discretion of the Committee. For further details see the Remuneration Report 
on pages 61 to 75.
Movement in the number of performance share awards is as follows.
2012 2011
Number of Number of
share awards share awards
(000) (000)
Outstanding at 1 April 2,621 1,971
Granted during year 1,321 945
Lapsed during year (280) (11)
Exercised during year (554) (284)
Outstanding at 31 March 3,108 2,621
Exercisable at 31 March – –
Deferred share bonus plan
The Company established a deferred share bonus plan. The executive directors, members of the Leadership Team and certain 
other senior staff have part of their bonus awarded in shares. The shares will vest on the third anniversary of the grant date. 
Awards are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave 
are such that they are considered to be a ‘good leaver’; in which case their award is released following their departure, though 
it may be prorated for time at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee. For further details see the Remuneration Report 
on pages 61 to 75.
Financials
119
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 26 Share-based payments continued
Movement in the number of deferred bonus shares awarded is as follows.
2012 2011
Number of Number of
share awards share awards
(000) (000)
Outstanding at 1 April 591 380
Granted during year 195 378
Lapsed during year (19) –
Exercised during year (85) (167)
Outstanding at 31 March 682 591
Exercisable at 31 March – –
The Biocompatibles Group had a number of share schemes prior to the date of acquisition by the Company. With the exception 
of the Share Incentive Plan (SIP), all share schemes ceased just prior to that date and share awards under the various schemes 
vested and/or exercised to the extent to which performance conditions had been achieved. No grants or awards remained 
outstanding at the date of acquisition.
Shares invested in the SIP were exchanged for BTG shares in the same ratio as other shareholders received in the acquisition: 
1.6733 BTG shares for each Biocompatibles share plus 10p cash. While no further contributions may be invested in the SIP 
post the date of acquisition, shares already held in the SIP may remain until the date of closure of the Plan in 2016.
As at 31 March 2012, 353,456 ordinary shares in BTG plc, issued and subscribed for by the Biocompatibles International plc 
Share Incentive Plan Trust, had not vested unconditionally.
27  BTG Employee Share Trust
The Group includes an employee share trust, the BTG Employee Share Trust (the Trust), which was established in Guernsey in 
1992. It holds shares for the general benefit of all employees who may eventually become legally entitled to them. At 31 March 
2012 the Trust held 1,214,313 (31 March 2011: 1,308,793) shares in BTG plc and a further 12,596 (31 March 2011: 12,596) 
shares in Torotrak plc. The Trust may distribute these shares to employees of the Group on the recommendation of the Company. 
These distributions may be as a result of awards under the Restricted Share Scheme, the Deferred Share Bonus Plan or the 
recently set up Senior Management Performance Share Plan.
At 31 March 2012 the Trust has 499,184 shares set aside under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
120
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 28 Provisions 
2012 2011
Leases Reorganisation Total Leases Reorganisation Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2.0 1.0 3.0 1.1 0.7 1.8
Acquired with Biocompatibles ––– 1.3 – 1.3
Provisions utilised during year (0.3) (0.9) (1.2) (0.4) (0.9) (1.3)
Provisions made during year 0.1 – 0.1 – 1.2 1.2
Difference on exchange (0.1) – (0.1) –– –
At 31 March 1.7 0.1 1.8 2.0 1.0 3.0
Balance due within one year 0.7 0.1 0.8 0.8 1.0 1.8
Balance due after more than one year 1.0 – 1.0 1.2 – 1.2
1.7 0.1 1.8 2.0 1.0 3.0
Lease provisions relate to onerous leases and represent the net present value of future obligations and where relevant, 
not covered by income from tenants (see 2(p)).
The provision for reorganisation costs arose as a result of the Group’ s rationalisation activities following the acquisition 
of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011 (note 34) and Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008. The provision 
principally comprises redundancy and other site closure costs.
29 Financial risk management objectives and policies
Overview
The Group has exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks from its use of financial instruments. This note sets out the Group’s 
key policies and processes for managing these risks.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a licensee fails to meet its contractual obligations or a customer fails 
to pay for goods and services received. The Group’ s primary objective with respect to credit risk is to minimise the risk of default 
by licensees or customers.
A substantial element of the Group’ s revenue is derived from royalties which are only payable if a licensee is generating income 
from sales of licensed products. In such instances the Group’ s exposure to credit risk is considered to be inherently relatively 
low, although is influenced by the unique characteristics of individual licensees. The Group’ s policy is to provide against bad 
debts on a specific licence by licence basis.
Following the transition from a distribution agreement to direct sales during the prior year, the majority of the marketed 
product revenues are currently generated from sales to several key wholesalers in the U.S. Management maintains 
regular communication with the customers and monitors both sales to and payments from customers to minimise the credit 
risk exposure.
Financials
121
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’ s approach to 
managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due, 
under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’ s reputation.
The Group has limited debt facilities in the form of borrowings (see note 24) and its obligations for assets held under finance 
leases are immaterial. The Group has substantial cash balances to fund its operations.
The Group’ s policy is to place surplus cash resources on short- and medium-term fixed interest deposits, to the extent that cash 
flow can be reasonably predicted. Term deposits are denominated in UK sterling with institutions rated as A or higher by both 
Moody’ s and Standard & Poor’ s.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect 
the Group’ s income or the value of its holdings in financial instruments. The Group has little exposure to interest rate risk other 
than that returns on short-term fixed interest deposits will vary with movements in underlying bank interest rates. The Group’ s 
principal market risk exposure is to movements in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency risk
The Group has several overseas subsidiary undertakings, the revenues and the expenses of which are denominated in local 
currencies being US dollars, Euros and Australian dollars. As a result the Group’ s sterling income statement, statement of 
financial position and cash flows may be affected by movements in sterling exchange rates with these currencies. The Group’ s 
primary objective with respect to managing foreign exchange risk is to provide certainty over the value of future cash flows.
A significant element of the Group’ s revenue is denominated in US dollars with the remainder split between Sterling, Euros, 
Yen and other currencies. The majority of the Group’ s operating expenses are in sterling along with smaller elements in 
US dollars and Australian dollars. Where possible, anticipated foreign currency operating expenses are matched to foreign 
currency revenues. The excess exposure over and above this natural hedge, to the extent that cash flows are predictable, 
is managed using forward contracts (see note 23).
Sensitivity analysis
A 5% weakening of the US$ at 31 March 2012 would have resulted in the following (decreases)/increases in equity and profit 
or loss: 
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Profit or loss (2.7) (5.7)
Equity (3.5) 0.9
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
122
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Interest rate risk
The Group seeks to mitigate partially against increased interest rates while maintaining a degree of flexibility to benefit from 
decreasing rates of interest by holding a mix of fixed and floating rate financial liabilities. The Group seeks to maximise the 
amount of interest income from its cash balances by using a variety of short-term, fixed high-interest deposit and money-market 
accounts. The Group does not consider the impact of interest rate risk to be material to its results or operations and accordingly 
no sensitivity analysis is shown.
Market price risk
It is, on occasion, deemed appropriate to take equity stakes in early-stage companies utilising the Group’ s technology as part 
of the overall licensing arrangement and small loans may be granted to these companies to further technology development. 
These investments will be realised at an appropriate time in the development cycle. Regular reports are made to the Board 
on the status of investments. These investments form part of the Group’ s overall technology portfolio and do not materially 
affect liquidity.
Capital management
The Group defines the capital that it manages as the Group’ s total equity. The Group’ s objectives when managing capital are: 
— To safeguard the Group’ s ability to continue as a going concern;
— To provide an adequate return to investors based on the level of risk undertaken;
— To have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver future benefits 
for inventive sources and returns to investors; and
— To maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.
The Group believes it has sufficient ongoing cash and cash equivalents to meet its stated capital management objectives. 
The Group’ s capital and equity ratio are shown in the table below.
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Total equity – capital and reserves attributable to BTG shareholders  406.2 392.3
Total assets 505.8 488.5
Equity ratio 80.3% 80.3%
The Group is not subject to regulatory capital adequacy requirements as known in the financial services industry.
Financial instruments
The Group’ s financial instruments comprise cash, short- and medium-term deposits, foreign currency forward contracts, 
contingent value notes, contingent considerations and various items such as trade debtors and creditors which arise directly 
from operations. In addition, a number of debt and equity investments, both quoted and unquoted, are held in technology-based 
companies along with borrowings including obligations under finance leases.
Financials
123
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Fair values
The fair values of the Group’ s financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying values shown in the statement of 
financial position, are as follows:
Forward Total
Designated contracts at Available Amortised carrying Fair
at fair value fair value for sale cost value value
£m £m £m £m £m £m
31 March 2011
Cash and cash equivalents – – – 63.7 63.7 63.7
Held to maturity financial assets – – – 10.2 10.2 10.2
Forward contracts – 2.0 – – 2.0 2.0
Other investments 2.7 – – – 2.7 2.7
Trade and other receivables – – 0.1 32.6 32.7 32.7
Trade and other payables (1.1) – – (55.6) (56.7) (56.7)
Borrowings – – – (2.9) (2.9) (2.9)
31 March 2012
Cash and cash equivalents – – – 106.9 106.9 106.9
Held to maturity financial assets – – – 5.0 5.0 5.0
Forward contracts – 0.5 – – 0.5 0.5
Other investments 3.0 – – – 3.0 3.0
Trade and other receivables – – 0.1 40.0 40.1 40.1
Trade and other payables (0.7) – – (59.7) (60.4) (60.4)
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, 
grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:
Level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Level 2 – observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Level 3 – unobservable inputs.
Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities
Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total
  £m £m £m £m
At 31 March 2011 
Financial assets recognised at fair value
Investments  – 2.7 – 2.7
Forward contracts  – 2.0 – 2.0
Financial liabilities recognised at fair value    
Contingent value notes – – (1.1) (1.1)
At 31 March 2012
Financial assets recognised at fair value
Investments  – 3.0 – 3.0
Forward contracts  – 0.5 – 0.5
Financial liabilities recognised at fair value    
Fair value of other contingent consideration – – (0.7) (0.7)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
124
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Level 2 – financial assets and liabilities represent forward foreign exchange contracts to sell US$ and Euros which are marked-
to-market at each balance sheet date and other investments held at fair value as disclosed in note 17.
Level 3 – financial liabilities in the current year represent the contingent consideration payable upon the purchase of the US 
commercial rights of product candidate uridine triacetate representing contingent milestone payments upon NDA 
acceptance and approval of the product candidate. In the prior year level 3 represented the contingent loan note upon 
acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc (see note 34). Profits for the year related to these liabilities of £1.1m 
have been recognised in the consolidated income statement. 
Contractual maturity analysis of financial assets
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Forward foreign exchange contracts that mature within:
0–3 months 0.1 0.8
3–6 months 0.4 0.4
6–12 months – 0.8
0.5 2.0
Net gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities
Foreign exchange gains of £2.6m (10/11: losses of £2.0m) were recognised within Operating profit in relation to settlement 
of trade receivables and payables.
The Group recognised a fair value loss of £1.5m (10/11: gain of £2.7m) relating to forward foreign exchange contracts within 
‘Financial expense’ (10/11: ‘Financial income’).
Fair value gains of £nil (10/11: £0.1m) were recycled from the fair value reserve within equity in relation to investments impaired 
during the prior year. 
Estimation of fair values
The following summarises the methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected 
in the table.
Financials
125
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued
Other investments
These comprise both listed and unlisted investments, available-for-sale (see note 17). The figure recorded in the statement 
of financial position is the best estimate of fair value.
Borrowings and finance leases
The fair values of such balances are estimated by discounting the future cash flows at the market rate.
Trade receivables, trade payables and cash and cash equivalents
Trade payables and receivables have a remaining life of less than one year so their value recorded in the statement of financial 
position is considered to be a fair approximation of fair value. The contingent value notes and other contingent considerations 
are fair valued at each reporting period.
30 Operating leases
Total non-cancellable operating lease rentals are due in the following periods:
31 March 2012 31 March 2011
Vehicles, plant Vehicles, plant
Property and equipment Property and equipment
£m £m £m £m
Within one year 1.7 – 1.7 –
Between two and five years 4.3 – 5.3 –
Greater than five years 0.7 – 1.1 –
6.7 – 8.1 –
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable for certain of its office properties, plant and equipment under non-
cancellable operating lease agreements. 
The Group leases a number of offices and facilities in the UK, the US, Germany, and Australia. These leases have terms of up 
to seven years.
The leases contain options to extend for further periods. In the event of renewal, the lease contracts contain market review clauses. 
None of the property leases provide the Group with an option to purchase the leased asset at the expiry of the lease period.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
126
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Other financial commitments
The Group has entered into agreements with a number of early-stage companies and venture capital funds. At 31 March 2012 
the Group is committed to invest £0.2m under these agreements (10/11: £0.4m). 
As with any business whose core assets are intellectual property, the Group will from time-to-time resort to litigation or threats 
of litigation, or other legal processes, to defend its rights. Litigation costs are regarded as a cost of doing business and will vary 
from year to year. In the current year the Group incurred £2.1m in litigation costs (10/11: £4.0m).
The Company has entered into an agreement to guarantee payments under the lease of a US subsidiary undertaking.
The Company has provided a Guarantee to certain subsidiary undertakings in respect of the BTG Pension Plan up to a maximum 
amount equal to the lowest non-negative amount which, when added to the assets of the Plan, would result in the plan being at 
least 105% funded on the date on which any liability arose, calculated on the basis set out in section 179 of the Pensions Act 
2004, were a valuation to be conducted as at that date. 
The Company has also provided a Guarantee to the same subsidiary undertakings for a maximum amount of £12.7m, being 
the deficit repair contributions agreed with the Trustees of the Plan following the finalisation of the last actuarial valuation. 
The Guarantee reduces as payments are made and expires on 31 January 2013.
32 Related parties
Identity of related parties
The Group has a related-party relationship with its subsidiary undertakings (see note 2(b)), its associates (see note 2(b)) and its 
directors. During the year the Group invested a further £0.5m in its investments (see note 17). No dividends were received from 
associates in the years ended 31 March 2012 or 2011.
In relation to the related party relationship identified on page 51 concerning Giles Kerr, payments made by BTG to Oxford 
University and Isis Innovations Ltd under the relevant licence agreements were £0.8m during the year ended 31 March 2012. 
There are no amounts still outstanding and payable by BTG under these agreements as at 31 March 2012.
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Remuneration 
Report on pages 61 to 75.
Financials
127
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 Group entities
The significant subsidiary undertakings of BTG plc at 31 March 2012 are all wholly owned, incorporated in the United Kingdom 
and registered in England and Wales, unless shown otherwise. All subsidiary undertakings operate in their country of 
incorporation and are consolidated in the Group’ s financial statements.
Class of capital Principal activity
BTG International (Holdings) Ltd
1
Ordinary Investment in IPR management companies
Provensis Ltd
1
Ordinary Development and commercialisation of IPR
BTG International Ltd Ordinary Development, management and 
commercialisation of IPR
BTG Employee Share Schemes Ltd Ordinary Trustee company
Guernsey
BTG Investment (Holdings) Ltd Ordinary Investment in IPR management companies
British Technology Group Ordinary Development, management and 
Inter-Corporate Licensing Ltd commercialisation of IPR
BTG Management Services Ltd Ordinary Investment and management of
(formerly Protherics Limited)
1
group companies
Protherics Medicines Development Ltd Ordinary Development, management and 
commercialisation of IPR
BTG International Inc. Common stock Research, development, manufacture
(formerly Protherics Inc.) and sale of pharmaceutical products 
Delaware, USA and potential drugs
Enact Pharma Ltd Ordinary Development, management and 
commercialisation of IPR
Protherics UK Ltd Ordinary Research, development, manufacture 
and sale of pharmaceutical products 
and potential drugs
BTG Australasia Pty Ltd Ordinary Manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical
Australia products and potential drugs
Protherics Utah Inc. Common stock Research, development, manufacture
Tennessee, USA and sale of pharmaceutical products 
and potential drugs
Protherics Salt Lake City Inc. Common stock Development, management and
Utah, USA commercialisation of IPR
Biocompatibles International Ltd
1
Ordinary Investment and management of group companies
Biocompatibles UK Ltd Ordinary Commercialisation of bead products
Biopolymerix Inc. Common stock Research and development
Delaware, USA
Biocompatibles, Inc. Common stock Commercialisation of brachytherapy products
Delaware, USA
CellMed AG No par value shares Research and development
Germany
1 Indicates direct subsidiary of BTG plc.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
128
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 34 Acquisition of business operations
On 27 January 2011, the Company acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Biocompatibles International plc (subsequently 
re-registered as Biocompatibles International Ltd), a listed UK company. Biocompatibles International Ltd was the parent 
company of the Biocompatibles Group, a leading international medical technology company in the field of drug device 
combination products. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting.
The acquisition was settled by the issuance of 68,723,244 new BTG plc ordinary shares of 10p each plus either 10p in cash 
for each Biocompatibles share or a contingent value note.
Equity settled consideration
The fair value of equity settled consideration was £167.7m, based on the share price of £2.44 in existence at the time of the 
acquisition. 
Cash consideration
Shareholders owning 30,349,200 Biocompatibles shares (73.9% of all Biocompatibles shares acquired) opted to receive 
10p in cash per share, resulting in a cash payment of £3.0m.
Contingent value note (CVN)
As an alternative to 10p cash consideration, Biocompatibles shareholders could elect to receive an entitlement to a contingent 
right to payment of the Sterling equivalent of €0.56 per Biocompatibles share in cash by participating in the value that may 
potentially be achieved from part of Biocompatibles’ programme to develop the GLP-1 Compound which it has partnered with 
AstraZeneca. Shareholders owning 10,722,465 Biocompatibles shares (26.1% of all Biocompatibles shares acquired) opted 
to receive the CVN. The CVN would be paid in full if, prior to 31 December 2012, either:
— AstraZeneca exercises an option to license the GLP-1 compound on agreed terms; or
— BTG, otherwise than on the agreed terms of the option, enters into any other licence, sale or other disposal or other 
arrangement with similar effect with AstraZeneca with respect to the rights of the GLP-1 compound.
The liability would be paid in full or not at all. The fair value of each CVN was assessed at acquisition date as being 10p per 
Biocompatibles share, based on probability adjusted net present value calculations of AstraZeneca exercising its option 
to license the GLP-1 compound. This fair value was also supported by the alternative offer to shareholders of 10p in cash. 
The fair value of the CVN as at 31 March 2011 is shown in note 22 to the accounts at £1.1m.
Financials
129
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 34 Acquisition of business operations continued
Net assets acquired
Details of the net assets of acquired arising from the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc are set out in the table 
below:
 Fair value
Book value adjustment Fair value
   £m £m £m
Non-current assets:
Intangible assets 9.5 127.3 136.8
Goodwill 2.8 (2.8) –
Property, plant and equipment 4.6 – 4.6
Current assets:
Inventories   0.9 3.8 4.7
Trade and other receivables 6.0 – 6.0
Cash and cash equivalents 17.4 – 17.4
Held to maturity financial assets 10.2 – 10.2
Current liabilities: 
Trade and other payables (3.7) – (3.7)
Deferred income   (9.3) 0.3 (9.0)
Non-current liabilities:
Trade and other payables (0.9) – (0.9)
Borrowings   (2.8) – (2.8)
Deferred tax liabilities (1.1) (19.3) (20.4)
Total assets acquired 33.6 109.3 142.9
Goodwill 28.9
Total consideration 171.8
Settled by equity (167.7)
Contingent consideration (1.1)
Cash paid 3.0
Cash and cash equivalents included in undertaking acquired  17.4
Cash consideration paid (3.0)
Net cash inflow per cash flow statement 14.4
Directly attributable costs settled
1
(3.6)
Net cash inflow arising on acquisition 10.8
1  Total costs relating to the acquisition were £4.1m, of which £3.6m had been paid by 31 March 2011. The remainder was settled in April 2011. Of the total 
costs of £4.1m, £3.0m was included in ‘Acquisition and reorganisation costs’ in the consolidated income statement in the year ended 31 March 2011 
(see note 6) and £1.1m was debited to the merger reserve in the year ended 31 March 2011 (see note 21).
The goodwill arising on acquisition resulted from assets which could not be recognised separately including early-stage pipeline 
products and a highly skilled workforce. The fair value adjustments were considered final.
The main elements of the significant fair value adjustments are described below:
— Intangible assets in respect of the marketed products, in-process research and development and contractual relationships 
in accordance with IFRS3 Revised – Business Combinations;
— Revaluation of inventory reflecting profit accrued up to the stage of production at the time of the transaction; and
— Deferred tax liabilities in relation to the acquired intangible assets over and above £21.2m of deferred tax assets 
in recognition of acquired accumulated tax losses.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
130
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Company statement of financial position
Financials
131
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
Note £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Investment in subsidiaries 4 365.9 364.4
365.9 364.4
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 5 217.1 218.4
Cash and cash equivalents – –
217.1 218.4
Total assets 583.0 582.8
EQUITY
Share capital 6 32.7 32.7
Share premium account 6 188.3 188.2
Merger reserve 6 317.8 317.8
Retained earnings 6 41.1 39.8
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent    6 579.9 578.5
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 7 – 1.1
– 1.1
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 7 3.0 2.3
Taxation 0.1 0.1
Provisions – 0.8
3.1 3.2
Total liabilities 3.1 4.3
Total equity and liabilities 583.0 582.8
The notes on pages 134 to 137 form part of these financial statements. 
The financial statements were approved by the Board on 18 May 2012 and were signed on its behalf by:
Dr Louise Makin Rolf Soderstrom
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Registered No: 2670500 Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Loss after tax for the year (1.1) (2.8)
Decrease in trade and other receivables 1.3 10.5
Decrease in trade and other payables (0.4) (6.1)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (0.8) 0.8
Costs of acquisition recognised in equity – (0.6)
Other items 0.9 0.9
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from operating activities     (0.1) 2.7
Investing activities
Costs relating to acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc  – (3.0)
Net cash outflow from investing activities     – (3.0)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds of share issue 0.1 0.1
Net cash from financing activities 0.1 0.1
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents – (0.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year – 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year     – –
The notes on pages 134 to 137 form part of these financial statements. 
Company statement of cash flows
132
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials
133
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Share Share Merger Retained Total
capital premium reserve earnings equity
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2010 25.8 188.1 158.1 42.5 414.5
Loss for the year – – – (2.8) (2.8)
Other comprehensive income – – – – –
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (2.8) (2.8)
Transactions with owners:
Issue of BTG plc ordinary shares – 0.1 – – 0.1
Issued on acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc (note 34) 6.9 – 159.7 – 166.6
Movement in shares held by the Trust – – – (0.5) (0.5)
Share-based payments – – – 0.6 0.6
At 31 March 2011 32.7 188.2 317.8 39.8 578.5
Share Share Merger Retained Total
capital premium reserve earnings equity
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2011 32.7 188.2 317.8 39.8 578.5
Loss for the year – – – (1.1) (1.1)
Other comprehensive income – – – – –
Total comprehensive income for the year – – – (1.1) (1.1)
Transactions with owners:
Issue of BTG plc ordinary shares – 0.1 – – 0.1
Share-based payments – – – 2.4 2.4
At 31 March 2012 32.7 188.3 317.8 41.1 579.9
The notes on pages 134 to 137 form part of these financial statements. 
Company statement of changes in equity 1  Accounting policies
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these Company financial statements are the same as those set out 
in note 2 to the Group financial statements with the addition of the following:
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment. 
Accounting for transactions under common control
Where the Company acquires or disposes of shares in another Group company either in a share for share exchange or as 
disposal of part of the business, the cost is determined by reference to the fair value of the consideration received (i.e. the 
fair value of the company in which shares have been received) at the date of transfer. 
If the Company receives shares following the sale of its subsidiary or part of its business, any gain or loss is credited or charged 
to the income statement. Where the Company issues shares following the acquisition of a subsidiary or part of another 
business, any gain or loss is credited or charged to reserves.
Share-based payments
The Company has elected to apply IFRS2 to all share-based awards and options granted post 7 November 2002 that had not 
vested by 1 January 2005. The carrying amount of an investment in a subsidiary is increased to the extent that share-based 
payments relate to employees of that subsidiary. Share-based payment expenses relating to employees of the Company are 
expensed within the income statement.
These policies have been applied consistently to the periods presented.
The functional currency of the Company is sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest £0.1m except where otherwise 
indicated.
2 Loss for the year
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own income statement
for the year. The loss after tax of the Company amounted to £1.1m (10/11: £2.8m).
The analysis of the auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£’000 £’000
The auditing of accounts of the Company 93 123
Audit related assurance services 50 43
All services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed 
  to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates  – 380
All other non audit services – 21
3  Staff costs
The employees are based in the United Kingdom.
Disclosures of individual directors’ remuneration and associated costs required by the Companies Act 2006 and specified 
by the Financial Services Authority are included within the remuneration report on pages 61 to 75 and form part of these
audited accounts.
The employees of the Company are members of the Group pension plans as detailed in note 25 of the Group financial 
statements. The Company receives a charge based upon the employer contribution to the Group’ s defined benefit pension 
scheme. No additional contributions are paid by the Company.
Notes to the company financial statements
134
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials
135
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
4 Investment in subsidiary undertakings
£m
Cost
At 1 April 2010 192.0
Acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc 171.8
Share-based payments 0.6
At 1 April 2011 364.4
Share-based payments 1.5
At 31 March 2012 365.9
A list of the Company’ s principal subsidiary undertakings is shown in note 33 to the Group financial statements. The acquisition 
of Biocompatibles International plc is outlined in note 34 to the Group financial statements.
5 Trade and other receivables
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Due within one year
Prepayments 0.4 –
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 216.7 218.4
217.1 218.4
6 Capital and reserves
Share Share Merger Retained
capital premium reserve earnings Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2010 25.8 188.1 158.1 42.5 414.5
Loss for financial year – – – (2.8) (2.8)
Total recognised loss for the year – – – (2.8) (2.8)
Movement in shares held by Trust – – – (0.5) (0.5)
Issued on acquisition of Biocompatibles (note 34) 6.9 – 159.7 – 166.6
Other share capital issued – 0.1 – – 0.1
Share-based payments – – – 0.6 0.6
At 1 April 2011 32.7 188.2 317.8 39.8 578.5
Loss for financial year – – – (1.1) (1.1)
Total recognised loss for the year – – – (1.1) (1.1)
Other share capital issued – 0.1 – – 0.1
Share-based payments – – – 2.4 2.4
At 31 March 2012 32.7 188.3 317.8 41.1 579.9
The merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes 
the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006. 
The balance on the merger reserve has arisen through:
1  The acquisition of Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008 and includes directly attributable costs of issuing the shares 
of £0.4m.
2  The acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011 and includes directly attributable costs of issuing 
of shares of £1.1m. Notes to the company financial statements
6 Capital and reserves continued
Details of Company’ s share capital are disclosed in note 21 to the Group financial statements. Details of share awards granted 
by the Company are set out in note 26 to the Group financial statements. Details of shares in the Company held by subsidiaries 
are shown in note 27 to the Group financial statements.
7 Trade and other payables
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Accruals and deferred income 3.0 2.3
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Contingent value note – 1.1
The directors consider the fair value to be equal to the book value.
8 Financial assets and liabilities 
Designated Amortised Total carrying
at fair value cost value Fair value
  £m £m £m £m
31 March 2011
Trade and other receivables – 218.4 218.4 218.4
Trade and other payables (1.1) (2.3) (3.4) (3.4)
31 March 2012
Trade and other receivables – 217.1 217.1 217.1
Trade and other payables – (3.0) (3.0) (3.0)
Financial liabilities classified as ‘Designated at fair value’ in the prior year comprise the contingent value notes, details 
of which are disclosed in note 34 of the Group financial statements.
Credit risk
The Company’ s credit risk is the risk that one of its subsidiaries is unable to repay intercompany amounts owing. The recoverability 
of the Company’ s intercompany receivable is considered at each balance sheet date.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Company does 
not hold significant cash balances as Group cash is managed centrally within its subsidiaries. Accordingly the Company is 
funded by its subsidiaries as its liabilities fall due.
Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect 
the Group’ s income or the value of its holdings in financial instruments. As the holding company of the BTG Group, the Company 
does not have significant exposure to movements in market prices and accordingly no additional disclosure is provided. There 
are no foreign currency balances within the Company’ s statement of financial position.
Capital Management
Details of the Company’ s objectives with respect to managing capital are disclosed in note 29 to the Group financial statements.
136
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Guarantees and contingent liabilities
The Company has entered into an agreement to guarantee payments under the lease of its US subsidiary undertaking. 
The Company has provided a Guarantee to certain subsidiary undertakings in respect of the BTG Pension Fund up to a maximum 
amount equal to the lowest non-negative amount which, when added to the assets of the Fund, would result in the Fund being 
at least 105% funded on the date on which any liability arose, calculated on the basis set out in section 179 of the Pensions Act 
2004, were a valuation to be conducted as at that date. 
The Company has also provided a Guarantee to the same subsidiary undertakings for a maximum amount of £12.7m, being 
the deficit repair contributions agreed with the Trustees of the Fund following the finalisation of the last actuarial valuation. 
The Guarantee reduces as payments are made and expires on 31 January 2013.
10 Related party transactions
The Company has a related-party relationship with its subsidiary undertakings and its directors.
In relation to the related party relationship identified on page 51 concerning Giles Kerr, payments made by BTG to Oxford 
University and Isis Innovations Ltd under the relevant licence agreements were £0.8m during the year ended 31 March 2012. 
There are no amounts still outstanding and payable by BTG under these agreements as at 31 March 2012.
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Remuneration 
Report on pages 61 to 75.
Financials
137
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Appendix 1
Unaudited pro-forma consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 March 2012
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2012 2011
£m £m
Royalties 84.5 70.0
Marketed products 76.6 35.4
Biocompatibles 36.1 33.9
Revenue 197.2 139.3
Cost of sales: royalties (28.0) (22.4)
Cost of sales: marketed products (18.8) (8.8)
Biocompatibles (7.4) (7.7)
Gross profit 143.0 100.4
Operating expenses: foreign exchange gains/(losses)  2.6 (1.7)
Operating expense: other (48.9) (52.4)
Operating expenses: total (46.3) (54.1)
Research and development (39.7) (41.8)
Profit on disposal of assets and investments 0.2 1.5
Amounts written off property, plant and equipment (3.0) –
Amounts written off associates and investments (0.2) (1.4)
Operating profit 54.0 4.6
Financial income 3.6 3.5
Financial expense (1.6) (0.2)
Profit before tax 56.0 7.9
Tax (19.0) (0.4)
Profit for the year 37.0 7.5
Basic earnings per share 11.4p 2.3p
Diluted earnings per share 11.2p 2.3p
All activity arose from continuing operations.
Basis of preparation
The financial information contained in this appendix is pro-forma and does not constitute full statutory accounts within the 
meaning of section 435 of the Companies Act 2006. The information has been extracted from the records of BTG plc and 
Biocompatibles International plc combining the results for both companies for the years ended 31 March 2012 and 31 March 
2011. The information has been prepared using the accounting policies and basis of preparation set out in note 2 to the 
Group financial statements, except that, for comparative purposes, the following items have been excluded from the pro-forma 
information:
— Amortisation of business combination intangibles.
— Effect of fair value adjustments on inventory arising from IFRS3 – Business Combinations.
— One-off transaction related expenses and reorganisation costs.
— Impact of deferred tax asset and liabilities recognised upon acquired intangible assets.
— Impact of US tax-free reorganisation, which resulted in a one-off deferred tax asset of £18.6m being recognised in the year 
ended 31 March 2011.
138
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financials
139
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 March
2012 2011
1
 2010 2009
2
 2008
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 197.0 111.4 98.5 84.8 75.0
Cost of sales (56.3) (34.1) (32.8) (37.1) (32.1)
Gross profit 140.7 77.3 65.7 47.7 42.9
Operating and administrative expenses (46.3) (45.3) (29.3) (20.6) (13.8)
Restructuring costs (1.1) (3.8) 0.7 (10.9) (8.1)
Operating expenses (47.4) (49.1) (28.6) (31.5) (21.9)
Research and development (39.7) (32.1) (26.7) (21.2) (12.2)
Share of results of associates – – (0.3) (0.4) (0.7)
Research and development expenses (39.7) (32.1) (27.0) (21.6) (12.9)
Profit on disposal of assets and investments 0.2 1.5 1.1 2.6 0.4
Amounts written off associates and investments (0.2) (1.4) – (3.4) –
Amounts written off property, plant and equipment (3.0) ––– –
Amortisation and impairment of business combination intangibles (30.7) (10.0) (9.1) (3.0) –
Operating profit/(loss) 19.9 (13.8) 2.1 (9.2) 8.5
Net financial income 3.1 3.0 7.0 (2.1) 2.2
Profit/(loss) before tax 23.0 (10.8) 9.1 (11.3) 10.7
Tax (8.4) 20.0 2.2 (1.8) (1.9)
Profit/(loss) after tax for the year 14.6 9.2 11.3 (13.1) 8.8
Earnings/(loss) per share
Basic 4.5p 3.4p 4.4p (7.1p) 5.9p
Diluted 4.4p 3.4p 4.4p (7.1p) 5.9p
Gross profit
2012 2011
1
 2010 2009
2
 2008
£m £m £m £m £m
Royalties from launched products 51.3 43.2 38.0 32.1 24.9
Income from new agreements and milestone payments  5.0 4.5 8.6 11.0 18.0
Gross profit from marketed products 58.0 26.6 19.1 4.6 –
Gross profit from Biocompatibles 26.4 3.0 – – –
Gross profit 140.7 77.3 65.7 47.7 42.9
1 The results for the year ended 31 March 2011 include the results of Biocompatibles International plc from the date of acquisition, being 27 January 2011.
2 The results for the year ended 31 March 2009 include the results of Protherics PLC from the date of acquisition, being 4 December 2008.
Five-year financial record Consolidated statement of financial position
as at 31 March
2012 2011
1
 2010 2009
2
 2008
£m £m £m £m £m
Goodwill 59.2 59.2 30.3 30.0 –
Intangible assets 246.0 271.0 152.7 165.8 6.8
Property, plant and equipment 22.0 24.8 10.6 11.1 0.8
Investment in associates – – – 0.3 0.7
Other investments 3.0 2.7 3.7 3.2 5.8
Deferred tax asset 1.0 0.9 0.6 0.7 –
Biological assets 0.3 0.3 – – –
Total non-current assets  331.5 358.9 197.9 211.1 14.1
Current assets 174.3 129.6 113.1 118.3 72.2
Total assets 505.8 488.5 311.0 329.4 86.3
Equity
Share capital 32.7 32.7 25.8 25.5 15.1
Share premium account 188.3 188.2 188.1 187.3 187.0
Merger reserve 317.8 317.8 158.1 156.5 –
Reserves (4.0) (3.7) (0.9) (0.1) (1.4)
Retained earnings (128.6) (142.7) (155.9) (156.6) (145.5)
Total equity 406.2 392.3 215.2 212.6 55.2
Total non-current liabilities 41.3 43.9 52.4 47.1 6.9
Total current liabilities 58.3 52.3 43.4 69.7 24.2
Total liabilities 99.6 96.2 95.8 116.8 31.1
Total equity and liabilities 505.8 488.5 311.0 329.4 86.3
1 The statement of financial position for 31 March 2011 includes the assets and liabilities acquired from Biocompatibles International plc during the year.
2 The statement of financial position for 31 March 2009 includes the assets and liabilities acquired from Protherics PLC during the year.
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 March
2012 2011
1
 2010 2009
2
 2008
£m £m £m £m £m
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 47.2 (12.0) 5.8 (1.8) 13.4
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (3.9) (5.5) (2.6) 21.8 0.8
Net cash (used in)from financing activities (0.2) (0.6) 1.4 (0.1) –
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 43.1 (18.1) 4.6 19.9 14.2
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 0.1 (0.8) (0.2) 1.3 (0.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 63.7 82.6 78.2 57.0 43.0
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 106.9 63.7 82.6 78.2 57.0
1 The results for the year ended 31 March 2011 include the results of Biocompatibles International plc from the date of acquisition, being 27 January 2011.
2 The results for the year ended 31 March 2009 include the results of Protherics PLC from the date of acquisition, being 4 December 2008.
Five-year financial record
140
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Shareholder information
Financials
141
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial calendar
Circulation of annual report for the year ended 31 March 2012 15 June 2012
Annual General Meeting 17 July 2012
Announcement of interim results for the six months ended 30 September 2012 November 2012
Preliminary announcement of annual results for the year ended 31 March 2013 May 2013
Shareholders
At 31 March 2012 there were 10,727 holders of ordinary shares in the Company. Their shareholdings are analysed as follows:
  Percentage 
  of total Number Percentage
  Number of number of of ordinary of ordinary
Size of shareholding shareholders shareholders shares shares
1–5,000 9,889 92.2 6,825,235 2.1
5,001–50,000 588 5.4 8,417,053 2.5
50,001–100,000 72 0.7 5,114,170 1.6
100,001–500,000 102 1.0 24,170,463 7.4
Over 500,000 76 0.7 282,765,944 86.4
Total 10,727 100.0 327,292,865 100.0
Shareholders are further analysed as follows:
  Percentage 
  of total Number Percentage
  Number of number of of ordinary of ordinary
Size of owner shareholders shareholders shares shares
Bank and nominee companies 976 9.1 304,422,613 93.0
Private shareholders 9,561 89.1 17,312,103 5.3
Limited companies 71 0.7 1,512,953 0.5
BTG Employee Share Trust 1 - 1,214,313 0.4
Insurance companies and pension funds 118 1.1 2,830,883 0.8
Total 10,727 100.0 327,292,865 100.0
Mutual funds and other institutions, and private shareholders holding their shares within PEPs and ISAs, are included 
within ‘Bank and nominee companies’.
Capita share dealing services
A quick and easy share dealing service is available from Capita Registrars, to either buy or sell more shares. An online 
and telephone dealing facility is available providing shareholders with an easy-to-access and simple-to-use service. 
For further information on this service, or to buy and sell shares, please contact: www.capitadeal.com (online dealing) 
or +44 (0) 871 664 0446 (telephone dealing – calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras). Full terms, conditions 
and risks apply and are available on request or by visiting www.capitadeal.com. 
This is not a recommendation to buy or sell shares. The price of shares can go down as well as up, and you are 
not guaranteed to get back the amount that you originally invested.
Shareholder change of address
The Company offers the facility, in conjunction with Capita Registrars, our Registrars, to conduct a number of 
routine matters via the web including the ability to notify any change of address. If you are a shareholder and are 
either unable or would prefer not to use this facility, please do not send the notification to the Company’ s registered 
office. Please write direct to Capita Registrars, at their address shown overleaf, where the register is held. Shareholder information
Registered office and head office
BTG plc
5 Fleet Place
London
EC4M 7RD
Tel: +44 (0)20 7575 0000
Fax: +44 (0)20 7575 0010
info@btgplc.com
www.btgplc.com
Registered number 2670500
Advisers
Stockbrokers
J.P . Morgan Cazenove
10 Aldermanbury
London EC2V 7RF
Tel: +44 (0)20 7742 4000
Deutsche Bank AG London
Winchester House
1 Great Winchester Street
London EC2N 2DB
Tel: +44 (0)20 7545 8000
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
15 Canada Square
London E14 5GL
Tel: +44 (0)20 7311 1000
Registrars
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Callers from the UK:
Tel: +44 (0)871 664 0300
(Please note that calls cost 
10p per minute, plus network 
extras. Lines are open 
8.30am–5.30pm, Monday–Friday).
Callers from outside the UK: 
Tel: +44 (0)20 8639 3399
142
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements
Financials
143
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
This Annual Report and Accounts contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to BTG’ s business, performance and 
prospects. Statements and other information included in this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. 
Words such as ‘expects’, ‘anticipates’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘believes’, ‘seeks’, ‘estimates’ and ‘potential’, variations of these 
words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current 
expectations and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances which may or may 
not occur in the future. There are a number of factors which could cause actual results or developments to differ materially 
from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Current principal risks and uncertainties are described 
on pages 26 to 29 of this report. Any of the assumptions underlying these forward-looking statements could prove inaccurate 
or incorrect and therefore any results contemplated in the forward-looking statements may not actually be achieved. BTG 
undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future 
events or otherwise. BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Trade marks
BTG and the BTG roundel logo are registered trade marks of BTG International Ltd. 
The following is a non-exhaustive list of trade marks of the BTG International group of companies:
Advantage I-125™
AnchorLoad™
AnchorMarker™
AnchorSeed®
Applicator Kit™
Bead Block®
CoVaccine HT™
CroFab® 
CRTS™ – Custom Real-Time Strands
DC Bead®
DC Bead
M1
™
DigiFab® 
EchoStrand™
LC Bead
M1
™
LC Bead™
PARAGON Bead®
PRECISION Bead®
ReGel®
RTS™ – Real-Time Strands
SeedLock3™
StandardLoad™
StandardStrand™
StrandPort Pre-Loaded™ (SPPL)
VariLoad™
Varisolve® 
VariStrand™
Voraxaze® 
VVSymQ™
Zytiga® is registered trade mark of Johnson & Johnson, Inc.
Campath® is a registered trade mark of Genzyme Corporation, a Sanofi company.
BeneFIX® is a registered trade mark of Genetics Institute, now part of Pfizer, Inc.
Lemtrada™ is a proprietary name submitted to health authorities for Genzyme Corporation’ s 
investigational multiple sclerosis agent alemtuzumab. Genzyme Corporation is a Sanofi company.
144
Financials Printed in the UK using vegetable inks throughout. 
Both the printer and the paper manufacturing mill 
are registered to the Environmental Management 
System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship 
Council® (FSC) chain-of-custody certified. 
Designed and produced by
Bostock and Pollitt Limited, London
Printed by
Pureprint Group UK www.btgplc.com
Please refer to our website 
for more information on BTG 
and for our contact details.
